03-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC asks police to lift demonstration within 50 metres of Visva Bharati||The Calcutta High Court, in an interim order on Friday, directed that normal functioning be restored at Visva-Bharati with no demonstration anywhere within 50 metres of the institution, as protest outside the vice chancellor's residence over rustication of three students entered the seventh day. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha directed the police to forthwith remove all demonstrations, banners and barricades near the official residence of Vice-Chancellor (VC) Bidyut Chakraborty. "No demonstration shall be conducted by any student or any person within a distance of 50 metres of any portion or part of the university, particularly the schools, classrooms, the residence of vice chancellor, teachers, professors, officials, staff library, the administrative buildings, laboratories, etc," the court directed. The central university and its VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had on Wednesday moved the high court seeking orders for the Bengal police to lift the gherao. Maintaining that the VC's residence has been under siege since August 27 evening, with him inside, the petitioners stated that the three students were expelled for three years for alleged misconduct. The university and its VC prayed for appropriate orders directing the West Bengal Police to ensure free ingress and egress at the official residence of Chakrabarty and other administrative offices gheraoed or illegally locked by the agitators. Justice Mantha said that the court will hear the grievances of the three students on September 8. The court further instructed the police to make sure that no outsider is allowed to enter the university, while also stating that compliance of its order in the matter will have to be ensured by the superintendent of police, Birbhum district. It asked the Shantiniketan police station to depute three constables for the security of the VC. The bench said that locks on the administrative building and any other part of the university hung by the students will be broken open by the officer in-charge of Shantiniketan police station and the premises be handed over to the persons concerned. It directed that loudspeakers cannot be used on the campus of the prestigious central university, founded by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore. Claiming that the agitation was politically motivated, the petitioners have said that the plea was moved challenging the alleged inaction by the authorities in ensuring free movement of the VC. A section of university students had been protesting outside the VC's residence seeking imemdiate revocation of the expulsion order. A medical team that was called to check on Chakraborty on Thursday was turned away by the agitators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI makes third arrest in Bengal post-poll violence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a person in Bengal's North 24 Parganas district in connection with its probe into a case of post-poll violence in the state, an agency source said on Friday. Ratan Halder, an accused in the murder of a BJP worker's mother following the declaration of Assembly election results on May 2, was apprehended from Jagaddal area, the source said. The central agency had on August 28 arrested two more persons -Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh -- in Nadia district for allegedly being involved in the murder of a saffron party worker after the announcement of the poll results. The CBI had on Thursday filed a chargesheet in another case of post-poll violence in Birbhum district -- its first since being handed over the probe into "heinous crimes". The chargesheet, submitted before the Rampurhat court, contains names of two accused allegedly involved in the murder of a BJP worker. The Calcutta High Court had, on August 19, ordered that probe into cases of alleged murder and rape be carried out by the CBI. So far, the agency has filed a total of 34 FIRs against those allegedly involved in murder or other heinous atrocities on BJP workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Calcutta HC chief justice to monitor SIT formed to probe post-poll violence||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on Friday said former Chief Justice of this court Manjula Chellur will oversee the functioning of an SIT formed by it to probe alleged post-poll violence cases other than rape and murder. The bench had, in its judgement on August 19 on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of violence after the Assembly elections in Bengal, directed the CBI to investigate all alleged cases of heinous crimes like rape and murder. The bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, said Justice (retd) Chellur will oversee the functioning of the SIT formed by it to probe into other post-poll violence cases in the state. The Special Investigation Team included Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the Bengal cadre. The bench had directed that the SIT would be entitled to take the assistance of any other police officer or any institution or agency for carrying out a fair investigation into the cases. The bench, also comprising justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had said that both the investigations would be monitored by the high court and ordered the CBI and the SIT to submit their status report before it within six weeks from August 19. The Bengal government has appointed ten IPS officers to assist the SIT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 695 new cases, 749 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 74 straight days of a fall in its total active Covid-19 cases, with 695 new infections, 749 recoveries and 13 deaths. The state has 8,734 active cases now, with a drop of 67 on Thursday. It has 2.22 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 122 new infections and North 24-Parganas 102, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas three deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.24 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.42. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Thursday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported one, while North 24-Parganas reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.23 lakh recoveries and 18,472 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet nod for two policies to boost industrialisation||The state cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to frame two policies, one on ethanol and the other on data, in an apparent bid to boost industrialisation in Bengal. On Wednesday, at an event in Panagarh, West Burdwan, the chief minister had said these two policies would be framed to create job opportunities in Bengal “The state cabinet has given approval to frame ethanol and data policies. The policies will soon be framed and tabled in the cabinet for final approval,” said Partha Chatterjee, state industries minister, at Nabanna on Thursday. Chatterjee said both the policies would help the state in many ways. “The data policy would help the state draw investment in the IT sector. This will help create thousands of jobs here,” said Chatterjee. About the ethanol policy, the target of the state government is to connect farmers with industry, said a source. The chief minister had spoken about the potential of biofuel at Panagarh too. “Ethanol is produced from broken rice and used as an alternative fuel. It (production of ethanol in a state with abundant paddy production) will help the farmers connect with industries directly, which will help them earn more besides generating jobs in the state,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Citu to organise global essay competition for ‘unreached’||The Citu will organise an online, global essay competition as part of its upcoming 12th state conference with an aim to get inputs from across the world in drawing up an updated strategy for the trade union movement. Sources said the trade union of the CPM had chosen two subjects. The first is the future of industrial development and employment in India and the second is the problems and prospects of the Left trade union movement in the modern world. The Citu has asked participants to submit their essays, with a 1,000-word limit and in PDF format, between September 10 and 20. The reception committee of the Citu conference will specify an email address to which the essays have to be sent, along with a passport-size photograph and identity proof of the participant. The age limit for the first topic was fixed between 18 and 40 years whereas there is no age bar for the second topic. Those aged between 18 and 40 can send essays on both the subjects. The Citu will start a social media campaign on the competition from Friday. The Citu said the participants could submit their essays in English, Bengali or Hindi. The jury will consist of a group of professors of reputed universities in Bengal, but the institutions’ names will not be disclosed. The Citu state conference is scheduled to be held from September 30 till October 2 at Jamuria in West Burdwan. “Our catchline for the coming state conference is ‘reach the unreached’. We want to reach the educated working people of the society, who may not be directly linked to our trade union movements but are aware of what is happening in the industries and can lead us to a better future,” said Bansagopal Chowdhury, Citu general-secretary in West Burdwan and president of the reception committee of the state conference. Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a Citu secretary in West Burdwan, said: “It is obvious that labourers of the unorganised sectors will not take part in our initiative. We want to judge the mood of the educated people who work in both public and private sectors, or are involved in other professions in the country and abroad. We want to know what they are thinking about the Left trade union movement and about how they want to guide us. They are still unreached by us.” Sources in the Citu said the Left trade union movement had become seemingly “aimless” in Bengal after a series of poll debacles in the state since 2011. The Left Front was washed out in the recent Assembly polls with not even a single seat secured. “We could not secure at least one MLA from the industrial belt of Asansol and Durgapur, which was once a red bastion. The strength of the CPM in industrial belts mainly depends on that of the Citu. It is understood that we have lost faith among the working class,” said a Citu leader in West Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt announces names 10 cops for SIT to probe violence||The Bengal government on Thursday announced the names of 10 IPS officers, who will assist three senior state police officers in their probe into alleged political violence following publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. Earlier, a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court had ruled that the alleged incidents of violence, other than murders and rapes, would have to be probed by a three-member special investigation team (SIT) of the state police. The court also declared that Calcutta police commissioner Somen Mitra, two other IPS officers, Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranvir Kumar, would lead the SIT and other members needed to be appointed by the state government. The court order on August 19 was based on a report filed by a committee of the National Human Rights Commission. To carry out the order of the court, the government on Thursday announced the names of 10 IPS officers for assisting the SIT. Dividing the state into five zones, the government said IPS officers Soma Das Mitra, Subhankar Bhattacharya, D.P. Singh, Praveen Kumar Tripathi, Sanjay Singh, B.L. Meena, Siddh Nath Gupta, Prasun Banerjee, Tanmay Roy Chowdhury and Nilanjan Biswas would assist the trio. The court had said a retired judge of the Supreme Court would monitor the probe and ordered the SIT to file a primary progress report on the investigation after six weeks. The probe into the alleged incidents of rape and murder would be conducted by the CBI, the larger bench had said. A couple of days ago, the counsels of the petitioners who had moved public interest litigations for the central probe, had alleged before the court that even after its directive, the state government did not take any step for the SIT probe. The larger bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Bindal had remarked that the court was well aware of the fact and would take action if its order was not carried out properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks DGP to be present on September 21 ||Calcutta High Court on Thursday ordered acting DGP Manoj Malaviya to appear before it on September 21 and state why officials of his department were not attending the court according to a directive issued earlier. While hearing a case moved against two fake money-laundering companies on Thursday, the court found that the police had not carried out its earlier order to produce two officials of the firms during the day. Soon after a division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal ordered the DGP’s appearance, a state government lawyer requested that the directive be withdrawn. The lawyer said the police would produce the fake companies’ officials in the court the next day. But the bench did not accept the plea and said Malaviya would have to be present in the court on September 21. On Thursday, no lawyer or official of the department concerned was present when the ponzi scheme-related cases came up for hearing. Acting Chief Justice Bindal criticised the role of state panel lawyers and the police, before issuing the order pertaining to the DGP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Ban Nepal tea import, Darjeeling planters urge Mamata Banerjee||The Darjeeling Tea Association has requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to start the process to “permanently ban the import of Nepal tea” into the country. To justify the request, B.K. Saria, a planter and the president of the DTA, in a letter to Mamata, has flagged the “severe financial crisis” in the industry with production of “made tea” down from 9.5 million kilos before the hill agitation in 2017 to 6 million in 2020, the impact of the pandemic and how the “deceptive sale” of Nepal tea as Darjeeling Tea in the domestic market has compounded the situation. He also pointed out that wages had gone up “by 50 per cent”. However, many have questioned the timing of the letter as negotiations on bonuses for tea workers will begin soon. Sandeep Mukherjee, principal adviser of the DTA, claimed 8.9 million kg of made tea from Nepal found its way into the Indian market last year. Planters claim many blend Nepal tea with Darjeeling tea, the former being cheaper, and sell it off as Darjeeling tea, hurting the market of the latter. Only the tea produced by the 87-odd tea gardens in Darjeeling can be sold off as Darjeeling Tea after being recognised as a Geographic Indicator product two decades ago. “Nepal tea industry does not have labour laws and statutory obligations, child labour is rampant hence their cost of production is low,” alleged Saria and added that tea from the neighbouring country was not tested according to Indian food safety norms. “Darjeeling tea industry is not getting the attention it deserves. Unless import of Nepal into India is banned, livelihood of many will be at risk,” said Mukherjee. Suraj Subba, president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), said while the issue raised by planters was “genuine”, he was sceptical about the timing of the letter. “This is an old issue but planters are probably raising it now to buttress their argument during bonus negotiations and pay less bonus,” Subba said. “The association should also look at taking action against their own members if they are found importing Nepal tea,” said Subba. The Bimal Gurung party has already started demanding that workers be paid a bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of their annual earnings. While 8.33 per cent is the minimum bonus rate the planters have to pay, the highest is 20 per cent. Last year, too, Binay Tamang sat on a fast to demand workers be paid 20 per cent bonus. The Darjeeling tea industry employs around 67,000 workers in 87 tea gardens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government takes over Kanchenjunga Stadium in Siliguri||The Bengal government has taken over the Kanchenjunga Stadium of Siliguri, the second largest football stadium of the state after the Yuva Bharati Krirangan in Calcutta, with all its assets and liabilities. On Wednesday, the additional chief secretary of state youth services and sports department notified that the Kanchenjunga Stadium Committee, comprising sports enthusiasts and others, which ran the sports arena, was dissolved and its members were absolved of their duties. Instead, the district youth officer has been tasked to look after the stadium. “It was once one of Bengal’s finest soccer stadiums. Unfortunately, it is dilapidated for years now. We are hopeful that the state government will take all necessary measures for its thorough renovation,” said Kuntal Goswami, the general secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP), the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. “The stadium is spread over 7 acres and can accommodate around 30,000 spectators. But owing to its poor infrastructure, we have not hosted many national level soccer matches in four years here,” an SMKP member said. Sources said the stadium lacks a modern changing room, a media centre and a proper VIP block. Also, the drinking water supply and drainage system are in bad shape. Concrete plasters have been peeling off from the structure. The foundation of this stadium was laid in the early 1980s. It was inaugurated with the Nehru Gold Cup, a prestigious football tournament where several international teams had participated in 1987. Former skipper of the Indian cricket team Sourav Ganguly had come to the ground with almost all his team mates for a charitable match in the early 2000s. The stadium also hosted Ranji Trophy cricket matches. Spectators here have also witnessed soccer matches of Germany’s Bayern Munich, India’s Federation Cup matches and the Derby matches played among famed football clubs of Calcutta. Sports buffs reacted to the takeover positively. Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of the local sports body, said: “This is definitely good news for sports enthusiasts of the city. We had appealed to the state government that like the Barasat and Kalyani stadiums, the Kanchenjunga Stadium should also get an overall facelift, so that we can host international and national level sports events here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista meets youth leaders on jobs and development in Darjeeling||Darjeeling's BJP MP Raju Bista held a meeting with north Bengal office bearers of the party’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) here on Thursday on issues like jobs and development. The meeting, party insiders said, was aimed to mobilise the youth front in north Bengal, a region where BJP is putting in efforts ahead of civic and rural elections. Bista, recently appointed as a national general secretary of the BJYM, said: “Over decades now, youths in north Bengal have been bereft of job opportunities. Thousands migrate to other states every year in search of jobs. The state and the central governments have an array of schemes to help them to stand on their own feet. That is why we convened the meeting to discuss how the BJYM can work to help the youths of this region.” The MP, speaking to the media, also tried to convince hill residents that the Narendra Modi government was serious about a permanent political solution in the hills. Last month, Bista, after a meeting Union home minister Amit Shah, claimed that the Centre would convene a tripartite meeting on the issue at the start of this month. “The meeting got delayed because of a number of reasons, which include the recent developments in Afghanistan. Independence Day celebrations were there. But let me assure you that the meeting will be held soon,” he said. Next week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit north Bengal, her first after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time. Bista, referring to her visit, said he would write to the chief minister soon on the needs and expectations of north Bengal residents in detail. A Trinamul leader in Siliguri said the CM knows north Bengal well and does not need briefings from an MP "who has not done anything for his constituency yet".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans: Fisherman injured in tiger attack on Kapur river ||A fisherman was injured by a royal Bengal tiger on the Kapur river in the Sunderbans early on Thursday morning, marking the second tiger attack in the region in less than two weeks, but he survived as he and his friends on the boat hit the tiger with their oars. Sudarshan Sardar, 30, a fisherman from Sonagaon village in Gosaba, was rushed to the Gosaba block hospital and was then referred to the NRS Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta, where he is reportedly stable. Sources said details about the tiger, or how badly it was injured by the oars, remained unclear. Sardar was the part of a group of five fishermen who managed to fend off the big cat with their oars reportedly for over 30 minutes. Sources said they had ventured into the deeper part of the river to fish for crabs with a permit. “This is different from other cases of man-and-animal conflict, where fishermen venture into these areas without proper permits,” said a forest official, adding Sardar’s medical costs would be borne by the state government. On August 24, this newspaper reported a similar incident, in which a group of fishermen had been ambushed near Gosaba’s Satjelia by a tiger, which dragged one person off the boat. That incident had taken place on the heels of another incident that occurred in Jhila, where a lone fisherman had been killed. Fisherman Uttam Ray, who was on the boat with Sardar on Thursday morning, said they screamed for help and fought the tiger with oars. “Fortunately, people nearby told forest officials, who responded fast. We were able to hold off the tiger with our oars,” he said. “Very few of these encounters with tigers end this way (with no human casualty). We have seen too many of these encounters. The group today (Thursday) were lucky,” a resident of the area said. Forest officials later said that Sardar was likely to make a full recovery in the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Covid jab rider for Anit Thapa's new party launch||A new party will be launched by hill leader Anit Thapa here on September 9 in an event where only leaders and supporters who have received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine will be let in. Thapa’s close aide Keshav Raj Pokhrel said the party will be launched at the Rink Skating Hall at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club. “We were waiting to see if Covid protocols were changed by the state government but that didn’t happen. If we held  a public meeting, we’d have got more than 50,000 people at the meeting. Hence we  changed our plans,” said Pokhrel. The Hall can accommodate around 600 people. “Only people who have received both doses of the vaccine will be permitted to enter the hall. Volunteers will check the vaccination certificate,” said Pokhrel. To reach out to more people, Thapa’s colleagues will organise live shows of the event at each of the 45 Gorkhaland Territorial Administration constituencies across the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Ransack, roadblocks to protest Covid vaccine shortage  ||A rural hospital was ransacked and blockades were raised at two different locations in Alipurduar district on Thursday because of dearth of Covid-19 vaccines. Around 3am, over 200 people walked up to Bhatibari rural hospital in Alipurduar 2 block and stood in a queue to get the first dose of the vaccine. Sources said the people stood at the rural hospital for hours, braving the incessant rain. “We waited for almost seven hours. Around 10am, we were told that none would get the vaccines today (Thursday). On Wednesday, local health workers had informed the residents that first dose would be available for 200 people on a first come, first served basis,” said Tapash Dutta, a local resident. A section of people in the queue got agitated and ransacked furniture at the hospital. They also raised a blockade on the road connecting Bhatibari with Tufanganj. Later, block health officials and a team from Samuktala police station went to the spot and managed to clear the road after an hour. A similar protest was witnessed at Jateswar in Falakata block also. Around 300 people, mostly migrant workers who had returned home during the lockdown, went to a local vaccination camp on Thursday morning to get their first jab. “After standing in the queue for around three hours, we were told by the on-duty health staff that people whose second doses were due would be jabbed first. This is disappointing. Many migrant workers like me are planning to return to their workplace and have even booked train tickets. But because of the shortage of vaccines, we are getting delayed,” said Sukanta Barman, a local youth who used to work in Kerala. “On one hand, we don’t have enough money left to run the families, on the other hand, we cannot leave without getting vaccinated,” he added. Soon, a section of the migrant workers started a demonstration and raised a blockade on NH31 in Jateswar. After an hour, police could persuade them to disperse. District health officials admitted that there was a shortage of vaccines. “We have received instructions to concentrate more in administering the second dose with the available stock. But today, no vaccination camp was planned at the rural hospital in Bhatibari where people came and stood in queues. They should have verified with the hospital staff,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. The district health department has ordered an inquiry to find out who all were involved in ransacking the furniture at the hospital, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata expresses concern over Visva-Bharati impasse||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rued Visva-Bharati’s transition from a “place of pride” to an institution saddled with problems as the stalemate over student protests against alleged high-handed approach of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty continued to persist at the varsity. “Birbhum has its own legacy with Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati. Visva-Bharati was once a place of pride for us. But now, I am witnessing several problems there,” said the chief minister during a virtual felicitation of students who excelled in secondary and higher secondary examinations conducted by state boards. Although Visva-Bharati is a central university, successive governments in Bengal have always extended support to the varsity set up by Rabindranath Tagore. Mamata, who had spent a lot of time at her maternal uncle’s home in Birbhum in her childhood, has a special connection with the varsity because of her interest in art and culture. Within hours of Mamata expressing her concerns about the state of affairs at Visva-Bharati, some protesting students and teachers said they wanted her intervention to resolve the impasse, for which they blamed VC Chakrabarty’s attempts at saffronising the institution that has been an abode of Tagore’s inclusive principles. “We know our chief minister has respect for Tagore and love for the students and her comments prove her concerns about what’s happening here…. We want her intervention to protect the institution and save us from the wrath of the VC, who has targeted us because of our protests against his saffronisation agenda,” said Falguni Pan, one of the three students whom the varsity had rusticated last week. Since August 27, a section of students has been staging a ghearo of the VC’s official residence, demanding revocation of rustication of Pan, Somnath Sow and Rupa Chakraborty. The protesters have put up a tent in front of the VC’s home. The varsity authorities had on Wednesday moved a petition before Calcutta High Court seeking judicial intervention in the ongoing stalemate over the agitation by a section of students and teachers. The petition which alleged that the agitators had the active support of “outsiders” demanded action against the protesters by the state government. The petition is likely to be heard by the court of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Friday. Several students on the campus said the chief minister’s comments a day ahead of the hearing was reassuring for them as it meant that the state government would stand by the agitators. Not just from the chief minister, the student community on Thursday got support from a group of elderly residents of Santiniketan also. The senior citizens met the protesters and promised their support in the battle against the “tyrannical rule” of VC Chakrabarty. “The students are protesting with proper demand. We can’t accept their rustication for three years,” said Subir Banerjee, an old-timer. Shanto Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, also extended his support for the students before recalling how the VC had tried to insult the Nobel laureate economist. “The present VC and his administration even did not spare someone like Amartya Sen and accused him of illegally holding varsity land.… It is not only the students, but anyone protesting against the VC’s wrong-doings is coming under attack. This approach of the authorities is very sad,” said Shanto Bhanu Sen. On Thursday evening, tempers ran high outside the VC’s home when the students prevented two doctors (from the varsity’s Pearson Memorial Hospital) and a few staff from entering his residence. “We wanted to send our two representatives with the doctors to see whether the VC is actually ill. We can’t take any chance as there are attempts to show us in poor light.… We would write to police and the state government to conduct a health check up of the VC by doctors from government hospitals,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students. The doctors returned without examining Chakrabarty. In the evening, a team of doctors with Bolpur subdivisional police officer Abhishek Ray reached the residence of the VC to know if he needed any medical support. The police said they had called the VC but a woman who identified herself as the daughter of Chakrabarty said he didn’t need any medical assistance right now. “We have informed her that the VC may call the police anytime if he needs medical support,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
