04-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC happy with EC decision to conduct Bhawanipore bypolls||The Bengal BJP and the CPI(M) on Saturday expressed reservations about the Election Commission's decision to hold by-poll in Bhawanipore Assembly constituency, from where Bengal Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee plans to contest, on September 30, while the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Congress welcomed it. Polling for "deferred adjourned" elections in two Assembly seats of Bengal - Samserganj and Jangirpur - will also be held on September 30, the Election Commission announced earlier in the day in New Delhi. However, citing the Covid-19 situation, the EC decided not to hold by-elections in four other Assembly seats in the state which are also lying vacant due to deaths and resignations of MLAs. "We had always maintained that holding by-polls and polls to all the seats should be held together when the Covid-19 situation improves. We don't know if holding by-election to one seat and election to two seats is a practical decision since the pandemic is still raging and there is the threat of third wave. However, we accept the decision of the EC," Opposition leader in the state Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, said. Adhikari defeated Mamata from the Nandigram seat in the Assembly elections held earlier this year. The ruling TMC is keen on the by-polls as Mamata will have to get elected within six months to continue as the CM. In that case, the by-polls must be conducted by November 5. The decision proved that the TMC's allegations that the EC is being controlled by the BJP are false, he said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh wondered why the election to urban local bodies in the state are being held up for years while assembly by-election is facilitated when the TMC enjoys absolute majority. Senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said, "The bypoll was a necessity as per constitutional norms but the BJP was trying to derail the process for narrow partisan interest. We hail the decision of the EC. We will follow all Covid-19 guidelines." The Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said it is a welcome decision of the EC since holding bypolls within six months of counting is mandatory. CPI(M) central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said, "Announcing the (by-election) date is welcome from the constitutional point of view. But why only Bhabanipur and two seats? Why not bypolls in other seats and elections in other seats?" He said while elections to different bodies were regularly held during the 34 years of the Left Front rule, elections to different municipalities were overdue for over two years. Mamata had moved out of her traditional seat in Calcutta's Bhawanipore to fight in Nandigram during the assembly polls. After the election results were out, senior TMC leader Sovandeb Chattopadhyay who won from Bhawanipore vacated the seat to allow Mamata to contest from there. Mamata had won from Bhawanipore twice since 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Relief for Didi as EC allows  Bhawanipore bypoll as special case||Mamata Banerjee received her best Durga Puja gift from Narendra Modi on Saturday as the Election Commission of India announced the dates for the by-election to the Bhowanipore Assembly seat  as a special case,  paving the way for the Bengal chief minister to seek re-election from the seat she had represented in the last two terms. Bhowanipore,  along with Assembly seats of Shamshergunj and Jangipur, will go to polls on September 30. The results of all the  three bypolls would be announced on October 3, just about a week before Bengal’s grandest festival. According to the notification of the Election Commission, the poll process will be completed before October 5, a month to spare before the deadline for Mamata to  become an elected MLA expires. The by-election was necessitated after Mamata’s loss in  the Assembly elections in Nandigram against the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikary, which has been challenged in the Calcutta high court. According to EC sources, while the chief secretaries of other states awaiting by-elections like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, Telengana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and the advisers of the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu cited the Covid pandemic, flood situation and festive season to delay the poll process, Bengal claimed it was fully prepared. “In the meeting between the EC officials and the state chief secretaries, the Bengal chief secretary argued the Covid-19 situation was fully under control and the floods had not ravaged any of the poll-bound constituencies,” said a source. The chief secretary also referred to a possible constitutional crisis in the state if the by-election in Bhowanipore from where Mamata will contest was not held on time. The Bengal government argued, to avoid a vacuum at the top and for the sake of administrative exigencies and public interest, the byelection may be held in Bhowanipore. The question,  however,  remains that if Bengal is completely prepared to hold polls, then why the constituencies of Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba have been left out. These four seats fell vacant following resignations or deaths of the winning candidates. According to the ECI notification, “after taking into consideration the inputs and views of  chief secretaries of the concerned states and the respective chief electoral officers, while the Commission has decided not to hold by-elections in other 31 Assembly constituencies and three parliamentary constituencies, and considering the constitutional exigency and special request from the state of West Bengal, it has decided to hold by-election in Bhowanipore-AC.” There has been a growing feeling, largely fuelled by Mamata herself, that the BJP at the Centre was not keen on holding the by-election to a create a situation where Mamata would be forced to resign. The Bengal leader of Opposition, Suvendu Adhikary, too had kept up the ante on the chief minister. “We succeeded in rattling her. The announcement also proves that the EC does not run according to the wishes of the BJP,” said a central BJP leader. Despite Mamata’s occasional outbursts, the ECI had never gone on record saying elections would not be held. Even during her visit to Delhi last month, Mamata had requested Modi to ensure that the by-poll was held in time. Now there's a question on what happens to  state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had resigned hurriedly from Bhowanipore to facilitate Mamata’s entry to the Assembly. Chattopadhyay was tipped to contest from Khardah, where the Trinamul MLA succumbed after the results were declared. Chattopadhyay had even started grooming the constituency represented in the last two terms by  state finance minister Amit Mitra. Chattopadhyay would have to resign from the cabinet if he is not elected to the Assembly within November 5. Whether the Calcutta-based Chattopadhyay will be nominated in either Shamshergunj or Jangipur is not clear. Late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhishek who recently joined Trinamul is lobbying hard for the seat he had represented earlier in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF boats for border vigil along Bangladesh border in north Bengal||The BSF has deployed boats in riparian stretches along the Bangladesh border in north Bengal to prevent smuggling and other crimes. The north Bengal frontier of the BSF guards around 936km of the India-Bangladesh border. “As of now, around 110km of the India-Bangladesh border under the frontier, which include some riverine tracts, do not have fences. To ensure that no illegal activity is carried out along these stretches, we have introduced vigil by boats. Even civil boats have been hired for patrolling,” said Ravi Gandhi, the inspector general of the frontier. He was speaking to media persons at the frontier headquarters in Kadamtala, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. A number of rivers, including the Teesta, Mahananda, Atrayee and the Punarbhaba, enters Bangladesh from north Bengal. Earlier, there were reports that smugglers were using the rivers, especially during the monsoon, to smuggle different items, especially cattle, into Bangladesh. Senior BSF officers disclosed details of the seizures and arrests made along the border in the frontier this year. The data showed that altogether, items —  which included cattle, narcotic, cough syrup, tablets, gold silver and snake venom —  worth over Rs 34 crore were seized from January till September 3 this year. Also, 170 people, including 70 Bangladeshi nationals and 97 Indians, who were associated with smuggling, were intercepted at the border during the period. “We are working in consonance with different agencies, including state police, to prevent illegal activities,” said Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF rescues three white peafowls in Nadia district||Three rare white peafowls were seized by the BSF while they were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh in the Matiary area of Nadia on Friday morning. Later, the BSF authorities handed over two peafowls to forest officials in Ranaghat as one of the rare birds had died earlier in the day. A senior forest department official in Ranaghat said a genetic variant has made peafowl a rare bird in India. An official of the forest department’s Nadia-Murshidabad division said: “We have examined the two peafowls that are similar to the blue Indian peafowl but a mutation has turned them white. They will be kept in our custody till further decision is taken.” “A genetic mutation known as leucism, which means an abnormal condition of reduced pigmentation on its layers of feathers, makes the white peafowls special and uncommon. Most peafowls we see belong to albino category, which have an absence of white pigmentation on their plumage. The white plumages of the rescued peafowls prove that they do not belong to the albino family. We have informed our senior officials who will examine the birds and identify its actual variety,” the officer told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||STF seizes four more SIM boxes from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar||The Special Task Force (STF) of the state police seized four more SIM boxes from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts on Friday. In the past 24 hours, this is the second raid in which the STF has made such seizures. On Wednesday night, the STF teams had conducted raids in a number of locations of the state, including Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, and had seized as many as 23 SIM boxes, along with several other equipment. Three persons, including a Bangladeshi national, were arrested. “Three more SIM boxes have been seized from Jaigaon, a the town in Alipurduar district located on the IndiaBhutan border, and one such box has been seized from Jalpaiguri district,” said a source in the STF. It may be mentioned that A SIM box can hold scores of SIM cards at a time, can route international calls through a card and can help the caller evade international calling charges. Also, different intelligence agencies have found that calls made through such a box are tough to be traced or tapped and can be used by criminals or terror forces. “Along with the concern about the kind of people who are using the equipment, it also means financial losses to the national exchequer as international call charges can be bypassed,” said a source. On Thursday, sources in the STF said that they have recovered SIM boxes which have a capacity of 256 SIM slots from seven locations. Added to it, routers and switches, around 400 preactivated SIM cards, WiFi modems, laptop, data cable and some other communication equipment were also seized. The seizure of SIM boxes from north Bengal, particularly from a bordering area like Jaigaon, has put the police and other agencies on alert. “This is because a vital defence installation, the Hasimara Air Force Station, is located just 18 kilometres away. Also, the IndiaBangladesh border is not far from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.It is necessary to find out whether the boxes were used to make international calls,” said an official of a state intelligence agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: TMC leader killed allegedly by woman panchayat member ||A Trinamul leader was hacked to death allegedly by a woman panchayat member of the party, her husband and some relatives in Malda district on Thursday night. Sources said Sherbanu Bibi, a Trinamul member of Chandrapara panchayat, and her husband Jamaluddin Sheikh had invited Setabur Rahaman to their home on Thursday night. “They had an argument over some trivial issue and Jamaluddin, his brother Kamaluddin and Sherbanu attacked my husband with sharp weapons,” said Aliyara Khatun, Rehman’s wife. Rahaman succumbed to his injuries at hospital. Kamaluddin Sheikh has been arrested and police said searches were on to round up other accused persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 686 new cases, 715 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded a fall in total active cases for 75 days in a row, with 686 new infections, 715 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 40 to 8,694. Calcutta logged 110 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 109, the only two districts of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.23 lakh recoveries and 18,483 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Adhir runs into Trinamul protest in Murshidabad’s Raninagar||Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was heckled and shown black flags allegedly by over 300 Trinamul Congress workers in Murshidabad’s Raninagar on Friday morning. The MP was on his way to Godonpara village  where two Congress workers’ homes had been vandalised on Thursday night. Hecklers waved black flags at his convoy and called him the “leader” of a “murder syndicate”, holding up his visit for half an hour until Raninagar police arrived and dispersed the crowd. The police said Chowdhury was not physically injured. Chowdhury said: “I was on my way to visit party workers whose homes were vandalised by Trinamul workers. But Trinamul tried to create trouble in my way.” Trinamul’s Raninagar MLA, Soumik Hossain, said his party’s workers were not involved in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Exporters seek end to ‘syndicate raj’ on India-Bangladesh border||Representatives of a number of trade bodies and exporters based in north Bengal have sought intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to stop “syndicate raj” and improve infrastructure at two land customs stations (LCS) of the region located along the India-Bangladesh border. They held talks with the administrative officials of Jalpaiguri and also with officials of Customs and other departments, mentioning that illegal syndicates mushroomed at Fulbari (the LCS located on the southern end of Siliguri, with Banglabandha on the other side) of Jalpaiguri district and Changrabandha (with Burimari of Bangladesh on the other side) in Cooch Behar district. According to the exporters, these days, trucks carrying boulders are being allowed to cross the border by the syndicates on a priority basis while those laden with food grains, which are essential items and perishable, remain stranded on the boundary for days. “The syndicates are so active that they control the entire movement of trucks at the border. Ideally, essential goods and perishable items should get priority but syndicate members always insisted that trucks carrying boulders be allowed earlier passage. At times, it is taking over 10 days for a truck loaded with food grains to enter Bangladesh. We suspect this is done because of some financial interest and that’s why we have sought the chief minister’s intervention,” said Surajit Paul, the secretary of the North Bengal Industries’ Association. Sources said the syndicates run by local youths with political connections made money by collecting cash from trucks which cross the border. “This practice has to be stopped. We have requested officials to see if we can meet the chief minister during her ensuing visit to north Bengal and request her to take necessary steps,” said a representative of the North Bengal Exporters’ Association. North Bengal has seven international trade routes to Bangladesh, four of which are through land. A senior exporter based in Siliguri said the syndicates gave priority to trucks carrying boulders because they made more money as “commission” than a truck loaded with food grains. The trade bodies also want the state to augment ancillary infrastructure at the land custom stations in north Bengal, especially at Fulbari . They have said every day, thousands of trucks are parked along the Asian Highway 2, which enters Bangladesh through Fulbari. There is a truck terminus nearby but is inadequate to accommodate so many vehicles, they said. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, who had a meeting with the trade bodies and exporters, said she would take up the issue with the authorities concerned. “We will speak with police, Customs and some other authorities on the issues mentioned by them. The state always wants to ensure that there is no hurdle to the bilateral trade,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: HC order ‘executed’ soon after verdict, say police||A large team of Birbhum district police and civil administration reached Visva-Bharati on Friday afternoon and swung into action to carry out an order of Calcutta High Court which wanted vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s office and residence to be cleared of the agitating students. “We carried out all Calcutta High Court orders in the presence of Visva-Bharati officials. The protesters were removed from outside the house of the VC. All posters and banners were removed. An unclaimed lock that was put on the gate of the VC’s residence was broken to ensure his free movements. A pandal that the students had put up within 50 meters of the VC’s residence was also dismantled,” said Abhishek Ray, the sub-divisional police officer of Bolpur. Within half an hour of the high court order, a team of three armed constables was deployed in front of Purbita — the official residence of the VC. Apart from the SDPO, Bolpur subdivisional officer Ayan Nath also came, along with senior officers, to monitor the situation around 3.30pm. The police first broke an unclaimed lock to open the new gate of Purbita and cleared a few tins placed to guard the CCTV cameras. Festoons or posters were taken off the wall and the gate of Purbita within a few minutes. The police directed the students to clear the area around the VC’s residence. “The university officials’ presence on the spot confirmed that they were satisfied with the action following the court order,” said a district official. Although the order came as a blow to the protesting students, they didn’t waste any time in dismantling the pandal, which was set up as part of an agitation against VC Chakrabarty. The VC has had several run-ins with the student and teaching and non-teaching community of the varsity since he took over the reins of the central university around two years ago. “We have full respect and faith in the court and we will follow the order.... But we would carry on with our protest against the VC’s vindictive approach towards students and his attempts at saffronising the institution,” said Somnath Sow, a protesting student, who added that they had co-operated with the police in carrying out the court order. In the evening, the students set up a new pandal in front of one of the guest houses of the varsity — keeping a safe distance from VC’s residence — and said they would continue the peaceful dharna to press for their demand. “We followed the order and set up a new tent keeping a distance of more than 50 meters from the VC’s residence. The court had specified a few specific places from where we would not be allowed to conduct the agitation. We are not gheraoing anyone and are just demonstrating here,” said Sow. The demonstration was launched last week to protest the rustication of three students by the varsity authorities. A section of Visva-Bharati officials said the police had promised during the action that there would be no gathering of agitators on the campus. “We have already been informed about the new stage by the students. We would inform the authorities concerned about the new stage,” said a senior varsity official. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sarkar did not reply to a message from this newspaper which asked him whether the authorities were satisfied with the action by the police and the administration following the court order. The Visva-Bharati authorities on Friday night said they had resumed the processes of student admissions and exam result publications. The varsity had last week put on hold the processes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI makes third arrest in Bengal post-poll violence cases||The CBI has made the third arrest in connection with the alleged political violence following the publication of Assembly election results in Bengal. Ratan Halder was arrested from Shyamnagar adjoining Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Thursday night for allegedly murdering Sovarani Mondal, whose son was known to be a BJP worker. Senior CBI officers said Sovarani had allegedly been hit with bamboo sticks on the head when she had come to the rescue of her son from assaulters who had attacked her family at Shyamnagar. A team of CBI officers had reached the district a few days ago for the probe into Sovarani’s murder. The central investigating agency has been probing into alleged rapes and murders during the post-results violence as ordered by Calcutta High Court on August 19. Four teams comprising a total of 21 officers and led by four joint directors has been touring parts of the state since the verdict. On August 28, the CBI had arrested Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh from Nadia for their alleged involvement in the murder of BJP worker Ayan Mondal. The CBI on Friday filed a chargesheet against four persons at Barrackpore court in connection with the alleged murder of Jayprakash Yadav, a BJP worker of Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas, on June 6. Yadav was killed following a spate of indiscriminate bombing at Bhatpara. The four have been charged with murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The CBI had filed another chargesheet in Birbhum on Thursday in connection with the alleged murder of Manoj Jaiswal of Nalhati. The agency has drawn up 34 cases involving heinous crimes like murder and rape in the aftermath of the poll results in Bengal. Calcutta High Court on Friday appointed Justice (retired) Manjula Chellur as the chairperson of the Special Investigating Team (SIT) that was formed to probe alleged incidents of post-results violence, except murder and rape. A high court bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on August 19 directed the state government to form the SIT that comprises police officers. Justice Chellur had served as the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Court asks cops to remove agitating students from Visva-Bharati||Calcutta High Court on Friday directed Santiniketan police to disperse with immediate effect the agitating students from the Visva-Bharati campus, particularly from the office and the residential area of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the surroundings of the administrative building of the university complex. In his directive, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also asked the police to remove all banners and posters and related articles from the varsity complex and to ensure that loudspeakers were not used in the area. The judge asked the university to restore normality as soon as possible and directed both the police and the Visva-Bharati authorities to file regular reports before the court. The order said no agitation would be allowed within a 50-metre radius of the university complex. The court also ordered police deployment at the university complex for keeping normality. The court asked the authorities to ensure that all closed-circuit cameras were working properly within the complex. “The vice-chancellor of the university in addition to his own security guards shall also be provided with three constables from the Santiniketan police station for his protection,” stated the order, additionally. “No demonstration shall be conducted by any students or any persons within a distance of 50 meters of any portion or part of the university, particularly, the schools, classrooms, the residence of the vice-chancellor, teachers, professors, officials, staff library, the administrative buildings, laboratories, etc.,” it further added. The directions were to be carried out by the Santiniketan police from 4pm on Friday. The order followed a petition by the authorities of Visva-Bharati, which wanted the state government to take proper steps against students and teachers who had been holding “illegal” picketing around the VC’s office and residence for the past few days. The petition also claimed that outsiders were extending support to the agitators by entering the campus illegally and that the picketers were not even allowing physicians to check on the health of Chakrabarty. Appearing for the students, advocate Mohammed Shamim told the court that Chakrabarty was the “root” of the trouble, having rusticated three students illegally. At this, Justice Mantha said: “The students could move court to challenge the VC’s decision. The way they took instead, was not legal. The court cannot tolerate such acts. Normality must be restored in the university.” Advocate Shamim then said: “To stage peaceful demonstration is a fundamental right of the students.” Justice Mantha asked him to show him the law, for which Shamim prayed for time. “Till then, the days’ order will prevail,” said the judge. Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, the lawyer appearing for the university authorities, claimed that the agitation was not peaceful. The agitators locked the rooms of the vice-chancellor and other officials, he said. Appearing for the state, Amitesh Banerjee opposed the plea and said the vice-chancellor himself, with the help of security personnel, had locked the rooms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 50 parakeets seized, two held in Siliguri||Two suspected smugglers were arrested with over 50 parakeets from the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday. A team of foresters posted at the Sarugara forest range of Baikunthapur forest division intercepted the duo in the Canal Road area. “The duo were carrying 55 parakeets in a big cage. We arrested them as they could not furnish proper documents for possessing the birds,” said a forester. Those arrested have been identified as Dinesh Das and Sajjad Alam, both residents of Galgalia, which is under Thakurganj district of Bihar. “Preliminary probe suggests that Das and Alam had procured the birds from somewhere near Malbazar (of Jalpaiguri district) and were taking those to Bihar. There are reports that a racket engaged in smuggling of parakeets and other birds is active in the neighbouring state and recently, some seizures have been made in Malda. We are on alert,” a forest officer said. In recent times, this is the fourth such incident of parakeets being seized in north Bengal. As per the Wildlife (Protection) Act, there is a ban on possessing, selling or caging parakeets. “Anybody found guilty can face imprisonment up to six years or a maximum fine of  Rs 6,000 can be imposed on him,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
