05-09-2021||West Bengal||Candidate names for bypolls to be announced in 2-3 days, says Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh||Bharatiya Janata Party will field a strong candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhawanipore seat, the party's state chief Dilip Ghosh said on Sunday. The Bhawanipore seat is scheduled to go to bypoll on September 30. "We will fight the election strongly. There is no doubt that it will be a tough fight as Mamata Banerjee is a big figure and the chief minister of the state. She has control of the entire state. We will also field strong candidates in West Bengal," Ghosh said as quoted by agencies. On Saturday, the Election Commission has announced by-elections to three assembly seats in West Bengal on September 30. These include Bhawanipore, the traditional seat of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, from where she will contest the by-election. Besides Bhawanipore, bypolls will be held in Samserganj and Jangipur constituencies. The counting of votes will take place on October 3. "We have defeated Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. Her slogan that 'Bengal wants its own daughter' flopped. The people of Bengal have shown that they do not want Mamata Banerjee. But after that, she is trying to come through the back door. She made an elected MLA who is also a minister resign in the greed of position," he said Mamata Banerjee suffered defeat at the hands of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram assembly constituency. Following this, the Bhawanipore assembly seat was vacated by the West Bengal Agriculture Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, making way for the West Bengal chief minister to contest from the seat. Banerjee needs to win the bypoll she has to remain the Chief Minister of the state. "We want the election to be held in a peaceful environment and in a fair manner. But, post-poll violence is still going on. Around 95 BJP workers have been killed. It is a matter of great concern that how the polls will be held peacefully when there is violence going on and all IPS officers are probing that," he stated. Asked about the BJP's candidate against Mamata Banerjee, Ghosh said, "The party's election committee will oversee the matter. The suggested names will be sent to Delhi. After that, the parliamentary board will make the final announcement. However, in 2-3 days, the candidates of the West Bengal by-elections will be announced." The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress registered a landslide victory in the state polls, winning 213 seats in the 294-member Assembly. The BJP finished as the second largest party with 77 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata officially named TMC candidate for Bhawanipore bypoll||The Trinamool Congress Sunday officially announced Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as its candidate for the by-election in Bhawanipore. TMC's campaign in the seat in south Kolkata is already underway with the Election Commission announcing the bypoll on Saturday, following a request from the state government to avoid a constitutional crisis. Banerjee, who lost the election in Nandigram, has to win this by-poll to retain her chief minister's post. The BJP, Congress, and CPI(M)-led Left Front are yet to announce their candidates for the bypoll. The bypoll will be held on September 30 along with the elections to two seats in the Murshidabad district -- Samserganj and Jangipur where polling could not be held during the eight-phase assembly elections earlier this year. The counting of votes will take place on October 3. Jakir Hossain is the TMC candidate in the Jangipur seat, while Amirul Islam is contesting as the party's candidate from Samserganj. Veteran politician Sovandeb Chattopadhyay stepped down as the TMC MLA of Bhawanipore, allowing Banerjee a chance to become a member of the state legislative assembly by fighting the bypoll. Chattopadhyay had defeated BJP's actor-politician Rudranil Ghosh by around 28,000 votes from Bhawanipore. Banerjee had won from Bhawanipore twice since 2011. She had moved out of her traditional seat to fight in Nandigram during the assembly polls earlier this year but lost to his former close aide Suvendu Adhikari who contested on a BJP ticket. Adhikari is now the Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly. The notification for the Bhawanipore bypoll will be issued on September 6, beginning the nomination process. September 13 is the last date of filing nominations, while scrutiny of papers will take place on September 14. September 16 is the last date to withdraw from the electoral battle. According to an Election Commission statement, the West Bengal chief secretary had urged that in view of administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a vacuum in the state, by-elections for Bhawanipore, from where CM Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections, may be conducted. She has to become a member of the state legislature by November 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Will hang myself publicly if scam allegations are true, says Abhishek Banerjee||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee Sunday said that he would get himself hanged if any central agency can bring to the fore his involvement in any illegal transaction. Speaking to reporters at the Calcutta airport on his way to New Delhi to attend a summons by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged coal scam case, Banerjee accused the BJP of indulging in political vendetta having lost the state assembly elections. "I reiterate what I had said in November at public meetings that if any central agency can prove my involvement in any illegal transaction of even 10 paise, there will be no need to hold any CBI or ED probe, I will walk up the podium and get myself hanged publicly," he said. He has been summoned to appear before the investigating officer of the case in New Delhi on September 6 for questioning in a money laundering case linked to the alleged coal scam in Bengal. "I am ready to face any and every kind of investigation," Banerjee said, adding that despite it being a case of Kolkata, he was summoned to New Delhi. "Having lost the elections and failing to tackle Trinamul Congress politically, they (BJP) are now seeking revenge," he claimed. The BJP has no other job than to use the investigating agencies to fulfill their political interests, he alleged. Banerjee said that he would like to invite any BJP leader to sit face to face with him and discuss what the central agencies have done in the last five years and the fate of the country in the seven-year rule of the Narendra Modi government. "You (BJP) decide the date, time and venue and I will go; if I cannot expose them then I will not put my feet in the political arena anymore," he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh threatens to put govt official, panchayat members in jail over funds misappropriations||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday threatened to put a local government officer and a panchayat member behind bars in Birbhum district over reports of funds misappropriation and said no one involved in looting public money would be spared. Ghosh, during a party meeting in the district's Mayureswar area, said that several allegations of misbehaviour and embezzlement of public money have been raised against a block development officer, who apparently works in collusion with a panchayat member. "Someone has built a three-storey house with public money, and he does not mind enjoying his tea in its balcony every morning, while masses are deprived of basic facilities. Your time is up," he said, without clearly referring to anyone. "I have come to know that the local BDO is working against the interests of common people. He is doing this in collusion with a panchayat member. We are asking them to mend his ways... No one involved in looting public money will be spared," he warned. In a veiled dig at the ruling TMC, Ghosh further said that "many of your leaders" have been jailed in Odisha, too, for cheating people and looting their hard-earned money. "We can despatch the corrupt to jails in this state, too. Stop dishonest practices now," he added. The state BJP chief was possibly alluding to the arrests made in the neighbouring state in connection with the chit-fund scams. Responding to his claims, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh told PTI, "Dilipbabu makes tall claims which have no truth in them." He contended that the "BJP knows nothing better than intimidating opposition parties with the use of central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate". "By threatening people with jail terms, leaders like Dilipbabu are proving that his party is trying to make central agencies an extended arm of the BJP," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||CID summons Suvendu Adhikari over death of his bodyguard||The Bengal CID has summoned Opposition leader in the state Assembly Suvendu Adhikari in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, a senior official said on Sunday. The Nandigram BJP MLA has been asked to appear before the investigating officers at the CID headquarters in Bhawani Bhawan inCalcutta on Monday, he said. The CID had formed a team to investigate the death of Adhikari's bodyguard Subhabrata Chakraborty, who had allegedly shot himself using his service revolver. Chakraborty's wife had filed a complaint at Contai Police Station demanding a probe into her husband's death. The CID has so far questioned over 15 people, including 11 policemen, as part of the investigation. Earlier, its team members had also visited the Adhikari residence 'Shanti Kunj' in Purba Medinipur. Chakraborty, a State Armed Police personnel, was part of Adhikari's security team from the time he was a TMC MP, and continued to be in the squad after he became a minister in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission of India calls Bhowanipore bypoll on Sept 30||The Election Commission of India has declared bypolls in Bhowanipore on September 30, clearing the decks for Mamata Banerjee to contest from there and virtually lifting the cloud of uncertainty over the Trinamul leader continuing as chief minister beyond November 5. The counting for the bypolls in three Assembly seats in Bengal and one in Odisha is scheduled for October 3. As Mamata was sworn in as the chief minister of Bengal on May 5 despite losing to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, she has to win from another seat and become a member of the Assembly within six months to carry on as the chief minister after November 5. As soon as the poll dates were announced, Trinamul supporters hit the streets in Bhowanipore in celebration and began campaigning for Mamata. Bhowanipore was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won with a margin of over 28,000 votes, on May 21 to enable Mamata to be elected to the Assembly. The other two Bengal seats for which bypolls were declared are Jangipur and Samserganj — both in Murshidabad — where candidates died before polling in the summer. Leaders of the the ruling Trinamul, which sent several delegations to Nirvachan Sadan for the timely conduct of the bypolls, welcomed the poll panel's announcement. The Bengal unit of the BJP, which was all praise for the Election Commission during the eight-phase polls in the state, was bitterly critical of the poll panel for its decision to conduct the bypoll in Bhowanipore but not in Gosaba, Khardah, Shantipur and Dinhata, from where the winners either resigned or passed away. The Bengal BJP has been opposing bypolls during the pandemic while the initial uncertainty had prompted a section of Trinamul leaders to point fingers at the Election Commission. In a note, the Election Commission explained that it included Bhowanipore in the bypoll list, “considering the constitutional exigency and special request” from Bengal. “He (the Bengal chief secretary) also cited that under Article 164(4) of the Constitution of India, …there will be a constitutional crisis and vacuum in the top executive posts in the government unless elections are held immediately.” The Election Commission secretary, Sanjeev Kumar Prasad, added in the note that the commission decided against holding bye-elections in 31 other Assembly seats and three parliamentary constituencies based on inputs it had received from political parties and chief secretaries of these states. In response to a question on the legality of such a consideration against the backdrop of the allegation of bias by the BJP, the Election Commission cited certain precedents. “In the cases of former Prime Ministers P.V. Narasimha Rao in 1991 and H.D. Deve Gowda in 1996 and several chief ministers (like Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan in 1991; Rabri Devi of Bihar in 1997; Vijaya Bhaskara Reddy of Andhra Pradesh in 1993; the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2017; the Nagaland chief minister in 2017, the Maharashtra chief minister in May 2020), the commission conducted byelections to fulfil similar constitutional requirement. The commission noted that this has been the consistent practice,” the spokesperson said in a message to The Telegraph. The Election Commission issued a slew of guidelines for the bypolls in view of the pandemic. ⚫ No processions before and after filing nominations and counting ⚫ Only three vehicles of the candidate will be allowed in a 100-metre radius of the nomination centre ⚫ Ceiling of 30 per cent capacity or 200 people for indoor campaign meetings and 50 per cent or 500 people for outdoor meetings, whichever is lower ⚫ No roadshows or car, bike, or bicycle rallies ⚫ Street corner meetings restricted to 50 people ⚫ Number of star campaigners restricted to 20 for national/state recognised parties and 10 for unrecognised parties ⚫ Not more than 20 vehicles allowed for a candidate/political party, excluding star campaigner ⚫ Passengers in each vehicle cannot exceed 50% capacity ⚫ Silence period increased from 48 to 72 hours before polling ends The Election Commission issued a slew of guidelines for the bypolls in view of the pandemic. ⚫ No processions before and after filing nominations and counting ⚫ Only three vehicles of the candidate will be allowed in a 100-metre radius of the nomination centre ⚫ Ceiling of 30% capacity or 200 people for indoor campaign meetings and 50% or 500 people for outdoor meetings, whichever is lower ⚫ No roadshows or car, bike, or bicycle rallies ⚫ Street-corner meetings restricted to 50 people ⚫ Number of star campaigners restricted to 20 for national/state-recognised parties and 10 for unrecognised parties ⚫ Not more than 20 vehicles allowed for a candidate/political party, excluding star campaigner ⚫ Passengers in each vehicle cannot exceed 50% capacity ⚫ Silence period increased from 48 to 72 hours before polling ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s home turf bypoll vexes Bengal BJP leaders||BJP Bengal leaders couldn’t seem to hide their anger on Saturday over the Election Commission of India’s decision to hold the bypoll to the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency on September 30, from where Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee is slated to contest. Mamata, who steered her party to victory for the third time but lost a contentious poll from Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, has to win an Assembly seat by November 5 or within six months of her swearing-in, to remain the chief minister under constitutional norms. Her home turf being Bhowanipur, the result seems a foregone conclusion. The BJP state leadership, bitterly against the idea of Mamata’s victory, caught off-guard by the EC’s announcement, wasted no time in attacking the poll panel and dub its decision “unjustified”. “This decision is not justified...There would have been no constitutional problem if the bypoll at Bhowanipore wasn’t held now as (contrary to what was) cited by the chief secretary of the state (H.K. Dwivedi), since there would have been no change in the party ruling the state,” BJP state president and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said. He added it was “not the EC’s job” to ensure that someone in particular remains the chief minister of a state. “The EC’s job is to ensure free and fair elections,” he said. Asked if his party would move court against the EC’s decision, Ghosh said the party would discuss the future course of action. Ghosh, however, said his party would participate in the bypoll. Sources in the BJP said they would meet either on September 6 or 7 to discuss probable names for the bypolls. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of the Opposition Adhikari hit out at the chief secretary. “We will make this an issue. He cannot write this being the state chief secretary...Out of 294 assemblies in the state only seven are not represented. How will it create a constitutional problem?” Adhikari said. This is the first time since the Assembly polls that the BJP lashed out against the EC. It was evident from both Ghosh and Adhikari’s comments that the party had expected that the EC would respond favourably to their objection against the bypoll at Bhowanipore. Bengal BJP leaders, especially Ghosh and Adhikari, had repeatedly said that Bengal’s political environment wasn’t fit for bypolls at the moment, referring to the pandemic or the alleged post-poll violence. However, the BJP also demanded that the civic polls be held before the bypolls. Eight reasons for their objection were sent to the central leadership and the EC as well. Their efforts fell flat when the poll panel announced the bypoll to Bhowanipore and two others of the seven seats on Saturday. “This is bizarre. During the polls the EC practically toed our line... suddenly it appears to have gone against us and it is surprising,” said a state BJP functionary. Minister and Trinamul general-secretary Partha Chatterjee, responding to the BJP, said: “Ask them if they are disheartened, scared or afraid of our leader (Mamata)...” The Congress welcomed the decision. The CPM demanded that dates for civic polls also be announced. “We demanded timely bypolls and that is being done...Constitutional obligations must be fulfilled on time,” said Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya. CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty also welcomed the poll panel’s decision but said: "Why are the four other Assembly segments, where bypolls, are due left out? Also, when will the state government give a go ahead for civic polls?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to monitor all welfare schemes||The Bengal government has decided to monitor all welfare schemes run by it more closely on a regular basis to ensure that these do not face glitches, a move necessitated by the unprecedented funds crunch facing the state exchequer. Some officials said monitoring schemes at regular intervals is crucial when the state is facing acute funds crunch. “After launching the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, the state government will have to shoulder Rs 17,000 crore for  only this. If proper monitoring is not done, other schemes may face trouble as the state’s revenue generation has not increased in the backdrop of the pandemic,” said a source. That’s why chief minister Mamata Banerjee has given state chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi the onus to review each scheme once a month from now on, said a source, adding that a schedule has been drawn up for regular review. As an example, schemes like midday meals, scholarships for students, tablets and smartphones for students and student credit cards, run by the school education department, will come for review on the first Monday of the month. Lakshmir Bhandar, Kanyashree, Rupashree run by the women and child development and social welfare department will be reviewed on the first Saturday of every month. “The schemes will be reviewed at regular intervals to ensure these don’t face trouble. If they do, hurdles can be removed during the top-level meeting,”  said a senior official. A minister said these schemes are vital for the ruling party as it is believed that these have helped the Trinamul retain power for the third consecutive time. “We will focus more on schemes ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls particularly when we want to take the BJP head on,” the minister said. Review meetings cancelled The chief minister's administrative review meetings scheduled in North Bengal on September 6, 7 and 8 have been cancelled after elections to Jangipur and Samserganj in Murshidabad and bypoll in Bhowanipore was announced on Saturday. The chief minister would be contesting the poll from Bhowanipore and as the model code of conduct has come into effect, the chief minister would not be able to promise anything, sources said. "During the review meetings, several instructions and development schemes are usually announced. As the chief minister would not be able to make any announcements, the meetings have been cancelled for the time being," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA defects to Trinamul Congress, third in 10 days||Soumen Roy, the BJP MLA of Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur, on Saturday switched over to Trinamul to become the third MLA —  after Tanmoy Ghosh of Bishnupur and Biswajit Das of Bagda — to do so in 10 days. Roy, who also became the first MLA from north Bengal to cross over, said he was against any partition of Bengal, referring to the statehood cry adopted by some BJP leaders in the region. In Calcutta, he was inducted into Trinamul by party general secretary Partha Chatterjee, in presence of Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief of North Dinajpur and Mridul Goswami, the Trinamul chairman of Alipurduar district. “It is true that I got elected on a BJP ticket but could I not accept the divisive politics that the party has adopted these days. I am against any partition of Bengal and want to see Mamata Banerjee continuing as the chief minister  and carrying out development across north Bengal. That is why, I have decided to leave BJP,” Roy said after receiving the party flag from Chatterjee. Ahead of the Assembly elections, Roy, who was with Trinamul since his student life, had quit Mamata’s party to join the saffron brigade. Multiple sources in the saffron camp said his decision exposed the rift in the party over the issue of a statehood for north Bengal that party MP John Barla had first raised. “In a recent meeting, five (of 29) MLAs and six (of seven) MPs of the party from the region, stayed away. Manoj Tigga, party’s chief whip in the Assembly and the MLA of Madarihat (in Alipurduar district), said the remarks of Barla and some other leaders over the issue of statehood were their personal opinion... But Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP and a BJP national spokesman, defended Barla... It’s clear we are divided on the issue,” said a BJP source. Roy attended the meeting but left the BJP two days later.  “He has clarified he could not buy the demand. His departure has reaffirmed that rifts are widening within the BJP in north Bengal over the issue,” said senior BJP leader in North Dinajpur. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur BJP president, however, tried to put up a brave face on Roy’s defection. “Soumen Roy’s decision to walk out of the party only proves that he is an opportunist. He had joined BJP for his own interests. His defection will not affect the party in any manner,” said Sarkar. Another BJP leader in South Dinajpur said a number of other MLAs and party leaders are upset with the issue. Also, contradictory statements of party leaders have led to confusions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India's  ‘last dates’ raise brows in north Bengal||A recent directive by the Tea Board of India for the brew belt of north Indian states, including the tea-producing north Bengal, where the board has stated various last dates in December for plucking and processing of leaves, has evoked a mixed response here. For the past couple of years, the board has been issuing a directive on dates to state that no tea can be produced in the estates and in bought-leaf factories after that. On August 31, the board’s deputy chairman issued the directive saying that in Darjeeling hills, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, tea leaves can be plucked till December 4 and production can be carried out in factories till December 6. For Terai, the Dooars and neighbouring Bihar, the dates are December 18 (plucking) and December 20 (production). Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said they had urged the tea board to extend the dates this year, because they felt production could go on till December-end because of the steady yield in plantations. “The price of tea leaves has declined. We expected that in the end of the season, we could recover,” he said, justifying their request . In 2019, 1,390.08 million kilos of tea was produced in the country, which reduced to 1,257.53 million kilos last year. This year, production is expected to go up again. Tea planters said the decision by the board to notify the first and last days of plucking and production was made to prevent poor quality teas. During winter months, tea bushes stop yielding fresh leaves. “However, unlike north India, no such dates are issued for south Indian tea-producing states (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala). In south India, tea production continues throughout the year,” said M P Bansal, chairman, Terai Indian Planters’ Association. Sources in the tea board said dates were finalised with imputs from the tea industry. “Tea production in southern states is hardly 20 per cent of the national produce,” said a source, adding tabs on quality were stringent in south India as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||30 families of sinking Ghoramara Island get new land||As a first step to rehabilitate 30 families from Ghoramara Island in South 24-Parganas, where increasing water levels of the Bay of Bengal have endangered their survival, the state government on Saturday handed over land rights to ensure their relocation in Sagar’s Dakshin Haradhanpur. The pattas for 20 decimals of land for each of the 30 families as allotted by the state government’s land and land reforms department were handed over by South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan and the Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Chandra Hazra in the presence of other officials in Sagar. Officials are hopeful that these families will settle well in their new locations once the housing department builds huts for them by the start of 2022. “It is a major step to save these families from a natural disaster that made their very existence vulnerable. The state government has allotted land to these families where we will build their homes and arrange livelihood options,” the DM said. Ghoramara Island, some 30km north of the Bay of Bengal, has seen unprecedented erosion in the past few years. The island, which was of around 26 sqkm, has shrunk to around 6.7 sqkm . Block development officer of Sagar, Sudipta Mondal said: “The entire Ghoramara Island is in a vulnerable situation. But these 30 families are the worst hit for the past two years because of two successive cyclones, Amphan and Yaas. We were in search of land for their rehabilitation. But a big stretch for a colony was not available until recently. Our aim is not just to relocate these families, but to give them livelihood support... by a coordinated initiative of land reforms, housing, fisheries, panchayat, animal husbandry departments.” Sources in the South 24-Parganas district administration said that on the allotted land the housing department would build residential huts for them, fisheries department will dig ponds, panchayat departments will build toilets, and animal husbandry department will offer them free ducks and chicks for rearing to help their survival. “At the same time the family members will be imparted with skill development training as per their aptitude under the guidance of departments concerned to help them in better living,” the BDO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 700 new cases, 707 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 700 new Covid-19 infections, 707 recoveries and eight deaths. With 76 straight days of a fall in its active Covid-19 cases, the total fell by 15 to 8,679. Bengal now has 2.16 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number. Calcutta logged 129 new infections and North 24-Parganas 105, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.25 per cent, its highest this pandemic, better than the nation’s 97.4. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is 1.59 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.51 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.24 lakh recoveries and 18,491 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Controversy erupts over student protest site||A fresh controversy erupted in Visva-Bharati campus on Saturday over the location of the new protest venue of students, which they set up after the Calcutta High Court’s order on Friday that asked the police to remove agitating students from outside the residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Sources in the varsity administration said Ashok Mahato, the officiating registrar of Visva-Bharati, wrote to the police informing that the new dais of the protesting students was set up within the 50 meters of the campus, violating the high court order. Students claimed the new dais was set up keeping in mind the court order. Police, however, sided with the students. In his order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha of Calcutta High court on Friday directed Santiniketan police to disperse with immediate effect the agitating students from Visva-Bharati campus, particularly the office and residential area of the VC and surroundings of the administrative building. Justice Mantha had specified a 50-metre distance of the protest from specific locations such as the VC’s home and classrooms, among others. “The officiating registrar Ashok Mahato wrote to the police as the new place of agitation is 50 metres away from the residence of the VC but within the campus as varsity guest houses are located there. In the order the court asked not to allow protests or demonstrations within 50 metres of any part of the campus,” said a senior varsity official. Police said after they received Mahato’s letter, they sent a team to measure the distance  and found no violation of the court order had taken place. “In its order, the court never asked to stop the students’ movement... It specified  50 metres from a few places, including the residence of the VC, would be out of bounds for any demonstration... We have measured and found the new place where students are protesting is around 65 metres from all the places mentioned in the order. The guest house is not attached to educational or official activities of the varsity,” said Abhishek Ray, the subdivisional police officer, Bolpur. In its petition filed in high court, Visva-Bharati authorities had claimed the two entry gates to the central administrative office and central library were locked by students. “While carrying out the court order we found that the allegation was baseless as the security personnel informed that they locked those gates as directed by varsity officials,” said Ray, the SDPO. Students said they were adhering to the court order. “We have shifted to a different place which does not violate the court order. Visva-Bharati wants to snatch away the rights of the students and that’s why they are blaming us,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students. Students also got support from the ruling Trinamul. A large procession by Trinamul students’ wing was taken out in Santiniketan in support of the protesting students and a group of district and state leaders met the students with food and water to show solidarity. “The VC is ruining the culture of Visva-Bharati and promoting the agenda of BJP. The students were rusticated for protesting against his whimsical moves. We are with the students and we will continue our movement against the VC to save the institution,” said Jamsed Ali Khan, a Trinamul spokesperson in Birbhum. The CPM, Congress and several smaller Left outfits have also openly supported the movement of the students. AIDSO, a students’ outfit of SUCI, also took out a protest rally in Santiniketan to support the protest. “It may be a small platform but all anti-BJP parties and students’ wings came together to protest against the saffron agenda of the VC,” said Rituparna Sinha, a state general secretary of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. A group of people from Bengal  Against Fascist RSS-BJP, who were behind the No vote to BJP campaign before Assembly polls, also met the agitating students on Saturday afternoon and held two protest meetings in Santiniketan, demanding the rustication of the students be revoked. “We can’t let BJP and RSS use Tagore’s abode to promote their divisive agenda,” said Kushal Debnath, the convener of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF arrests inspector of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police in Cooch Behar||An inspector of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police in Bangladesh, who allegedly infiltrated India with the help of a tout from his country, was arrested by the Border Security Force (BSF) at Changrabandha in Cooch Behar on Friday. BSF sources said Mohammad Sheikh Sonel Rana, 46, was found in Changrabandha, a transit route to Bangladesh. The resident of Gopalganj, Bangladesh, planned to go to Kathmandu, Nepal. He had on him four debit cards, some US dollars and Euros and two phones with Bangladeshi SIM cards. “On September 2, he left Dhaka by bus and reached Patgram in Lalmonirhat district on Friday. To infiltrate India, he had paid him 10,000 Bangladeshi Taka. We have come to know that back in 2003 he joined Dhaka Metropolitan Police as a sub-inspector and had been under suspension for some reason with 21 other police personnel till 2008,” said a source. On Saturday, the BSF handed Rana to a team of Mekhliganj police station. In another incident, BSF troops of the 45th battalion posted at Bhootbati, also in Cooch Behar district, intercepted three Indians on Saturday and seized around 50,000 Bangladeshi catfish fingerlings from them. “They were carrying the fingerlings  illegally to Calcutta,” said a source. In India, farming of catfish has been banned by the Centre back in 2000. The trio, identified as Mohammad Zakim-ul Haq of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri, Tapas Mallick of Nadia and Ranjan Kumar Sarkar of North 24-Parganas, were handed over to the police at Kuchlibari police station, BSF sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephant kills tea garden worker in Siliguri||A tea garden worker was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Merry View tea estate located in Naxalbari block of Siliguri sub-division in Siliguri on Saturday morning. Harikishan, the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Kurseong forest division, said Kamloo Oraon, 53, had gone out of his quarter around 5.30am to answer the call of nature when the wild elephant attacked and trampled him to death. Harikishan said the elephant had come out of the adjoining Bengdubi forest. Local residents said elephants enter their tea garden regularly in search of fodder. “Elephant herds stray into the estate area and damage hutments and crops before harvest. We want the state forest department to be more active in preventing the animals from entering the garden,” said a worker. Foresters, however, maintained that their teams constantly work in the region to deter elephants from foraying into the tea estates on the fringes of the forest stretches. “The victim’s family will be paid a compensation of Rs 5 lakh according to the state government’s guidelines,” the DFO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans fisherman missing in royal Bengal tiger attack||A fisherman went missing after he was dragged away by a royal Bengal tiger in Jhila forest range of the Sunderbans during the early hours of Saturday. Sources said the victim was identified as Darik Mondal, 39, a resident of Lahiripur village of Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. “Mondal along with three others, including a woman, went to catch crabs in the creek when the incident took place,” said a source. Those accompanying the victim said the big cat swam silently and jumped on their boat from behind. Then, the animal dragged Mondal away even before they could realise what was happening. “It was a very big cat and too powerful for us. It simply jumped on the boat and dragged away Mondal. Everything happened within a few seconds,” one of the fishermen accompanying Mondal said. “The tiger disappeared in the dense forest adjacent to the bank of the creek where we were catching crabs,” the fisherman added. Later, the group on the boat returned to Gosaba and informed the forest officials about what had befallen Mondal. Forest officials immediately launched a search in the area. “However, till Saturday evening the missing fisherman could not be traced,” said a forest official. Sources in Gosaba said that those who had gone to catch crabs inside the Jhila forest range and entered deep inside the prohibited zone. Wildlife officials blamed the fishermen for inviting dangers by entering the deep jungle despite the strict ban on entry. “Entry inside the jungle is prohibited. We had organised awareness drives among fishermen to restrain them from risking their lives. We are trying to promote alternative sources of livelihood like apiculture for them. But it appears that they hardly pay heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. At least 26 fishermen have been killed by royal Bengal tigers in the Sunderbans during the last 15 months, the forest department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
