06-09-2021||West Bengal||ED questions Abhishek Banerjee for 9 hours in money laundering case||Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was questioned for about nine hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in the state.  Stepping out from the agency's Jam Nagar house office in central Delhi just before 8 PM, the 33-year-old MP hit out at the BJP, saying its "tyranny will be defeated" and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will battle it out with "full vigour" against the party holding power at the Centre.  The MP from Diamond Harbour was grilled for close to nine hours after he entered the ED office shortly before 11 AM.  Officials said his statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  He is understood to have been questioned about his links to the other accused involved in the case and in the context of two companies allegedly linked to his family in which some purported illegal transactions were done, they said.  The ED had filed the criminal case under the PMLA after studying a November 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol.  "If BJP thinks that the Trinamool Congress will be scared or will bend, get defeated due to this (the ED case and questioning) or will sit at home like the Congress or any other party...we will fight out with you with full vigour and will go to each such state where you murdered democracy," Banerjee, also the national general secretary of his party, told reporters outside the ED office.  '"Apko jo ukhadna hai, aap ukhad lo (Do whatever you like). TMC will defeat the BJP in the upcoming polls," he said.  A video link of this media interaction was also posted by the TMC on its official Twitter handle.  "The BJP's tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat, resources...mind my words these resources are going to fall flat," he said.  He continued: "We will give our lives, put our lives at stake but not bow down. We will not sell our spine to these autocrats, to these cowards who cannot defeat us politically.  "Take my word, we have the fire in our belly and come what may, we will defeat them in 2024," he said.  The West Bengal BJP had earlier said that the people of the state want the investigation in the case to be over within a time frame and the truth to unravel.  An alleged illegal coal operative of West Bengal, Anup Majhi alias Lala, is the prime suspect in the case.  The ED had claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade.  His wife Rujira was also summoned by the agency in this case on September 1 but she did not appear citing the prevailing coronavirus situation and requested the agency to instead question her in Kolkata.  It is understood that the agency may grant her the relief.  Some Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and a lawyer linked to Abhishek Banerjee have also been summoned to appear on different dates in this month in the case.  Reacting to these summonses, Chief Minister Banerjee last week accused the Centre of letting loose its agencies on her nephew and claimed some BJP ministers were working "hand in glove" with the coal mafia.  The ED has arrested two people in this case till now.  One of them is Vikas Mishra, the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra, who is stated to have left the country sometime back and renounced his Indian citizenship.  The second person arrested in the case early this year is former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra.  The ED had earlier claimed that the Mishra brothers received "proceeds of crime worth Rs 730 crore on behalf of some influential persons and for themselves" in this case involving an estimated amount of Rs 1,352 crore.  A "deep system" of political patronage and a "well-oiled machinery" were used to brazenly carry out certain unlawful coal mining in West Bengal, the ED has claimed before a court while seeking the remand of Inspector Mishra in April.  A charge sheet was also filed by the ED in May this year.  Quoting the recorded statement of an unidentified "close associate" of Majhi, the ED had earlier alleged that prime suspect Majhi had been running his "illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of a political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra".  The statement of this unidentified "witness" furnished by the ED in the remand note stated that "it is known fact that Vinay Mishra collected money from illegal coal mining of Majhi and his associates for his political boss in the present ruling party; that Vinay Mishra is the youth leader of TMC and he is very close to Abhishek Banerjee and that he (Vinay Mishra) is the eyes and ears of Abhishek Banerjee."  The agency had claimed that documents seized by it show that "Majhi assisted in transferring substantial funds derived from the proceeds of crime to Shri Abhishek Banerjee's close relatives (wife and sister-in-law) at London and Thailand."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||JU teachers’ body asks state govt to vaccinate students, reopen varsity||An association of teachers of Jadavpur University on Monday wrote to West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu, urging him to take immediate steps for COVID vaccination of students and researchers to reopen the institute. In the first phase, final year students can be allowed to attend physical classes in separate batches after administering vaccine jabs to them, Jadavpur University Teachers' Association said in a letter to Basu. It also requested him to allow resumption of research activities in the varsity. "We demand immediate Covid-19 vaccination for research scholars and students as a preparatory step for reopening the campus," JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Roy said. Demanding commencement of physical classes for students whose studies have been suffered for almost 18 months, the teachers' body also urged the minister to allow on-campus inoculation camps for those who have not received jabs. Roy said online teaching cannot be alternative to physical classes, and laboratory-based subjects cannot be taught through virtual mode. "You might be aware that instruments are lying idle at our university's laboratories for a long time. Many are no longer functioning properly. If these high-value instruments are not used, it leads to a loss of lakhs of rupees, which is a sheer wastage of public money," the teachers' body said in the letter to Basu. Meanwhile, a section of JU students owing allegiance to SFI and other unions on Monday held a demonstration in front of the administrative building of the varsity, demanding reopening the campus and shouted slogans against the authorities. Presidency University Students' Union also submitted a memorandum to the authorities and demanded on-campus vaccination for free. Noting that inoculation of students will facilitate resumption of activities on the campus, the SFI-controlled students' body said, "It has been 539 days since closing down our campus due to the COVID-19 outbreak." Alleging that the university authorities "have not made efforts to reopen the institute" even though the second wave of COVID-19 subsided, the union's president Mimosa Ghorai said the administration must form a committee to discuss and take decisions on restarting of on-campus activities. The union urged the authorities to provide access to library services as students are facing problems without the facility. SFI also organised a demonstration in front of the main gate of Presidency University to press for its demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek at ED door; Suvendu stays away from CID, but gets partial relief from HC||The politics of revenge occupied centre stage in Bengal as two prominent political rivals resorted to different responses to summons issued to them by probe agencies. Trinamul’s all-India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee landed at the doorstep of the Enforcement Directorate in Delhi, while his fiercest rival and former colleague Suvendu Adhikary, Bengal’s leader of the Opposition, chose to stay away in distant Bankura instead of the CID headquarters at Bhabani Bhawan. Later in the day, however, Adhikari received a reprieve from Calcutta High Court that ruled that no coercive action could be taken on him without its intervention and stayed proceedings in three of the five cases against him. “The investigating agency (ED) had summoned me for today. I am ready to face any investigation. Investigation agency is doing its job. As a citizen I must cooperate with them,” Abhishek said in Delhi. Before departing for Delhi on Sunday evening, Abhishek had accused the BJP of indulging in political vendetta after its bitter loss in the Assembly polls. Apart from Abhishek, the ED had also summoned his wife Rujira to appear before it on September 1, which she had declined on the grounds of the ongoing Covid pandemic, saying that being the mother of two young children she would be putting them at risk in case of travel. The Enforcement Directorate took up the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act following an FIR lodged by the CBI in November 2020, relating to illegal activities in the Eastern Coalfield mines in Asanasol’s Kunustoria and Kajora, in which Abhishek, his wife and her sister are among those accused. While Abhishek was ranting about the BJP’s vendetta politics, the state CID issued summons to Adhikary in connection with the unnatural death of his guard Subhabrata Chakraborty. He was asked to appear at Bhabani Bhawan around 11 am on Monday. Instead, Adhikary sent an email apologising for his absence for the day as he was busy attending party events at Bankura. Chakraborty, a security guard of Adhikary while he was a Trinamul minister, was shot dead in 2018. After the Bengal poll results were announced, Chakraborty’s widow lodged a complaint of murder following which Adhikary was summoned. CID has also summoned Adhikary’s personal driver, Sambhu Maity, and a close associate, Sanjeev Shukla, to appear before the sleuths on September 7. Adhikary has lodged a case with the Calcutta High Court with an appeal to either quash all the five cases filed against him by the Bengal government or to hand over the probe to the CBI, as he does not have faith in state-controlled investigating agencies. The court ordered stay of proceedings in three of the five cases against him, while investigations are to continue in the remaining two. Also, ndtv.com reported that no coercive action could be initiated against the BJP leader without the court's intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari skips CID summons in bodyguard death case||Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari on Monday did not appear before the West Bengal CID in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, stating that he was busy, an officer said. Adhikari, the BJP's Nandigram MLA, was summoned by the CID to its headquarters in Bhabani Bhawan in connection with the death case of his bodyguard Subhobrata Chakraborty. "He mailed us around 9.30 am, mentioning some political engagements due to which he was unable to come and meet our officers," a CID officer told PTI. The CID held a meeting after receiving Adhikari's mail to chalk out the possible next steps into the investigation, including whether another summons would be sent to him, a source in the agency said. Adhikari was not immediately available for comments. A CID team has already visited his Kanthi residence in connection with the probe. Chakraborty had allegedly shot himself with his service revolver at the security camp outside Adhikari's Kanthi residence in October 2018, according to police. The CID has so far questioned over 15 people, including 11 policemen. Chakraborty, personnel of the State Armed Police, was a part of Adhikari's security team since he became an MP. He continued in the team after Adhikari was made a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal police STF arrests 2 more persons in simbox case||A Bengal police special task force (STF), investigating a simbox-based communication racket across the state, have arrested two more persons including a Bangladeshi national for their suspected involvement. Arrested Shah Alam Talukdar is from Dhaka. The other arrested, Aftar Ali Khan, is from Odisha. Both have been brought to Calcutta for interrogations. The first arrest was also of a Bangladeshi national, Mamun, on September 2. Another person from Nadia was arrested on September 3. A simbox works as a virtual telephone exchange that routes international phone calls as local calls, which are charged by local mobile service providers. Simboxes, also known as simbanks, are usually fitted with a few hundred GSM SIM cards used to route calls through data-functional devices. Sleuths on this case had expressed serious concern that such illegal exchanges could serve as “secret channels” and could threaten national security while potentially robbing network providers of rightful revenue. This is the second time within a year that a simbox racket has been busted in Bengal. In December last year, city police busted a similar racket after receiving inputs from the Lucknow-based Military Intelligence Unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Silt deposits turn Siliguri taps dry||Around 10 lakh residents of Siliguri, the largest urban hub in north Bengal, are facing acute shortage in drinking water that is supplied by their civic body for about a week. The reason being huge silt deposits at the entry point where water is drawn from the Mahananda canal to the water treatment plant run by the state public health engineering (PHE) department. The plant located in Fulbari on the southern end of the city filters the water which is then supplied to the civic area across 47 wards. According to sources, since the past few years, the PHE and officials of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) associated with drinking water supply in the city had sounded alerts on the problems that have now snowballed. “The infrastructure of the existing treatment plant, set up in the 1990s, is inadequate to cater to the population of the entire city. Secondly, regular silt deposits at the entry point made it narrower and it takes hours to draw adequate water to the plant,” said a source in the SMC. Since August 30, water supply was disrupted at a number of areas in the city. The situation worsened in the past couple of days as water supply virtually stopped. Since Friday evening, sources said, too little water from the plant could reach all of the 16 overhead and four underground reservoirs spread over the SMC area. “Around 150 million litres of water should be supplied every day. But hardly 50 million litres could be distributed,” the source added. Residents are now scrambling to buy drinking water bottles and jerry cans. “We fail to understand why the PHE and the civic body did not develop an alternative route through which water can be drawn into the plant. It is disappointing that only because of silt deposits that we have to face such a big inconvenience,” said Subhash Sengupta, a schoolteacher. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, visited the water treatment plant on Sunday and spoke to PHE officials. He was accompanied by Alok Chakraborty, the member at the BoA who is in charge of water supply. “Engineers of the state PHE department have worked on a war footing during the past seven days and have clear most of the silt blocking the passage of water. Also, a group of engineers from the department will arrive here from Calcutta on Tuesday. We hope the water supply will normalise soon,” said Deb. He also accused the erstwhile civic boards, including the Left-led board that was in power till last year, of gross neglect. “They did not bother to address the issue. It is because of their negligence that people are facing this problem now. The state has decided to set up a mega drinking water project for the city with an estimated cost of around Rs 470 crore. The state PHE department is preparing a detailed project report,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Choosing Didi challenger daunting task for BJP||The beleaguered Bengal BJP appeared for the second consecutive day to be in a state of disarray with its indecision on a candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll. As the BJP’s myriad of woes were compounded by the Election Commission of India’s declaration of the bypoll in the Bhowanipore seat, sections within the party even started mulling over moving court to try and get a stay from the judiciary on the by-election. The Trinamul Congress on Sunday formally announced Mamata as its candidate for the Bhowanipore bypoll which will be held on September 30. The party also nominated Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam for the Jangipur and Samserganj bypolls, respectively. According to a section of state BJP leaders, the party’s Bengal unit had a misplaced sense of confidence that the Election Commission would continue toeing the saffron camp’s line and keep deferring the bypolls so that Mamata would miss her November 5 deadline to get elected to the Assembly. “It is surprising that our leaders had no plan B and actually had unflinching faith in the central leadership’s ability to browbeat the commission into further deferring the bypolls. They never really considered the possibility of the bypolls taking place any time soon. As a result, no candidate was seriously considered. Some leaders think of approaching the judiciary for a stay on the bypoll,” a state BJP functionary said on the condition of anonymity. Mamata lost a contentious election — now being challenged in court — in the Nandigram seat by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share) to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. However, she led her party to a historic 213-seat victory in 292 constituencies that went to the polls. The chief minister’s home turf of Bhowanipore was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May for her to contest. Having taken oath as chief minister on May 5, she needs to get elected to the House before November 5.Another source in the BJP said in the preliminary discussions regarding the nomination, it had been found out that there was only one person willing to accept the daunting challenge of contesting against Mamata in Bhowanipore, where the result is deemed a foregone conclusion. “Many of us think that someone popular, a heavyweight candidate must fight against Mamata, although there is almost no chance of a victory, simply to send a positive signal down to the grassroots,” he said. “Suvendu Adhikari keeps boasting of defeating Mamata at Nandigram, albeit by the skin of his teeth. He had also claimed before the Assembly polls that she would’ve lost from Bhowanipore as well. Why doesn’t he step up again?” he asked. Another section of the BJP, close to state chief Dilip Ghosh, wants to field former state president Tathagata Roy from Bhowanipore. Roy has been a fierce critic of Ghosh and his leadership in the aftermath of the party’s poll debacle. “Tathagatada has been publicly criticising the leadership since we lost the poll, especially over the selection of candidates. Let him now show his love for the party and his abilities as a candidate, by contesting against Mamata,” said a leader close to Ghosh. Most of Bengal BJP’s A-listers, including Roy, remain unwilling to take on Mamata, said multiple sources in the party. In case nobody agrees to take up the challenge, the BJP will have to once again field actor-turned-politician Rudranil Ghosh, another Trinamul turncoat, who contested from the seat and lost to Chattopadhyay this summer by nearly 29,000 votes, nearly 23 per cent of the vote share. The state committee of the BJP will meet on Tuesday to decide on three possible names for each bypoll, said BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya. These options would be sent to the national election committee, which will take a final call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA of Raiganj lashes out at district party chief||Tension brewing in the saffron camp in north Bengal surfaced again on Sunday as Krishna Kalyani, the BJP MLA of Raiganj, announced he was severing ties with the North Dinajpur district party. His assertion comes a day after Soumen Roy, the BJP MLA of Kaliaganj, North Dinajpur,  joined Trinamul. “The district BJP president (Basudeb Sarkar) is running the party with a handful of followers on his whims. I raised a number of issues which the party should have addressed but nothing was done. I also apprised state leaders of these issues but surprisingly, they too, are silent. That is why I decided that from today, I will not maintain any link with the district party,” said Kalyani. The Raiganj MLA, however, dodged a direct reply when asked if he would quit the BJP. “Only time will tell… all I can say now is though I won’t keep any ties with the district BJP, I will work as an MLA to serve people who voted for me.” After Roy’s exit, Kalyani is the only BJP MLA in the district where Trinamul won seven of nine seats. A senior BJP district leader said internal differences should be patched up or there could be more defections. Sarkar also said he would speak to Kalyani. “I came to know about the MLA’s grievances from the media. I will talk to him and pass on the information to state leaders,” he said. Kalyani said Sarkar ignored many prominent party functionaries and MLAs. “I sought the district committee be reconstituted as many leaders who worked to establish the BJP’s base here were feeling left out. No one paid heed,” he said. Ever since the BJP appointed Sarkar as district chief, there were a number of protests by party leaders and workers. Yet, Kalyani’s stand is significant. “It’s the first time an MLA has criticised the district leadership blatantly. It reconfirms differences in the party,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal records 707 new cases, 723 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 707 new Covid-19 infections, 723 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases in the state fell by 27 to 8,652, with a slide for 11 straight weeks or 77 days. Bengal has 2.16 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 128 new infections and North 24-Parganas 119, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported one. The state’s recovery rate is 98.25 per cent, fairly ahead of the nation’s 97.41. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.64 per cent on Sunday. The state currently has over 15.52 lakh Covid-19 cases since March last year. The total includes nearly 15.25 lakh recoveries and 18,502 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to provide free migrant ration under ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to give free foodgrains to migrant workers living in Bengal under the “one nation one ration card” programme. “The Centre provides rice at Rs 2 kg and wheat at Rs 2 a kg under the National Food Security Act. The Bengal government gives further subsidy to provide free of cost food grains to 6.01 crore beneficiaries in the state. Now onwards, those who have migrated to Bengal in search of work would also get the benefit,” said a senior government official. The move, sources in the government said, has been initiated to send a message across the country. “The state government claims it runs the maximum number of welfare schemes in the country. The ruling party is set to highlight it ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls to attack the BJP. Extending the benefit of the free grains scheme to migrants is the first step towards the goal,” said a source. A Trinamul Congress insider said if migrants coming to Bengal got the benefit of the scheme, the word of mouth publicity would establish the credibility of the free food grain scheme, which would result in political gains for Trinamul, especially Mamata Banerjee. “These migrants could be our unpaid PROs in other states, particularly when we are trying to focus on the BJP’s anti-poor track record.... We would also campaign that similar schemes would be launched across the country if the BJP is removed from power and the Opposition is given a chance to run the central government,” said a minister. However, there is no official estimate about in-migrants (those who come to Bengal in search of jobs) to the state. “During the nationwide lockdown last year, the state had estimated that over 1 lakh migrants from other states were stuck in Bengal. But there is no official estimate about the number of migrants living in Bengal.… Besides, Bengal is now more an out-migrant state as more people leave the state in search of jobs,” said a source. The Trinamul insider said the government was worried about the number of migrants living in Bengal as its main objective was to ensure that they told their friends and families about the scheme when they went back home. “The human face of the Mamata Banerjee government should be known to people outside and that objective would be achieved,” said a source. According to the one nation one ration card programme, any NFSA beneficiary would be able to withdraw his or her allotted foodgrain from any of the ration shops in the country. That is why Aadhaar cards of the beneficiaries were seeded with their ration cards. Bengal had not joined the scheme initially as the chief minister was reluctant to share biometric details of the beneficiaries from the state with the Centre in the backdrop of the Citizenship Amendment Act. The situation, however, changed after Trinamul came back to power in May and Bengal joined the scheme. “We will also highlight that while migrants in Bengal are getting free foodgrains, those who leave the state will have to pay for the food grains. The contrast will be clearer then,” said a Trinamul minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati student and teacher start relay hunger strike||A rusticated student and a suspended teacher of Visva-Bharati started a relay hunger strike at the protesting students’ tent on Sunday, accusing varsity authorities of “lying in court” on Friday to allege that students demonstrating against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had locked up two gates on the troubled campus. Contrary to the authorities’ claims, a police probe on Saturday indicated the gates had been locked up by varsity officials and not students, which triggered this hunger strike by Rupa Chakraborty, one of the three recently rusticated students, and economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya, who had been suspended months earlier. Both had in the past protested against VC Chakrabarty’s alleged wrongdoings and “saffron leanings”. On Sunday, they said they would continue their hunger strike till “the end of all such episodes” on the campus helmed by the VC. “It is the first time that a VC and his administration have clearly lied before court in order to trap (student) protesters. (To shame the ongoing protests against the rustication of three dissenting students) the varsity stopped paying salaries and halted the admission process and other activities, blaming protesting students for locking up two gates. Such lies were presented before Calcutta High Court. But police found both gates were locked up by varsity authorities. We know such lies were presented on the VC’s directive. Our relay hunger strike protests this,” said Bhattacharyya, also the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association president. “Teachers’ Day is an apt day for this (fast),” he added. Last week, when the VC’s residence had been gheraoed by students, the central varsity authorities purportedly had decided to stop disburing salaries for August. However, salaries were released immediately after a prod from the Union ministry of education. Before that, the varsity had sought to halt the admission process and publication of results owing to the gherao, claiming the VC’s physical presence was needed for the jobs. However, the high court on Friday not only ordered protesters to shift from the immediate vicinity of the VC’s house but also asked the varsity to resume these tasks too. “It is very interesting that varsity officials claimed these tasks could not be done without the physical presence of the VC. But the operations started again despite the absence of the VC. It proves that the VC lied,” said Rupa. In court, Visva-Bharati claimed the agitators had locked two entry gates to the central administrative office and central library. Police officers later said they found those gates had been closed by varsity authorities. “It proves how the Bidyut Chakrabarty-led varsity authorities had submitted false charges against agitators,” added Bhattacharyya. Students will be continuing their protests in a new tent that has also been objected to by varsity authorities. An official said Visva-Bharati might move court over the ongoing agitation. Visva-Bharati’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to text messages when contacted by this newspaper on the varsity’s comments on the developments of the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Migrant worker from Malda killed in Gujarat||A 52-year-old migrant worker from Malda district was bludgeoned to death at Jamnagar, Gujarat, on Friday. Fudan Mondal’s body reached his village, Kankania, in Harishchandrapur 2 block on Sunday. He worked in a company that installs cellphone towers. “He had been outside Bengal for almost 20 years. After the lockdown last year, he was back home, but went to Jamnagar four months ago. We want the police in Gujarat to find out the killer,” said Bholanath Mondal, his brother-in-law. Mondal’s wife Asha said she had no idea why her husband was murdered. Residents said Mondal did not own farmland. His sons Jyotish and Dipendra work in Uttar Pradesh. On Sunday, as their father’s body reached the village, they also came home. Sources said on Friday, Mondal who was working at a site was approached by a man. They had an altercation and the man hit his head with an iron rod. Mondal’s co-workers rushed him to a hospital where he died. “We don’t know why he was murdered. I live in the village with our two daughters. I have no idea how I will run the family now,” said Asha. Tazmul Hossain, the Trinamul MLA of Harishchandrapur, said he would see if the family can be compensated. “The incident has again proved that migrant workers are not safe in Gujarat where the BJP is in power. I will speak with administrative officials to see what can be done for the family,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edwards back in Darjeeling, keen on ‘new party’||Ajoy Edwards on Sunday received a warm welcome from supporters on his return to Darjeeling after nearly a month, the former GNLF leader dropping broad hints that he would float a new political party “different” from the rest in the hills. Edwards, also an entrepreneur and social worker, had earlier claimed that GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had sent him to Delhi early last month to bring together like-minded forces to pursue the proposed “permanent political solution” of the hills but was ditched by Mann. Edwards alleged Mann did not bother to contact him in Delhi when the former went to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in August first week. Mann has not responded to the allegations. On reaching Darjeeling, Edwards said: “We have to open a party, politics is the highest form of social work.” He, however, said that he would stand as “a voice of the silent majority” and if the need arose would also contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) polls. “In politics, diplomacy is needed with both the state and Centre, but we should not be subservient (to them),” said Edwards, who clearly stated that while the issue of Gorkhaland was always there, development and economic well-being of the downtrodden should also be taken care of. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA and GNLF’s secretary general, said: “Let his first float a political party, he will understand what it is to run a party,” said Zimba. Edwards hasn’t yet officially handed the GNLF his written resignation. However, the GNLF appointed M. Subba as chief of the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee on Sunday, a post Edwards held. The GNLF leadership also went hammer and tongs at Edwards. “I had earlier said he is not a politician, he is a social worker…He talks Bengal’s language, he talks like a nephew of Mamata Banerjee, he talks of ‘ramro (good)’ Darjeeling not ‘hamro (our)’ Darjeeling, because he is a businessman and if there is a strike his business will not flourish,” said Zimba. “When our people were killed (during the Gorkhaland agitation), should we not go for strikes,” said Zimba, adding they too had many issues to expose on Edwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP pursues vendetta politics, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP government at the Centre of practising politics of vendetta and repeated his vow of hanging himself if there was evidence of corruption worth even 10 paise against him. Trinamul’s Number Two issued the stern statement at the Calcutta airport before departing for New Delhi, where he was summoned to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday in connection with a money-laundering case linked to alleged coal pilferage in Bengal. “My stand remains unchanged, as in the past. I have said this repeatedly at public meetings, that if any central agency is able to show before the public any evidence against me, then there will be no need to unleash the CBI or the ED against me,” said Abhishek. “So much is being alleged about a supposedly large scam, all sorts of numbers, from Rs 100 crore to Rs 1,000 crore are being cited. If they can furnish evidence of a transaction of even 10 paise, let them come out with it before the people, then there will be no need for these central agencies against me. Let them get the noose ready and let me know, I will readily hang myself,” the Diamond Harbour MP added. “I had said this in the past, I am saying this again today. I am willing to face any and every kind of investigation.” The ED had summoned Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and his wife, Rujira, for questioning to Delhi. Rujira, who had been asked to appear before the ED on September 1, hadcited her inability to travel to the national capital amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Rujira —questioned earlier by the CBI in the case at her residence — had also said she is the mother of two children, and travelling to Delhi would expose them to grave risk. She asked the agency to question her at her residence in south Calcutta. “They (the BJP) were routed in the election. Unable to contest politically with the Trinamul Congress, now they have resumed practicing the politics of vendetta,” said Abhishek. “They have no work other than unleashing the central probe agencies to hound political opponents and thereby further their own political agenda,” he added. “But why is nothing being made public? A Calcutta case, I am being summoned to Delhi. I am going there now.” Abhishek also demanded answers on why “those” — apparently referring to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari who is now in the BJP — seen accepting money on camera were not being similarly hounded by central agencies. “Those seen on the screen, taking money, without any hesitation or shame, does the ED or the CBI develop cataracts, when it comes to them?” he asked, in a veiled reference to the Narada “sting” operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Leopard roaming in Jalpaiguri tea garden trapped||An adult female leopard was trapped in a cage set up by the state forest department at a plantation of the Gandrapara tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri district on Saturday night. Sources said for the past one week, terrified residents of the tea garden had been reporting to the management a leopard roaming on the estate. Bishu Das, the garden’s labour welfare officer, managed to click a picture of the leopard. Garden authorities informed the forest department. Accordingly, a trap was laid on Saturday with a live goat as bait by the wildlife squad of Binnaguri. Around 11.30pm on Saturday, a night guard sensed the leopard’s presence in the cage and informed the manager. He in turn called up foresters. A team of the wildlife squad led by Subhasish Roy, the range officer, and Sima Choudhury, an honorary wildlife warden, reached Gandrapara and confirmed the leopard was trapped. Around midnight, the animal was sent to the nature interpretation centre in Gorumara National Park. “We will keep it under observation and then release it into the wild,” said a forest officer. A wild elephant carcass was spotted in Mechpara of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri on Sunday. A team from Belakoba forest range under Baikunthapur forest division reached the site near a stream to recover the carcass.Range officer Nila Rai said the elephant was around four years old and primary findings suggested it died of illness. Its post-mortem report was awaited, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
