07-09-2021||West Bengal|| Didi sets the mood, promises Puja sops this year too||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday decided to continue with its financial aid for the annual Durga Puja festival, which according to the chief minister was a Rs 32,377 crore enterprise. “This is an ongoing project,” Mamata said referring to the annual festival shortly after state chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi announced that the state government would provide Rs 50,000 to each of the nearly 36,000 Durga puja committees, big and small,  across the state. Of the 36,000 Durga Puja committees in the state, 2,500 are in Calcutta. Around 1,500 pujas are organised exclusively by women in Bengal. Like in 2020, for the second consecutive year, the annual festival to be held under the cloud of the Covid pandemic, the government has decided on a 50 per cent waiver on electricity charges and full waiver of  municipal and fire brigade charges. “We have not yet decided on whether visitors will be allowed to visit pandals at night,” Mamata said. As of now, the movement of people is not allowed at night from 11pm to 5am as a part of Covid restrictions. “There is over a month’s time still. We will decide on that after the elections when the situation will become clearer. If there is no third wave (of Covid) there should be no problem,” said Mamata. The chief minister said she would also request clubs participating in the Puja festival to publicise various welfare schemes and projects of the state government. Mamata has also asked the puja organisers, media houses and corporates to sponsor sanitisers and masks at the festival premises. BJP moves poll panel Later on Tuesday, Bengal BJP moved the Election Commission citing violation of  the moldel code of conduct  after the state government announced Durga puja sops. The letter reads, “it was done to influence these clubs who play an important role in the electoral process & give undue advantage to Mamata Banerjee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI raids Trinamul leader’s residence in Birbhum in connection with post poll violence||A team of CBI officials raided TMC leader Lalan Ghosh's residence in West Bengal's Birbhum district on Tuesday, as part of its investigation into cases of post-poll violence, agency sources said. The probe team visited Gopalpur village in Illambazar police station area of the district, where BJP worker Gourab Sarkar was beaten to death shortly after the assembly poll results were declared on May 2, and conducted raids at Ghosh's residence, the sources said. Several documents, including a mobile phone, were seized from the TMC leader's home, they said. The central agency has so far filed 34 FIRs, and made three arrests in connection with the post-poll violence cases two in Nadia and one in North 24 Parganas. The Calcutta high court had, on August 19, ordered that probe into cases of alleged rape and murder in the aftermath of the assembly elections be held by the CBI, taking note of an NHRC report in the matter. The West Bengal government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court order that directed a court-monitored CBI investigation into the cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Teenager, mother found dead in Calcutta flat, police detain six||The bodies of a teenage boy and his mother were recovered from inside their flat in the southern part of the city's Parnasree area, following which six persons were detained in connection with the case, the police said on Tuesday. Thirteen-year-old Tomojit Mondal and his mother Sushmita were found lying motionless, in a pool of blood, with the main door of their flat locked from inside, an officer at Parnasree Police Station said. The boy's father, Tapan Mondal, broke open the door after not getting any response from inside their residence on his return from work, and subsequently informed the police about the incident. "We are trying to find whether there is anything missing from the flat. The door was locked from inside and there is no sign of any forcible entry. Tapan Mondal had to break open the door with the help of their neighbour. "We have detained six persons in connection with case. These six do not have any link to the family. We are also talking to the husband as well as the neighbours," the officer said. The police are also looking for Tomojit's private tutor, who had visited the household on Gopal Mishra Road on Monday evening, he said, adding that sniffer dogs have been employed to find clues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh erosion gobbles 35 houses in Malda||Around 35 houses, a metalled road and a mosque were gobbled by the Ganga in an unexpected fresh erosion in KaliachakIII block of Malda district since Monday morning. Over 100 residents people of Chinabazar, a hamlet under BirnagarI panchayat of the block, have become homeless within a few hours and were shifted to safer places. Some others are busy shifting their belongings and also dismantling their houses to take away whatever they could salvage out of the rubbles as the river is aggressively eroding chunks of land every hour. “The erosion started around 6am and in the next five to six hours, at least 35 houses, a road and the local mosque were eroded by the Ganga. For the past few days, water levels of the river had receded but it increased againI have also lost my house in the erosion,” said Harun Al Rashid, a member of BirnagarI panchayat. “We stood helplessly watching our houses collapse into the river. We don’t know when this erosion will stop. The administration should help erosion victims,” Rashid added. Sources in the state irrigation department said the Ganga is flowing at 25.02 metres, around 33 centimetres above the danger level and as the river started eroding land and gulped above it, the residents panicked. The women and children were shifted to safer places while the men hurriedly assembled their belongings and moved out of the houses which stood precariously as the Ganga went on eroding the earth from underneath the structures. Over 300 houses in different areas of Kaliachak-III block, along with vast stretches of agricultural land, have been gobbled by the Ganga this In the current-monsoon season. Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, said: they are in touch with the administration. “We will see that the affected families are provided with all necessary help. Also, the block administration is monitoring the situation to ensure that there is no casualty due to erosion.” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation plans new water intake point||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation has come up with a proposal for the installation of an alternative intake point through which water from the Mahananda canal can be routed to the treatment plant at Fulbari and sought the state public health engineering (PHE) department’s approval. The move has been taken in the backdrop of the current crisis in drinking water supply across Siliguri. Since August 30, the supply has remained erratic and it worsened in the past couple of days. Thousands of people are left with no option but to buy drinking water. The principal cause of the crisis is huge silt deposit at the existing intake point through which water is drawn into the plant from the canal for treatment. Although the PHE department has cleaned it to a considerable extent, SMC sources said it would take at least a couple of days more for the water supply to become normal. “Meanwhile, we have drawn up a project for building an alternative point through which water can be drawn if there is any problem at the principal entry point as it has happened. Around Rs 6.9 crore is required to build this point. We have already submitted the proposal to the PHE department and are waiting for the approval,” said Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC. On Tuesday, a group of engineers from the PHE will arrive here from Calcutta to check out the water treatment plant. They are also likely to recommend how the water supply can be restored in a fullfledged manner across the city. Deb said the previous Left Frontrun civic board should have put in place the proposed arrangement. “We are in constant touch with the minister and officials of the PHE department and hope the project will be approved in due course,” he said. Asok Bhattacharya, the former Left Front mayor, has blamed the state government for the water problem which the residents has been facing for the past seven days. “Ever since I had assumed the mayor’s office in 2015, I had approached the state government many times, seeking the approval of the new drinking water project. But the government acted in a biased manner as we were in power at the civic body and did not approve it. It is because of this delay that the people are suffering now,” said the veteran CPM leader. Shankar Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Siliguri, also criticised the government. “It is unfortunate that the civic authorities could not even provide drinking water to residents of the city. If there is no improvement in the situation soon, we will launch a movement across the city,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: 30 teachers protest openly against VC||A group of 30 Visva-Bharati teachers on Monday evening participated in an open protest, demanding the removal of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and vowed to be with the ongoing students’ movement. Many at the varsity said the open protest by the teachers would come as a blow to Chakrabarty as the Union education ministry was purportedly annoyed with him for stopping salaries and over several other activities. “The senior officials of the education ministry had repeatedly asked the VC to sit down with the students and resolve the current impasse through a dialogue. But he took it to court. The salaries were released after the intervention of the ministry,” said a senior varsity official. “The time has come to raise our voice openly. The vice-chancellor has not only got the students in trouble for their protests, but several teachers also have been at the receiving end of his wrath, simply for not supporting his whimsical moves. Dozens of teachers were suspended or terminated by the vice-chancellor himself, over the flimsiest of excuses, apparently to satisfy nothing but his ego,” said a senior varsity teacher who took part in the protest. The teachers, mostly the members of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA), protested silently for around a half-hour near the Santiniketan post office with posters in their hands, demanding investigation by the Centre against the activities of Chakrabarty, his immediate sacking, and bringing normality to the campus by revoking rustication or suspension of students and teachers. After their silent protest with posters, the group went near the dais of the protesting students, where they demonstrated for another half-an-hour to show their solidarity with them. This is the first time that so many teachers protested publicly against the current VC. Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a suspended teacher of economics and president of the VBUFA, had already started a hunger strike along with rusticated student Rupa Chakrabarty from Sunday. The VBUFA wrote to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday, asking him to start a thorough investigation and take action against Chakrabarty immediately, citing how employees and teachers had suffered allegedly for not supporting his wrongdoing. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not respond to or texts from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP divided over candidature against Didi||The BJP was on Monday divided over whether it should field a candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore Assembly seat or approach the judiciary against the byelection even as just four days were left for the filing of nominations. While Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh reiterated that the party was considering legal options to challenge the Election Commission of India’s decision of holding the bypoll in Bhowanipore, the party’s chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya made it clear that the saffron camp was in no mood to bypass the battle by taking the matter to courtrooms. “We will not hide behind the law to run away from the battlefield....The BJP will contest the Bhowanipore bypoll with full strength,” said Bhattacharya. Earlier in the day, Ghosh, who was at a BJP programme in East Burdwan’s Panagarh, had said “there was something wrong” with the poll panel’s decision and the party was taking legal advice on the issue to contest the decision. A section of the South Calcutta organisation district leadership, sources said, placed the demand for a local candidate for the bypoll, while senior leaders said they were exploring the possibility of fielding a prominent face. Several leaders and workers of the Bhowanipore constituency have conveyed to state leaders that they are against the possible candidature of Rudranil Ghosh, who had been fielded against Trinamul’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay from the same seat this year. “Rudranil has been scarcely available after the polls.... One who doesn’t stand beside his workers during the crisis cannot be our candidate again...,” a worker of the Bhowanipore seat said. Also, Ghosh is a resident of Howrah . Amid the confusion on who can take on Mamata, the possibility of Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari as a candidate in Bhowanipore has already started doing the rounds. Asked whether he was willing to take on Mamata once more, Adhikari said he was a disciplined BJP worker and would contest if the party asked him to do so. But Dilip Ghosh swatted away the possibility. “He (Suvendu) has already defeated her (Mamata) once.... Someone else will get the chance this time...,” Ghosh said. Some sources in the party said the name of state vice-president Pratap Banerjee was also being considered. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday hinted that his party was considering contesting the Bhowanipore bypoll. Earlier, he had publicly said that there was no point fielding a candidate against Mamata who had come back to power for a third term with a landslide victory. After a meeting of the state Congress unit on Monday, Chowdhury said: “That was my personal opinion and not the party’s stand... However after that, the situation has been rapidly changing.... We have had a discussion today and our leaders have voiced their opinion.... We will let the high command know about this and they will take a final call...,” Chowdhury told journalists. He added that the Congress was in constant touch with the CPM — with which it had forged an alliance during the Assembly polls — and would inform the Left party about the Congress’s decision as and when it was finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Banker strangles wife with dog leash, surrenders before police||A 33-year-old bank officer has purportedly strangled his wife because he was “frustrated” with her allegedly persistent demand for money to buy expensive clothes and jewellery and surrendered before police later. Biplab Paridah, who hails from Cuttack in Odisha, gave himself up before Kanksa police in West Burdwan on Monday. The assistant manager of a nationalised bank claimed that he had strangled Ipshita Priyadarshini, 28, with the leash of their dog on Sunday night. The couple stayed at their rented flat at Lalita Apartment in Arrah near Durgapur. After the murder, Paridah drove to the nearby Malandighi police outpost under Kanksa police station and surrendered. The police went to the flat with Paridah and found Priyadarshini lying dead on the floor. The couple’s pet dog was at their home. Sources said Paridah had married Priyadarshini, a resident of Bhubaneswar in Odisha, in 2019. The duo had been staying at the rented flat for the past three months. The deceased was a homemaker and the couple had no children. Paridah was produced in a court, which remanded him in five days of police custody. Paridah told journalists that his wife had been living in a “world of fantasy” and used to allegedly force him to give her money to buy expensive jewellery and clothes regularly. “My wife was a homemaker, but she was not happy. She wanted to become a fashion designer and had been asking me to get her admitted to a college for the course. She was very demanding and highly ambitious, which led to frequent quarrels between us,” said Paridah. “She used to torture me whenever I refused to give her money. I was never happy with her,” he added. Paridah said he had murdered his wife around 7.30pm on Sunday following a quarrel over cooking. “I had to bring food regularly from restaurants or cook myself after returning from work. My wife did not want to cook. I was frustrated and could not bear it anymore,” he added. Priyadarshini’s father Hridayanand Behera reached Kanksa police station in the evening and lodged a complaint against his son-in-law. “We had given him a lot of gold ornaments and cash during the wedding. But Biplab started demanding more money after the wedding,” said Behera, a retired bank employee from Odisha. He added that the amount Paridah had started demanding recently was Rs 30 lakh, which he had firmly refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||High court relief for Suvendu Adhikari in criminal cases||Calcutta High Court on Monday directed investigators not to take coercive measures against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari or arrest him in connection with five criminal cases lodged against him by the state authorities since his defection from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP in December last year. The breather for Adhikari has come from Justice Rajasekhar Mantha. Adhikari had been interrogated by the state-run probe agency, the CID, at its headquarters at regular intervals in a case of unnatural death of one of his security personnel (in Contai). The state government, sources said, plans to challenge the order before a division bench within a couple of days. In the past few months, five criminal cases were initiated against Adhikari, at Contai, Nandigram, Panskura and Tamluk in East Midnapore and Maniktala in Calcutta. The judge stayed any criminal proceedings against Adhikari in three criminal cases. With regard to two criminal cases at Contai and Maniktala, the order stated that any action against Adhikari was subject to the prior approval of the court. The case over the murder of Adhikari’s security guard drew special attention of the court as Justice Mantha asked advocate-general Kishore Datta why the police had not acted against Adhikari if the crime had been committed two-and-a-half years ago. Datta replied that a member of the victim’s family lodged the case against Adhikari two-and-a-half years after the murder. Appearing for Adhikari, Billwadal Bhattacharyya and Kallol Mondal had argued that all the cases against their client had been lodged out of political grudge. “Soon after he left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP, Trinamul has started lodging one criminal case after another against him. The incidents in which our client was implicated were said to have occurred before December 2020 when he was a minister of the Trinamul-led government,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League protest against BJP MP Raju Bista’s ‘lie’ on hill talks||The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League’s Bharati Tamang faction on Monday staged a protest against alleged lies of Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista after the Centre had failed to convene a meeting to discuss the “permanent political solution” of the hills. After meeting Union home minister Amit Shah on August 6, Bista had claimed that a tripartite meeting to discuss the “permanent political solution” of Darjeeling, the Terai and the Dooars would be held by the first week of September and letters would be sent to the invitees around August 12. Bista is a national spokesperson for the BJP as well as the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. On Monday, when all commitments made by Bista had missed the deadline, supporters of the ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction) carried an effigy of the MP that was garlanded with slippers in Darjeeling. Vikram Adi Rai, vice-president, ABGL (Bharati faction), said the protest rally was held as Bista was not respecting his mandate. “The hills gave him a lot of respect by casting 7 lakh votes (in his favour). But if he cannot work according to the respect given to him, he deserved to be garlanded with slippers and shoes instead of flowers,” said Rai. “He is simply covering one lie with another. Many agree that Bista has been one of the most vocal MP from Darjeeling to raise “issues” of the hills in Parliament. “The hills, however, want something concrete,” said an observer. The ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction)’s protest on Monday found traction among many in the hills as their general secretary, S.P. Sharma, had lifted his fast-unto-death on hearing Bista’s assurance on August 6 through media reports. The hunger strike had been started by Sharma to seek something concrete on the “permanent political solution”. After meeting Shah, Bista had said: “I am happy to state that the Union home minister has assured us that an invitation for an official meeting for a permanent political solution will be issued next week, around August 12… and the first official meeting will start in the first week of September.” The Darjeeling MP had also said that invitation would also be sent to the Bengal government and the announcement had created a stir in hill politics. When the invitation had not been issued in mid-August, BJP leaders had clarified that the delay was possibly because of Independence Day celebration. A few days earlier, Bista had reportedly said developments in Afghanistan “maybe” the reason for the delay in holding talks in the first week of September. On Monday, sources said the ABGL supporters had wanted to carry the effigy on a pony but since they could not get hold of one, they decided to carry Bista’s effigy from Ladenla Road in Darjeeling to Bista’s Darjeeling residence, Matterhorn, situated at the Mall. Ponies are available for rides at Chowrasta. While Bista could not be immediately contacted, Mann Ghisingh, GNLF president, who was part of Bista’s delegation to meet Shah on August 6, however, defended the delay. “The dialogue will open, it will happen soon, within September. But I don’t want to talk about a particular date,” said Ghisingh. The Bharati Tamang faction of the ABGL has threatened to hold the protest rally once a week, until the meeting is held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 505 fresh cases, 13 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 505 Covid-19 cases, 664 recoveries and 13 deaths as a fall in the total number of active patients continued for 78 successive days. The total fell by 172 to 8,480. Bengal has 2.19 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 107 new infections, the only district of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of fresh cases. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.26 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.92 per cent on Monday. “The situation is firmly under control now. We have seen off even the residual impact of the second wave, and there are no signs yet of the onset of the feared third wave,” said a minister. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Calcutta reported none. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.52 lakh Covid cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.25 lakh recoveries and 18,515 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Do whatever you can: TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee to Centre||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee dared the BJP to use its all might against him after he had appeared before the Enforcement Directorate here on Monday in connection with a money laundering case related to alleged coal theft in Bengal. “I told them everything and gave my answers in writing,” Abhishek said after spending nine hours at the ED headquarters. “I had said this before as well, if there are proofs against me, the agency should bring them out in public,” he said while emerging from the Jamnagar office of the central agency where he had reached around 11am. In a black shirt and trousers, the Diamond Harbour MP, who is also the all India general secretary of Trinamul, emerged from the ED office around 8pm. In his brief interaction with reporters waiting outside the ED office, he came down heavily on the BJP and accused the ruling party at the Centre of using investigating agencies against political opponents. “These agencies did nothing to people, who were seen accepting money on camera because they all are associated with a political party. All this is done to keep those fighting the BJP under pressure. I understand the situation of the officers of the agencies as they are also under pressure,” said Abhishek It was clear that he was referring to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, an accused in the Narada case, against whom the central agencies haven’t filed any chargesheet. “I am telling you that we will go to every state where there is BJP and fight them head on.... We will not sit back like other political parties. Our lives may be in danger, but we will not bow down our heads. We will defeat the BJP in 2024,” said Abhishek, reiterating what his aunt and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said during her Delhi trip in July. After trouncing the BJP in the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata has been playing a key role in building an alliance of opposition parties before the 2024 polls. The Trinamul leadership has been stressing that the BJP was targeting Abhishek, who was sent a summon on August 28 in connection with the coal pilferage case, to settle political scores. His wife Rujira was also summoned to Delhi on September 1, but she requested the agency to question her at her south Calcutta residence as it was not possible for the mother of two to travel in the time of the pandemic. “Do whatever you can... BJP’s tyranny will be defeated. Let the BJP pull all its might, vigour, threat and resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat,” he said before stressing that at least 25 BJP MLAs were in touch with his party to switch over. Sources in the agency said his statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED case is based on an FIR registered by the CBI last year, alleging theft of coal from some mines of the Eastern Coalfields Limited in Asansol. Two persons, identified as Vikas Mishra and Ashok Mishra, inspector in charge in Bankura police directorate, have been arrested by the ED in connection with the case. The agency, however, did not issue any official press statement on his questioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government readies e-challan route for sand mining||The Bengal government is set to launch a centralised e-challan system within a couple of weeks for the transportation of sand extracted from authorised sand mines. The move is part of an attempt to curb illegal sand mining and ensure more government revenue. “The centralised e-challan would be introduced by the mid of this month by doing away with manual challans issued by district administrations. This will help the government curb illegal sand mining,” said a senior state government official. According to the plan, every miner — 700-odd sand mines in the state are leased out — has to log in with his or her credentials on a portal that would be managed centrally to get the e-challan after paying required royalty to the government’s industry and commerce department. There will be a barcode on each invoice comprising the quantum of sand to be carried, its price, the registration number of the truck, source and destination of the sand and details of the seller and the buyer. “As soon as the centralised e-challan system would be in place, it would be easier to track the vehicle whether it was carrying sand against which the royalty was paid.... The e-challan would have a time-limit and no one would be able to use the e-challan for multiple use,” said an official in Calcutta. The new system is expected to help the state in many ways, sources said. The existing system in which districts used to issue challans manually had its limitations. “Often these challans were forged to carry more sand than the quantum for which royalty was paid. This was hurting the state in many ways,” said a source. First, the overloading trucks were damaging roads across the state. Second, the state was being denied the legitimate royalty. Moreover, the ruling party was facing infighting over the spoils of sand mining. “If these irregular practices can be stopped, the state government as well as the ruling party would be spared of multiple embarrassments,” said the source. The new system is expected to help the state generate more revenue as rapid checking of trucks carrying sand over the past few weeks has revealed that many of the miners were digging and supplying sand illegally. “The state has earned a sum of Rs 30 crore in the past few weeks during raids by means of fines from the trucks carrying sand illegally. This makes it clear that if the new system is put in place, the state can generate more revenue,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with firearm and ammunition in Bagdogra||Two persons were arrested with a firearm and some live ammunition in Bagdogra on Sunday. Police sources said the special operation group of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bagdogra police intercepted Sunny Thakur, a resident of Panitanki in Siliguri near Nepal border, and Tapan Singha, who hail from Kharibari block of Siliguri sub-division, at Bihar More in Bagdogra. “As the duo were searched, an improvised firearm and two rounds of live cartridges were found in their possession. Also, a cell phone and a bike have been seized,” said a police officer. “We are trying to find out whether they are associated with any illegal arms racket. The firearms are suspected to be smuggled from Bihar.” Lightning injuries Twenty workers of the Diana tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri suffered injuries after they were struck by lightning at the plantation on Monday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
