08-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP targetting TMC leaders as soon as EC announced bypoll dates, says Mamata||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the BJP of using Central agencies to target Trinamul Congress leaders in pursuance of its vendetta politics as soon as the Assembly by-poll dates were announced. The TMC supremo, who launched her poll campaign from the Bhawanipore seat on Wednesday by addressing Party workers from Chetla, also alleged that the saffron party was targeting party general secretary and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee for political reasons, claiming there is no valid case against him. Mamata’s victory from the seat that she has represented twice in the Assembly is beyond doubt, with only the victory margin column to be filled on October 3 when the results are announced. That would wipe out the ignominy of her electoral defeat coming three decades apart at the hands of Trinamul turncoat and now BJP leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary at Nandigram. “I have to contest again because of their conspiracy. I am happy that I could return to my home,” said Mamata. “I was a victim of conspiracy.” Mamata accused the BJP of using central law enforcing agencies against her party leaders. “They (Enforcement Directorate) interrogated Abhishek for nine hours and they have summoned him again. Why was the case transferred from Calcutta to Delhi? The BJP uses agencies against Congress, Sharad Pawar, Mulayam Singh Yadav,” she said. “There is no case against Subrata Mukherjee, Bobby Hakim. Why is the real thief being shielded?” she asked. Abhishek Banerjee was questioned for about nine hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in Bengal. "We only know how we fought against all odds to win the Assembly polls. The BJP brought in goons from other states during the Assembly elections,” she said. Mamata is standing tall in Bhowanipore with none from any of the rival camps in sight. The Congress, as per its high command, has already withdrawn itself from the fray, while its alliance partner, CPM, is likely to field advocate Shrijeeb Biswas from the seat. Despite the presence of over 40 per cent non-Bengali Hindus in the constituency, Mamata’s replacement, Sobhnadeb Chattopadhyay, won the seat by a margin of 28,719 votes. Even the fledgling BJP, the only elected Opposition in the state, is in disarray with some of its newly elected legislators, most of whom who had come from Trinamul, have returned to their former party. Others who are still with the party but had tasted defeat in the March-April elections are reluctant to contest against the incumbent chief minister. “Lots of names are floating around but many of them are reluctant to contest against the chief minister. Many of them when approached by the central leadership have refused,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. The BJP had considered fielding a well-known face like Mithun Chakraborty, who moved to BJP from Trinamul before the Assembly polls. Actor Rudranil Ghosh, who was also with the Trinamul earlier, had contested and lost in the summer polls against Chattopadhyay. And although Ghosh had expressed his desire to contest against Mamata, the BJP leadership is not keen on fielding him again. The BJP central leadership is likely to announce the name of the candidate in a day or two. Among the names being considered are former president Pratap Banerjee, ward 86 councillor Teesta Biswas Das and Priyanka Tibrewal, advocate and losing nominee from Entally who had filed the case on  post-poll violence in the state which has led to a court-monitored CBI probe. Trinamul’s well-oiled machinery was put into action from Wednesday itself. Prominent South Calcutta leaders and ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Bakshi and Madan Mitra have been given responsibility to micro-manage the wards. Mamata will file her nomination on Friday, though the last day for doing so is Monday. Bhowanipore, along with Assembly seats of Shamshergunj and Jangipur, will go to the polls on September 30. The results of all the three bypolls would be announced on October 3, just about a week before Durga Puja, Bengal’s grandest festival. According to the notification of the Election Commission, the poll process will be completed before October 5, a month to spare before the deadline for Mamata to  become an elected MLA expires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows expelled Visva-Bharati students to rejoin classes||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday allowed three students of Visva-Bharati University who were rusticated for alleged misconduct to rejoin classes, paving the way for the return of normalcy at the institution, which has been witnessing demonstrations over the issue. Passing an interim order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha observed that the rustication of the students for three years was harsh and excessive. The court directed the expulsion order by the varsity be kept in abeyance and allowed the students to rejoin classes. In another interim order on September 3, the high court had said no demonstration would be conducted within 50 metres of any portion or part of the institution. It had directed the police to forthwith remove all demonstrations, banners, barricades and obstruction outside the official residence of Vice Chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty. The court also ordered immediate restoration of normal functioning of the central varsity. Meanwhile, agitating students withdrew their relay fast following the Calcutta High Court order. One of the three rusticated students, Somnath Sow, told PTI, "We are happy, but our movement against the undemocratic and anti-liberal activities of the VC will continue in other forms. "Our career is saved, thanks to the judiciary," he added. Office-bearer of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association Sudipto Bhattacharya, who was also participating in the relay fast, over 60 metres away from the VC'S official residence, broke his fast along with a student of the music department. The three students - two from the economics department and another from the music department - were expelled on August 23 for disorderly conduct during a protest meeting inside the campus on January 9. The varsity has been witnessing demonstrations since August 27. Sow, an SFI member, said the students will do whatever is stipulated in the court order with regard to the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Crude bombs hurled at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence, few injured||At least three crude bombs were hurled by miscreants at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence in Bengal's North 24 Parganas early on Wednesday, following which the police initiated a probe, an officer said. A few people suffered minor injuries in the incident that occurred around 3 am, the police officer said. The explosions have partially damaged the gate outside the house. "An investigation is underway. We are checking CCTV footages and talking to eyewitnesses and locals. No arrest has been made thus far," he said. The MP, who was in Delhi during the time of the incident, claimed that TMC men carried out the attack on his Bhatpara home following the saffron party's decision to make him an observer of the Bhabanipur Assembly seat for the upcoming bypolls. He returned from the national capital later in the day. "This is not for the first time that TMC workers have hurled bombs at my residence. They are trying to kill me. It was just last night that my party decided to make me an observer for Bhabanipur constituency and this morning the bombs were hurled. "I have heard that a few people were injured in the attack. I want an NIA probe into the incident as I do not have faith in the state police," Singh told PTI, adding that he would "fight till the end". Criticising the incident, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said "wanton violence" in West Bengal shows no sign of abating. "Bomb explosions as this morning outside residence of Member Parliament @ArjunsinghWB is worrisome on law and order. Expect prompt action @WBPolice. As regards his security the issue has been earlier been flagged @MamataOfficial (sic)," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. BJP MLA from Nandigram and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, stated that the attack would in no way intimidate Singh. "Hurling bombs at MP @ArjunsinghWB's residence validates our allegation that the perpetrators have been assured of impunity by their handlers within WB Administration. Otherwise they won't dare to execute such act. However, @ArjunsinghWB is made of steel, won't be intimidated," Adhikari tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Burglary at elderly couple’s house in Jalpaiguri||An elderly couple was attacked and cash and gold worth around Rs 6 lakh was looted from them by a group of burglars in the Debnagar area of Jalpaiguri town early on Tuesday. Dilip Bose, the owner of the house, said he felt that somebody was trying to break the iron grill at the entrance of his house around 2.30am. “As I went out, a youth hit my head with a stick. I staggered but somehow managed to control myself. Meanwhile, another youth came and held me at the nose of a dagger,” said Bose, a retired government employee who is in his early 70s. “Hearing the commotion, my wife Dipali, in early 60s, also came out. This time, a third miscreant assaulted her and demanded gold and cash and held her at the tip of a sharp weapon. We had no other alternative but to hand over the cash and gold to them. Within 15 minutes, they fled the spot in a car,” Bose added. According to him, the miscreants fled with Rs 4.5 lakh in cash and gold worth around Rs 1.5 lakh. Police suspect that those involved in the crime were aware that Bose had such an amount of cash at home. “We have come to know that Bose had plans to go to Siliguri for post-Covid complications treatment which is why he had withdrawn the cash from the bank,” said an officer. The police said a probe was on and were on to trace the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Duare pinnacle and pitfall||Duare Sarkar, the scheme that takes the Mamata Banerjee government almost to the doorstep of homes in Bengal, had clocked 2.67 crore footfalls by Monday, less than a month after its second edition was flagged on August 16. Officials are estimating the count to touch 3 crore next week, making it the biggest government outreach programme anywhere in the country. The unparalleled response carries with it not only the heart-warming glow of having been able to connect directly with such a multitude in the state government’s effort to deliver welfare but also daunting challenges. Duare Sarkar is an outreach programme under which government officials set up camps in a locality to receive applications from the residents of the neighbourhood who wish to enrol themselves to access welfare schemes or get corrected caste certificates and documents linked to land. The first edition of the programme is also credited with helping the Trinamul government storm back to power. “The second round is a huge success if we compare it with the first edition of the Duare Sarkar camps earlier this year when 1.75 crore footfalls were recorded. It is the biggest public outreach programme organised by any government in the country,” said a senior government official. Officials said the maximum number of applications had been attracted by four schemes: the direct benefit transfer programme Lakshmir Bhandar (1.49 crore applications), the health insurance scheme Swasthya Sathi (48.4 lakh), caste certificates (18.3 lakh) and the cheap foodgrain scheme Khadya Sathi (18.3 lakh). According to the officials, the massive reach of the programme makes it a unique model that is likely to be followed in other parts of the country. “In India, public outreach initiatives have been limited to immunisation programmes like Pulse Polio drops. The Bengal model of Duare Sarkar is indeed an experiment that has recorded unprecedented success.… There is little doubt that it will be replicated in other states,” said a bureaucrat. It is expected that the scale and scope of the welfare drive, which is perceived to have helped the Mamata government neutralise anti-incumbency in the Assembly elections, will be expanded in the coming days, the officials said. “The ruling party is set to make this reach out a hallmark of its governance ahead of the 2023 panchayat elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls by taking government services to the localities,” a source said. While the initiative has given the state government a chance to showcase its human face in the time of the pandemic, the huge turnout has also thrown up challenges that the Mamata government has to address in the coming days. Sources said the number of applications through the camps suggested that the initiative would saddle the state exchequer with an additional expenditure of at least Rs 25,000 crore. “The government will have to shoulder a burden of Rs 17,000 crore under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. Another Rs 8,000 crore is estimated to be required to run schemes like the enhanced Krishak Bandhu programme (direct benefit transfer to farmers) and other pension plans, beneficiaries of which would be much more than the initial estimates,” an official said. According to him, unless the state government takes measures to augment its revenue generation, the initiative — likely to be repeated in the coming years — cannot be pursued in its existing format. The other challenge is the continuous delivery of the promise of services, which is the main objective of these camps. A section of the officials said that people had started lodging complaints that the Swasthya Sathi cards were not being accepted by some private hospitals and nursing homes. “The health department is flooded with complaints of Swasthya Sathi cards being refused. It has been found that bills under the scheme are being cleared after a few months and the private hospitals are not ready to accept the delay in payment. This does not send a good message about the pet project of the state government,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC youth leader shot dead in East Burdwan’s Ausgram||A youth leader of the Trinamul Congress in East Burdwan’s Ausgram was shot dead by four armed men while he was on his way home with his elderly father on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said Chanchal Bakshi, 42, was the youth leader of Debshala and was riding a bike to his home with his father Shyamal, who is also the chief of a gram panchayat. Trinamul blamed the BJP for the murder, citing that Chanchal was a very active leader and his efforts contributed to Trinamul’s win in the Assembly polls. “BJP-backed goons killed our popular leader in a bid to weaken our organisation here,” said Syed Haider Ali, chief of Ausgram 2 panchayat samiti. BJP leaders in Burdwan denied the charge and alleged that the murder was the fallout of rivalry between two Trinamul factions. “Trinamul’s internal feud has resulted in the murder,” said a BJP leader in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Timber worth Rs 50 lakh seized||The foresters of Sarugara range of Baikunthapur forest division seized illegal timber worth around Rs 50 lakh from NH27, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday. “Our team intercepted a truck ferrying bamboo at Ghoshpukur and took it to the forest range office. As we searched it, we recovered Burmese teak concealed under piles of bamboo. The driver has been arrested,” said a forest official. “We are keeping a close watch across north Bengal as Burmese teak is available in the forests of Northeast. We suspect Siliguri is being used as a corridor to smuggle the timber to other parts of the country.” Sources said Burmese teak is used to make costly furniture and has a huge demand in India and in West Asia. The consignment was en route to Rajasthan from Manipur. In another incident, a BSF team seized three crystal jars containing suspected cobra venom from Dongi village in South Dinajpur. “The cost of the seized venom is around Rs 57 crore in the international grey market,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 601 more contract virus, seven die in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a fall in total active Covid-19 cases for 79 successive days, with 601 new infections, 687 recoveries and seven deaths. The total of active cases fell by 93 to 8,387. Bengal has 2.18 per cent of the total active patients at the national level and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 105 new infections, the only district of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of fresh cases. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.27 per cent, which is the highest during the pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.46. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.67 per cent on Tuesday. Nineteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.53 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.26 lakh recoveries and 18,522 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Civil society members seek caste enumeration in forthcoming census||Prominent civil society members in Bengal have written to Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee, demanding a caste-based enumeration in the forthcoming census for the socio-economic development of backward classes. The demand for the caste-based census had already been raised in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. “The Union government recently told the Lok Sabha that it would not enumerate caste-wise population as a matter of policy.... We are against this and believe that for the socio-economic development of the backward classes, it is important to have a caste census. Hence, we have written to the Prime Minister, urging him to ensure a full caste enumeration in the census. We wrote a similar letter to the Bengal chief minister as well,” said Prasenjit Bose, the convenor of the Joint Forum Against NRC and one of the 16 signatories to the letters. Addressing a news conference in Calcutta on Tuesday, Bose said they had also demanded that the NPR process — which according to the signatories is the first step towards the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act — be de-linked from the census. Although the demand for the caste-based census has been heard from different parts of the country for years, the matter assumed seriousness before the 2019 general election when the then Union home minister, Rajnath Singh, told Parliament that the 2021 census would carry data on the Other Backward Classes. The promise, however, is unlikely to be fulfilled as the Narendra Modi government has expressed its reluctance on the exercise. The issue of counting of backward classes in the forthcoming census was recently pushed by an all-party delegation from Bihar, which included representatives of the RJD and BJP ally JD(U), which met Modi. Another delegation led by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also met the Prime Minister and demanded counting of the OBC groups. Against this backdrop, the letter from the civil society members — belonging to groups like Dalits, Pasmanda Muslims and Adivasis — shows that the demand is getting momentum even in a state like Bengal, where discussions on class had kept caste issues under the wraps during over three decades of Left rule. The civil society members said the class-based inequality in the country couldn’t be understood without properly identifying the caste composition of the demography. They also said they would intensify their demand in the coming days. “Our society is divided between the haves and the have-nots. The enumeration of castes will help the have-nots get a better life, which is why the haves are against it...,” said Avik Saha of Swaraj Abhiyan’s Bengal unit. According to one of the signatories, who spoke to this correspondent on condition of anonymity on the sidelines of the news conference, the objection of the BJP government at the Centre to the caste-based census has its roots in the party’s fear that such an exercise would dent its carefully constructed caste alliances in several states under the dominance of upper castes. “The saffron ecosystem functions on the caste divisions rooted in our society. A caste-based census will disturb this vote-yielding environment for them,” this person said before adding that if more states and political parties joined the chorus, the Centre would find it difficult to wish away the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government challenges breather for Suvendu in five criminal cases||The Bengal government on Tuesday moved a petition before a division bench of Calcutta High Court to challenge an order issued by a single bench which had restrained investigators from taking any further action against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari in five criminal cases. On Monday, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha had directed the investigators not to take coercive measures against Adhikari or arrest him in the cases lodged by the state authorities since his defection from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP in December last year. The division bench on Tuesday accepted the state’s petition. One of the five cases dealt with the alleged murder of a former security guard of Adhikari. The CID had been probing the murder case on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s wife. In its petition before the division bench, the state claimed that proceedings of murder cases could not be stopped and Justice Mantha had issued the order without giving proper hearing to the government. In the past few months, five criminal cases were initiated against Adhikari, at Contai, Nandigram, Panskura and Tamluk in East Midnapore and Maniktala in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Binay Tamang hints at new party launch||Binay Tamang on Tuesday dropped enough hints of floating a new political party and even released a blue print of the issues that his outfit would take up with the central and state governments. Tamang’s statement comes two days before Anit Thapa is set to launch a new party from Darjeeling. Tamang said it was absolutely necessary to work closely with the state government and Trinamul if issues related to the hills were to be solved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain, high tides wreak havoc in Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur||A bout of heavy rainfall early on Tuesday left parts of coastal East Midnapore heavily inundated, with activities in the tourist towns of Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur being brought to a standstill. Several barrages at Jaldah which had recently been repaired were breached. Many motorboats broke down in North 24-Parganas because of the downpour and high tides. “In one particular instance, a broken-down motorboat hailing from Namkhana almost capsized while drawing close to Digha for shelter. Fortunately, our civic volunteers were able to rescue four fishermen who fell off the boat,” said an East Midnapore district official. Two of the fishermen were admitted to Digha State General Hospital with pneumonic symptoms. Sources said officials had imposed total restrictions on tourist activities at Old Digha and New Digha through late on Wednesday when the new moon tides are predicted to abate. “We did not even allow people near the beach today. The high tides are owing to the Kousiki Amavasya,” said Ramnagar I block development officer, Bishnupada Ray. The lone death recorded during the squall was at Moyna, where pedestrian Manas Dhara, 45, succumbed to head injuries from a falling tree trunk. “Tides today went as high as 30 feet. We cannot afford further risks in this regard. So, we are keeping a very close watch till Thursday. Outdoor tourism activities will remain suspended,” Ray said. The sources said several seaside hotels, especially those at Old Digha, were damaged on Tuesday morning. “Fewer tourists came in the past weekend, apprehending bad weather. Today’s damage is much more extensive than what has been reported across the district till now,” said East Midnapore district disaster management official, Mrityunjay Haldar. In South 24-Parganas, over 50 villages were flooded when several barrages, particularly those at Namkhana, which had not been repaired after Cyclone Yaas, were breached by rushing water from the high tide and continuous rain. Sagar Island, Kakdwip and Gosaba were particularly affected. “There is a risk of further flooding until Thursday. We have started marking out the embankments that are at particular risk,” said an irrigation department official. Irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra admitted that the overtopping of the embankment had contributed to flooding and said work would be taken up on a priority basis once the weather improved. “We are yet to receive reports of breached embankments on a massive scale. We have told irrigation department officials to keep us posted on all developments,” he said. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh: None in BJP ready to fight Bengal CM in bypoll||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday publicly accepted that his party was struggling to find a candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the bypoll in Bhowanipore. “We will send a few names to Delhi, for them (the central leadership) to finalise.… We have asked a lot of people to contest the bypoll, but none is willing,” said Ghosh at a news conference in the headquarters of the state BJP. BJP sources said Ghosh’s statement further laid bare the “worst-kept secret” of how dilapidated the party’s organisation had become in the wake of its Assembly election debacle. They also asked that if the state BJP chief sounded so pessimistic in public, how he would lift the morale of the workers at the grassroots. “It is very true that nobody in our party is willing or capable for contesting against Mamata in Bhowanipore in a bypoll, months after she led her party to a statewide sweep. But is it becoming of a state president to admit it in a news conference? What message does it send out for those down the line?” asked a state BJP functionary. He added that the hype over mulling legal options against the Election Commission of India’s decision to hold the September 30 bypoll in Bhowanipore was only a diversionary tactic, to draw eyeballs away from the fact that the BJP was unable to find a candidate. Ghosh, who had said even on Monday that his party was taking legal advice, was conspicuous in his silence regarding it on Tuesday. Another section in the BJP, however, said Ghosh’s comment was aimed at leaders like former state chief Tathagata Roy, who had been publicly critical of Ghosh’s leadership and the choice of candidates in the Assembly election, but turned down the offer to contest from Bhowanipore. Hours after the news conference, Ghosh met BJP workers from Bhowanipore at a meeting chaired by the party’s Bengal co-minder Amit Malviya to decide on a probable list of candidates for the seat. Sources said a list of three names was sent to the party’s election committee in Delhi. The AICC has decided to not contest the Bhowanipore bypoll, state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Tuesday. “We don’t want to help the BJP by contesting against Mamata Banerjee,” said Chowdhury, a day after he threw his weight firmly in favour of fielding a candidate in Bhowanipore. Sources in the Bidhan Bhavan said it was also decided that the Congress wouldn’t take part in the campaign either, should its alliance partner, the Left, decide to field a candidate in the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati forum to oust VC Bidyut Chakrabarty||At least nine different organisations, including those of teachers, students, traders and old-timers, on Tuesday night formed Visva-Bharati-Santiniketan Bachao Joutha Mancha (a joint forum to save Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan) to intensify the movement for the resignation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. “Students and a section of teachers had already started the movement following the rustication of three students. Nine different organisations of Santiniketan, including the very old Alapini Mahila Samity and Santiniketan Ashramik Sangha, have joined the forum. We are expecting that others, including non-teaching employees, would join us with the major demand of resignation of the VC who harassed people from all sections during his two-and-a-half years of tenure,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a suspended professor and the president of a teachers’ body at Visva-Bharati. A section of the students had first started gheraoing VC Chakrabarty’s residence on August 27 and it was withdrawn on September 4 following an order by Calcutta High Court. However, the students continued with the protest, keeping a distance of 50 meters from the residence of Chakrabarty. On Tuesday night, members of all nine organisations stood on the dais of the protesting students and announced that they would continue their movement till the last to oust Chakrabarty. “It is very significant to intensify the movement against the VC now as people from all sections have joined the movement. Traders who used to put up stalls at Pous Mela and even elderly women of Alapini Mahila Samity — an association of Tagore’s time — suffered because of the VC’s whimsical decisions,” said Aminul Huda, an office-bearer of Kabiguru Hastashilpa Unnayan Samity — a platform of artisans whom the VC allegedly wants to evict from their present location. Old-timers of Santiniketan said Chakrabarty had targeted them also. “The VC put up boundary walls and targeted several old-timers, including Amartya Sen, which was unprecedented in the history of Visva-Bharati. This person is not capable of running a university like Visva-Bharati and so, we joined hands to intensify the movement,” said Subir Banerjee, an old-timer. On Tuesday afternoon, the VC’s official car suddenly passed by the dais of the protesting students who allegedly stopped the vehicle for a while. Varsity officials said few students even searched the empty car, which the students denied. The protesters said they stopped the car as they thought the VC had come to talk to them about their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Scan on Siliguri water crisis today||A three-member team of experts from the state public health engineering  department reached Siliguri on Tuesday to check out the problem in supplying drinking water across the city from the water treatment plant at Fulbari. Since August 30, water supply across Siliguri civic area has become erratic and in the past three-four days, the crisis has deepened, leaving around a million people at inconvenience. This is because of excess silt deposits at the intake point — the point from where the water of Mahananda canal is drawn into the plant — adequate water could not be drawn for treatment and supply. “The PHE has cleared the silt deposits but even then, water supply has not yet become regular. In some places, water is coming out of the stand-posts like a thin thread,” said a source in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Alok Chakraborty, a member of the BoA who is in charge of the water supply, confirmed arrival of the team and said on Wednesday, they would visit the treatment plant. “We will have a meeting with them after inspecting the plant. We would then place their recommendations before the board of administrators for further moves,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
