09-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University ranks fourth in NIRF ranking, Jadavpur bags sixth position||The University of Calcutta has secured the fourth position in the National Institute Ranking Framework, and topped the chart among all state-run varsities of the country. Above Calcutta University (CU) stands the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University, all central institutions. Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee, the vice-chancellor of CU, said students and faculty members should be credited for this achievement. "It makes me immensely happy that CU has ranked fourth in the entire country in terms of composite performance. We will strive harder in the days to come," she said. The Jadavpur University (JU), another government-aided institute in Bengal, came eighth on the list. A senior official at JU said, "The university has always tried its best to provide an ideal academic and research work environment for its students, teachers and staff members. We will set our goals higher in the future." Seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) -- IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur, IIT Guwahati and IIT Roorkee -- figured in the top 10 in the overall rankings. The NIRF is the authoritative national system for ranking of educational institutions. The ranking framework evaluates institutions on five broad generic groups of parameters of Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Perception (PR). Ranks are assigned based on the total sum of marks assigned for each of these five broad groups of parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Special court grants interim bail to Kunal Ghosh in Saradha scam||Trinamool Congress West Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh was on Thursday granted interim bail by a special court here following his surrender before it in connection a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate in the Saradha chit fund scam. The special CBI court directed Ghosh to furnish a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with two sureties of Rs 10,000 each, and to assist the investigating officer in the PMLA case. The court had on August 27 issued summons to the TMC leader and two others to appear before it on September 20 on a prayer by the ED, which is investigating allegations of money laundering in the Saradha case. Ghosh's lawyer claimed that he surrendered before the court on Thursday soon after getting information about the summons issued by it. He submitted that he is a law-abiding citizen and innocent. Opposing the bail prayer, ED special public prosecutor Abhijit Bhadra told the court that the accused is an influential person and there is every scope of his evading trial in the case. Ghosh has been charged with assisting main accused Sudipta Sen in acquisition of the proceeds of crime and money laundering. Observing that the ED's investigation into the Saradha case in respect of Ghosh, who was the editor of the company's publications, has been completed, Special CBI Judge Anupam Mukherjee said there is no reason for detaining him behind bars. The Saradha group allegedly defrauded lakhs of people in West Bengal through several ponzi schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Nusrat Jahan shuts down queries on her baby's father at first public appearence since childbirth||Trinamul Congress MP and actor Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday firmly shut down questions on her newborn's father and said she is responsible to her voters and "ready to face questions" coming her way. In an interview with NDTV, the actor-turned-politician, who recently gave birth to a baby boy as a single mother, said that she will be soon back to work. "It feels great, it's a new life. It seems like a new beginning. The spectacle of life is what...struck me and it struck me as beautiful," she told the media organisation at the launch of a salon in Calcutta on Wednesday. "The father knows who the father is. We are having a great parenthood at the moment. Myself and Yash (Dasgupta, actor)... we are having a good time," the MP told NDTV as she tackled the questions on the baby's father, whose identity she has refused to reveal. She added that she would be back in the Parliament Winter Session "for sure", after having missed the previous session. "I have responsibilities that I need to cater to. I have responsibilities towards me, my family and towards people who voted for me. So I'm back to work. I am dividing my time pretty well so I balance as a mother too. I am asking people to make it a little fast as I have a little one at home waiting..." the Basirhat MP said on returning to work after just 12 days of givingbirth. People who have known Nusrat say there were indications of a change in her for some time. Over a year, she has replaced her staff _ her driver, makeup man and hair artiste, household staff, social media team, till she replaced the man in her life, Nikhil Jain, whom she had met in 2018, the same time when her film life had hit a rough patch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal|| Most Bengal BJP MLAs lose central security||The Union ministry of home affairs has quite literally left 61 BJP MLAs in Bengal to the mercy of the Trinamul government. For, according to sources, late on Wednesday night the ministry headed by Amit Shah informed the Bengal government that it had decided to withdraw central security provided to all of them. It would now be the prerogative of the state government to provide security cover to the 61 out of 71 remaining BJP legislators who were granted protection by central forces because of their party affiliation and not threat perception. That is however not to say that the Opposition MLAs, or any political leader, in Bengal do not face any threat to their lives. A couple of days ago, bombs were hurled at the house of  BJP Barrackpore MP   Arjun Singh, who was with the Trinamul earlier. According to sources, some of the most prominent BJP legislators like leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari will continue to be under central protection. Suvendu had earlier refused state security cover. The spate of defections before the Assembly polls from the Trinamul to the BJP had sparked genuine scare among the turncoats of a possible backlash from their former party supporters. Before the elections close to 168 Bengal BJP leaders irrespective of their status within the party were granted central security, which became a talking point for the ruling Trinamul in the run up to the polls. After the poll results, only the 77 elected MLAs were included in the protection programme. A section of the newly elected BJP MLAs, too, were uncomfortable moving around with gun-totting security personnel. In the four months since the elections concluded, around four MLAs have reversed their course of action and switched to the Trinamul from the BJP. The home ministry had earlier withdrawn security provided to the first defector, Mukul Roy, and his son, Subhrangshu. On Monday, the Trinamul’s All India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee had claimed in Delhi that at least 25 more BJP MLAs were  keen on switching to the Trinamul. Sources feel the central BJP leadership does not want the burden of possible turncoats on the state exchequer and has, therefore, left them to their own devices till the next elections. However, what exactly led to the withdrawal is not clear. Sources said on September 1, Abhishek and state minister Moloy Ghatak had a meeting with the Union minister and RSS’s most trusted man in the government Nitin Gadkari. The two flew to Delhi from Andal in a chartered flight and returned the same way. “What exactly transpired at the meeting is not known. But whatever has happened since, including the delay in announcing the party nominee for Bhowanipore and this decision to withdraw central forces for BJP MLAs, comes after that meeting,” said a source. Interestingly, Adhikari himself was in Delhi on Wednesday and also met Gadkari among other leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: West Bengal records 751 new cases, nine deaths||Bengal on Wednesday recorded 80 successive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases, with 751 new infections, 841 recoveries and nine deaths. The total active cases fell by 99 to reach 8,288. Calcutta logged 128 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116, the only two districts in the state with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Seventeen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain and tides flood Mousuni island ||A spring tide, coupled with incessant rain, caused breaches to numerous earthen dykes and contributed to widespread flooding for the second consecutive day on Wednesday in and around Mousuni Island. Residents of South 24-Parganas’s Namkhana, within which Mousuni lies, alleged that most of the embankments had been recently repaired by the irrigation department, albeit in a “substandard manner”. “They used muddy soil in the repairs, as we can see now. It defeats the purpose of having a dyke, as they failed to provide any resistance in the face of these strong tides,” said a local resident, adding “extensive damage” from Cyclone Yaas in May had left a downbeat mood among people. “On top of that, when we see such substandard efforts, it is quite upsetting,” the resident added. The people, however, admitted that district officials had conducted evacuation operations in vulnerable locations throughout this week’s flooding and had also opened a temporary control centre at the Kakdwip subdivisional office. On Wednesday morning, a 500m stretch of an earthen dyke in Baliara was collapsed by a strong wave out of the Chinai river. “The water level suddenly rose owing to the spring tide and soon, began overflowing the dyke, washing it away completely in the end,” said local resident Sankar Doloi. “Only a part of the dyke was damaged yesterday (Tuesday), but now, the entire village has been flooded by the Chinai. The embankment was weak and being repaired with muddy soil: a repeated and unfortunate style of maintenance work against which we have been protesting for long,” Doloi added. The fresh inundation has reportedly also spoiled crop and horticulture in the area, sparking fresh worries in the agriculture-based work force. “Officials from the block development office came to shift us and provide dry food items, but we reiterated our appeal for a proper dam if they really want to save us and Mousuni island as well,” said Sachin Kumar Patra, another resident of the area. River water flooded several areas of the Nadavanga area, also on the island. Similar breaches were reported from Ishwaripur and Dwariknagar as well. In several spots, villagers were seen repairing vulnerable stretches of the dams on an ad hoc basis in a last-ditch effort to save their property. “Several earthen dykes have been damaged, particularly in Mousuni, owing to heavy tidal waves similar to those during Yaas. In May, we had undertaken repairs on the dykes, which, however, could not be strengthened enough. As a result, fresh breaches occurred. We have alerted irrigation officials, who will take up fresh repairs once the water level recedes,” said block development officer of Namkhana, Santanu Sinha Thakur. Speaking to The Telegraph, subdivisional officer Kakdwip, Aranya Bandopadhyay, added: “The situation is under control. The impact of the tide on Wednesday was not as strong as we expected. There has been no loss of lives as we had shifted people to safer places well in advance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC stays rustication of Visva-Bharati students||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty suffered a setback on Wednesday when Calcutta High Court issued an interim order staying the operation of the varsity’s August 23 decision to rusticate three students for three years on charges of impropriety and terming the university’s move as “excessive and disproportionate”. In the interim order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also restrained students from holding any kind of agitation on the university campus or in the surroundings. The judge said in the order: “The court is of the prima facie view that the punishment of rustication for a period of three years is excessive and disproportionate to the charge against the students. The said order of rustication shall be kept in abeyance.” The court allowed the three rusticated students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — to participate in academic activities. Justice Mantha’s Wednesday’s order comes after the judge had on September 3 banned all kinds of agitation in and around the Visva-Bharati campus. The students had been staging a sit-in demonstration demanding the withdrawal of the rustication decision. In his Wednesday order, Justice Mantha again restrained the students from holding any kind of agitation on the university campus or in the surrounding areas and asked them to withdraw their protest with immediate effect. The order also stated that agitation “inside or beyond” the university campus should be withdrawn. “All demonstrations, mass-protests, dharna, strikes and/or agitations by students or on their behalf inside or beyond the university campus shall cease forthwith,” the order added. The court said the matter would come up for hearing again on September 15. After the students had begun their agitation against the rustication order, the Visva-Bharati authorities had declared closure of classes and administrative business. The court on Wednesday asked the authorities to resume classes with immediate effect and allowed the students to join their studies. The court also referred to the grievances of varsity “professors and teachers” against the “alleged high handedness of the Vice Chancellor of the University”. The order went on to state: “The professors may institute appropriate proceedings challenging the orders of suspension in accordance with law.” Mukul case A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Wednesday postponed the hearing of a petition moved by BJP MLA Ambika Roy challenging the decision to appoint Mukul Roy as chairman of Public Accounts Committee. Advocate general Kishore Datta informed that Roy was seriously ill and not in a position to give instructions to lawyers. The case will be heard on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Bombs hurled at Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence||Unidentified people allegedly hurled at least three crude bombs at Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence at Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday morning, prompting him to blame the Trinamul Congress for the attack. The bombs exploded on the gate of the MP’s home and close to a camp of Central Reserve Paramilitary Force personnel, who are deployed to ensure round-the-clock security for Singh. The MP was in Delhi when the attack took place. After preliminary investigation, the police claimed the incident was apparently a retaliation of an incident that occurred outside Singh’s home on Tuesday night. A group of boys had beaten up another group before going to the MP’s residence on Tuesday night, a police officer said. Singh, however, rejected the claim of the police and accused Trinamul of trying to terrorise him over his selection as the party’s observer for the Bhawanipore byelection. “The attack was carried out barely within a few hours of my appointment as the observer for the Bhawanipore bypoll. It is clear to me that the attackers had planned to kill me,” Singh said. Jagaddal’s Trinamul MLA Somnath Shyam, however, alleged that Singh had plotted the “fake attack”. The Left Front on Wednesday announced young lawyer and CPM member Shrijeeb Biswas as its candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore bypoll. Mohd. Modassar Hossain (CPM) has been fielded from Samsherganj and Jane Alam Mian (RSP) from Jangipur. Bypolls to all the three Assembly seats are scheduled for September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP harassing Abhishek Banerjee to teach me a lesson: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the BJP was harassing the Trinamul Congress’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in order to teach her a lesson. “Please try to understand that they are harassing Abhishek only to teach me a lesson…. There is no evidence, no case against him.… If it wasn’t intentional why was he told to appear before the investigators a day after he was interrogated for nine hours? Why was the case shifted from Calcutta to Delhi?” asked Mamata at a workers’ meeting at Chetla in Calcutta where she launched her campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll scheduled for September 30. The Enforcement Directorate had questioned the Diamond Harbour MP for nine hours in New Delhi on Monday in connection with a money laundering case over alleged coal pilferage. However, it was not clear if Abhishek was summoned again as claimed by Mamata in her speech On Wednesday, the chief minister said: “The Trinamul Congress is fighting today. This is why they want to shut us up…. They cannot fight politically.… They have silenced the Congress with agencies. They have silenced Mulayam Singh with agencies. They have silenced Sharad Pawar with agencies.” “There is no democracy in the country. They have also put the judiciary on the sidelines,” she added. She repeatedly questioned the “political intention” behind summoning Abhishek to Delhi in spite of the ED having an office in Calcutta. Then, she tried to explain how Trinamul leaders were facing persecution while BJP leaders like Suvendu Adhikari — albeit without naming him — were being allowed to bypass the law enforcing agencies. “If you call our people as witnesses, they’ll be interrogated for 10 hours…and if our agencies call your people, in spite of enough evidence, in spite of a murder case, then you will get an order (from the court) that one cannot even lodge an FIR against him. Why? Is he the Lord’s eldest son?” Mamata said. “Remember the law is the same for all,” she said. Referring to the chargesheet recently submitted by the ED in connection with the Narada sting case — where Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee were named,Mamata asked why BJP leader Adhikari had been spared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi attacks BJP's 'double standard' over Puja dole controversy||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the BJP of following a “double standard”, referring to the controversy the party has kicked up over her meeting with Puja committees ahead of the September 30 by-election in Bhowanipore that she will be contesting. Meetings with Puja committees have been an annual feature for Mamata since she became chief minister in 2011. “They (the BJP) say, ‘She doesn’t allow Durga Puja’. And if I meet (Puja committees), they go and lodge a complaint asking why they (Puja committees) are being helped,” she told a Trinamul workers’ meeting with which she launched her by-election campaign. “They (the BJP) have complained against me and against you all. But these people also say I don’t allow Lakshmi Puja, I don’t allow Saraswati Puja, I don’t allow Durga Puja. What double standard and hypocrisy! Sometimes I even feel the urge to beat the (Puja) drum — then they’ll know.” Mamata had on Monday attended a Puja coordination meeting with several clubs that organise Durga Puja. There, chief secretary Harikrishna Dwivedi announced that each of the 36,000 Puja committees in Bengal would receive a cash donation of Rs 50,000 from the government. Similar incentives had been given in previous years too, with the Puja committees receiving Rs 25,000 in 2019 and Rs 50,000 in 2020. But the BJP on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the state chief electoral officer saying Mamata had violated the model code of conduct by offering the donation after the by-election had been announced. Mamata said the announcement of the donation hadn’t violated election norms since it was the chief secretary who had made it. “The BJP people are always waiting for an opportunity to lodge complaints against me. They have complained asking why I went to the Puja meeting yesterday. They don’t know me,” she said. Mamata added: “Why would I announce new projects? Am I a fool? These are ongoing projects. The CS (chief secretary) announced it and he can speak as a government officer. There has to be coordination (between all Puja stakeholders and the government), so I went to a coordination meeting. How will the Puja committees prepare if they are not informed beforehand?” During a polarising campaign for the April-May Bengal Assembly polls, leader after BJP leader — including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah — had accused Mamata of resisting the celebration of Hindu festivals such as Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s charge of “double standard” would have stumped the BJP, already in disarray after the Assembly poll debacle. Mamata’s speech was live-streamed across Trinamul’s social media platforms. Although she mostly spoke in Bengali, her occasional Hindi sentences made it clear she was looking at an audience beyond Bengal and that her focus was not just on the Bhowanipore by-election. “When this (by-election) is over, we will have to win the by-elections that follow, we’ll have to win the civic polls, then the 2024 polls,” Mamata said. She went on to refer to national issues such as the rise in fuel prices, the farmers’ protest and the vaccine shortage. The chief minister also accused the central agencies of harassing her party colleagues — including her nephew and Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee — at the behest of the BJP leadership. She referred to the violence against Trinamul leaders and workers in Tripura, and described the BJP as worse than “Duryodhan and Duhshasan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Students, teachers celebrate Calcutta HC order||Students and teachers of Visva-Bharati celebrated Calcutta High Court’s interim stay on the varsity’s decision to rusticate three protesting students by breaking their hunger strike and smearing each other with colours and distributing sweets in Santiniketan on Wednesday. While keeping the varsity’ decision to rusticate the three students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — in abeyance, the court on Wednesday termed the varsity’s move as “excessive and disproportionate”. After the news of the high court’s interim order reached Santiniketan on Wednesday, Rupa and suspended economics department professor Sudipta Bhattacharya broke their hunger strike by drinking fruit juice. After offering fruit juice to Bhattacharya and Rupa to end the fast they had begun on September 5 afternoon, the students brought a few bags of abir and smeared themselves with colours to celebrate what they termed as their “victory”. A group of students also went to the gate of Purbita, which is the official residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, and offered sweets to those present there but it was refused. Reacting to the ruling, SFI leader and one of the rusticated students Somnath Sow said: “The (interim) order of Calcutta High Court has proved that we are on the right track. It also proved that the punishment was vindictive in nature as the court held it excessive. Now we want to see when the VC implements the order.” Asked about the court’s order directing students or anyone on their behalf from holding protests “in or beyond” the campus, a protester said they would temporarily withdraw their movement but would decide on their future course of action depending on how the varsity authorities react to the interim order. While putting the varsity’s rustication decision on abeyance, the court asked Visva-Bharati to allow the three students to resume academic activities. “We are yet to dismantle our tent as we are waiting for Visva-Bharati’s order. If the varsity does not comply with the order, we will continue with our movement,” the protesting student added. After the court issued its interim order, the officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and two other officials attempted to go to the VC’s residence in a car but was stopped by the students. “The officials were on their way to meet the VC to discuss the further course of action,” said a varsity official. Some insiders in the Visva-Bharati said the varsity would implement the court’s order. "Officiating register Asok Mahato has sent the court’s order to proctor Shankar Majumder to take action and implement it. An order to that effect might be issued soon," said a varsity official. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message when he was asked about varsity’s course of action after the court’s order. Apart from the students, the teachers, old-timers and traders of Santiniketan who formed a joint forum to intensify the movement said that they were happy with the court order but they wanted to see the VC removed for his partisan and vindictive decisions. “We are happy with the order but there are many  wrongdoings of the VC and he should be punished,” said Manisha Banerjee, an alumni and assistant secretary of Alapini Mahila Samity. The samity is an association of women in Santiniketan and dates back to the time of Rabindranath Tagore. Aminul Huda, an office-bearer of handicrafts artisans’ society in Santiniketan, said: “We welcome the order but our movement against the VC will go on.” The Calcutta-based Platform Bengal Against Fascist RSS and BJP also issued a news release welcoming the court’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Police rescue two abducted youths, arrest two kidnappers||Police rescued two abducted youths and arrested two kidnappers from a village in Malda district on Tuesday night. The police sources said Jahangir Alam and Mabud Mottakin, both residents of Balutola under Manikchak police station, used to speak with unknown female callers frequently. On September 5, both had left their homes apparently to meet the callers. “It was nothing but a trap into which these youths had walked in. Both Alam and Mottakin, who are farmers and in their early 30s, were abducted for ransom,” said a police officer. “Later at night, their families received phone calls demanding a ransom of Rs 3 lakh each,” the police officer added. On September 6, the families lodged a police complaint following which Akshay Pal, the inspectorincharge of Manikchak police station, formed a team which was led by Bhanjan Ghosh, an assistant subinspector, to probe the case. The team traced the number through which the ransom call was made. The phone was located at Malahar, situated under Chanchal police station of the district. “The police team communicated with the abductors and it was decided that they would deliver the ransom at Malahar. The team members, dressed in plainclothes, reached the spot on Tuesday night,” said a police source. “As two people came to collect the money, the cops arrested them. The arrest was made within 24 hours after the complaint was lodged. During interrogation, they shared details about the whereabouts of the abducted youths and soon the youths were rescued,” the police source added. The kidnapers have been identified as Saddam Hossain and Abdul Ali, both residents of Malahar. “We are continuing the probe to find out who else was involved in the crime. The arrested duo will be interrogated to obtain more details. We will also speak with the abducted youths in due course,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Experts moot overhaul of Siliguri water plant||A team of three experts who represent a private consultancy firm engaged by the state public health engineering (PHE) department visited the water treatment plant of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation at Fulbari here on Wednesday. After the visit, the team has expressed dissatisfaction over the condition of the plant and recommended a comprehensive overhaul of the entire infrastructure to ensure that drinking water is supplied to the city from the facility in coming days. “The experts from Calcutta said the water treatment plant and its distribution system required a complete overhaul. The plant and its pipelines are in a very poor state, they have observed,” said Alok Chakraborty, a member of the board of administrators (BoA) at the SMC and the incharge of the drinking water supply. Along with the team, Chakraborty was also at the plant. For the past 10 days or so, residents of Siliguri have been facing a drinking water crisis as the civic body’s supply through its distribution network has become erratic. Silt deposit near the intake point from where water is drawn from the Mahananda canal to the treatment plant was to blame for the crisis. “In another threefour days, the experts will submit a report to the PHE department and the SMC. We will go through it and take appropriate steps. On Thursday, I will brief the BoA members on their visit,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccination camps commence in colleges of north Bengal||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation on Wednesday launched Covid-19 vaccination camps at seven colleges, both government and private, to jab students and staff. The drive, first-of-its-kind in north Bengal, is expected to expedite the process of reopening of these institutions, closed in the wake of the pandemic since March last year, for offline classes. The initiative was flagged off by Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators, SMC, at Siliguri College on Wednesday. “The decision was made at a meeting held with the heads of these institutions at the civic body on Tuesday. From today (Wednesday), we have launched the initiative. As per the plan, vaccination camps will be held in each of these seven colleges. Along with the students, the teaching and nonteaching staff who have not yet been vaccinated will also get the jab at these camps,” said Deb. According to him, there is a plan to vaccinate around 15,000 college students, including the students who will take admission this year. Along with Siliguri College, such camps will be organised in Siliguri College of Commerce, Munshi Premchand College, Surya Sen College, Siliguri Government Polytechnic, Siliguri Mahila Mahavidyalaya and in Salesian College, located across the town. Ever since the pandemic has hit the country, education is one of the sectors which have taken a beating. Whether it is a school or a college, Recently, the demand to reopen educational institutions was raised repeatedly as to ensure that every student has access to learning. During this period, academicians have time and again pointed out that like many school students, there are college students who do not have access to online classes which are organized by the educational institutions. Also, online classes are no match to physical classes and students engaged in higher studies in different streams are deprived of practical lab sessionslearning in labs and in the field. Pranab Ghosh, the registrar of North Bengal University, said: “Teachers cannot give their best in online classes. Also, it is difficult for students to understand certain lessons online. A comprehensive vaccination of all students, teaching and nonteaching staff of a college can largely help in resuming classes at the institution.” Last month, a similar initiative was taken in Chennai where vaccination camps are being held in colleges. In Bengal, such camps were held in some colleges of Calcutta. In Siliguri College, a number of students turned up to get them jabbed on Wednesday. Hritankar Basak, a fifthsemester student of B.Sc general course, thanked the authorities for organising the camp. “We are studying science subjects where we need regular practical classes. Though, the teachers have been very supportive, but I feel opening the college for classes is very important for further studies,” he added. The plan drawn up by the civic body to vaccinate college students at their respective institutions has also made The initiative taken by the SMC has prompted the Darjeeling district health department to draw a similar plan to vaccinate students and staff in other colleges of the district located in the hills and outside the Siliguri civic area. There are around 15 government and private colleges situated in the rural areas of Siliguri subdivision and in three hill subdivisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik. “We plan to continue the drive of vaccinating the college students in all such institutions located across the district. We are making preparations and such camps will be held soon,” said Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling. The drive would also make easier for the state government to review its plan to reopen educational institutions after the Durga Puja, pointed out Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of Siliguri College. “The state will have a comprehensive database about each of these colleges as to how many students, teachers and other staff are fully vaccinated. This we believe, would help in making decisions regarding reopening of the colleges,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Summons for Partha from CBI in ICore chit fund case||The CBI has summoned Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for questioning on September 13 in connection with its ongoing probe into the ICore chit fund case. Chatterjee was allegedly seen at a few public functions organised by ICore, which was accused of duping depositors by offering them abnormally high returns on their investments. The CBI had earlier summoned Chatterjee but the minister had cited the Assembly polls as the reason for not responding. Chatterjee is currently one of the “observers” of the Trinamul Congress for the ensuring bypoll in Bhowanipore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the candidate. CBI officers said Chatterjee was found to be heaping praise on Anukul Maity, the managing director of ICore, at one of the functions. The CBI had arrested Maity and he later died while in jail custody in Odhisha in November. “We would want to know a few things from Chatterjee, including how long he had known Maity and whether there had been any financial transaction between the two,” said an officer. The CBI has decided to seek the help of constables familiar with Bengali to help its teams which are probing into allegations of rape and murder in the aftermath of the publication of Assembly poll results. Sources have said each of the four teams will have at least six constables who are well versed with Bengal to help understand what the victims have to say during their field visits across the districts of Bengal. The constables have been selected from outside Bengal. The CBI has filed over 25 FIRs in course of its probe into alleged incidences of murder and rapes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Amar Lama set to join Anit Thapa’s new party||Amar Lama, a veteran in hill politics, along with established names in literature, music, sports and administration, will join Anit Thapa’s new party during its launch in Darjeeling on Thursday. Sources said Lama would also be given “an important position” in the new party. Lama, 58, plunged into politics during his college days with Pranta Parishad and was the general secretary of the Akhil Bhartiya Gorkha League from 1996 to 2000. When Bimal Gurung formed the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2007, Lama was among the top three leaders of the party, who led many important delegations both to the state government and the Centre. The lawyer by profession, however, quit the party when his elder brother Madan Tamang, who was then the president of the ABGL, was hacked to death in broad daylight in 2010 allegedly by Morcha supporters. Since 2016, Lama has been a bureau member of the Jan Andolan Party, which was floated by former Kalimpong MLA Harka Bahadur Chhetri. Sources told The Telegraph that Lama had “verbally” quit the JAP on Monday. “Some JAP members insisted that he stay with the party. But Lama, who had been approached by Thapa, told JAP leaders that he had made up his mind,” a source said. While Lama will be the most prominent political leader to join Thapa’s party, the major surprise would be the induction of apolitical faces who have made a name in their respective fields. “It is an interesting development. Many apolitical people have decided to plunge into fulltime politics,” said the source. Among them is a lead actor of a popular political satire which had made waves across the Darjeeling hills in the past decade. “The actor is of the opinion that instead of satires, he needs to plunge into fulltime politics for the betterment of the place,” said the source. A leading musician and composer from Darjeeling will be joining the drama persons. “A retired bureaucrat, a retired high school teacher who is also into literature, a historian and a sports person, along with many people who have excelled in their professions but never indulged in fulltime politics, will be the surprises,” said the source. Sources said the new party was trying an “image makeover” from the previous party. In 2017, a new faction of the Morcha was formed. Most of the leaders of the breakaway faction are forming a new party on Thursday. “That is why the new party wants an image makeover,” said the source. Most of the breakaway faction leaders were accused of betraying the 2017 statehood agitation. While Thapa will be launching a new party, Bimal Gurung’s supporters have decided to organise a “flag purification ceremony” in Kurseong. The launch of the new party will be beamed live on giant screens in at least 40 locations across the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
