10-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee files nomination papers for September 30 bypolls||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee Friday filed her nomination for the September 30 Bhabanipur assembly by-poll winning which is an absolute necessity for her to continue as the chief minister. She will be pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her. The votes for Bhabanipur as also Jangipur and Samserganj will be counted on October 3 and results declared the same day. Banerjee was accompanied by the wife of state cabinet minister Firhad Hakim at Survey Building in Alipore where she filed her nomination papers. She was later seen greeting people with folded hands before boarding her car. "The people of Bhabanipur are eagerly waiting to rewrite history by ensuring Mamata Banerjee's victory by a record margin. They are waiting to avenge the conspiracy that was hatched to defeat Mamata di at Nandigram," Firhad Hakim told reporters. TMC supporters lustily cheered their leader with slogans like Bhabanipur Nijer Ghorer Meyekei chai (Bhabanipur wants her own daughter) and Bhabanipur eh Khela Hobe (Game will happen in Bhabanipur). "For us, the challenge is not victory as we are confident about it. The challenge is to ensure Didi's win by a record margin," another TMC worker said. Banerjee, a resident of Bhabanipur, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare her former protege and now a BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. Though Banerjee powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, she lost in Nandigram. She now must win Bhabanipur to ensure an unbroken stint as the chief minister. Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions in order to continue as chief minister. The Constitution allows a non-member of a state legislature or Parliament to continue in a ministerial position without getting elected only for six months. After her defeat in Nandigram, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur, vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. Reacting to her nomination, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said she will face the same fate as in Nandigram. The BJP had defeated her in Nandigram. She will be defeated again in Bhabanipur. The people of the constituency will give her a befitting reply for the torture and violence her party unleashed after the assembly polls, he said. Banerjee was first elected to the Assembly in a by-poll from Bhabanipur months after the TMC stormed to power ousting the 34-year-old Left Front dispensation in 2011. She represented the South Kolkata Lok Sabha seat, of which Bhabanipur is a segment, six times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 3 crore people visited 'Duare Sarkar' camps, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said over three crore people have visited the ongoing Duare Sarkar camps, a mass outreach drive to help people benefit from state-run schemes. The second edition of the "Duare Sarkar" (government at doorsteps) programme was launched on August 16 and will continue till September 15. She thanked the people of the state for visiting the camps and also congratulated the government officials. "Extremely happy to share that more than 3 crore people have visited the #DuareSarkar camps since 16th August. I congratulate all GoWB officials for making this initiative a huge success. I thank the people of Bengal for coming to the camps and availing all benefits," Banerjee said on Twitter. Two government schemes - ''Lakshmi Bhandar'' and Swasthya Sathi - appeared to be the top picks among the three crore people who have turned up in the month-long camps. The newly launched ''Lakshmi Bhandar'' scheme assures monthly support of Rs 1,000 for women of each SC/ST household and Rs 500 for the general category. ''Swasthya Sathi'' is a cashless basic health cover for secondary and tertiary care up to Rs five lakh per annum per family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields young lawyer against Didi in Bhawanipore||Post-poll violence under Mamata Banerjee government’s administration will be the main plank for the Opposition, BJP in the Bhowanipore byelection, which has decided to field lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal against the chief minister. According to BJP sources, the biggest factor that swung the nomination in Tibrewal’s favour was her legal victory on the issue of post-poll violence that came as a major embarrassment for the ruling Trinamul. The 1981-born Tibrewal had unsuccessfully contested the 2021 Assembly polls from Entally on a BJP ticket. Since the elections, she has been busy at Calcutta High Court seeking justice for the victims of post-poll violence in the state, which the administration has denied. Her efforts in the legal ring culminated into a scathing report from the National Human Rights Commission and a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of atrocities committed  women and murder. The Bhowanipore-born president of the state youth front of the BJP  since August 2020, Tibrewal  has been active in the legal field. Her candidature was announced on the day when Mamata is scheduled to file her nomination. The Congress has already decided not to field any candidate against Mamata this time. Since its on-and-off  alliance with the CPM, the Bhowanpore seat was always given to the Congress. The CPM has nominated another lawyer Srijeeb Biswas against Mamata, though the main contest is likely to be between the Trinamul and the BJP, which is banking heavily on the presence of over 40 per cent non-Bengali speaking Hindus in the constituency. Tibrewal was close to the Asansol MP and former central minister Babul Supriyo, who is currently out of favour among the BJP top brass. She also shares a good rapport with state president Dilip Ghosh. Talking to television channels after her candidacy was announced, Tibrewal said she was not an outsider in Bhowanipore. “I was born in Bhowanipore and know every lane and bylane. I have already taken on Mamata Banerjee in court and I proved her wrong on the issue of post-poll violence in Bengal. This is my second challenge to her,” Tibrewal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Assault cry against Bengal BJP leader||A homeguard was allegedly slapped by a BJP leader who arrived at the NRS hospital morgue on Thursday afternoon to claim the body of a party worker. A TV footage shows a man resembling BJP leader Debdutta Majhi pushes a man in khaki uniform and slap him. Majhi denied having hit the home guard intentionally and said police had misbehaved with him. There was some jostling when the police tried to stop us. I did not hit anyone intentionally,” Majhi said. The BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh said the home guard was slapped and it was the right thing to do. A case has been registered at Entally police station against Majhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa floats Darjeeling’s 12th party Bhartiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha||Another party was launched in the Darjeeling hills on Thursday with Anit Thapa as the president and a declaration from a leader that the “politics of one-man-centric party” was coming to an end in the region for the first time since the 1960s. The Bhartiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha is the latest addition to a list which has already 11 parties for mere 8.75 lakh people in the hills. D.K. Pradhan, former Darjeeling MLA and a veteran of hill politics, presided over the programme to launch the new Darjeeling party. “For the first time since the 1960s, the politics of one-man-centric party in the hills is coming to an end. From D.P. Rai (the undisputed ABGL leader till his demise in the early 1980s) to Subash Ghisingh and Bimal Gurung, it had always been one man running the party and taking all decisions,” said Pradhan who claimed that he was a “living witnesses” to the culture of individual-centric hill parties and its failure in hill politics. Anit Thapa, who was appointed as the president of the BGPM, seconded Pradhan’s opinion. “We will work as a team and decisions on any issue will be taken collectively by our party,” said Thapa. The BGPM managed to bring in more than 40-odd apolitical people from different walks of life to showcase that the “the educated and intellectuals” were with the new party. “After a long time in the hills, educated and intellectuals are joining politics. No leader would know everything and experts in different fields must be allowed to work on different issues,” said Thapa. Ajoy Edwards (formerly associated with the Gorkha National Liberation Front) and Binay Tamang (formerly with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) — have dropped broad hints that they will float their own parties. According to the 2011 Census, the hills have a population of 8.75 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation to spend Rs 13 crore on road repair||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to execute multiple infrastructural development projects across Siliguri, ahead of the upcoming festive season. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, said on Thursday that around Rs 13.5 crore would be spent on construction and repair of roads and culverts across the civic area. In Siliguri, the civic area is spread across 47 wards with a population close to a billion. “We have provided Rs 9 crore to the state PWD for repair and renovation of a number of roads in Siliguri which are in dire condition now because of lack of regular maintenance. Also, the urban poverty alleviation wing of the civic body will spend Rs 4.5 crore to build and repair some other roads and culverts in different wards of the town,” Deb said. Also, beautification of 22 parks and renovation of guest houses and community buildings, run by the civic body, has been planned. “We have engaged Rail India Technical & Economic Service to build alternative roads to ease traffic load on Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: First jab for all on Ghoramara island in Bay of Bengal||The entire population of South 24-Parganas’s Ghoramara — a shrinking island in the Bay of Bengal — was administered with at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine with 840 more eligible recipients getting their jab on Thursday. Sources said if a handful of Ghoramara residents still remained outside the vaccination drive, district officials would introduce a helpline from September 12 through which they would be able to contact health authorities for the jab. “The initiative was undertaken as part of a mission to vaccinate the eligible population of Sagar block, particularly Sagar Island, before the commencement of the Gangasagar Mela slated to be held in December,” said an official. Located 92km south of Calcutta, Ghoramara island is spread across 6sqkm and is part of the Sagar block that consists of four gram panchayats and a population of 4,472. “Our primary target was to administer two jabs to the eligible population of the island keeping in view of the Gangasagar Mela. The priority is to avoid the spread of Covid amidst the arrival of a huge number of pilgrims. Although Ghoramara is relatively isolated, we included it in our mission to avoid any possible spread of the disease district-wide,” said Sagar block development officer Sudipto Mondal. The sources said the district administration had identified 2,942 eligible recipients in the 18-plus age group in Ghoramara. During the first phase of vaccination, 2,102 persons had been vaccinated. On Thursday, the district administration arranged a special camp and also a door-step vaccination programme for the remaining 840 residents. A special boat carrying vaccines and health workers had been sent to the island by the administration. They returned to Kochuberia ghat, from where it had left early on Thursday, late in the evening after completing the job. “Our mission in Ghoramara has been accomplished. All eligible residents will now get their second dose after the prescribed gap, but before the commencement of the Gangasagar fair. A special mission undergoing for the remaining parts of the block is expected to be accomplished on Friday,” the BDO added. Our additional objective was to vaccinate potential “super spreaders” like autorickshaw and cab drivers, who work among the public and may come in direct contact with pilgrims during the Gangasagar fair, said Sagar BMOH, Anshuman Roy. A senior official in the district administration explained that the special mission was planned with more vigour so that the residents of Ghoramara island never felt “isolated” owing to their geographical location. “They have been living in distress owing to the deadly erosion that is engulfing the island and creating a serious survival problem,” an official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Students end 13-day-long protest, Visva-Bharati mum||Students on Thursday officially called off their 13-day-long demonstration here against Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and dismantled the pandal at the protest site to comply with Calcutta High Court’s interim order on Wednesday that stayed the varsity’s move to rusticate three dissenting students. Though the court in the same order allowed the three students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — to participate in academic activities, Visva-Bharati, till the filing of this report late on Thursday evening was yet to issue any such notice complying with Justice Rajasekhar Mantha’s ruling. Justice Mantha had ordered students and others to cease all demonstrations or protests inside or beyond the varsity campus immediately. Student leaders said they promptly obeyed the court order. One said the moment the details of the order reached Santiniketan on Wednesday, a student and a teacher on hunger strike broke their fast. Sow said they started taking down posters and banners on Wednesday, but the stage of the protest had to be dismantled by decorators and “that took some time”. “We will approach the court if the varsity does not comply with (their part of) the order,” said Sow. He added that they had completely dismantled the pandal erected for the protest but “Visva-Bharati is yet to allow us to resume classes”. The trio on Wednesday night had sent emails to Visva-Bharati proctor Shankar Majumdar requesting him to allow them to join classes, but had not got a reply, Pan added. On Thursday, vice-chancellor Chakrabarty held a meeting at his residence with senior varsity officials to discuss the future course of action. An insider said the VC spoke to lawyers, too. Neither proctor Majumdar nor varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar took calls or replied to text messages from this paper on the varsity’s current stand. The rustication of the trio was preceded by a nine-month suspension during which they could neither attend classes nor sit for exams. “Rupa (Chakraborty), a postgraduate student, could not take her exams for the last two semesters as she was suspended. I need to clear a fifth semester paper for my undergraduate course. We don’t know if the varsity will allow us to take our exams,” said Sow. On the delay in responding to the emails from the students, varsity officials said the ball was in the proctor’s court. “Under norms, the proctor should issue an order referring to the order from Calcutta High Court and ask heads of the departments concerned to send links of the online classes to the three students,” said a senior varsity official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Pleas in Calcutta High Court against state on ration supply||Three separate petitions challenging the legality of the process adopted by the Bengal government in implementing the “Duare Ration” project were moved before Calcutta High Court on Thursday. All the three petitions were together heard briefly by Justice Amrita Sinha. The court decided to hear the case at 2pm on Friday. Moving the three petitions, advocate Jaydeep Kar said since the food supply system was part of the central list and controlled by the Union government, the state administration did not have any authority in implementing a system on its own. “The central government controls the rationing system. The state cannot introduce a parallel system,” Kar told the court. Appearing for the Bengal government, advocate-general Kishore Datta contested Kar’s claim and said the food supply system was part of the concurrent list. “The state government has introduced its Duare Ration project as a temporary measure for September only to ensure rations reach people’s doorsteps.” Advocate Kalyan Banerjee wanted to submit a petition on behalf of the beneficiaries of the project but the judge said: “Not now. Let me first hear the three petitions. If necessary, then the court will hear you.” Bhawanipore bypoll Calcutta High Court on Thursday decided to hear a petition challenging the authority of Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to request the Election Commission of India to declare the date for bypoll to only one Assembly seat, when byelections were pending in other constituencies. Moving the plea, advocate Sabyasachi Bhattacharya claimed Dwivedi had made the request on behalf of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He said since the election of the chief minister was involved, Dwivedi did not have the legal power to make such a request. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed September 13 for hearing the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamp plans for Jaigaon drawn up by Jaigaon Development Authority||The newly formed board of the Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA) held its first meeting on Thursday and drew up plans for infrastructure development of the town on the India-Bhutan border and nearby areas. The JDA is a development agency that functions under the state municipal affairs and urban development department and is tasked with the job of developing Jaigaon and surrounding areas. Located in Alipurduar district, Jaigaon is next to Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan. It is also along the most used road route to Bhutan. For years, the demand to develop its infrastructure has been raised by Jaigaon’s business fraternity and residents. “There is a stark difference between both sides of the border, as far as road, sewerage, drinking water, parking and others are concerned. We hope the JDA develops Jaigaon as an ideal border town,” said a senior trader. On Thursday, Gangaprasad Sharma, the new chairman of the JDA, held a meeting with other board members. Surendra Kumar Meena, the Alipurduar DM, also attended the meeting. At the meeting, it was decided that a new truck terminus will be built in Jaigaon through which hundreds of trucks can ply between the neighbouring countries. Also, 55 new rural roads and three new bridges will come up in and around Jaigaon. Gourigaon, a scenic point near Jaigaon from where Bhutan hills and stretches of eastern Dooars can be seen, will be developed to encourage tourism “We want to initiate a solid waste management system to keep Jaigaon clean. The local bus terminus will also be renovated. There are also some plans to beautify the town too,” said Sharma,  who is from Jaigaon. Once the Alipurduar district president of BJP, after Assembly polls, Sharma joined Trinamul owing to differences with MP and Union minister of state John Barla. After he joined Trinamul, he was nominated as the JDA chairman. Political observers said that Sharma has to meet the aspirations of Jaigaon residents through development to draw support for Trinamul, a party that could not win in any of the five Assembly seats of Alipurduar. “Civic and rural polls are ahead and the party is banking on him to revive its support base here,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA in picture war with BJP MP in Raiganj||The BJP MLA of Raiganj, Krishna Kalyani, accused the Raiganj MP of his party, Debasree Chaudhuri, of “conspiring” against him. On Thursday, all photographs of the MP on banners and hoardings at the MLA’s office were covered with white plastic sheets. “I don’t want to keep her photographs in my office,” Kalyani said, alleging the MP opposed his poll candidature and worked against him, and when he won, tried to “malign” him. Kalyani returned from Delhi on Thursday after telling BJP Bengal leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari and Nisith Pramanik about his grouses. The MP, on her part, said she had not asked the MLA to display her photographs. “The MP has been conspiring against me for months. After I was selected as the (Assembly) candidate by the party, the MP opposed me. Ahead of Assembly polls, she used her position and removed Biswajit Lahiri from the district president’s post, which led to tension in the party. During the polls, she tried to ensure my defeat but her plans didn’t work. Now she is trying to throw me out of the party by maligning my image,” added the MLA, who returned from Delhi on Thursday. Earlier this week, Kalyani, now the sole MLA of the saffron party in North Dinajpur after MLA Soumen Roy defected to Trinamul recently, had fumed against Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP chief, and some of his associates. He announced severing of ties with the district leadership and asserted he would not attend any event organised by them in the district. According to party insiders, Kalyani had been to Delhi where he had met Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, party MP and Union minister of state Nisith Pramanik and some other leaders. There, he reportedly told them how the Raiganj MP, the current district BJP president and some leaders close to the duo were trying to create problems for him. “They heard him out... there had been some recent defections and the party does not want to lose any more MLAs now,” said an insider. MP Chaudhuri said she never asked Kalyani to display her photograph in his office. “After he got elected as MLA, he placed some demands before me that I felt could not be met by any elected representative. My refusal seems to have aggrieved him. State (BJP) leaders are aware of the entire issue,” she said. “I hope they take appropriate steps,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 724 new cases, 8 more deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 81 straight days of a fall in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, with 724 new infections, 758 recoveries and eight deaths. The total fell by 42 to 8,246. Bengal has 2.13 per cent of the country’s active Covid-19 infections and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 118 new infections and North 24-Parganas 111, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta logged two. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.46. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33. The state currently has over 15.54 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.28 lakh recoveries and 18,539 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
