11-09-2021||West Bengal||Man dies as motorcycle topples off flyover in Calcutta||A 23-year-old man died as his bike hit the guard wall of a flyover in south Calcutta and toppled onto the road below, police said on Saturday. The incident happened on the 7.5-km-long Sampriti flyover, known for regular deadly accidents, around 11.30 pm on Friday. Sudeep Mondal was heading towards Batanagar from Behala Parnashree at a high speed when he lost control of his motorcycle, hit the guard wall and fell onto the road below in the Dakghar area, police said. When taken to the ESIC Hospital in Budge Budge, doctors declared him brought dead, they said. Accidents are a regular affair on the two-lane flyover that connects south Calcutta with Maheshtala in South 24 Parganas. Vehicles, including pick-up vans and trucks, plying at high-speed often topple onto the road below, taking several lives in a year. The condition of the Budge Budge Trunk Road below, which is dotted with potholes, forces heavy vehicles transporting goods from the industries in the region to take the flyover, leading to accidents as the bridge was built only for small vehicles such as cars, locals said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's student credit card scheme runs into Centre roadblock||A directive from the Narendra Modi government issued in August has come as a stumbling block for one of Mamata Banerjee’s pet projects, the students' credit card scheme. The Union finance ministry has instructed all banks to process all applications for education loans through the Vidya Lakshmi portal, developed jointly by the department of financial services, the ministry of finance, the department of higher education (ministry of education) and the Indian Banks Association. The circular has specifically instructed  banks in remote areas where internet access is difficult that the forms must be filled physically by students and uploaded to the Vidya Lakshmi portal. The decision was taken after a review meeting of the target achieved till June 2021 where finance ministry officials learnt that loans to the tune of only Rs   2006.49crore were disbursed, barely 11.83 per cent of the annual target of Rs 16,965 crore. The ministry found only seven nationalised banks in the country were processing all students loan applications through the portal. The Vidya Lakshmi portal was developed under the Centre’s proposal to have an IT-based student financial aid authority to administer and monitor scholarship and educational loan schemes through the Pradhan Mantri Vidya Lakshmi programme and has been functioning since 2018. “We will ensure that no student misses out on higher education for lack of funds,” the late Union finance minister Arun Jaitley had said while announcing the scheme in his speech for the 2015-16 fiscal. The objective is common to what Mamata claimed while launching the scheme on June 30. She had announced that undergraduates, post-graduates, doctoral and post-doctoral students in India and those of Indian origin residing abroad can avail of educational loans up to Rs 10lakh till the age of 40, while the repayment tenure was fixed at 15 years. According to sources, the very scheme that Mamata has been tom-toming ran against guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India and other Centre-run institutes. Till August 26, the state government had received around 79,043 applications seeking loans worth Rs 3,461.31crore, out of which only 298 have received approval to the tune of Rs 11lakh from the state-run cooperative banks. Over 40,000 applications were still under consideration with the State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank. Now public sector banks are in a fix as they have to abide by the instructions issued by the Union finance ministry. State education minister Bratya Basu did not take calls. State education secretary Manish Jain refused to comment on the issue. Bankers committee officials did not seem to have a clue about the Centre's directive. “I have no information on the directive from the ministry. Some public sector banks are already on board with the WBSCC (West Bengal Students Credit Card) portal,” said Manas Dhar, a senior official of the state level bankers’ committee (SLBC). Asked whether public sector banks were bound to follow the Centre’s directive, Dhar said he could not comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post poll violence: CBI files fourth chargesheet in case||The CBI filed the fourth chargesheet in the ongoing probe into the post-poll violence cases in Bengal, sources said on Saturday. The chargesheet was filed at Krishnanagar court in Nadia district in connection with the killing of a BJP worker allegedly by Trinamul Congress members, they said. The chargesheet contains names of the two accused allegedly involved in the murder of the BJP worker after the Assembly election results were announced on May 2, they added. The Calcutta High Court last month directed the CBI to probe the post-poll violence cases. So far, the CBI has filed 34 FIRs in connection with murders and other heinous crimes perpetrated after the election results were announced. The agency has already filed three chargesheets in different courts in connection with incidents that happened in Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas, and Nalhati and Rampurhat in Birbhum district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati tells HoD to keep rustication order in abeyance||Visva-Bharati University authorities have notified two expelled students that the rustication orders issued against them on August 23 was not being implemented now in adherence to the recent order of Calcutta High Court. Three expelled postgraduate students - Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty - had sent separate emails to the proctor on September 9 urging him to allow them to attend classes immediately as directed by the high court. In a related development, the proctor called upon the Principal of Vidya Bhavana and the Head of the Department of Economics and Politics, Vidya Bhavana to keep in abeyance the rustication order on Friday. "With reference to the Honourable High Court's order dated September 8, the rustication orders have been kept in abeyance. You are requested to take appropriate actions accordingly.This is for your immediate action," the letter said. The two economics students are Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan. The expelled music department student is Rupa Chakraborty. A varsity official said a similar notice will shortly be issued to the head of Sangeet Bhavana to enable Rupa to attend classes. The three students were expelled on August 23 for alleged disorderly conduct during a protest meeting in Visva-Bharati campus on January 9. The varsity has been witnessing demonstrations by students against the expulsion since August 27. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha in his interim order on September 8 had observed that the rustication of the students for three years was harsh and excessive. He had directed that the varsity's expulsion order be kept in abeyance and allowed the students to rejoin classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Hiding data prevents policy-makers from taking measures: Economist||Hiding data to please political masters is not only harming the once-stellar reputation of the country but also preventing policy-makers from taking corrective measures, former World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu said on Friday. “India is a pioneer in data collection. P.C. Mahalanobis was known for his contribution to the world in the field of data collection.... But it’s unfortunate that when things go wrong, there are attempts to hide data,” Basu said. “Once you hide data, you are harming India’s reputation. And when you hide data, you also can’t take corrective measures,” he added, answering the question from this newspaper on the Centre’s reluctance to admit the economy was doing badly. The question was fielded by Basu — a former chief economic adviser to the Government of India and C. Marks Professor of International Studies and Professor of Economics at Cornell University — during a virtual Q&A session after he had delivered an online address on “Economics in everyday life and the role of ethics”. The lecture was organised by the Filix School of Education in Barandanga, Purulia, which is run by Nanritam, a social welfare organisation. In his 50-minute address, the economist covered a gamut of issues in simple language before an audience that included schoolchildren. The topics ranged from the origins of economics to the history of economic crashes and the problems involved in the pricing of products to the challenges that inequality poses to the global economy. Basu, who has been critical of the Narendra Modi administration and regularly commented on the de-growth of the Indian economy in his Twitter posts, didn’t refer to the government in his lecture but made it clear that the saffron ecosystem’s attempts at beating its own drum were not helping India. A teacher per excellence -- known for his ability to make complex things comprehensible with lucid examples -- Basu spoke about India’s performance in vaccinating its people against Covid to underscore that transparency in data was needed to understand the actual situation. “India has done reasonably well in vaccinating its elite population in urban areas, but the question is about the performance in rural areas in the north or east of the country.… India is a large country and so the absolute number of people vaccinated has to be high, but we have to look at what percentage of people are fully vaccinated,” he said. “I was looking at this number yesterday and saw 109 countries were ahead of India. I think one has to be transparent in sharing data,” added Basu, who is often attacked by saffron trolls for posing tough questions. While the numbers the government has disclosed on vaccination have opened a new area of controversy, there have been doubts over the last few years about the new series of GDP estimates, which have often showed trends at variance with independent sources of data. Doubts have been raised by independent researchers over some of the data on consumption, production and deflators used in official calculations. “During my days in the World Bank (2012-2016), I used to take pride in the numbers sent by India.… Although some of the numbers didn’t look that good, they were at least transparent. But we are sliding on this area,” Basu said, alluding to the changes the Indian data collection system has gone through since the change of guard in Delhi in 2014. Not only did Basu rue the changes in the dissemination of data, he referred to the poor showing by the Indian economy over the past few years. “From 2016, every year growth has been less than the previous year’s.… We are doing badly. We all know that unemployment is shockingly high in India,” he said. He also mentioned the change in the world’s perception of India during the Q&A session when he was asked whether India was heading towards a catastrophe. “Until 2015, most of the writing on India in The New York Times or Financial Times or The Wall Street Journal was very positive.… We were known as a country that could tolerate people of different faiths. India was known as a country espousing the values of inclusiveness, but unfortunately we are unwinding from that,” he said. Basu, however, said he was still hopeful about the country as India had very strong fundamentals. He didn’t prescribe a path to recovery for the Indian economy but went on to explain what had triggered the world’s biggest famine in China in 1960-61, subtly weaving around the account a suggestion that India needed to change its present style of governance. “In 1959, Mao Zedong started the Great Leap Forward (an attempt at reconstructing the country from an agrarian economy to a communist society) by crushing the laws of the market.… He was so powerful that no one dared tell him that the economy was going to crash. When people were dying, the reports that went to him said that everything was fine. Soon, the Great Leap Forward became the cause of famine in which 30 to 40 million people died,” Basu said. He kept the audience riveted with an account of how the fate of economics would have changed had Adam Smith, the father of modern economics, not been rescued from kidnappers who had snatched him at the age of three. Basu, who takes a keen interest in game theory, spoke of his meeting with Nobel-winning economist John Nash, whose life inspired the movie A Beautiful Mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection: BJP fields advocate against Mamata||The BJP on Friday picked advocate Priyanka Tibrewal as its candidate to take on chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the bypoll to the Bhowanipore constituency, where voting will take place on September 30. Tibrewal, who is the vice-president of the state youth wing of the BJP, came into prominence after she moved Calcutta High Court on behalf of the party to demand CBI probe into alleged incidents of post-poll violence . “We had suggested Priyanka’s name.... The central leadership has decided to field her at Bhowanipore. This fight will be against injustice and Priyanka will be our face.… The entire party is with her.… She had fought vehemently on the issue of post-poll atrocities,” Bengal BJP chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said at a news conference, with the candidate by his side. While Ghosh claimed that Tibrewal’s name was sent to the parliamentary board, which was officially done on Tuesday, sources said she wasn’t the state unit’s primary choice. According to multiple party leaders, Ghosh started considering Tibrewal’s name only after he was told the South Calcutta organisational district, under which the Bhowanipore Assembly falls, wanted Tibrewal as the candidate. Tibrewal, who joined the BJP in 2014, was a candidate in the 2015 civic polls. In 2021, the BJP had fielded her from the Entally Assembly constituency. She was defeated on both the occasions. Tibrewal has made a name for herself among the BJP’s ranks by fighting the post-poll violence case in Calcutta High Court. She has emerged as a leader who would stand beside the workers in their need, sources said. “Our focus would be to tell people about Mamata’s tyranny.... We know we will lose Bhowanipore. But we can use this opportunity otherwise,” a source said. With Mamata’s candidature, all eyes across the nation will be on Bhowanipore. A party leader said the BJP wanted to highlight the alleged incidents of post-poll violence during the campaign and paint a negative picture of the Bengal chief minister. “This is exactly why Priyanka, who has been fighting these cases, has been nominated. Mamata has publicly said this bypoll is important for 2024. We will reach out to the people with that in mind,” the leader added. The drift of the saffron camp’s campaign was made clear by BJP's IT cell chief and Bengal’s co-minder Amit Malviya when he tweeted: “BJP has announced Smt @impriyankabjp (Tibrewal), who represented the victims of post poll violence in Calcutta HC and got the order mandating a CBI and SIT probe, as its candidate from Bhabanipore against Mamata Banerjee. Bhabanipore must defeat Mamata Banerjee to stop Talibanisation of WB.” Speaking at the news conference, Tibrewal said her fight wasn’t against an individual, it was against injustice. “I’m ready to fight. This isn't a contest to become an MLA. This is a fight to reinstate democracy and against the post-poll atrocities,” she added. The BJP also announced the names of Milon Ghosh and Sujit Das as candidates for Samsherganj and Jangipur polls, respectively. The BJP has also finalised a horde of popular leaders as star campaigners for the Bhowanipore constituency. The list includes dissident MP Babul Supriyo, central minister Smriti Irani, Shahnawaz Hussain, Hardeep Singh Puri, MPs Rupa Ganguly and Debasree Chaudhuri along with Ghosh and Adhikari. Supriyo had recently announced that he wouldn’t be a part of politics anymore. Sources close to him said that Supriyo didn’t want to campaign for Tibrewal either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll: Mamata Banerjee files papers||Mamata Banerjee on Friday left her 30B Harish Chatterjee Street residence in Calcutta at 1.54pm, reached Survey Building at Alipore at 1.58pm and began filing her nomination as the Trinamul Congress candidate for the Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll at 2pm. The timing was meticulously chosen, on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. The chief minister was accompanied by trusted lieutenant Firhad Hakim’s wife Ismat Hakim, Tollywood producer Nispal Singh Rane and her election agent for the constituency, Baiswanor Chatterjee. Given the Covid-19 restrictions, the party forbade a large gathering at the venue, despite which hundreds showed up to cheer her. Mamata finished filing the nomination papers at 2.15pm, came out of the building (in picture by Pradip Sanyal) at 2.18pm and departed soon after. Through her journey to and from the office where she filed her papers, she greeted people with folded hands, often waving at them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 753 new cases, 766 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded 753 new Covid-19 infections, 766 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 27 to 8,219 in all with 82 successive days of a slide. Calcutta logged 127 new infections and North 24-Parganas 129, being the only two among Bengal’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a singledigit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported five. Bengal has 2.13 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.55 lakh Covid19 cases since the first one was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.28 lakh recoveries and 18,553 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||5 held with ammunition, Rs 13 crore venom seized in in Malda||Five persons were arrested with arms and ammunition and other sharp weapons from Mojampur area in Malda district early on Friday. According to sources, Safiqul Islam, Aktar Alam, Amirul Sheikh, Abraul Momin and Masidur Sheikh, all residents of Mojampur, had assembled near a local bridge when a team of Kaliachak police intercepted them. “Two improvised firearms, 14 rounds of live cartridges, two swords and an iron rod were seized from them,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda. In another incident, police held four persons for trading gold illegally. Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Malda police station, said three of them, including a woman hail from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. The trio had visited a gold shop in Muchia area to sell six gold lockets without valid papers. “We have arrested the goldsmith along with the trio.” In Siliguri, officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence nabbed two persons with gold bars weighing 1.90kg from Calcutta-bound Saraighat Express at New Jalpaiguri station on Thursday evening. The estimated cost of the seized gold is around Rs 95.72 lakh, sources said. The arrested duo are Partha Sanyasi and Madan Sanyasi, residents of Gangarampur in South Dinajpur district. Venom haul Foresters of Gorumara wildlife divisionof the state forest department on Friday seized snake venom smuggled from Bangladesh and arrested a suspected smuggler from the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “The cost of the seized venom, which was is crystallised form, is around Rs 13 crore,” Jyotipriya Mallick, the state forest minister. A forester said the crystallised form of venom was made in France.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt decides to keep politics and vaccination away||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to keep political interference away from the Covid-19 inoculation drive after it realised that such things had made the situation critical leading to huge rush at vaccination centres and made people angry over the entire process. State chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi recently sent an instruction to district magistrates, asking them to ensure that no political interference was entertained while carrying out the vaccination drive. “We have received some complaints from South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas that some political leaders were trying to interfere in the vaccination programme by asking officials to give priority to certain sections of people. It might help them in gathering votes, but it is hurting the entire process,” said a senior government official. So far, 4.5 crore doses have been administered. The state would require 14 crore doses to cover 7 crore eligible people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Vistadome ride for Bangladesh deputy high commissioner||Toufique Hasan, the deputy Bangladesh high commissioner in Calcutta, on Friday took a ride in the vistadome coach train introduced recently by the Northeast Frontier Railway to enable tourists to enjoy the pristine beauty of the Dooars. Hasan, who has been touring north Bengal, took the ride from Madarihat to Rajabhatkhawa (both in Alipurduar district) — a distance of around 40km — and appeared enthralled after the travel through the forests with Bhutan hills forming the backdrop. “I was spellbound during the trip as the train moved through forests. This is my first visit to the Dooars and the experience of travelling on a vistadome coach is excellent. Once I visit Bangladesh, I will place a proposal before appropriate authorities to introduce such coaches in the country for promotion of tourism,” the deputy high commissioner said. On Thursday, Hasan had travelled to Haldibari railway station in Cooch Behar district near the Bangladesh border. Last year, an old rail route connecting Haldibari with Chilahati — a railway station in Nilfamari district of Bangladesh — was reopened. Hasan inspected the station and the allied infrastructure and on Thursday evening, reached Holong in Jaldapara National Park at Madarihat. During his visit, he also referred to the passenger train service between Dhaka and Siliguri that had been inaugurated in March by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina through a virtual bilateral meeting. “Once there is an improvement in the Covid-19 pandemic situation, we will start the passenger train service on a regular basis along this route,” he said. The visit of the senior diplomat from Bangladesh, particularly after the formal launch of the passenger train service, will help in bringing in more tourists to north Bengal from the neighbouring country, said stakeholders of the tourism sector. “His visit and feedback will surely encourage more Bangladeshi nationals to visit the region. In 2020, there had been a major development as the ban on entry of Bangladeshis into Sikkim was lifted and thousands of them had flocked to different destinations in the state. If the train service starts in a regular manner, we hope more and more tourists will reach north Bengal in the coming days,” said a travel company owner based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||PCM Group to revive 20-year-old bus terminus in Siliguri||The PCM Group, a corporate house based in north Bengal, has taken up the task to revive a 20-year-old bus terminus that the group had built at busy Sevoke Road, in association with the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). The PCM Group is a major manufacturer of railway sleepers and has plants spread across India and abroad. It also has business interests in real estate and tea, among others. According to sources, the PC Mittal Bus Terminus, the first private bus terminus in Siliguri, was set up for private buses from Siliguri to destinations across the Dooars. “They had set up the terminus on the basis of an agreement with the civic body. But for many years now, a handful of buses run from here, and vast stretches of land lie unutilised. That is why the plan is to revamp infrastructure and use the facility to run interstate buses and buses bound for the hills. This will also reduce traffic of Hill Cart Road from where most private buses leave” said Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of the SMC, who visited the terminus on Friday. Sources in the civic body said to ease traffic congestion in the city, the civic body wants private buses which head from Siliguri to Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well as the states of Assam, Bihar and Sikkim, to run from this terminus along with private buses bound for Dooars. Deb added that recently, representatives of the PCM Group had approached civic authorities, saying they wanted to revamp the terminus. “We discussed their proposal with the district administration and the state transport department and got their consent. So far, buses entering the terminus had to move through Sevoke Road. We decided to come up with an alternative road to link the terminus with NH31 to reduce traffic congestion,” said Deb. Existing bus bays will be developed along with a multi-layer car parking as commercial complexes surround the terminus. The area’s landscaping will also be done. Niranjan Mittal, a director of the PCM Group, thanked the state government and the civic body for their positive response. “We are drawing up plans to make it a model bus terminus in the state. In due course, we will elaborate on the project,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Barla prods Bhutan envoy on opening entry gate||Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP John Barla on Friday met V. Namgyel, the ambassador of Bhutan in India, in Delhi to know about the pandemic situation in that country. Barla also requested Namgyel to expedite the process of opening the entry point at Phuentsholing, Bhutan’s commercial capital that flanks Jaigaon in Alipurduar district. “It was a meaningful conversation at my office and we discussed issues related to borders of the two countries amid the Covid 19. Talks were also held on how the pandemic affected the economy of both countries, especially tourism,” Barla said over phone. Recently, Barla visited Jaigaon where traders told him about the drastic dip in commercial activities after Bhutan closed the border gate last year because of the pandemic. Also, daily-rated workers, who could walk to Bhutan for jobs, were forced to sit idle. “It was great to learn from him (Bhutan’s ambassador) that around 95 per cent of the country’s population above 18 years have been vaccinated. We hope Bhutanese authorities mull the issues I raised during the meeting,” Barla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Outspoken professor’s suspension extended ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday night extended the suspension of economics professor and teachers’ union leader Sudipta Bhattacharyya by a month amid murmurs that it was done in response to his backing the 13-day student movement against varsity vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty after the institution decided to rusticate three dissenting students. Bhattacharyya was suspended in January apparently for bringing into public discourse Chakrabarty’s alleged insult to Nobel laureate and economist Amartya Sen. Visva-Bharati claimed the varsity executive council found him guilty of “misconduct by mass-circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. On the extension of his suspension, the varsity attributed it to disciplinary proceedings remaining incomplete. Bhattacharyya on Friday said it was “expected from such a vindictive administration after I extended my solidarity to the students’ movement”. Calcutta High Court on Wednesday stayed the varsity’s move to rusticate the trio and ordered the varsity to allow them to rejoin academic activities. It asked students to call off their protest. Students did so but the varsity has not yet let the trio rejoin classes. On Friday, several professors condemned the decision to extend Bhattacharyya’s suspension. “He was axed for raising his voice,” said a professor, adding Bhattacharyya led protests against “wrong-doings of the VC and sent letters to the PM and other dignitaries” on the same. The varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not reply to this paper’s calls or text.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Anit Thapa’s new party to host key meeting on portfolios||The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), the newly floated political party from Darjeeling by Anit Thapa will hold its first central committee meeting on Monday to chalk out the party’s future plans, its leaders said on Friday. “The central committee will decide on the party’s portfolio during its first meeting on Monday,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a leader of the party. Thapa, formerly associated with Binay Tamang’s faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has been appointed the president of the new party but all other posts are still vacant. Sources said Amar Lama, who joined Thapa’s party on Thursday, is one of the top contenders for the post of the party’s general secretary. Even though the majority of the leaders of a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are with BGPM, the new party is looking at a major image changeover. Around 40-odd apolitical people were invited at the party’s launch in Darjeeling on Thursday. Attempts are being made to project new leaders to have a distinct identity from the previous faction of the Morcha. “This is why the meeting is very important. The party might put in place new leaders even in the district and subdivisional committees,” said a leader of the party. Among the 20-odd frontal organisations of the party, immediate importance is being placed on the trade union. “A new trade union has to be formed and work to register the entity has to start immediately,” said the leader. The crucial meeting to decide the bonus of tea garden workers in the region will start from September 15. “It is vital for the representatives of the new party to be involved in the bonus negotiations,” said an observer. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction headed by Bimal Gurung is also focussing on issues related to tea gardens in their bid to recover lost ground in this brew belt. Supporters of Gurung’s Morcha faction have started planting party flags across the hills in an effort to make their presence felt following the formation of a new party by Thapa. Milan Pradhan, general secretary of the Darjeeling-Terai-Dooars Plantation Labour Union, which is affiliated to Gurung’s Morcha, said that a meeting of the Joint Forum, which is a conglomeration of more than 30-odd tea gardens from north Bengal, will hold a seminar on minimum wages in Darjeeling on Saturday. “Representatives of almost all the trade unions from north Bengal, including those of Trinamul, the Congress, the CPM, among others, will be attending the seminar on minimum wages for tea workers. We are confident that the issues would soon be solved as the state government is also positive in its response,” said Pradhan. The daily wage of tea garden workers in Bengal is currently Rs 202 as decided in an interim hike announced by the state government in January this year. The unions want the state to fix a minimum wage for the workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
