12-09-2021||West Bengal||Probe agency will reveal how Abhishek became rich: BJP MP||Amid Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on Trinamul Congress (TMC) general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Jagannath Sarkar on Sunday said that the law enforcement agency will reveal the exact amount of money the TMC leader has accumulated and what was his source of income. Jagannath Sarkar while speaking to ANI, said, “Nobody knows how Abhishek Banerjee possessed a huge amount of money. But now, ED will reveal the exact amount of money and how he became rich.” Sarkar also questioned Mr Banerjee's financial condition over the past few years, he said, “His financial condition was not great 10 years ago. Now, how does he have crores of rupees? Everything will be clear after the investigation.” The statement came after Banerjee was summoned by ED on September 3 in connection with the coal mining scam and arrived at their office on September 6 for the investigation. Meanwhile, the TMC leader also made statements of hanging himself after being accused by the opposition leader Sarkar related to the scam. Slamming the BJP, Abhishek Banerjee had said, TMC cannot be cowed down like Congress and other parties while adding that BJP's resources will fall flat no matter how much might, vigour and threat it puts in. The TMC leader on Monday appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the national capital. He was interrogated for around eight hours by the agency in an alleged coal smuggling case. Briefing reporters after appearing before ED, Banerjee said, “If BJP thinks it can frighten TMC by doing all this, we will fight more vigorously. TMC cannot be cowed down like Congress and other parties. We will go to every state where BJP has killed democracy. BJP’s tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat and resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat. TMC will defeat BJP in next polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI arrests 7 people in murder case ||The CBI has arrested seven persons on Sunday in connection with a murder case in Cooch Behar linked to post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials said. The family of the victim, Hardhan Roy, had alleged that one Arjun Munda had taken him to Rajaghora river on May 3 where he was found smeared in blood, they said. He was taken to the hospital where he had died during treatment, according to the FIR. The CBI had arrested four persons on Saturday in connection with another murder case in Tufanganj reported during the violence. It was alleged that on May 4 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the dinner, Sahinur and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. Prosenjit survived but Sahinur was found dead, the FIR said. The CBI has taken over the cases on the instructions of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court that had entrusted to the agency the investigation of alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in West Bengal, they said. The high court’s directives came after a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee submitted a report on the violence in the state that followed the declaration of assembly election results on May 2 in which the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress humbled the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University starts renovation of Asutosh Museum of Indian Art||Calcutta University is renovating its Asutosh Museum of Indian Art, a rich treasure trove of sculptures, paintings and manuscripts dating back centuries, to give a better display to its exhibits. Through the renovation, which is expected to be completed by next year, the university seeks to make the commoners aware of the rich archival contents that have remained unnoticed for long, Vice Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee said. "Most of the terracotta items and the antiques were not stored properly. We will keep the exhibits at a controlled temperature with digital lighting on each item. In consultation with experts, we have undertaken the drive to revamp the infrastructure and facilities of the museum," she told PTI. A major portion of the collection comprises terracotta items unearthed in the 1940s from various archaeological sites in Bengal such as Chandraketugarh, Tamluk, Panna, Tilda, Bangarh, Mahasthangarh and Paharpur. The museum houses paintings by renowned artist Jamini Roy, and also has portraits of Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Michael Madhusudan Dutt, which had been lying in a state of neglect, she said, adding there are also many valuables donated by royals. "There are many interesting items in the museum, which is on different floors of the centenary building of the 164-year-old university. Even many people visiting the campus were unaware of the existence of such a museum. We want to make people aware of their heritage," she said. The vice chancellor said that renovating the museum at par with global standards and showcasing the artefacts would also help in building the brand of Calcutta University. "Many people from across the globe visit the university campus for different reasons. The museum will definitely attract them too," she said. As part of the renovation drive, the main gate of the College Street campus has been renovated while retaining its architectural characteristics, and the VC's chamber has been given a facelift, while work is underway in other centuries-old portions of the premier institution, including the Darbhanga Building, she said, adding all work is being undertaken in consultation with the state Heritage Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Jagaran Sangha portraying goddess Durga at the Ganesh Puja organised by it this year||Jagaran Sangha, a club in Harishchandapur of Malda district, has come up with a clay idol of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, portraying her as goddess Durga at the Ganesh Puja organised by it this year. Clad in a blue-white sari, the idol, with 10 hands symbolising the social welfare schemes introduced by the state government, is seen cradling Ganesh. “The chief minister has been relentlessly working for welfare of people across Bengal and taking steps to keep the residents safe. She has stood by people in every crisis. That is why we depicted her as Durga,” said Bulbul Khan, secretary of the club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Demand for 'permanent political solution' gets louder in Darjeeling||Demand for a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region, promised by the BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, is gaining ground in the hills again after being on the backburner these past few years. The Bharati Tamang faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) will hold a protest rally in Darjeeling on Sunday to allegedly expose the “lies” of BJP MP Raju Bista. “What happened to the issue of a permanent political solution, we need answers now,” said Bikramaadi Bangdel Rai, working president of the ABGL (Bharati faction). Bista, also a BJP spokesperson, had on August 6 after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah, claimed a tripartite meeting to discuss the permanent political solution of Darjeeling, Terai and the Dooars, would be held in the first week of September and that invitations to it would be sent around August 12. The Bista-led delegation that met Shah had GNLF president Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. But what Bista claimed did not take place. Bista had reportedly said developments in Afghanistan might have delayed the meeting but it would “definitely be held within September”. Last Monday, the Bharati Tamang faction brought out a rally garlanding Bista’s effigy with shoes to protest the no-show of Bista’s claims. Taking offence at ABGL’s act, GNLF leader Zimba, who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, said he would personally be at the MP’s residence in Darjeeling on Sunday to meet ABGL leaders. “The last time I was not there. This time I will personally be there to give them a befitting reply,” said Zimba. ABGL leaders in turn alleged Zimba was indirectly threatening them and said the days of “intimidation” were over. “We are ready to discuss the issue with him (Zimba) on Sunday. But if any untoward incident takes place, Zimba must be held responsible. If there are obstructions tomorrow (Sunday), we will garland Amit Shah’s effigy with shoes and slippers from next week and march across Darjeeling town,” said Rai. Although permanent political solution has not been defined by BJP or the Centre, its allies in the hills have maintained that their understanding of it is Gorkhaland. Many believe recent developments in BJP-ruled Assam have also brought the focus back on permanent political solution in the hills. On September 5, the Centre and Assam government inked a tripartite peace agreement with five Karbi Anglong groups assuring greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council apart from a special package of Rs 1,000 crore over the next five years.Earlier, the Centre had signed three key peace accords in the Northeast. “But as the BJP-led Centre hasn’t held a single official meeting on permanent political solution here, disenchantment is growing in the hills,” said an observer. The Centre last year issued a letter for a meeting on “Gorkhaland” but soon changed the agenda to that of reviving the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP sets goal for Bhowanipore bypoll||The Bengal BJP leadership on Saturday decided to leave no stone unturned to increase its vote share in the Bhowanipore bypoll battle against chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The call to go all-out to increase the party’s vote share and put more stress on campaigning in minority-dominated areas of Bhowanipore constituency was taken at a meeting at the BJP’s Hastings office in Calcutta on Saturday. Since the party is sure that its candidate Priyanka Tibrewal doesn’t stand a chance against Mamata in the bypoll, its aim is to increase its vote share, said sources. “This will be our acid test. We believe if we fight with all our strength, we can reduce the margin and increase our vote share.... If we can do that in Bhowanipore, we can do it elsewhere,” a source present at Saturday’s meeting said. Saturday’s meeting was chaired by MP Arjun Singh, who has been named the party’s observer for the Bhowanipore constituency. Other members of the committee formed to oversee affairs of the bypoll, including MP Saumitra Khan, MLA Agnimitra Paul, general secretary Sanjay Singh, campaign in-charge Rudranil Ghosh and candidate Priyanka Tibrewal  were among those present. Rudranil had been the BJP candidate for the Assembly polls from Bhowanipore this summer. He had lost to Trinamul candidate Sovandeb Chattopadhyay by 28,719 votes. While Sovandeb had a vote share of 58 per cent, Rudranil had managed 35 per cent votes. He had lagged behind Chattopadhyay in six of eight wards in Bhowanipore. Dilip Ghosh, state BJP chief and Midnapore MP, chose bravado. “Bhowanipore is a cosmopolitan area. People from all communities, including Marwaris, Gujaratis and Muslims live there. We want people of Bhowanipore to cast their votes without fear.... We have defeated Trinamul in court, we will defeat them in the election,” he said. However, a BJP leader said when a high-decibel campaign led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah couldn’t ensure a win in the Assembly polls, what could the local leadership hope to achieve in a bypoll pitted against the chief minister. BJP MP Arjun said: “I don’t think Narendra Modi or Amit Shah needs to campaign here. We are enough. (Mamata has) lost once, will lose again.” A leader, who attended the Saturday meeting, said the BJP would make every effort to field agents in all booths located in Muslim-majority areas of the constituency. The party also seeks to ensure that members of the Hindu community living in those areas voted for the BJP without fear. The BJP has also decided to better its booth management. On Saturday, it  decided to have two agents for each booth as a back-up plan. “We have seen in earlier polls that our agents are threatened and asked to leave booths.... If we have two agents in each booth, we can replace one with another if there is a problem,” a source said. Despite the intent of aggression expressed by the campaign team, a section within the party expressed doubt about putting up a full-strength battle given the prolonged dilly-dally over the selection of candidate for the Bhowanipore seat. “Our leaders seem to be day-dreaming. Bhowanipore is Mamata Banerjee’s home.... That is why Delhi took so long to decide on the candidate…. In fact Priyanka’s name was a last-minute inclusion.... How do they even think of increasing vote share in a constituency where we were defeated by a big margin,” a party functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati finally obeys Calcutta HC order, students see ruse||Visva-Bharati authorities late on Friday night complied with Calcutta High Court’s interim order that on Wednesday directed the varsity to stay its decision to rusticate three students on charges of impropriety and let them resume academic activities. The three students, who had also been suspended in January, had been leading protests within and outside the campus against the “whimsical attitude” of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged attempts at saffronising the campus. The proctor of Visva-Bharati circulated two orders via email to the departments of economics and Hindustani classical music requesting action according to the high court order around 11.30pm on Friday. The same email was sent to top varsity officials, including confidential secretary to VC Chakrabarty. On Saturday, the heads of the two departments called up the trio and asked them to resume classes from Monday. The trio, economics students Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan, and Hindustani classical music student Rupa Chakraborty, as well as some teachers alleged on Saturday that the varsity’s “almost-midnight order” in adherence to the court ruling was a ruse to keep students suspended “in a way” till Monday owing to the weekend in between. “It means we will get the benefit of the high court order after at least four days and we don’t know whether our VC has another trick up his sleeve for us on Monday. We want to sit for our exams,” said Sow. Several varsity officials criticised the administration for issuing the order close to midnight. “At the stroke of the midnight, when the world sleeps, Prof Shankar Majumdar, proctor of Visva-Bharati was awake to send a letter to the Principal of Vidya Bhavana…. To comply with the order of the honourable High Court at Calcutta, ” the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association letter reads. “We reiterate our demand — the misdeeds of Prof Bidyut Chakrabarty and his assorted lackeys have to be investigated by a high-level committee,” the letter reads. The letter pointed out that the VC had not left his residence this week but the admission process and publication of results resumed. Varsity authorities had earlier claimed during the students’ gherao of the VC’s residence that his physical presence was required for both the jobs. Asked about the delay in issuing the notice to comply with the court order, proctor Majumdar on Saturday said only the varsity’s public relations officer could brief the media. The officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a WhatsApp message from this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||ED calls Abhishek Banerjee to New Delhi on September 21||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the Trinamul Congress general-secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, to New Delhi on September 21 for another round of questioning in connection with its probe into a coal pilferage case. The fresh summons comes within four days of Abhishek appearing for a nine-hour questioning session by the ED in New Delhi on Monday. The central agency had also summoned Abhishek on Wednesday for questioning, but the Diamond Harbour MP had expressed his inability to go. A section of Trinamul leaders said the decision to summon Abhishek was taken soon after Biman Banerjee, Speaker of the Bengal Assembly, decided to send separate letters to the ED and the CBI asking officers to explain how they could showcause three Trinamul leaders — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim along with Madan Mitra, the Trinamul MLA from Kamarhati — without his consent. The ED, which is probing into the money laundering aspect in connection with the Narada sting operation, recently submitted chargesheets against housing and transport minister Hakim, panchayat minister Mukherjee, along with Mitra, former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza. The chargesheet followed a criminal case drawn up by the CBI. The ED requested a special court while submitting the chargesheet that the accused be summoned for questioning on November 16. The court, while granting the plea, had directed that the summons to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the Assembly Speaker, as the trio are legislators. Summons to the other two would be served directly at their addresses, the court had said. Speaker Banerjee has decided to question this move saying the state Assembly’s consent was required before drawing up chargesheet against MLAs. Separate letters are being sent to both agencies asking why the mandatory clearance was not taken before drawing up the chargesheet. “In retaliation to the Speaker’s letters, the ED has decided to call Abhishek. It would take a few days to assimilate whatever he answered during the nine-hour long questioning. But it seems there is an urgency,” said a senior Trinamul leader overseeing preparations for Mamata Banerjee’s by-election campaign in Bhowanipore. ED officials said they recently found that two companies that had links with Abhishek and his family had received several crores of rupees from a construction company, which in turn received the amount through some of the accused in the alleged coal pilferage case. “We want to clarify some of the answers that Abhishek has submitted to us in writing,” said a senior ED official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Armed gang makes off with 12 kilos of gold in Asansol||A gang of four armed robbers decamped with Rs 10 lakh in cash and 12kg of gold ornaments from the Asansol branch of a Kerala-based gold financing company on Saturday afternoon. Police said the value of the looted gold was estimated around Rs 6 crore. This makes it the second-largest heist of the precious metal in the region in the past one decade. A police officer said one of the robbers entered the office of Muthoot Fincorp Express Gold Loan located at a shopping complex near Asansol (south) police station posing as a customer around 2pm when the office was about to close for the day. Within a few minutes, three more barged into the office brandishing firearms after overpowering the security guard. “They beat up the security guard and other employees at the office and held them at gunpoint,” a police officer said. Security guard Anil Kumar Pandey said the first robber approached him, pretending to seek information about a gold loan. “I allowed him inside after completing the initial formalities. Within a few minutes three more youths brandishing revolvers barged into the office. They snatched my gun and pushed me inside holding a revolver on my temple. They hit my head with the revolver’s butt. All of them spoke in Hindi,” said Pandey. One of the employees, Sonali Gupta, said the first youth even handed her some jewellery and asked how much loan he would get against the items. “I was examining the ornaments, when I suddenly saw three youths brandishing guns enter our office after overpowering the guard. The youth in front of me asked me to come to the counter. I realised then he too was a part of the group,” said Gupta. The goons confined all the four employees and one customer present at the office inside a small room. “They snatched our phones and taped our lips. They threatened to kill us if we raised an alarm. They then decamped with cash and ornaments from the vault,” said Gupta. “As of now we have estimated Rs 10 lakh in cash and 12kg gold was taken,” said Saikat Das, branch manager of the finance company. After the goons left, the employees broke open the door and called the police. The cops rushed to the spot and collected the CCTV footage from the office. “We have alerted all neighbouring police stations, including our counterpart in Jharkhand. We have sealed the borders and special checking is on,” said a police officer in Asansol. Sources said the goons arrived at the office on two motorbikes and also fled on them. “They finished their operation within 20 minutes. We are trying to identify the gang from the CCTV footage. We are suspecting the gang might have fled to Jharkhand,” said another police officer. In 2010, gold worth Rs 14 crore was looted from the office of another gold financing company in Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Three girls pulled out of Ganga, two of them die||Three minor girls of Malda district went missing in the Ganga on Friday and were rescued the same day, but two of them died on Saturday. The duo breathed their last at the Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The third girl is stable but still under observation at the MMCH. Sources said on Friday, friends Sriparna Rajak, 10, Purnima Rajak, 10, and Koyel Rajak, 12, went to bathe in the Ganga at Shaktimandalpara of CharSujapur, a village under Baishnabnagar police station of KaliachakIII block. The trio went missing which some by-standers noticed. They jumped into the river, pulled out the three unconscious girls and took them to a local health centre. When their condition did not improve, they were referred to the MMCH. On Saturday, Sriparna and Koyel died. Purnima is conscious . A couple of weeks back, three brothers of the same area had drowned in the Ganga. Mamun Akhtar, the BDO of KaliachakIII block, said families of the deceased girls would be compensated accord¬ng to the state’s guidelines. “People should stop their children from going to the river that has swollen during the monsoon,” he said. People at large should be on the alert to avoid such mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 752 new infections and 14 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 83 successive days of a fall in its total of active Covid19 cases, with 752 new infections, 754 recoveries and 14 deaths. The total fell by 16 to 8,203. Bengal has 2.12 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with the most number of such cases. Calcutta logged 119 new infections and North 24-Parganas 128, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a singledigit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent  the highest ever this pandemic  still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.76 per cent on Saturday. Eighteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.56 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.29 lakh recoveries and 18,567 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Mask up to keep Covid at bay: Women campaigners ||District authorities in South 24-Parganas launched a renewed mask awareness drive on Friday apprehending complacency among those partially vaccinated against Covid-19 and a possible third wave of the pandemic amid the festival season. The move comes amid rising numbers of positive cases in the district, with doctors and medical associations urging citizens to obey Covid safety protocols better. “The drive involves women from self-help and grassroots organisations in South 24-Parganas,” said a district official. “The objective of the initiative is to reach the grassroots and encourage people to wear masks stringently. Doorstep drives are at the core of this initiative,” the official added. According to medical associations in the district, the spectre of a third wave “appears imminent”, with the district continuing to record nearly 50 new positive cases every day over the past few weeks. Sources added that rising numbers made district officials realise that engaging grassroots and self-help groups would be crucial to keep Covid infections under control. “We observed rising infections since the process of unlocking began, because many people are attending crowded places without wearing masks. This is deadly,” said a doctor from Diamond Harbour Super Speciality Hospital. “Policing and awareness campaigns seem to have fallen on deaf ears.” Acknowledging this, district magistrate P. Ulagnathan said: “Our district has a very poor mask culture in comparison to other districts, but this needs to change. People should understand that by wearing a mask, they can check the spread of Covid.” “We are engaging women’s groups to make people more aware about the importance of masks and about the threat of a third wave,” he added. Though South 24-Parganas has recorded a good number of Covid patients who have being discharged from hospitals, the district continues to record new cases. On July 10, the district had a total 95,114 positive cases, which increased to 96,529 on August 10 and increased further on September 10 to 98,166. On July 10, the total number of deaths was 1,260, which rose to 1,278 on August 10, and went up further to 1,292 on September 10. During the past one week, the district has recorded an average 50 new positive cases daily, which is quite alarming, health officials have stated. Last year, the Bengal government had decided to engage around one crore women members of self-help groups to raise awareness in rural areas of the state. These women were also imparted training by the local panchayat and health department. South 24-Parganas has over 1,000 such groups formed under the “Anandadhara” programme by the district administration. They have begun visiting public places and homes across the district. The drive constituting the first phase began from Kulpi, Mograhat, Kakdwip, and Baruipur on Friday. On Saturday morning, members of the groups were seen interacting with people in a bid to make them realise the need for masks, using sanitisers, maintaining distance, the need to wash hands and how to contact health workers in case of illness. Still, in many districts the initiative could not be implemented since many groups have reportedly lost their income and wage support. A senior official of the panchayat department in the district said: “Since members of self-help groups are women, they can play a very effective role in creating awareness, as they know villagers personally. The most important aspect of their support is to make people understand about the need for wearing masks.” Sources said women from these groups would not be offered any remuneration for the awareness drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
