13-09-2021||West Bengal||SC to hear Bengal govt's plea on post-poll violence on September 20||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on September 20 the West Bengal government's appeal challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing court-monitored CBI probe into the heinous cases of rape and murder during the post-poll violence in the state after accepting the an NHRC panel's recommendations. A bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose deferred the matter to go through a chart submitted by the state government. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the state government, pointed to the members of the committee that has been formed to investigate the incidents and said, "Can you imagine these people have been appointed to collect the data? Is this a BJP investigating committee my Lords?" He further said that for cases like rape and murder there is the CBI and for other events, there is a Special Investigative Team (SIT). The apex court then observed, "If somebody had a political past and if he lands up in an official position by that very fact will we treat him to be biased?" Sibal submitted that the members are still posting posts related to BJP and how can chairman of Human Rights Committee appoint such members? He sought some interim order in the meantime. The apex court then said that it would hear the case on September 20. "Nothing will happen. We'll have it on Monday," the bench said. The state government in its special leave petition alleged that it did not expect fair and just investigation by the central agency which is busy foisting cases against the functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress Party. Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the High Court August 19 verdict came, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant move appeals. A five-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year in which the ruling TMC came back to power. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court. The high court bench, which also comprised justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Ordering setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said that it will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation". The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction." "Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned," it had noted. It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true. It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted. The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
13-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI at Bengal minister's door over chit fund scam||A CBI team landed at the door of another minister in the Mamata Banerjee government in a connection with a chit fund deposit scam on Monday. CBI officials  reached the Camac Street office of Pratha Chatterjee, the heavyweight Trinamul leader and state industries minister, who had turned down the Central investigation agency's directive to visit it's office, saying officials could instead meet him at his office or home. The minister, among Trinamul-appointed observers for the Bhowanipore Assemby by-elections, had reasoned that he was busy with poll-related work. On Monday Chatterjee was at  his departmental office. CBI is interested in questioning Chatterjee regarding his ties with Icore, a deposit mobilising company which had duped  investors by promising high returns on investments. According to the CBI, Chatterjee had attended a number of programmes organised by the company and heaped praises on the late owner Anukul Maity, who died in CBI custody in Bhubaneswar last November. The minister is understood to have told investigators that he attended events as he led the industry department and believed the company could generate employment in the job-starved state. "This is another case of political vendetta. We've time and again said that BJP govt is only targeting TMC govt because Mamata Banerjee is the only leader who's opposing their anti-people policies," said Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP, on the CBI raid. This is not the first time that Chatterjee had averted CBI’s interrogation. The CBI team’s interrogation of Chatterjee is bound to further raise the heat in the already charged bypoll, crucial for Mamata to return to the Assembly and continue as chief minister for the third term. While the case is old, the timing of the interrogation is also likely to provoke the Trinamul into accusing the BJP of unleashing central probe agencies to coerce rival political leaders. The CBI had earlier arrested two ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former Trinamul leader and ex-Mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada bribery case. Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul’s all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate in Delhi last week in connection with a coal mining scam. Mamata has dismissed all the charges against her party leaders and ministers. The CBI is yet to issue any statement on the interrogation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||New executive director at regional NHPC office in Siliguri||Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a senior officer of NHPC Limited, assumed the office of the executive director at the regional office of the power company in Siliguri on Saturday. Mukherjee, who started his career in the NHPC in 1987, is a civil engineer and an MBA in financial management. After assuming office, he met senior officers of the regional office and those posted at the Teesta Low Dam Project (TLDP) III and IV. Along with the executive director, he is also the chief executive officer of Lanco Teesta Hydro Power Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of NHPC in Sikkim. Mukherjee told officials that the ongoing projects of the NHPC would have to be completed within the stipulated timeframe while maintaining quality parameters, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Effigy and new equations heat up hill politics||It was a politically charged Sunday in the hills, almost akin to poll season. Anit Thapa was “welcomed” by hundreds of supporters on his “return” to Kurseong from Darjeeling on Sunday. The two hill towns are apart by 35-odd kilometres. Thapa returned to his home town after nearly two months and for the first time after floating his new political party, the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha. “Our supporters came out on the streets to welcome me. There is a lot of work to be done in the hills,” said Thapa. S.P. Sharma, the general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), Bharati Tamang faction, was out in Darjeeling with an effigy of Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of the BJP, complete with a garland of shoes and slippers. Sharma and his followers protested the Centre’s failure to convene tripartite talks within the first week of September on the “permanent political solution”. Bista had last month said Union home minister Amit Shah had assured him of holding a meeting within September first week. When Sharma reached Bista’s residence, Matterhorn in Darjeeling, Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) leader and Darjeeling MLA from the BJP, Neeraj Zimba, was ready to welcome Sharma with floral garlands. After a sarcastic exchange between the two leaders, Sharma left, refusing to enter the MP’s residence despite being invited to do so by Zimba. Sharma said he refused because Zimba didn't allow the media to accompany Sharma inside the residence. “The tripartite meeting will take place in September. I am ready to be garlanded with shoes and slippers if it does not happen,” said Zimba. Barely half a kilometre away from Bista’s residence, Ajoy Edwards, who after quitting the GNLF has decided to form his own political party, addressed his supporters. Many from Lebong and adjoining areas of Darjeeling pledged him their support. Edwards also promised to work for the community. “I am overwhelmed by the support I am getting from people who were never associated with any political party,” said Edwards. Bimal Gurung of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the tallest leader of the hills from 2007 till all his three candidates lost the 2021 Assembly election, also held a meeting in Belatar, some 10km from Kurseong. Here, 40-odd supporters from Anit Thapa’s party joined Gurung’s party. Amid the political cacophony, the Kanchenjungha was clearly visible from the region after months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Migrant labourer body home after 3 months||The body of a migrant labourer from Murshidabad’s Sagardighi police station area, who was killed in Kerala’s Kannur district in June, was brought home on Sunday evening. Washiqul Islam, 32, a resident of Mathurapur village, had last spoken to his family over the phone on the night of June 28. “He was a mason and lived in Likkur area of Kannur with two other men from Murshidabad,” said Mominul, his brother. Mominul had gone to Likkur on June 30 after not being able to get in touch with his brother on phone and filed a missing diary there. After a month of no leads, he contacted Sadequl Islam, a Calcutta-based IT professional who was in the news last year for his networking efforts to help migrants during the lockdown. After a letter by Sadequl to senior Kannur police officers, including the DIG and SP in late July, police tracked down and interrogated roommate Paresh Mondal in late August. Paresh confessed to murdering Washiqul with the help of accomplice Ganesh Mondal, for cash. “They hit Washiqul on the head with blunt weapons and buried the body beneath the floor of a bathroom that they sealed with concrete,” said a Kannur police officer. Washikul’s body was exhumed on Friday. Kannur police arranged its return to Washiqul’s home. Kannur police said Paresh’s accomplice Ganesh was absconding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganga eats away 250 Malda homes in eight hours||At least 250 families living at different villages located on the left bank of the Ganga in Kaliachak 3 block of Malda have become homeless after the swollen river gobbled their houses since Sunday morning. Sources said the Ganga had been steadily eroding land at villages like Chinabazar, Sarkartola, Ghoshtola and Mukundatola — all in Birnagar 1 panchayat of the block — since Sunday morning and reached close to a high school and the panchayat office. “The erosion started around 6am and continued till late afternoon. Within a span of around eight to 10 hours, the river swallowed around 250 houses. We have never witnessed such a devastating situation before and it seems these villages will eventually be wiped out from the district’s map,” said Kunti Roy, a local resident who lost her home on Sunday. Since morning, the residents started shifting their belongings to safer places as the river menaced at the homes. Many were seen hiring vehicles to load furniture and other items to shift to adjoining areas. “We had taken shelter at the high school. If the erosion continues in such a manner, the school building would not be safe anymore. We would have to spend nights under open sky then,” said Anjana Roy, another erosion victim. Sources said the river had already eaten away the guard wall of the school and also a portion of the area where the National Thermal Power Corporation dumps fly-ash. Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar under whose constituency the affected areas are located, visited the villages and spoke to the homeless families. She also asked the villagers to be alert and stay at safe places to avoid any casualty because of the erosion. “The situation is grave at some of the villages. I have spoken with the block administration to ensure that all the affected families are provided with necessary relief materials and shelters,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Tourism department to introduce eco-friendly wheels for tourists ||The state tourism department will introduce two eco-friendly, battery-run electric vehicles for tourists at “Bhorer Alo”, the mega tourism hub that is the initiative of the state government at scenic Gazoldoba near the Teesta barrage in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, ahead of the Durga Puja holidays. Jyoti Ghosh, the joint director of tourism posted in north Bengal, who was here on Sunday, said: “We have decided to bring in two battery-run vehicles at the site ahead of Durga Puja. While six persons can sit on one vehicle, the other one will have a capacity to seat four people. The vehicles will carry tourists from the parking area to the cottages located on the site. The same vehicles will take guests to the golf course coming up at the site.”In due course, the department will buy more such vehicles, he added. The tourism hub, which has come up over 210 acres of land and wetland, is a dream project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Back in October 2018, she inaugurated the site where cottages for tourists have come up, along with some additional attractions. Ghosh said they had developed sewerage in the area to prevent flooding during monsoon. A water treatment plant has also been installed. Sources at the department said they were waiting for a new committee of the Gazoldoba Development Authority formed by the state for the development of the site. “The GDA has sent proposals for roads, streetlights, improved drinking water supply and an office (of the development authority), for an estimated Rs 16 crore to the state government. We hope the state soon announces a new committee and approves the proposals,” said Khageswar Roy, the MLA of Rajganj. As of now, work of a steel bridge to link the tourism hub over the Teesta canal is on. “The state PWD has taken up the project. Also, the parks and gardens wing of the state forest department is carrying out landscaping and beautification at the site. It will also set up an orchidarium (a place for permanent exhibit of orchids) in the hub,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri BJP MLA flags fake FB profile||Shankar Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Siliguri, has alleged that hackers have floated his fake profile on Facebook through which they are asking for money from people. Ghosh said on Sunday he received phone calls from  many people who told him they got messages from his fake profile, asking for sums ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000. “Of late, we have come to know about this new trend of cybercrime... I want to clarify I have never asked anyone for any money in such a manner. No one should fall into this trap,” said the MLA. He added that he had also brought the matter to the notice of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. “Also, the legal cell of our party is aware of the issue and will take necessary steps,” he said. During the past few months, a number of persons, including politicians, government officers, senior police officers and members of the business fraternity have faced a similar problem. “Any social media user receiving such requests should be alert and must immediately check with the person from whose (fake) profile that request for cash help has been made,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-results violence: CBI arrests four BJP workers||The CBI, which was entrusted with probing into violent incidents following the publication of Assembly poll results in May, arrested four alleged BJP supporters from Cooch Behar district  on Sunday early morning in connection with the murder of a Trinamul Congress worker. Sources said Shahinur Rahaman, a Trinamul worker in the Chilakhana area of Natabari Assembly constituency under Tufanganj police station of Cooch Behar, had gone missing from his home on May 4. The following day, his body was found in a nearby agricultural field. After the incident, Trinamul had accused the BJP of murdering Rahaman. The BJP denied the charge then. The arrested quartet are Ishwar Das, Ishwar Das (two persons with same name), Gobinda Das and Mihir Chanda. A court in Tufanganj remanded the four in judicial custody for 14 days. Cooch Behar district BJP president Malati Rava has said the quartet was falsely implicated in the case. “After the polls, Trinamul workers indiscriminately attacked hundreds of our supporters who were even forced to leave their homes. We hope the CBI will act against all those involved in such attacks. As far as today’s arrests are concerned, we believe our supporters have been falsely framed in the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||46 new containment  zones to arrest Covid across South 24-Parganas ||The spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two days across South 24-Parganas prompted the district administration on Sunday to announce fresh micro-containment zones, primarily in four municipalities and six blocks. Out of the 46 new micro containment zones announced by district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, 28 are in Maheshtala, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Baruipur and Diamond Harbour municipalities. The remaining containment zones have been marked in Canning 2, Kulpi, Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima and Sagar blocks. The objective of creating micro-containment zones is to cause little disruption to public life as well as economic activities. Another goal, according to an official of South 24-Parganas district administration, is to contain the outbreak of Covid in specific geographical areas. A senior official of South 24-Parganas district administration said: “We have added more areas to our list of micro-containment zones from where new cases have been traced. We have found new cases mostly in municipal areas, which shows lack of awareness of mask culture even among people living in towns.” The district recorded 115 infections in the past 48 hours. 751 new cases Bengal on Sunday logged 751 Covid-19 cases, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths as the state completed 84 successive days of a fall in the total number of active infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||2 youths die on NH512 in bike-van crash||Two youths were killed while a third was critically injured when their motorcycle collided head-on with a pick-up van on NH512 in Fulbari, South Dinajpur district, late on Saturday. Angry residents blocked the highway in protest, alleging lack of police vigilance encouraged rash driving after dark. Sources said the three friends on the bike had been headed towards Balurghat while the pick-up van had been coming from Balurghat to Gangarampur when the crash occurred. The three youths, who did not wear helmets, were rushed to the superspecialty hospital in Gangarampur where doctors pronounced two of them dead. One was identified as Sarib Sarkar, 23. The other is yet to be identified. Sohel Rana Sarkar, 27, is  fighting for his life at Malda Medical College and Hospital. The van driver fled. Agitated residents blocked the highway for about an hour, demanding action against speeding. A team from Gangarampur police station rushed to the spot and pacified the demonstrators. Police have seized both vehicles. Investigations are on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Prod to Bengal government for NH10 repair||The dilapidated condition of several stretches of NH10, worsened by the battering from recurring landslides, has prompted state PWD officials to send a proposal to Nabanna, seeking funds for immediate repairs. The Narendra Modi government is supposed to send funds to maintain NH10, which connects the Himalayan state of Sikkim and Bengal’s Kalimpong, and the Sino-Indian border. Although a national highway, the NH10 division of state PWD maintains it from Sevoke, some 25km from here, till Rongpo in Sikkim. Funds for the highway’s upkeep, however, flow from the Centre as the state PWD works solely as an agency. “Puja holidays are ahead, and vehicular load on the highway will only increase. Considering the situation in some stretches of NH10, we can’t sit idle. As no move has been made by the Centre for revamp, we have sent a proposal to the state stating some immediate measures are required to prevent halt in traffic owing to landslides,” said an official of the NH10 division of state PWD. Last month, Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, had claimed the Union ministry of road transport and highways headed by Nitin Gadkari would spend Rs 800 crore to rebuild NH10. “As far as funds allocation and initiation of repair work are concerned, there has been no development,” a PWD official said. He added that since July-end, traffic halted on NH10 around 15 times because of landslides. Last Tuesday, a slide blocked the highway and traffic was restored after around five hours. The most precarious stretch is in 29th Mile, around 60km from here, with frequent slides. Sources said debris, comprising mud, boulders and pebbles, piled around 300 feet above the level of the highway falls on it regularly, especially after a bout of rain. “This pile needs to be emptied from the area to keep the road clear. We are fortunate that so far there has been no casualty,” said a source. In the proposal, the officials have said that a protection wall at the spot can be useful. “Also, we need to explore whether an alternative alignment of the road can be built at the stretch,” the source added. The slides have also made residents of Sikkim and Kalimpong question why no concrete initiative is being taken to repair the highway. “NH 10 is one of the key road routes to the Sino-Indian border and is strategically important for the country. Also, being residents of this country, we deserve a decent national highway. We also pay road tax and other government charges. Then why will we have to face such problems every year?” asked Girish Lama, a Kalimpong resident. The NH10’s dismal state, with hardly a month left for Puja holidays, have left tourism stakeholders perturbed. “The pandemic situation is under control now and going by reservations, we are expecting a good tourist season ahead. But if tourists get stranded, it will have a negative impact,” said Santanu Choudhury, who runs a travel house in Siliguri. He said that it normally takes around four hours to reach Gangtok from Siliguri via NH10. But if one has to make a detour, it would take two-and-a-half hours more to reach the state capital of Sikkim. Another senior tour operator in Siliguri said the ban on Bangladeshis entering Sikkim was lifted in 2018 and since then thousands of Bangladeshi residents visit the Himalayan state. Recently, air connectivity resumed between India and Bangladesh. “We expect a steady inflow of tourists from Bangladesh. It is high time that the Centre and the state take up thorough repair along the affected stretches of NH10 to ensure that foreign tourists don’t feel discouraged to visit this region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 751 new cases, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 751 new Covid-19 infections, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases in the state fell by 16 to 8,187 with 84 successive days of a slide. Bengal has 2.2 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most number of them. Calcutta logged 125 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a singledigit figure. Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, its highest this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.8 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.57 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. It includes more than 15.3 lakh recoveries and 18,577 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
