14-09-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain lashes Calcutta and its suburbs||The city along with several districts of south Bengal experienced heavy rainfall on Tuesday owing to a depression that lay centred over Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The Met office said in a bulletin that an "intense spell of thunderstorm with moderate to heavy rainfall", during the day, battered different parts of Kolkata and its neighbouring districts of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Paraganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Commuters had a harrowing time reaching their destinations as many areas in the metropolis, including Sector V in Salt Lake, were left waterlogged. Fewer buses and auto-rickshaws were seen plying the roads in the morning. An official of the Kolkata Police traffic department said that the downpour led to traffic snarls that lasted for hours on the city's thoroughfares. According to the weatherman, north Kolkata and its suburbs recorded 116 mm rainfall in approximately six hours till 2.30 pm. Similarly, 45 mm rainfall was recorded during that period in Alipore, reflecting the pattern of showers across south Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal advocate-general quits before his time for 'personal reasons' ||Senior lawyer Kishore Datta ended his “wonderful experience” as the advocate general of the West Bengal government on Tuesday, citing personal reasons. Datta, who was involved in defending the state government in several high-profile cases, submitted his resignation to the state, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “In terms of Article 165 of the Constitution I have accepted with immediate effect resignation submitted by Kishore Datta, senior advocate, as Advocate General of State of West Bengal with immediate effect,” tweeted the governor. Datta, was representing the state in legal matters ever since  his predecessor, barrister Jayanta Mitra, had stepped down in 2017 before completion of his tenure, citing “differences with the government.” Datta has been replaced by Gopal Mukherjee, senior advocate of Calcutta High Court, as advocate general of the state. On Monday, Datta was arguing against a petition filed by  BJP legislator Ambika Roy, challenging the appointment of defected MLA Mukul Roy as chairperson of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. “To challenge anything in the Assembly an independent motion has to be moved in the Assembly itself as matter pertaining to Legislative Assembly proceedings cannot be subjected to judicial review due to the bar under Article 212 of the Constitution,” Datta had argued. Hours before the senior advocate submitted his resignation, Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee summoned officers belonging to the CBI and the ED investigating the Narada bribery case, for not taking permission of the Speaker before initiating action against elected representatives. Sources said the state’s poor track record in defending its decisions in court and challenging orders had often taken a toll on the incumbent advocate general. As recently as September 3, a three-member bench of the Supreme Court had rebuked the state government and refused to entertain the Bengal government’s plea challenging the authority of the Union Public Service Commission to shortlist names of Directors General of Police, as directed by the apex court. In over a decade since Mamata Banerjee took charge as chief minister none of the advocate generals has completed their terms. Anindya Mitra, Bimal Chatterjee, Jayanta Mitra, and now Datta,  all resigned for various reasons at a time when the government was involved in several legal battles. The Mamata Banerjee government also faced major embarrassment when the Calcutta High Court ordered the CBI, and set up a special investigation team,  to probe allegations of murder and rape and other instances of post-poll violence. Though Datta has cited personal reasons behind his decision to step down, those in the legal circles believe the change was on the way as there has been a "cleansing act" in the government’s legal team. Little over a month after Mamata Banerjee took over, Abhratosh Majumdar resigned from the post of additional advocate general. Days before that his brother, Jayatosh Majumdar, who was the government pleader, had been removed by the state government. Trinamul sources said legal matters pertaining to the government were earlier handled by senior lawyer and Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee. However, with the wind of change blowing in Trinamul, advocate Sanjay Ghosh, who is close to the Trinamul’s all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, has gained the upper hand and is now handling the legal affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP complains to EC about discrepancy on Mamata's Bhawanipur bypoll papers ||The BJP on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, alleging that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not make a mention about pending criminal cases in her nomination papers for the Bhabanipur by-poll. Sajal Ghosh, the chief election agent of the saffron party's candidate for the constituency, Priyanka Tibrewal, wrote to the EC, raising objections to Banerjee's declaration. "I beg to object to the nomination/declaration filed by Mamata Banerjee on the ground that the candidate has failed to disclose particulars of the pending criminal proceedings against her," he said. Ghosh, in his letter, also made a note of the number of cases filed at different police stations in Assam against Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Another bomb explosion outside Bengal BJP MP's residence||Less than a week after miscreants hurled bombs at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas, similar explosions were reported outside his home on Tuesday morning, with the saffron party leader claiming that members of the ruling TMC were trying to take his life. Around 9.10 am, bombs exploded on a vacant patch of land, which is just about 200 metres away from Singh's Bhatpara residence, a police officer said. "We are investigating the matter. Our officers are there," he added. The NIA on Monday took over the probe into the incident on September 8, which left the gate at the BJP MP's residence partially damaged. Singh alleged that it was an attack planned by the Trinamool Congress to kill him, his family members and people close to him. "This is nothing but a planned attack. The TMC is behind this... they are trying to kill me and my people. It's goondaraaj (lawlessness) in Bengal," Singh claimed. The TMC's North 24 Parganas president, Partha Bhowmick, rubbished the allegations, and said that the BJP MP was in some way or the other responsible for the explosions outside his home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP plea: Central forces in booths of three constituencies||The BJP has written to Bengal’s chief electoral officer demanding the deployment of central forces in all the booths of the three constituencies — Bhowanipore, Samsherganj and Jangipur — where bypolls will be held on September 30. The party has also demanded that Bengal or Calcutta police not be allowed within 200 metres of the bypoll booths. “The CAPF should arrive well in time to ensure area domination else they will have no other option but to be guided by the local police that is fully politicised,” read the BJP letter. BJP MPs Arjun Singh, Saumitra Khan, Trinamul turncoat Dinesh Trivedi and BJP leader Shishir Bajoria on Monday met chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and handed over the letter to him. The letter also demanded  no officer or staff of the state government be deputed on poll duty “…specially inside a polling station and as sector officers”. This appeal was made in reference to a statement made by the state government employees and teachers' unions, who had committed their support to “ensure her (Mamata Banerjee) victory”. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari also filed two petitions with Biman Banerjee, the Speaker of the Bengal Assembly, urging him to disqualify the memberships of BJP MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das. Ghosh, the MLA from Bishnupur, and Das, the MLA from Bagda — both Trinamul turncoats — went back to their old party on August 30 and 31, respectively. Sources said Adhikari had written to both, demanding clarifications within a week, but received no reply. Nominations filed BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal filed her nomination papers on Monday, accompanied by party leaders Suvendu Adhikari, Arjun Singh and others. She sought blessings at a temple before filing her nomination at the Survey Building in Alipore. The CPM’s Bhowanipore candidate, Shreejib Biswas, also submitted his nomination papers on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa’s new party plans 45 public meetings across the hills||New hill party Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, formed last Thursday by Anit Thapa, will hold 45 public meetings across the hills to kick-start its first phase of activities. The decision was taken at the party’s first indoor meeting in Darjeeling where various party posts were also filled up. Political veteran and lawyer Amar Lama, who was appointed as the party’s general secretary on Monday, said: “We have decided to hold 45 public meetings in 45 GTA constituencies starting from this week.” Sources said the first meeting would be held on September 15 at Rimbick which will be followed by continuous public meetings across the hills. “The newly floated party is stressing on reaching out to every nook and corner of the hills,” said a source. At the central committee meeting, the party also “adopted” its constitution and appointed leaders in key positions. Col (retd) Keshab Rai, D.K. Pradhan, former Darjeeling MLA and civic chairman, Ruden Sada Lepcha, Kalimpong MLA and Satish Pokhrel, former GTA Sabha member, were appointed as the vice-presidents of the party. For many observers of hill politics, however, the most important development was the formation of a 12-member advisory committee, which largely consisted of apolitical faces from different walks of life. Literary figures like Gokul Sinha and Jiwan Labar, drama personality Lalit Golay and educationist Geeta Chhetri and social worker Asha Mukhia Lama have been accommodated in the advisory committee. Sources said that the new party wants to go for an image makeover as most of its leaders are from one of the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. “Their attempt towards an image makeover is reflected from the nominations made in the advisory committee,” said a source. The women’s wing of the new party has been christened Bharatiya Gorkha Nari Shakti with Tshering Dahal Lama being appointed as the president and Prativa Kumai, formerly with the Jan Andalon Party (JAP) as its general secretary. Dahal had unsuccessfully contested the last Bengal Assembly polls from Kurseong constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 506 new cases, 587 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 85 straight days of a fall in its total number of active cases, with 506 new infections, 587 recoveries and 10 deaths. Bengal’s total of active cases fell by 91 on Monday to touch 8,096. Bengal now has 2.27 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on among the states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 93 new infections on Monday, fewer than 125 on Sunday and 119 on Saturday. North 24-Parganas, with 104 cases, was the only one among the state’s 23 districts on Monday with a three-digit figure of new Covid infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas two. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its  highest ever this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.56 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.87 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state now has over 15.57 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March 2020, and includes more than 15.3 lakh recoveries and 18,587 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Minister Sabina Yeasmin check on erosion in Malda district||Sabina Yeasmin, the minister of state for irrigation, waterways and north Bengal development, on Monday lashed out at the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) for its failure to commence anti-erosion works along the Ganga ahead of the monsoon. Yeasmin on Monday visited Birnagar 1 panchayat under Kaliachak 3 block of Malda district to take stock of the situation, a day after the Ganga had swallowed around 250 houses at various villages. Sources said during this year’s monsoon, villages in the panchayat faced acute erosion caused by the swollen river. “Around 700 families have become homeless as the river has gobbled their houses and also vast patches of agricultural land,” said a source. “The FBPA, a central government undertaking that maintains the barrage and is entrusted with the responsibility of carrying out anti-erosion works in Birnagar 1 and adjoining areas which are on the left bank of the Ganga, cannot shun their responsibility. We fail to understand why they did not take up anti-erosion works ahead of the monsoons,” Yeasmin said. Calls to senior FBPA officials from this newspaper went unanswered. She was accompanied by Trinamul MLA and district party president Abdur Rahim Boxi, officials of district administration and engineers of the state irrigation department. Later in the day, Yeasmin, along with district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra and some others, visited the FBPA office in Farakka. There, they held a meeting with officials of the barrage authority on a number of issues. “We have mentioned that hundreds of families have become homeless because of erosion. The FBPA has offered us land where these families can be rehabilitated. I have visited two such plots but those are in Murshidabad district and most of the victims are reluctant to shift from Malda,” Yeasmin said. The sources said an emergency meeting would be held here on Tuesday to discuss availability of an alternative land in Malda district which could be given to erosion victims. Mitra, the DM, said the FBPA will resume anti-erosion work on Tuesday. “If work is carried out on war footing, we believe at the least the high school building at Birnagar-I could be saved. The Ganga has been steadily aggressing at the building for the past few days,” he said. Back in villages of Birnagar-I panchayat, hundreds of homeless residents were seen sitting under open sky with their belongings. “Those who had lost their homes earlier had taken accommodation at the high school and primary school buildings. But it seems both these buildings would be swallowed by the river soon. We don’t know where to go and find a shelter,” said Minnatulnesha, a housewife. The administration, sources said, has sent relief materials to the affected areas. “We are also trying to find alternative temporary shelters for these families,” said the DM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-results violence: CBI arrests seven Trinamul Congress workers ||A CBI  team probing incidents of post-results violence in Cooch Behar arrested seven Trinamul workers on Sunday night in connection with a murder of a BJP worker in Dinhata. In the past 24 hours, it was the second round of arrests. Early on Sunday, the central team arrested four BJP workers for alleged involvement in the murder of a Trinamul worker. Sources said on Sunday night, CBI sleuths had called seven Trinamul workers for interrogation in connection with the May 3 murder of BJP’s Haradhan Roy. Later, all seven were arrested. On Monday, they were produced at a Dinhata court, which ordered two days of CBI custody. On Monday, the CBI in Birbhum arrested one Dilip Mirdha, 30, for his alleged involvement in post-results violence where a BJP worker of Illambazar was reportedly killed on the night of May 2, when poll results came out.  The CBI was tight-lipped on Mirdha’s political affiliation. He was produced before a Bolpur court and sent to four days of CBI custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI quizzes Partha Chatterjee in his office on Camac Street||CBI officers probing the I-Core deposit mobilisation scam questioned Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee in Calcutta on Monday. The two-hour-long questioning was held in the minister’s office on Camac Street. On September 8, the CBI had summoned Chatterjee to present himself before the agency on September 13 for a round of interrogation. Chatterjee had expressed his inability to appear for interrogation saying he was preoccupied with preparations for Bhowanipore byelections on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. He had also said he was a senior citizen and if the officers wanted, they could meet him at his office, where the summons had been sent. Accordingly, a team of three officers led by the investigating officer of the I-Core scam case turned up at Shilpa Sadan, the office of the industries minister, and also the address of the state’s directorate of industries. “The officers showed courtesy and turned up at my office. I have told them that I will extend whatever help is required in their probe,” Chatterjee later said. CBI officers said they wanted to know why Chatterjee had heaped praises on Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, at one of the programmes organised by the company. The CBI had arrested Maity and he later died while in jail custody in Odhisha last November. “The programme was held around the time when several complaints were lodged against the I-Core for allegedly duping investors,” said an officer. “We wanted to know a few things from Chatterjee, including how long he had known Maity and whether there had been any financial transaction between the two.” Chatterjee, sources said, told the sleuths that in 2011, he had attended the I-Core event to attract investment to Bengal. The CBI has claimed that besides praising Maity, Chatterjee had also assured help to the I-Core while attending the programme. The officers carried a video clip of the event to Chatterjee’s office before questioning him in the presence of his lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Care for babies at Duare Sarkar camp in South 24-Parganas ||Sagar block administration in South 24-Parganas has gone out of its way to take care of kids who are accompanying their mothers to a Duare Sarkar camp that has been witnessing long queues and prolonged waiting hours. The first Duare Sarkar camp was held in the block on August 16 and since then, thelocal administration has set up tents, named “Maa o Sishu Alay (Mother and Child Shelter)”. Women can take their babies to the tents to feed milk and baby food offered by the administration and also breastfeed them in covered facilities so that no children are left hungry during their visit to the camps. The block authorities with the support of local gram panchayats officials and health workers are taking care of the children. The local administration has also enlisted the services of senior students of Kanyashree clubs of local schools to serve milk and assist mothers in feeding children. Sagar resident Putul Mondal, a woman who fed her child at the tent, said: “The gesture from the administration was a big relief.… I live more than 5km away from the camp. I left home early in the morning to join the queue with my five-year-old child. My child had to stand along with me in the queue for over two hours. After I collected the form, a schoolgirl took me to the tent and offered milk to my child.” “The girls also helped me fill in my application form. The initiative was a big help.” The initiative was planned by the Sagar administration as it had anticipated a huge rush of women to obtain and submit forms to avail themselves of benefits under the newly launched ‘Lakshmir Bhandar’ scheme. The brain behind the initiative, Sagar’s BDO Sudipto Mondal, said: “Lakshmir Bhandar scheme has been drawing huge applicants across the state. The picture is quite the same on Sagar island. We always try to render fast service, particularly to women who attend camps with children. But one has to wait for over an hour to complete formalities at the camp. We felt the long wait might leave the kids hungry and we conceived a plan to arrange milk for them. We also provided a space for mothers to breastfeed their kids in privacy.” At a Duare Sarkar camp at Daskshin Haradhanpur village, around 50 women took the special service offered by the block administration. He said girls of “Kanyashree” club had been engaged at the camps to spot women carrying children and bring them to the tent. At the tents, health workers are taking care of the children and feeding them milk. Mondal said: “Our objective is to ensure comprehensive service for the people. ‘Maa o Sishu Alay’ is a step in this direction. We included Kanyashree girls in the initiative to boost their confidence and empower them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court asks Bengal govt to file a short note on CBI probes||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Bengal government to file a short note on its plea challenging Calcutta High Court’s order of CBI probes into alleged incidents of murder and rape following the publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. The Supreme Court bench of Justice Vineet Saran and Justice Aniruddha Bose passed the directive. Justice Saran told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Bengal government, that a short note in the form of a chart highlighting the objections raised by the state on the high court directions could be placed before the bench for consideration. Accordingly, the court adjourned the matter to September 20. The high court had ordered the CBI probes based on a report submitted by the NHRC. Sibal told the court in his brief oral submission that the NHRC panel had several members who owed allegiance to the BJP. It was more of a “BJP Committee”, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll hearing in Calcutta HC set for next week||Calcutta High Court rejected a plea to hear on Monday itself a petition seeking judicial intervention in alleged irregularities on the part of the Election Commission of India in declaring bypoll only to the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency when by-elections were pending for two other seats in Bengal. Before fixing the hearing on September 20, Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, who headed a division bench, told the petitioner: “Notification declaring Bhowanipore bypoll date was published a few days back. Why didn’t you come then?” The petition was moved by advocate Sabyasachi Chatterjee. The Bhowanipore bypoll is scheduled for September 30. Chatterjee claimed that the Election Commission had announced the Bhowanipore bypoll date on the basis of a letter sent by the Bengal chief secretary. The petitioner asked why the chief secretary had not sought dates for all constituencies where bypolls were due. In reply, state advocate-general Kishore Dutta said: “After declaration of bypoll dates, courts do not have power to entertain such a petition.” He also argued that to avoid a constitutional crisis, immediate bypoll to the Bhowanipore constituency was necessary. Advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar moved another petition on Monday, seeking an order for postponement of the bypoll as the Covid-19 pandemic was still prevailing in the state. The court asked him to come with his petition after six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||RTI plea on Uttar Pradesh ad with Maa flyover visual||Trinamul Congress member and RTI activist Saket Gokhale on Monday filed an application under the Right to Information Act with the Uttar Pradesh government, seeking clarification on the origin of its advertisement on the front page of The Indian Express on Sunday. The advertisement — with an image of the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath — boasted how he had transformed Uttar Pradesh, but it included the visual of the Maa flyover of Calcutta. “Filed an RTI with UP Govt asking: (a) if the fake ad y’day was made by UP govt or Indian Express (b) who approved the ad from Ajay Bisht’s (Adityanath) team (c) copy of contract with Indian Express specifying who’s in charge of what. We need to stand up if media is being bullied by Bisht,” Gokhale tweeted along with an image of his RTI application. The RTI, according to sources in Trinamul, was filed in a bid to corner the BJP and its Hindutva poster boy Adityanath. “Adityanath had come to Bengal 11 times ahead of the Assembly polls and said Mamata Banerjee’s government had done nothing. Now, an advertisement from his government depicts the image of a flyover inaugurated by Mamata Banerjee herself. What can be better than this for us to prove that the BJP is all about lies and misinformation,” a Trinamul leader said. This person added that Trinamul wished to keep the controversy alive. Gokhale’s RTI application demands the public information officer of the information and publicity department to share a copy of the contract signed between the UP government and the daily with all details. He has also asked if the content of the advertisement was decided by the government or “left to the discretion of marketing/other departments” of the newspaper. Additionally, he has demanded to know if the ad had been approved by the government before it was published, and the details of the official or the committee which did the final check. These questions come in regard to a clarification provided by the newspaper through a tweet in which it had apologised for the inadvertent inclusion of the image of the flyover in the “advertorial… produced by the marketing department of the newspaper”. Trinamul Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien had on Sunday rejected the possibility that the mistake was on the newspaper’s part. He had said a government ad, or any ad for that matter, wouldn’t go to print without the final approval of the client. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, another Trinamul Rajya Sabha member, on Monday said: “We have documents to prove that it cannot be the newspaper’s fault.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Five-member team of doctors call on children with flu in Jalpaiguri||A five-member team of doctors from the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) visited the Jalpaiguri district hospital on Monday to check on some 100 children suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) to find out how so many got infected with it amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past four-five days, around 200 children from different parts of the district, mostly aged between one and four years, have been admitted to the hospital with symptoms like fever, cough and cold. Some of them also had diarrhoea. Sources at the hospital said only one child among them was detected Covid-19 positive so far earlier this week and has been isolated. On Monday, 96 children with ILI were present at the Jalpaiguri hospital’s paediatric ward.  “Twenty-two children were discharged today (Monday) but another 22 got admitted,” said a doctor. Gautam Das, an NBMCH paediatrician and a member of the visiting team, said they suspected an outbreak of viral fever. “Even so, we have suggested tests for Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya and dengue for all children (locally). This apart, swab samples of 10 children will be sent to Calcutta for specialised viral tests. So far, as the discharge rate is high, we are suspecting viral fever,” said Das. Earlier in the day, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu visited the hospital to speak to doctors and the mothers of the admitted children. “All possible arrangements have been made for their treatment. We are keeping close watch on the situation,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Mooted: Plan to transport tea by train to Bangladesh and beyond||A delegation of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) held a meeting with representatives of the tea industry here on Monday and proposed that tea from north Bengal and the Northeast could be exported to Bangladesh and beyond via the Haldibari-Chilahati route that was reopened last month. ' Sources in the NFR said the proposal to use the rail network for transporting tea gained traction after the reopening of Haldibari-Chilahati route that links Bangladesh with north Bengal. “Teas can be exported to Bangladesh and to the Mongla port (in Bagerhat district of Bangladesh) via this rail route from the Northeast, which in turn, would be sent to other countries by sea. It can be a good alternative as so far, teas from Assam are sent via road to Calcutta port, located around 1,500 kilometres away,” said a source. The distance from Chilahati to Mongla port, on the other hand, is around 525 kilometres. The NFR officials also tried to convince tea industry representatives that using the rail route to send tea to different parts of the country would be more “efficient” for them in terms of cost and time saved. Mohan Thakur, the senior commercial manager of the Katihar division of the NFR, who attended the meeting, said the Union railway and  Union commerce ministries want the rail network to be used to transport teas. “We are in a position to transport teas from here to Jammu & Kashmir in 36 hours while teas sent to Delhi via trains will reach the destination in 24 hours. The idea is to send teas at lower transport cost and faster,” said Thakur. He also said that if companies, which sell teas, book 15 goods coaches or more, they will run a separate parcel van to carry the consignment. “If the number of coaches is less than 15, those would be attached with long-distance express and superfast trains,” the railway official added. At the meeting, railway officials also informed the tea planters’ associations that if required, appropriate infrastructure would be set up in stations spread across north Bengal for loading teas in goods coaches. “The facility to load teas will be introduced in a number of stations in this region. There is a similar plan for the Northeast, especially Assam,” said a source. Assam and Bengal are the two major tea producing states in India. In all, over 80 per cent of the total tea produced in India comes from these two states. The proposal from railway officials has been welcomed by the local business fraternity of Jalpaiguri. After the meeting, members of Jalpaiguri District Chambers of Commerce booked parcel vans which will be used to send teas to various locations of the country. “It is true that it takes more time to send tea by road. Also, fuel prices have escalated in recent times and the trains are a good alternative at this point. We appreciate that the railway authorities themselves have approached us and hope the tea industry will respond to the proposal,” said Amritangshu Chakraborty, principal adviser, Indian Tea Planters’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet to extend incentives to private industrial parks ||The Bengal cabinet on Monday decided to extend incentives to private industrial parks set up on five acres of land and industrial park status to cold stores, fisheries and poultry if they were established on five acres. The twin decisions are aimed at meting the target of setting up of 100 new industrial parks in the current financial year, said sources in the government. Earlier, the incentive scheme was for private industrial parks that came up on at least 20 acres. “Many of the investors who wished to set up industrial parks were requesting the government to reduce the land criterion from 20 acres as land is not available in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area. Now, the cabinet has decided to extend the benefits of the government incentive scheme to private industrial parks that are set up on at east five acres,” said H.K. Dwivedi, the chief secretary. The chief secretary also said cold stores, poultry, fisheries and warehouses set up on five acres would also be accorded the status of industrial parks, which had not been allowed previously. Sources at Nabanna said the government had relaxed the criteria for setting up of industrial parks in a bid to promote more industrial parks in the state. “As the industrial parks are labour-intensive, the government has decided to encourage investors to set up industrial parks in the state. Ahead of the Assembly polls, the chief minister had promised to generate 1.5 crore jobs in the next five years. If more industrial parks come up, it would help us in achieving the target,” said a senior government official. The state government made it clear that the decision to continue with the incentive scheme for private industrial parks was taken only to ensure that more jobs were created in the state. According to the existing incentive scheme for industrial parks, the investors can claim cash back of Rs 2 crore for parks set up on land measuring between 20 and 39 acres. Besides, the state reimburses 100 per cent stamp duty and lays 1.5 km road to connect with nearest major road and sets up power substation free of cost. “All these incentives were for industrial parks established on at least 20 acres of land. New incentive schemes would be framed for smaller parks, which would be set up on less than 20 areas,” said a senior official. The state government has also decided to give incentives in three installments, instead of paying it at one go, on completion of the project, said the chief secretary. The Bengal cabinet also decided to keep scooping up of soil up to 1.5 meter for use in brick kilns out of the ambit of mining activities. “As scooping up of land up to 1.5 meter would not come under mining activity, it would not require environmental clearance. Many brick kilns operating without permission would be regularised,” said the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
