15-09-2021||West Bengal||Jadavpur University urges to hold meeting with state government on Covid vaccination drive||All the stakeholders of Jadavpur University have urged its Executive Council (EC) to hold a tripartite meeting with the West Bengal Higher Education Department regarding vaccination of students, research scholars, faculty and staff along with matters related to reopen the campus.  The EC is the highest decision-making body of the university.  "Updates regarding different steps taken for the preparedness of reopening the campus be made on a regular basis to all the stakeholders," said a resolution taken at the meeting held on Tuesday.  Participants at the meeting demanded that a policy decision regarding the priority of a vaccination drive against Covid-19 be made by a committee appointed by the EC within this week.  The possibility of a 'Decentralized Vaccination Drive' should be explored by the same committee, the resolution said.  The participants included Dean of Science, Prof Subenoy Chakraborty, Dean of Arts Prof Madhumita Chattopadhyay, Dean of Students Dr Rajat Roy, Registrar Dr Snehamanju Basu, besides representatives of Arts, Science and Engineering students and those of teachers' bodies JUTA and ABUTA. The SFI recently demonstrated in front of Jadavpur University demanding gradual reopening of the campus which is closed for the past one and a half years due to the pandemic and free vaccination of all students.  The JUTA had also written to the state education minister urging him to take steps for free vaccination of students and expressed concern that not all pupils can avail of online classes at UG and PG levels due to digital divide, severely affecting their academic career.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal extends Covid restrictions till September 30||The West Bengal government on Wednesday extended the COVID-related restrictions till September 30 with the existing relaxations, as per official notification. The restrictions, first imposed on May 16 and extended at regular intervals, were set to expire on Wednesday. "Wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols must be followed at all times," the notification said. The state government has allowed offices, both government and private, to function with half the manpower, as per the order. "All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11 pm to 5 am except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agriculture produce and other emergency services," the order said. District administrations, police commissionerates and local authorities shall ensure strict compliance with the state directives of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, it said. "Any violation of the restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant sections of the IPC," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||One more held for Minto Park firing at businessman ||A 22-year-old man was arrested for his alleged involvement in a firing incident in which a businessman was injured on the night of September 12 in south Kolkata, police said on Wednesday. The person was apprehended on Tuesday night from Bhawanipore area, a senior officer said. Kolkata police has so far arrested two persons in the firing incident, and they are being interrogated, he said. The first arrested person, who is a food delivery boy, had admitted that he was part of a group of men on six motorcycles, who were going for the immersion of a Ganesh idol on Sunday night, the officer said. They had an argument with businessman Pankaj Singh and his friends over manoeuvring his car and the latter slapped one of the bikers. He then called others and one of them fired at Singh injuring him, the officer said. Singh, a resident of Howrah, is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The incident happened near Gorky Sadan in the southern part of the city when Singh, along with a couple of his friends, was returning home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Soumendra Nath Mookherjee appointed as the new AG of Bengal||Advocate Soumendra Nath Mookherjee was appointed as the new advocate-general of Bengal after Kishore Datta resigned from the post on Tuesday. Soumendra Nath, better known as Gopal Mookherjee, is the son of Satyabrata (Julu) Mookherjee, the BJP leader who was a minister in Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet. Trinamul sources said they expected the new AG to bolster the state’s legal team, which had suffered a few embarrassing defeats in the courtrooms in recent months. “Gopalda is an ace corporate lawyer and is very much respected by the Bar.… His appointment is indeed good news for us,” said a member of the government’s legal team. Datta sent his resignation letter, citing personal grounds, to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the morning. Within an hour, Dhankhar tweeted that he had accepted the resignation. Datta is the fourth advocate-general to have resigned during the 10-year-old tenure of Trinamul. Anindya Mitra, Jayanta Mitra and Bimal Chatterjee had left the post earlier on personal grounds. “There is a consensus that Datta was very sincere about his job,” said a source in the high court. A source said Datta had taken up the post of AG following a request from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He led the state’s legal team with help and guidance from state law minister Moloy Ghatak and Kalyan Banerjee, senior lawyer and Trinamul MP, with whom he had a good working relationship. “The scene changed after the government came to power for a third term. A section of lawyers from the ruling party’s camp started saying openly that they were unhappy with the composition of the government’s legal team,” said a source. Recently, the government pleader was replaced and the additional advocate-general too resigned. “It was just a matter of time for a change in the position of the government’s top law officer. A new legal team has taken guard,” said a source. In its 34-year innings, the Left Front had only three AGs — Snehangshu Kanta Acharya, Naranarayan Gooptu and Bali Ray. After Acharya’s death, barrister Sadhan Gupta had briefly been appointed additional advocate-general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: SSB jawans arrest two men from Panitanki check-post ||The Sashastra Seem Bal intercepted two persons, one of whom is suspected to be of Chinese origin holding a United States of America passport, while they were trying to cross over to Nepal from Panitanki on the Indian side on Monday evening. One  has been identified as Pempa Bhutia, 57, a resident of Darjeeling More in Siliguri. The other person was identified as Choejor Woeser, 46, who also had documents with the name Choejer Budha. Choejer is suspected to be of Chinese origin possessing US documents and an Indian PAN. Panitaki is 26km from Siliguri. “Two persons were trying to cross over to Nepal from the Panitanki check-post around 7pm on Monday. They told the SSB jawans guarding the borders that they would go to the Nepal check post to collect some money from one of their friends on the other side of the border ``, said a source. However, when the Indian guards asked for papers to prove their nationality, they smelled something amiss. “Chinese birth certificate, parents’ Chinese documents, photocopy of US passport, study visa, driving license of New York and even Indian PAN card of Choejer, was recovered from his phone, along with some Nepal and India currency and air tickets from Bhadrapur to Kathmandu (two cities in Nepal),” said the source. The duo was handed over to Kharibari police station. “On Tuesday, the duo was produced in Siliguri court and were sent to seven days in police custody,” said Subrata Roy Basunia, assistant public prosecutor. The Siliguri corridor is considered a strategic location with many referring to it as a “chicken’s neck” given the narrow stretch that separates China and Bangladesh. The region is a gateway to north eastern states of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission to deploy central forces for Bengal bypolls||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday decided to deploy 52 companies of central forces for the three Assembly bypolls in Bengal on September 30, sources in the poll panel said. According to officials in the ECI, 15 companies of central forces will be deployed for the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where Trinamul Congress has fielded chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The development comes a day after the BJP had written to the poll panel seeking deployment of central forces at all booths of the three constituencies. “Bhowanipore constituency has the least number of booths, 288. Thus, we are planning to deploy 15 companies of the forces for this seat,” a poll panel official said. “Since the number of booths in Samsherganj and Jangipur are more, the deployment will also be higher,” the official added. Samsherganj and Jangipur have 329 and 363 booths, respectively. For Jangipur, 18 companies will be allotted, whereas for Samsherganj, the allotment will be 19 companies. The ECI official said 15 companies had already reached the state for area domination. These companies include seven from the CRPF, four from the BSF, two from the SSB and one each from the ITBP and the CISF. The Trinamul Congress has criticised the poll panel’s decision. The party spokesperson and state general secretary, Kunal Ghosh, alleged that the ECI was acting under the influence of the BJP. “Let them deploy two armed personnel for each voter.... Let them withdraw all the forces from the borders as well and task them with blocking Trinamul. They will still not be able to influence the people who will vote for Mamata Banerjee,” Ghosh said. The BJP on the other hand claimed that the ECI had offered a “consolation prize” to Trinamul by agreeing to conduct the bypoll in Bhowanipore and hence, its allegations weren’t justified. “Let them come up with something new.... The people do not buy these anymore,” said chief spokesperson of state BJP Shamik Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||1 kid dead, hundreds hospitalised with influenza-like illness ||A six-year-old girl died at the Jalpaiguri District Hospital on Tuesday, at a time when over 100 children have been admitted to the facility allegedly suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI). Most of the children are down with fever and health authorities are concerned with the development amid Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said Kaveri Roy, a resident of Kuchlibari village in Cooch Behar district, was admitted to the paediatric unit of the hospital on Monday. “She breathed her last on Tuesday morning,” said a source. Susanta Roy, the officer-on-special duty, north Bengal, said: “We are saddened by every death. The child was down with pneumonia but she had a hole in her heart since birth. The doctors tried their best but they could not save her.” Kamini Roy, father of the deceased, said that her daughter was suffering from high fever for the past three-four days. “We admitted her to the sub-divisional hospital at Mekhligang on Sunday with high fever. She was referred to the Jalpaiguri hospital on Monday.” On Tuesday, 101, children were admitted with high fever at the Jalpaiguri district hospital. Health authorities have taken swab samples of 10 children which have been sent to Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine for examination. Sources said on Tuesday, blood samples of another 41 children were collected to check for vector diseases like Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya, dengue, scrub typhoid and even Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri district to promote religious tourism||Jalpaiguri District Tourism Development Committee has decided to improve infrastructure of religious places across the district to promote religious tourism. “I have instructed the tourism development committee to submit a report within two weeks on how the infrastructure of religious places across the district that includes temples, monastery and other religious sited can be upgraded so that we can develop a religious tourism circuit,” Moumita Godara Bose, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said after the committee’s meeting with different tourism stakeholders in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Jalpaiguri district is known for its temples at Jalpesh, Bateswar, Jatileswar of Mainaguri, the Ban Durga temple of Bodaganj, Debi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak’s temple at Shikarpur. Old churches, Buddhist monasteries and mosques located on the outskirts of the town at Chekenda-Bhandani area were also some sites identified by stakeholders at the meeting to be included in the proposed circuit. “We will keep in close contact with the representatives of local bodies, so that any land dispute can be avoided while developing the area. After getting necessary consent from the local boards or panchayats, the respective area will be included in the circuit,” Jyoti Ghosh, the deputy director of the state tourism department, said. Jalpaiguri, which includes Dooars — meaning “the door to Bhutan” — is mostly famous for its wildlife sanctuaries and tea gardens. The Gorumara National Park in the district is famous for its one-horned Indian rhino and the ministry of environment and forest had declared Gorumara as the best among the protected areas in India for the year 2009. Gorumara was declared a reserve forest in 1895, a wildlife sanctuary in 1949 and a national park in 1994. Another famous destination is Chapramari wildlife sanctuary which is known for sighting of elephants, spotted and barking deer, rhino and gaur (Indian Bison) among other animals. “Jalpaiguri has immense potential. It has its own folk form called Chor Chunni. Dham Gaan is another popular folk song of Jalpaiguri along with Bhawaiya folk song of the Rajbangshis and Dhol-Sanai, an instrumental performance by Rajbangshi artists,” said a local. Bisha-Hara Pala is another very popular stage drama of Jalpaiguri, songs and dances of the Rava community are also gaining popularity, he added. Rajesh Rajak, a veteran in the tourism industry, said integrating religious tourism with wildlife and also folk culture would be a huge attraction for the region. Park reopens The Bengal Safari Park, located on the outskirts of Siliguri, will re-open for the visitors from September 15. Badal Debnath, the director of the park, said visitors will have to follow strict Covid-19 protocol. “The visitors will have to wear masks, keep safe physical distance and maintain hygiene during their visit at the park.” The Park is famous for royal Bengal tigers, Asiatic black bear, deer, Gharial  (fish eating crocodile) and its avian population of different species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Appeal to give local touch in joy rides||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway-India Support Group, which consists of aficionados of the hill train, has sought involvement of local art, culture and cuisine to make the joy rides more alluring for tourists. Raj Basu, a veteran in the tourism industry and the secretary-general of the support group, said a team recently took a recce in the toy train from Siliguri-Rongtong, a 16km ride, and prepared a report. In its report, the support group has suggested that cultural programmes involving local artists could be arranged at Rongtong station. “Along with cultural events, if local handicraft and cuisines are made available at the stations, it would make the whole journey more enjoyable and memorable for locals and tourists,” said Basu. He has sought involvement of local stakeholders in the initiative. Recently, the DHR has introduced jungle tea safari rides with vistadome coaches. The group has also proposed that a guide be introduced for the journey. “The jungle tea safari runs on a steam engine. If the history of the steam engines and its unique features are highlighted, it would be an icing on the cake,” said Basu. The group will hand over their proposal to the DHR and Railway Board very soon. The support group’s suggestion comes at a time when the Centre had recently proposed “monetisation” of the DHR along with other hill railways like Kalka-Shimla, Nilgiri Mountain Railway and Neral Matheran Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh bomb attack on my home: BJP MP Arjun Singh||Unidentified goons allegedly hurled a bomb near Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence at Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning, barely 24 hours after the Union ministry of home affairs had ordered an NIA probe into a similar incident five days ago. Although police rejected claims of the bomb attack, the incident prompted them to launch a raid during which at least three crude bombs were recovered from a house close to the MP’s. A large team of Barrackpore police commissionerate, along with personnel of bomb squad, forensic experts, sniffer dog squad, and CID officials launched a combing drive in the area. Arjun and BJP sources claimed that around 9am, a powerful bomb had exploded in a bush barely 50 meters from the MP’s house Majdoor Bhawan, located near Meghna more in Jagaddal, unleashing fresh panic among his family members and people living in adjacent areas. While Arjun said goons backed by the Trinamul Congress had hurled the bomb to kill him, the police rejected the claim. Police officers examined the blast site and said a crude bomb hidden in a bush behind the MP’s residence went off on Tuesday morning. Arjun said: “A group of goons close to a ruling party MLA and involved in a theft racket are hurling bombs to kill me. But I am not afraid”. DC (North) Barrackpore commissionerate Shrihari Pandey refused to speak in detail. “An incident occurred. There was a blast and smoke.... A team of experts is investigating it. Nothing can be said until it completes the job and submits report,” he told reporters. On September 8 morning, goons had allegedly hurled at least three crude bombs at Arjun’s residence. MP's son Pawan Singh, BJP’s Bhatpara MLA, however, blamed the police for the repeated attacks. “People have realised that the police have no control over the law and order situation here and goons enjoying free run here,” he told the reporters. Jagaddal Trinamul MLA Somnath Shyam, however, refuted the allegations and accused the MP of staging a fake drama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Finger at BJP on interference in Gorkha National Liberation Front||A senior leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front, the largest ally of the BJP in Darjeeling, has accused the saffron camp of “controlling” the hill party to the extent that the GNLF has been forced to compromise on its ideology and regionalism. Mahendra Chhetri, a spokesman for the GNLF, said his party’s leaders were functioning only under the direction of the BJP, which in turn was allegedly trying to fool the hill people in the name of “permanent political solution”. “The GNLF leadership has compromised on the party’s stand and is functioning solely on the direction of some BJP leaders, who are trying to fool the hill people in the name of ‘permanent political solution’,” said Chhetri. Chhetri, who joined the GNLF in 2011, is considered a senior leader of the party. His statement against the GNLF’s ally suggests that a section of the leadership even among the BJP’s allies are getting disillusioned with the BJP. The BJP had promised a “permanent political solution” for the region in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Recently, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista from the BJP party had said a tripartite meeting would be convened by the first week of September but the promise has not been kept. “If the BJP is sincere about the permanent political solution, what is the harm in clearly mentioning the agenda of the proposed tripartite meeting,” said Chhetri. The BJP has not defined what it means by permanent political solution even though its allies in the hills believe that it is a separate state of Gorkhaland. Chhetri claimed that ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, BJP leaders had told them it would be difficult “for them (BJP) to mention specifics like “union territory” or “a declaration of a separate state” or even “sixth schedule status” because of election compulsion. “They should now be clear of the agenda of the tripartite meeting if they are sincere about the sentiments of the hill people. There are no political compulsions, too, for the BJP as there are no immediate major elections scheduled in Bengal,” said Chhetri who added that he still believed in the GNLF leader’s ideology of politics for protection of “land and its people and culture.” Most plain centric parties believe that if they support a separate state of Gorkhaland or even union territory status it could have a severe backlash on the party in the rest of Bengal. The GNLF leader was also critical of his own leadership and stated that the GNLF’s decision to allow the BJP field its candidate in the three hills seat was a complete “surrender” by the party. The BJP fielded its own candidate from Kurseong and Kalimpong Assembly seats while GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba contested on a BJP ticket from Darjeeling. While Zimba and the BJP candidate from Kurseong won their seats, BJP candidate Suva Pradhan lost the Kalimpong seat to Ruden Sada Lepcha, who is now with the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha. Chhetri has not resigned from the party. “I am still with the party (GNLF) and haven’t submitted my resignation. My loyalty will always be for the party that will work for the development of the residents of hills and redress their problem permanently,” Chhetri said when asked about his future plan. GNLF secretary-general, Zimba, refused to comment on Chhetri’s statement. “Let us first go through Chhetri’s comment before we comment,” said Zimba. New civic board The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM)  led by Anit Thapa formed the board at Kurseong municipality on Monday. All 14 councillors of the civic body who  belonged to the Thapa-backed faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha attended a board meeting of the civic body and decided to join the newly formed hill party. “An emergency board meeting was held at the civic body. Fourteen councillors participated in the meeting and they unanimously decided to work for the development of the civic area under the BGPP,” Subhash Pradhan, the vice-chairman of the civic board said. The tiny hill civic board has a total 20 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Contempt suit against Visva-Bharati university in Calcutta HC||One of the three students rusticated by Visva-Bharati filed a contempt petition in Calcutta High Court on Tuesday, accusing the university of not allowing them to resume academic activities even after the court had revoked the decision. Sources said the petition was scheduled to come up for hearing on Wednesday. “Despite repeated emails to the proctor and other senior varsity officials requesting them to allow us to resume our academic activities, the varsity continues to violate the court order. Left with no other option, we have been forced to file contempt petition against the varsity,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students who filed the petition. A group of varsity students had started a gherao and demonstration in front of the official residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty from August 27 night as part of their protest against the rustication. Rupa Chakrabarty and Falguni Pan were the other two rusticated students. Sow and Pan are students of economics. Rupa studies Hindustani classical music. In an interim ruling issued on September 8, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha ordered dismantling of all platforms of agitation on the campus and asked students and others not to organise any protest on and around the campus. While keeping in abeyance the varsity’s decision to rusticate the three students, the court held that it found the punishment “excessive and disproportionate”. The Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent seeking his opinion on the issue. However, a varsity official said they would also tell the court on how the car of the officiating registrar was stopped by the protesting students after the high court ruling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee roadshow: Trinamul plays rally date game||The Trinamul Congress has decided to organise a road show to be led by its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Agartala on September 22 and vowed to move court if police denied permission for the event. Earlier, the party had first planned to hold the programme on September 15 and then on the following day. But police had denied permission for the proposed show of strength. Trinamul leaders Kunal Ghosh, Sushmita Dev, Ashish Lal Singh and Sarmistha Dev Sarkar told the media on Tuesday that they had rescheduled their rally for September 22. “Let us see how long they can keep denying permission to scuttle a democratic process in the name of law and order and festival. It is clear from the denial of permission that the BJP-led government in Tripura is scared of Trinamul. They are only getting exposed,” Dev told The Telegraph. Singh said: “Till now, we have abided by what police have said. But we will move court if we are denied permission for the September 22 event or police do not suggest a date that is convenient for them.” In a fresh application seeking permission and adequate security for the rally, state Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik pointed out that the party had selected September 22 for the proposed rally to be led by Abhishek Banerjee after ensuring that it did not clash with any festival or other political event. Susmita RS candidate The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday announced Susmita Dev as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll from Bengal on October 24. She had left the Congress and joined Trinamul in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 703 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 86 successive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases with 703 new infections, 713 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by 22 to 8,074. Bengal has 2.34 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 127 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 138, the only two districts with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Nine districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, which is the highest ever and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.59. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta reported three deaths, while North 24-Parganas reported five. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Tourist dead, 10 hurt in collisions in East Midnapore’s Digha||A tourist from Sodepur died and at least 10 persons suffered injuries in two separate accidents that took place amid heavy showers in East Midnapore’s Digha and adjoining areas. Around 11pm on Monday night, a bus and a private car collided, reportedly after one of the vehicles skidded on slush, on NH116B near Chandipur. Sources said six passengers were grievously injured in the crash and had been admitted to Chandipur block hospital. No fatalities were reported. “The highway is covered with mud running down from adjoining areas following heavy rain which is dangerous for driving. The driver might have not noticed it at night,” said a police officer. In another incident, a 38-year-old businessman died when the vehicle he was driving rammed into an SUV on the same highway near Digha around 6am on Tuesday. Jyoti Sarkar, who hailed from Sodepur, along with his two friends were driving home after a vacation in Digha. Sarkar was at the wheel of the car. The SUV was from Burdwan. Sarkar’s two friends and two other who were travelling in the SUV have suffered injuries,” said officer-in-charge (Ramnagar), Sourav Cheena. “The injured are admitted to the local block hospital. Poor visibility amid heavy rainfall is said to have caused the accident. Sarkar’s body has been sent to Contai sub-divisional hospital for autopsy,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to kick-start Duare Ration from Wednesday||The Bengal government is set to kick-start Duare Ration (ration on doorsteps) project as a pilot initiative involving 3,000 ration dealers for two months from Wednesday to experience the impact on the ground before it is implemented across the state after Durga Puja. The Duare Ration scheme, a brainchild of Mamata Banerjee, was promised by the chief minister during the Assembly poll campaign this year. She promised the implementation of the scheme if she came to power for a third time. Sources in the food and supply department said all districts had been asked to involve 15 per cent of their existing ration dealers in the programme from Wednesday and submit a detailed report on the drive every day. “There are around 20,800 ration dealers in Bengal and over 3,000 of them would start the drive from Wednesday. It is a pilot project and we will observe the impact on the ground during September and October. Later, we will implement it for all dealers to reach 10.33 crore beneficiaries across the state,” state food and supply minister Rathin Ghosh said on Tuesday. According to the plan, the government asked all ration dealers to divide their total beneficiaries into 16 clusters and during the initial drive, they would reach out to their beneficiaries in the cluster concerned once in a month to deliver foodgrains at their door. “The dealers will carry POS machine and weigh machine along with foodgrains on a vehicle and deliver the items on the doorsteps,” said the minister. Sources said the rationing system got a boost after the Mamata Banerjee government introduced “Khadya Sathi” scheme to provide free rations to all in 2016. There are 10.33 crore people having ration cards across Bengal and they collect their deserved quantity of foodgrains under various categories from 20,800 ration shops. Earlier, the people had to visit the ration shops — many of which are a few kilometers away from their home in remote areas. “In remote areas like those in the Jungle Mahal and in north Bengal, people had to travel 6-10km to reach their ration shops and had problem commuting,” said an official. Officials in the food and supply department said foodgrains like rice, wheat, sugar, flour and kerosene were being distributed to the beneficiaries according to the allotments under various categories. But in the trial run, kerosene will not be distributed and people have to collect it from ration shops. “According to the instruction, every dealer will reach their clusters four days a week from Wednesday and they would keep their shop open full on Saturday and half on Sunday. People can also avail themselves of the old system,” said a senior official. The sources said the Bengal government was also facing a few challenges to implement the programme state-wide as a large number of ration dealers were not willing to join the scheme and demanded benefits like hike in commission and transport fees. Biswambhar Basu, national general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Federation, said he had written to the chief minister on Tuesday informing her that it would be impossible for dealers to implement the Duare Ration project if their demands were not considered. The dealers demanded that they be given commission of Rs 200 per one quintal foodgrains and another Rs 40 per quintal for packaging, which is quite high compared to what they get these days — Rs 75 a quintal. The amount demanded by the dealers, sources said, had been considered to be quite high as it could cost the state exchequer nearly Rs 3,000 crore every year. The sources said three ration dealers had already moved Calcutta High Court seeking its intervention to stop such a drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||20% bonus for most tea workers in Dooars and Terai ||Most tea gardens in the Dooars and the Terai have agreed to pay workers bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of their annual wages. A virtual bipartite meeting between trade unions and tea planters on Tuesday also agreed that the bonus would be paid by October 4. There are over 195 tea gardens in the plains, which together employ more than 2 lakh people. Most estates had disbursed the bonus at the rate of 20 last year. Gopal Pradhan, the president of the Dooars Cha Bagan Workers’ Union, said: “Workers of Terai and Dooars tea gardens will receive bonus at 20 per cent of the annual wages. However, the management of 40-odd gardens sought concessions citing financial distress.” Last year, 27 sick gardens had paid bonuses ranging from 11 to 19 per cent. A meeting to decide on the bonus for tea garden workers in the Darjeeling hills has been scheduled for Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Forum for small states to meet in Darjeeling||The National Federation for New States (NFNS) has decided to hold a meeting in Darjeeling later this month, a move which could bring the spotlight back on the Gorkhaland discourse at a time when the statehood issues is no longer the predominant narrative for hill-based political parties. The federation is a pan-India body and composed of organisations that are demanding separate states across the country. It has representatives of organisations seeking Bodoland, Vidharbha, Bundelkhand, Tipraland, Ladakh and Gorkhaland states. Members from other regions in Northeast with statehood demands are also part of the federation. Earlier, leaders of Telangana and Jharkhand had been in the forum before the two states were formed. Munish Tamang, the national president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh and a proponent of a separate state of Gorkhaland, has been appointed the new president of the federation. “The meeting in Darjeeling will be attended by members of the NFNS which includes cabinet ministers from Tripura, elected representatives from Bodoland and Garo Autonomous Council and leaders from Ladakh, Bundelkhand, Telangana and Vidarbha and former MPs and MLAs from these regions,” said Tamang. On September 25, a business meeting of the federation will be held with the new president taking over charge. The following day, the federation will hold an interactive session with political and social organisations from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Dooars and the Terai. In the past, hill parties like the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) and Jan Andolan Party (JAP) had interacted with the federation. The NFNS will be coming up with a resolution “both at the national policy level and at individual statehood movement level” during the two-day meeting, said Tamang. At the moment, most of the hill-based parties are relatively silent on the statehood demand. Major parties in the hills like Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and the hill leader Binay Tamang are currently aligned with the Trinamul Congress which is opposed to the statehood demand. Other parties like the GNLF, CPRM, Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha, SUMETI Mukti Morcha and ABGL (Pratap faction) are with BJP, which is harping on a “permanent political solution” that has not yet been defined. The “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai was promised in the BJP’s manifesto for the 2019 general election Parties like JAP which are unattached to any camps are also silent on the Gorkhaland issue. “Against this background, the meeting by the NFNS could bring focus back on the statehood demand in the hills, which ultimately is the most important issue here,” said an observer. TMC joining Three former Darjeeling municipality councillors, Anup Hang Subba, Sanjeev Mothey and Ganesh Sarki, joined the Trinamul Congress  in Darjeeling on Tuesday in the presence of the party’s Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen. An administrator has been running the Darjeeling civic board after it was dissolved in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
