16-09-2021||West Bengal||Won't let India become Pakistan or Taliban, says Bengal CM Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asserted that she will not allow the country to turn into Pakistan or the Taliban.  Alleging that the saffron party has claimed the Bhabanipur constituency in south Kolkata will become Pakistan if the TMC wins the by-poll from there, Banerjee accused the BJP of practising divisive politics.  The Trinamool Congress supremo is contesting the by-election from Bhabanipur.  "I don't like the policies and politics of the BJP. They only follow the politics of dividing people on religious lines. In Nandigram, they had said it would become Pakistan (if the TMC wins). In Bhabanipur too, they are saying it will turn into Pakistan. This is shameful," Banerjee said while campaigning.  Banerjee lost to Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP from Nandigram during the assembly election held earlier this year. She has to win this by-poll to retain her chief minister's post.    "I want my country to be strong and will protect my motherland with all my might. We don't want India to become another Taliban (ruled state). I will never allow my country to turn into Pakistan," she said while talking to the voters in the area.  Criticising the state BJP leadership for taking exception to her recent visit to a mosque in the area, Banerjee said the saffron camp has a problem with her visiting a Gurudwara too.  "I have visited a mosque; I have visited a Gurudwara also; and the BJP has a problem with both. I don't bring religion into politics, unlike the BJP leaders who only understand the language of divisive politics," she said.  On the sizeable Hindi-speaking population of the Bhabanipur constituency, the TMC boss said she would stand by them through thick and thin.  "I never differentiate among communities. It is the BJP which destroys brotherhood and social fabric among communities," she said.  To woo the area's business community, Banerjee said she was the first politician in the country who had opposed demonetisation in 2016.  "I was the first to oppose demonetisation. I know the kind of harassment the business community has gone through during demonetisation. I used to regularly visit Burrabazar (the business hub of Kolkata) and talk to the business community members," she said.  Hitting out at the saffron camp over its "ploy" to sell off the country's assets, she said those were not personal property of the BJP.  "The government is trying to sell off the entire country. Railways, airports and ports.... They want to sell everything off. Can you sell the soil of the country?" Banerjee said.  Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in August announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.  Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should speak to the World Health Organisation (WHO) to ensure that Covaxin is recognised so that those who availed that vaccine against Covid-19 can travel abroad.  Later, Banerjee visited the Laxmi Narayan Temple in the area and offered puja. She was also seen offering 'Arati'.  A metropolitan constituency, Bhabanipur is home to a large number of Gujaratis and Sikhs, mostly into business, living alongside Bengalis.  Banerjee, who is herself a resident of Bhabanipur constituency, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, to dare her former protege and now a BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in his home turf. Though Banerjee powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, she lost in Nandigram.  Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions to continue as chief minister.  After her defeat in Nandigram, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to allow Banerjee to contest from there.  Banerjee is pitted against the BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas for the September 30 by-poll. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her.  The votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi's way of saying thank you: a Rajya Sabha seat||For the Trinamul Congress, a Rajya Sabha seat has largely been used as a gesture of thanks or compensation as and when it suited party chief Mamata Banerjee. This has often led to beneficiaries having to serve truncated terms. Late on Wednesday, Arpita Ghosh, who had become close to Mamata during the Singur-Nandigram movement, submitted her resignation to the Rajya Sabha chairman. In a separate letter  to  Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Ghosh has expressed her desire to work for the “party and the people of Bengal without being an MP.” The immediate reason behind her decision to quit midway is not clear. Trinamul sources said she was probably instructed by the party’s top leadership to make room in the Rajya Sabha. Even Trinamul leaders close to Mamata are unsure who would replace Ghosh. Consider the case of former Bengal chief secretary  Manish Gupta, who defeated Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in Jadavpore in the momentous 2011 Assembly polls, when the Left Front was defeated after 34 years. After Gupta lost to the CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty in 2016, the following year Mamata had him sent to the upper House to replace actor Mithun Chakraborty. After Gupta’s term ended last year, he was replaced by Mamata loyalist Subrata Bakshi. That same year, Mamata had nominated former railway minister Dinesh Trivedi, theatre personality Arpita Ghosh and Congress renegade Mausam Noor. All three had tasted defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Ghosh was also made president of  Trinamul’s South Dinajpur unit in 2019. “Didi’s preference for Rajya Sabha seats depends mostly on who is in her good books  at that moment and also if she feels someone from the party was not being properly compensated,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “One cannot be certain of completing the term though," he added. Like Ghosh, Trivedi and Noor, Dr Shantanu Sen was also made a Rajya Sabha MP two years after he lost from the Kandi Assembly seat in 2016. After Mukul Roy left the party to join BJP and resigned from Rajya Sabha, Mamata sent one of her favourites in the party Dola Sen. Sen, a former Naxal leader, who has been with Trinamul since the Singur-Nandigram days, had lost to former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo in 2014. When veteran Congressman Manas Bhuniya defected to the Trinamul, he was sent to the Rajya Sabha. This time in the Assembly election, Bhuniya contested and won from his ancestral seat of Sabang and became a cabinet minister in the Mamata government. Last month, the Bengal chief minister got another retired IAS officer, Jawhar Sircar, to replace him. Another new entrant to the Trinamul, Sushmita Dev, former chief of the Congress’ women’s wing, is next in line to move to the Rajya Sabha replacing Bhuniya. Trinamul has already announced her name. “As long as the policy of alluring with leaders with key posts remains in the party such things will keep happening,” said a heavyweight Trinamul leader. Among the names doing the rounds to replace Ghosh are former Union finance minister and BJP turncoat Yashwant Sinha, former Congress MP and late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijeet and Kunal Ghosh, once arrested for his alleged involvement in the Saradha scam, who has clawed back in favour. “Didi could well spring another surprise by bringing someone unknown,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government decides to take over sand sale||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to take over the Rs 3,500 crore sand trade in Bengal in a bid to generate more revenue at a time the state administration is facing troubles in arranging funds for its welfare projects. “We will engage agencies to extract sand from sand mines and stack it at the stackyards. The state mineral development and trading corporation would auction off the sand to the interested buyers,” said H. K. Dwivedi, chief secretary, after the first meeting of the newly constructed state industrial promotion board at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources in the government said the policy adopted by the government would be a departure from the ageold practice of auctioning off the sand mines to private investors. “This will help the state generate an additional revenue of about Rs 2,500 crore annually. As of now, the state government gets about Rs 800 to |Rs 1,000 crore a year by auctioning off 700odd sand mines and through royalty on the sand extracted from the |mines. Now, the state government would entirely control the Rs 3,500 crore trade,” said an official. The new policy, sources said, would also help the ruling party get rid of infighting over spoils of the sand mines, which are controlled by local Trinamul Congress leaders. As of now, the state government auction off the sand mines for a period of five years to private investors. The successful bidders got the right to mine sand and sell it on their own by paying a royalty to the government. But in the new system, the state would not auction off sand mines and it would mine sand by engaging private agencies. The government would sell off the sand through an online auction. “This means, the government would control the entire trade of sand like it does in case of liquors in the state. Earning additional revenues would help the state run the welfare schemes like Lakshmir Bhandar which were launched recently,” said a senior government official. A section of the officials said that the new system would not come into effect immediately as private investors would continue to operate many of the sand mines till the end of 2022. “The sand mines were auctioned off for five years and the auction took place 2016 onwards. So, the government would take control of some of the mines this year, but the majority of the mines would come under government control next year,” said a source. A section of the officials said implementing the new system would not be easy for the government as many of the sand mines are operated by local Trinamul leaders. “Now, it remains to be seen how the local ruling party leaders will react when the state government would recruit agencies to extract sand on its behalf. If the leaders demand money from the agencies, the state government has to deal with the situation strictly,” said another source. The chief secretary also said the state had received a good response after it had announced that an ethanol policy would be framed for interested investors. “We have received 15 proposals worth Rs 2,666 crore investment which could generate 4,000 jobs. We are trying to set up an industrial park exclusively for ethanol,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Leaders raise pitch for panchayat polls in hills||Hill leaders are raising the pitch for panchayat elections in the region, a demand which could smoothen the path for the state government to hold the rural polls for the first time in two decades. Anit Thapa, the president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, on Wednesday said hill leaders and not the Centre or the state government, should be blamed for the impasse. “Panchayat elections, whether to onetier, two or three, should be held immediately in the hills. These elections could not be held in the past because our leaders wanted to control everything. We should not blame the state or the Centre for this impasse,” he said at Rimbick while addressing the first of the 45planned public meetings of the new party. In 1993, the Constitution was amended to put in place a twotier panchayat system in the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) areas, unlike the threetier system in the rest of Bengal. The three tiers are gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad. However, in 2000, elections were held only to gram panchayats and many believe the then GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh did not want elections to panchayat samitis as he believed that its powers would overlap with the then existing DGHC. After 2000, elections to even the 112 gram panchayats have not been held even though Bimal Gurungled Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had agreed on a three tier panchayat system when the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration memorandum of agreement was signed in 2011. For the threetier panchayat polls to be held in the hills, the Constitution has to be amended, an issue the BJP led government at the Centre has not addressed. To complicate matters, the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed in 1993 for the rural areas of the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. The SMP functions like the zilla parishad, the highest tier of the rural administrative system. The Constitution has provisions for one zilla parishad in one district. However, many hill leaders, for the moment, do not want to get into any further complications. Along with Thapa, who batted for elections to any tier, gram panchayat, panchayat samiti or zilla parishad, other leaders like Ajoy Edwards and Binay Tamang have also taken a similar stand. Edwards on Tuesday said in his Facebook post: “Unless the weaker people of our society are empowered, our society will remain weak. Panchayat system must be revived.” Of late, hundreds of supporters of not only the GNLF but also the Morcha and the Jan Andolan Party (JAP) |are extending support to Edwards who is preparing groundwork to float a new political party. Binay Tamang, who has also dropped broad hints of floating a new party, has also demanded elections to two tiers of panchayat, circumventing the three tier issue. In 2016, the Darjeeling district magistrate had held an all party meeting to apprise the parties of the state election commissioner’s directive to delimit gram panchayats and panchayat samity seats in the hills. However, with hill parties divided in their opinion, the process could not be initiated. “This time, some consensus on the need to hold rural elections irrespective of the tier is evolving in the hills and this could help the state government make up its mind,” said a hill observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Speaker Biman Banerjee hits out at central investigating agencies||Bengal Speaker Biman Banerjee on Wednesday hit out at central investigating agencies for allegedly bypassing the Assembly to take steps against its members and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for his “interference”. “It is mandatory to seek permission from the Lok Sabha Speaker if one has to take action against the members of the Lower House. The same is true for the Assembly. But in the latter’s case permission is being sought from somewhere else. This is against the dignity of the Assembly,” he said at the national meet of Speakers held virtually, his statement coming at a time the ED and the CBI have been targeting various elected Trinamul lawmakers. On governor Dhankhar, the Speaker said: “Many members of the House are meeting the governor... The governor is listening to their complaints and interfering in the nitty-gritty of the House.” Dhankhar later wrote a three-page letter to Banerjee expressing his discontent. The ED filed a chargesheet in the Narada sting operation case against two state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. Other Trinamul leaders, including MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and state ministers Partha Chatterjee and Moloy Ghatak, have also been summoned by the two agencies. While Abhishek has met the ED officials in Delhi once and has been called again, Ghatak has asked the agency for another date. The two had been summoned in connection with the coal theft case. Chatterjee has been interrogated in his Calcutta office by the CBI in connection with the ICore deposit collection case. Speaker Banerjee on Wednesday also said that matters of the Assembly are being dragged to the court, which in turn is accepting the cases. “This isn’t right for democracy, the parliamentary system is in danger…” Though he didn’t name anyone, it was clear that he hinted at the BJP moving court over the cancellation of Mukul Roy’s Assembly membership. The saffron camp wants the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. But while the Speaker was still hearing the petition filed by Adhikari, the BJP moved court. Dhankhar accused the Speaker of a “factually and constitutionally untenable premise”. Banerjee on Monday had summoned two high-level officers, Rathin Biswas of the ED and Satyendra Singh of the CBI, to his office on September 22 for allegedly violating the Assembly's norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government decides to keep Dooars parks open, not forests||The state government’s decision to keep tourists away from reserve forests have put tourism stakeholders of the Dooars in a fix at a time booking enquiries for the Puja holidays have flooded hotels and homestays of the region. From Wednesday, Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, Padma Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and South Khayerbari Nature Park, which is a rescue and rehabilitation centre for felines in Alipurduar district, opened their gates for tourists. However, the Dooars, which comprises part of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, is famed for sanctuaries and national parks that are out of bounds for tourists. The Dooars boasts of Jaldapara National Park, Gorumara National Park, Chapramari wildlife sanctuary, Buxa Tiger Reserve and Chilapata forest. The Chilapata forest has an elephant corridor between Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve. Jungle safari on elephants is popular in Jaldapara. These are the real attractions for tourists. Tourism stakeholders are in a dilemma on whether to accept bookings from tourists as the major attraction of the region is still out of bounds for travellers. Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forest wildlife (north), said: “No order has been communicated till afternoon regarding entry inside reserve forests.” Biswajit Saha, secretary of the Madarihat Lodge Owners’ Association, said: “Unless forests are opened, we will have very few visitors in the region as people would not want to visit the Dooars just to visit the rescue centre.” “The present (Covid-19-induced) restrictions have been extended till September 30 and but with the Pujas round the corner, most of the tourists have started making their travel plans. However, with uncertainty prevailing over forest visits, we are in a dilemma as we can’t give tourists confirmation about anything,” said Saha, adding they were flooded with enquiries from tourists. Apart from the tea industry, tourism is a mainstay of the economy in the Dooars. “Most youths are dependent on tourism. They run lodges and homestays, work as tour operators and guides. Many are involved in the transport sector,” said Saha. Many tour operators hoped that restriction on forests would be lifted. “The (state government’s) Duare Sarkar camps are attracting thousands, many without masks, people are travelling without social distancing, markets are crowded, vistadome coaches have been introduced for tourists, but surprisingly there is a problem when tourists want to enter the forests,” said another tour operator. “We are confident that the state government will look into our concerns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Jeweller held for gold and cash haul in Ranaghat||A jewellery shop owner was arrested after smuggled gold bars worth Rs 48 lakh and Rs 87.77 lakh of unaccounted cash was recovered from his shop in Ranaghat on Tuesday night. A customs team raided GK Jewellers, situated on Subhash Avenue in Ranaghat, and seized gold bars weighing over a kilo with foreign inscriptions on them. “Chanchal Karmakar was taken to Ranaghat’s commissionerate of customs (preventive) for interrogation after he failed to furnish document against procurement of the gold as well as sources of the cash. Later, we handed him to police,” a senior official of the customs investigating team said. A customs official said the smuggled gold bars had been brought to the shop for melting to make jewellery. “We are trying to bust the entire racket involved in gold smuggling and active across the state. Involvement of other persons in selling and purchasing smuggled gold is being investigated and appropriate actions will be taken in due course.” The customs department has alerted the BSF authorities about increased incidents of gold smuggling from areas close to the Bangladesh border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea bonus talks in hills fail over pay in parts||Bonus talks between hill tea garden unions and officials of the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) failed on Wednesday, with industry principals insisting on payment in instalments, a proposition tea union leaders said was unacceptable. Most gardens in the Dooars and Terai on Tuesday had agreed to pay a bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of workers' annual earnings at one go during their first sitting. However, Darjeeling Tea industry officials insisted that the scenario was different in in the hills and the plains. “Darjeeling tea is an orthodox tea and largely rides on exports, and there was total shutdown owing to the pandemic. There is also a crisis of containers because of which tea should not be shipped,” said a DTA source. The official added last year there was a drop in crop produce by 40 per cent and a general contraction in European markets. “The plains garden produces CTC tea which has a domestic market,” the source said. Sources said talks stopped at the very first hurdle.“The planters started negotiations stating they were facing a cash crunch and hence could pay bonus only in instalments. Unions disagreed and negotiations failed,” said a source. There was no talk on the percentage of bonus. Anit Thapa, president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, at public meeting in Rimbick, some 60km from Darjeeling, said they would not accept bonuses below 20 per cent and the same had to be paid in one go. Suraj Subba, the president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union, affiliated to the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, also spoke on similar lines. “The management suggested payment of bonus in instalments, an offer unacceptable to us this time.” Last year, hill gardens had paid a bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent. The previous year bonus was paid in instalments of 12 and 8 per cent. There were allegations that some gardens did not clear installments on agreed dates. Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA and 12 gardens with the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry according to lease papers, many are merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. In the hills, the ITA usually sides with the agreement reached by the unions with the DTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP and CPM protest TMC ‘bias at jab centres’ in Siliguri||The CPM and BJP on Wednesday organised protests alleging that Trinamul was controlling some Covid-19 vaccination centres in Siliguri and giving priority to their supporters for the jab. Shankar Ghosh, Siliguri MLA from the BJP, alleged irregularities at the vaccination centre in Bharatnager area under ward 24. “I returned from Calcutta this morning (Wednesday) and local residents told me Trinamul supporters were at the vaccination centre and were getting jab priority,” alleged Ghosh. The MLA said Trinamul cadres confined and heckled him and kicked on his scooter when he protested. Ghosh went to Kachari Road in Siliguri for a sit-in dharna for half-an-hour. The CPM also held demonstrations in Siliguri. “We have been noticing that some Trinamul cadres are influencing the vaccination process... They only allow their party supporters to get vaccinated,” said Sharadindu Chakraborty, district secretariat member. The CPM gave a memo to the commissioner of SMC and threatened an agitation against the board of administrators of the SMC if the alleged practice did not stop. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the BoA of the SMC, visited the vaccination centre at ward 24 and said only those in queue for the jab would be let in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Envoy plans to make Finland ‘visible’ in Bengal||Finland, known as “the happiest country in the world”, is keen to make itself more visible in Bengal as part of the country’s strategy to further Indo-Finnish relations, which date back to 1947 when the Scandinavian country set up its first resident embassy in Asia in Delhi. “Calcutta and Bengal have always been very important for us…. But we think we are not enough visible here and that’s something we want to change,” Ritva Koukku-Ronde, the Finnish ambassador in India, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “I think Bengal is in the same league with Karnataka or Maharashtra and we are very much aware of the potential of the region,” she added. As part of her attempt to expand commercial and cultural ties between Bengal and Finland, the career diplomat from the Nordic country is on a four-day visit to the city, along with Jukka Holappa, commercial counsellor and country director of Business Finland, during which she has been meeting chambers of commerce representatives, prominent business houses and people from the world of art and culture. “We are looking at sending a ministerial delegation for the industry summit,” said Ritva referring to the Global Bengal Business Summit that the state government plans to hold next year. She added that the country was keen on sending Finnish films to the Kolkata International Film Festival and also take part in the Book Fair here to augment cultural ties with the region. Earlier this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin agreed on a digital partnership — during a virtual summit held in March — between the two countries to facilitate research and development of 6G mobile technologies, quantum computing and digital transformation of teaching. Modi and Marin also announced a sustainability partnership involving renewable and clean energy, circular economy, and sustainable mobility with the underlying theme of making “green growth” the cornerstone of bilateral cooperation. The Finland government is also trying to woo Indian students to Finnish universities with the tagline, “Future is Made in Finland”, besides promoting its tourism potential, called the country of a thousand lakes and Santa Claus. Finland, however, is known for its research and development focus in a variety of fields, from next generation telephony to recycling technologies capable of producing biodegradable packaging materials and fibre that is used by textile majors across the globe. “In Finland, we know how to come up with new technology in different sectors while Indian companies are known for their abilities to scale up and market the technology,” said Jukka, adding that the two countries can have significant gains with higher degrees of cooperation. Already, some top Indian companies — like Wipro and Mahindra & Mahindra — are in Finland and leveraging the technical prowess of Finnish academic institutes in the field of 6G telephony. Similarly, Nokia, a Finnish company, has tie-ups with the Karnataka government. “The two-way trade in goods and services is little over 2 billion euros, but that doesn’t capture the scale of bilateral relations, which is much broader and bigger,” said Jukka, optimistic about a higher trajectory in the Finland-India partnership in the coming days. The honorary consul of Finland, Shashwat Goenka, said a strong partnership between Finland and the region will be a win-win, and hence will help in expanding the footprint of Finland in the eastern region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Two more children die of fever in Jalpaiguri||Another child and an infant died at Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday with the suspected viral fever sweeping north Bengal districts. The exact illness has not been detected. The deceased were Mrittika Roy, 3, and Papian Roy, aged three-and-a-half-months, both from Amguri in Jalpaiguri district. On Tuesday, Kaveri Roy, 6, of Kuchilbari in Cooch Behar had succumbed at the Jalpaiguri hospital. District health officials said Papian was declared brought dead while Mrittika died while undergoing a Covid-19 test at the hospital. More than 750 children have been admitted to districts hospitals across north Bengal with fever. Sources in the health department said 195 children with fever were under treatment in Malda, 113 in Cooch Behar, 112 in Alipurduar, 92 in Jalpaiguri, 64 in North Dinajpur, 92 in South Dinajpur, 86 in Darjeeling and five in Kalimpong. Sushanta Roy, officer-on-special duty, north Bengal, said over 300 children were admitted to Jalpaiguri district hospital alone in the past week. “The children had fever, cough and minor respiratory problems,” said Roy. Ten samples have been sent to the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine for further investigation. Swabs were also tested for diseases like Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya, dengue, scrub typhoid and Covid-19. However, health officials are advising parents not to delay a visit to the nearest health centre once symptoms appear in children. “In most cases we noticed that parents delayed visiting the nearest health centre. This has been a major reason for the severity,” said Roy. A five-member team of child specialists from North Bengal Medical College and Hospital reached Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday to check on the admitted children, mostly below seven years of age. The team is being led by Gautam Das and Shantanu Hazra. “A viral fever is being suspected because of the change in weather. The parents should immediately rush to the hospital for appropriate treatment,” said Hazra. Helena Roy, a resident of Sukantapally in Jalpaiguri, whose children is admitted at the hospital said she initially was relying on over-the-counter medicines to treat her children. “I rushed my children to the hospital after her condition deteriorated,” said Helena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Learning abilities survey bares twin blows in Bengal||Around 28 per cent of pupils in government-run primary schools in Bengal have got almost disconnected from academic activities, and a balanced diet has become a distant dream for a significant proportion of the students because of the loss in family income, a first survey of its kind in the state has found. The statewide survey of learning abilities was conducted among 7,204 students from Class I to V by a panel of distinguished social researchers and teachers, including Sukanta Chaudhuri, professor emeritus of Jadavpur University. Besides enumerating the percentage of students connected with academic activities, the survey assessed — through questions on mathematics, Bengali, English and environmental studies — the learning abilities of the pupils who said they were connected with education in some form. “We have learnt from the assessment that more than a quarter of the students we could contact did not receive any help from teachers or others and were almost disconnected from academic activities,” said the report, titled “Learning Together” and prepared by Shiksha Alochana, a collective of primary teachers and educationists set up in 2016 with the aim of improving the quality of schooling at the primary level. The corresponding figures for students’ assessment — through questions on the four subjects at their level and from lower classes — was satisfactory for 44 per cent, average for 32 per cent and very poor for 24 per cent, the report said. The findings, a researcher associated with the initiative said, have proven beyond doubt that the learning ability of students, especially in government primary schools, has been a casualty as pedagogy shifted online during the pandemic. “The students in the government-run primary schools are mainly from working class backgrounds like daily labourers, cultivators and small traders. A significant proportion of them could not afford to switch to the online mode,” said a researcher. If the exposure to academic activities is a concern, the bigger worry, the report has added, is the composition of the food basket for a majority of the students. A simultaneous survey on the economic conditions of parents, by assessing 369 households, showed a huge loss in family income during the pandemic, which resulted in a decline in the consumption of cereals, pulses, fish, meat and vegetables by 14 per cent, 22 per cent, 33 per cent, 44 per cent and 24 per cent, respectively. Besides Chaudhuri, the panel of academics and researchers associated with the survey included Achin Chakraborty, professor of economics and director of the Institute of Development Studies Kolkata (IDSK); Abhijit Chowdhury, eminent doctor and secretary of the Liver Foundation; Dilip Ghosh, former bureaucrat; and Anirban Chattopadhyay, journalist. An almost similar survey in 15 states covering the learning achievements of students from Classes I to VIII — conducted under the guidance of economist Jean Dreze and others — had revealed that the nationwide situation is far dismal as only 28 per cent of rural and 37 per cent of urban students were found “studying at all”. “The situation in Bengal, if compared with the one involving 15 states, is undoubtedly better, but there is little doubt that the situation is grave both at the state and the national levels,” said a researcher associated with the exercise in Bengal. The Bengal report — to be published online on Thursday — has made some suggestions on how to ensure a better life for the students and their families. As the fall in family income and the resulting low consumption of food have made it difficult for students to continue with their studies, there is an urgent need to start mid-day meals. Besides, the report has advocated special measures to fill the learning gap. In the foreword to the report, Chaudhuri has written: “The problem will not go away once schools reopen; rather, that is when it will reveal its full extent. It cannot be solved within the normal curricular framework, or by the inadequate cadres of teachers in often ill-equipped schools. “A special programme has to be created, and dynamically adjusted to the vagaries of the pandemic. It has to be implemented in mission mode, with community participation alongside formal schooling, which might continue to be impaired in the foreseeable future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||India||Bengal worker’s plight at  ‘transit camp’ in Assam||Gangadhar Pramanik returned to his home in Bengal on Wednesday from a detention camp in Assam, carrying with him a harrowing sneak preview of the probable fate that awaits countless people when citizenship regimens are enforced blindly in a country with a poor documentation record. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. The detention centres are officially called transit camps. He allegedly could not produce documents supporting his citizenship after he was picked up by the border police who are expected to serve notice seeking such papers. Usually, if a person fails to furnish the documents, the case is sent to a superintendent of police who, if unsatisfied, can refer it to one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam. If the tribunal decides the suspect is a foreigner, he or she will be kept in a detention centre. Attempts are expected to be made to deport such foreigners but India does not have a deportation treaty with Bangladesh, the neighbour usually targeted in India over illegal entry although recent trends suggest a sharp decline in such movements. Gangadhar’s case is not linked to the preparation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) — a contentious exercise whose culmination in Assam was followed by the Citizenship Amendment Act that convulsed the country in the latter half of 2019. But his detention shows what might happen to those who cannot prove their citizenship and are kept out of the NRC and the treatment that awaits them at the detention centres. Those who do not figure in the final NRC in Assam will eventually have to move the same Foreigners Tribunals for an opinion on their citizenship status. The BJP, an  advocate of the NRC as well as its extension to the rest of India, found itself questioning the final figures in Assam as they did not match its assumptions. The break-up has not been disclosed but Hindus are said to account for a large number of people who could not furnish citizenship proof and, as a consequence, were kept out of the NRC in Assam. Gangadhar was released on bail from the detention centre following the intervention of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a platform of human rights defenders that in the past one year has helped release 50 detained people in Assam. The CJP has also assisted 12 lakh people to fill up forms for the NRC. A CJP team, headed by its Assam chapter in-charge Nanda Ghosh, accompanied Gangadhar to his Radhanagar home on Wednesday and reunited him with his mother Bharati who had been surviving the last three years with aid from neighbours. Gangadhar was detained on December 12, 2017, and sent to the Goalpara detention centre. He was accused of not responding to a notice in Assam and not showing any documents to prove his citizenship. Gangadhar said he did not receive any notice. “I went to Assam around 10 years ago in search of a job. I had planned to return home after making decent savings to help my needy family,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his Bankura home. “I used to work at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati but my life changed after I was picked up in the winter of 2017 by the police and put in a jail-like place in Goalpara. I was unaware why they dumped me there but I remember I was labelled a foreigner,” Gangadhar added. Recollecting the three years at the detention centre, Gangadhar said he made several attempts to flee from the “hellhole”. When he could not, he had contemplated committing suicide, Gangadhar said. “The police kept round-the-clock vigil and eight of us were confined to a small room. It was difficult to escape and my attempts did not work. I was depressed,” said Gangadhar, who has pledged never to step out of Bengal again in search of work. Struggling for words, Gangadhar said a typical day at the detention centre began with a cup of black tea. At 11am, lunch of rice, dal and vegetables was served. The last meal of the day was at 5pm. Ghosh, who along with CJP advocate Abhijeet Choudhury brought Gangadhar to Radhanagar, said: “We found that all those who have spent a few years at the detention centre have been left mentally traumatised. They have become unusually quiet and find it difficult to recall events.” They arrived at Burdwan station by the Saraighat Express and travelled to Gangadhar’s village from Radhanagar by car. Hearing about the arrival of Gangadhar, a large number of villagers rushed to the near-dilapidated, tin-roofed house of the Pramaniks, Ghosh said. Between the time Gangadhar had left home and returned on Wednesday, his father Mantu Pramanik had passed away and his sister had got married in Bihar. “His father, a marginal farmer, died a few years ago thinking about his son as Gangadhar remained untraced. After his father’s death, his mother Bharati became helpless. We helped her survive with foodgrains and clothes for the past few years. We had no idea that Gangadhar was in a detention camp,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist. It was a chance incident that led to Gangadhar’s release from the centre. The CJP team had come to know about him from two persons whose release they had helped secure in July. “We came to know about Gangadhar in July and immediately initiated steps to get him released. The two persons we helped get released had told us that Gangadhar was in a terrible mental condition. The release took time as it was difficult to get someone in Assam who would stand as a guarantor to secure his bail. Relevant documents of Gangadhar’s citizenship will have to be provided over time,” said Ghosh. According to the bail order in Assam, Gangadhar will have to visit Bishnupur police station in Bankura once a week. Ghosh and his advocate went to the police station and the village police camp to inform them of the bail conditions. “We have done all legal formalities and handed him over to his family. It is really a happy moment for us,” said Ghosh, adding that the case to prove Gangadhar’s citizenship would continue. For more on Citizen's For Justice & Peace log on to: https://cjp.org.in/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Arpita Ghosh quits Rajya Sabha, set for Trinamul Congress activities||Arpita Ghosh of the Trinamul Congress has resigned from the Rajya Sabha, just a little over a year into her six-year term. She was elected to the Upper House in April 2020. Trinamul sources in Calcutta said Ghosh had tendered her resignation at the directive of the leadership. “She will be used more in the party’s organisational affairs in Bengal. She had also expressed her willingness to work more in the state and for the organisation,” said a source. Her resignation became public only when it was published in the Rajya Sabha bulletin on Wednesday. Ghosh had won in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Balurghat. But she lost the 2019 polls from the same seat. Within a month of her defeat, she was made the president of Trinamul’s faction-ridden South Dinajpur district, but was removed within a year. She was among the six Trinamul members ordered by the Chair to withdraw from the House for a day during the monsoon session for carrying placards and “disorderly behaviour”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 743 fresh Covid-19 cases, 14 more fatalities||Bengal on Wednesday recorded 741 new Covid-19 cases, 753 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 24 to reach 8,050. The state government also extended curbs without further relaxation till September 30. Night restrictions from 11pm to 5am stay unchanged. Suburban local trains stay suspended. Bengal has 2.39 per cent of India's active cases, and is seventh among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 130 new infections and North 24-Parganas 142, becoming the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and ahead of the national rate of 97.62. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate for Covid-19, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.59 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.32 lakh recoveries and 18,613 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||NGO helps kids relearn letters, maths in remote areas||An NGO has opened at least 50 centres in remote areas of Birbhum, Bankura and Howrah districts involving hundreds of women to teach primary students, many of whom lost their basic knowledge in literacy and numeracy during the Covid-19 pandemic because of long absence from schools. The drive by Liver Foundation, West Bengal, is named as Paralekha and aims to bridge the gap in education — identified by multiple studies on impact of school closure on students since March 2020. The NGO has engaged women belonging to self-help groups for the task. “We have involved the women members of SHGs to teach the basics to those students, who have been detached from all forms of academic activities since the lockdown kicked in.… These women groups are in the field and we are getting good response from the parents of the students,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a renowned gastroenterologist and secretary of Liver Foundation. There are around 21 lakh SHGs in Bengal and the organisers think that if the women members are included in providing basic literacy and numeracy training in remote areas, the students — belonging to marginalised families — can be taught. Over two dozen centres have been opened at two remote villages in Birbhum under Nagori and Pathar Chapri gram panchayat areas. Similar centres are also functioning in Bankura and Howrah’s Bagnan. Three NGOs — like Pratham, Vikramshila and Bagnan 1 Mahila Bikash Cooperative Credit Society — are helping out the women conduct their classes in the districts. Chowdhury said as the initiative — covering over 1,000 students in three districts — seemed to be yielding the desired impact, Paralekha would be rolled out in other parts of the state. “Apart from the SHG women, we are also encouraging the mothers of the children to come to the centres and pick up basic teaching abilities so that they can teach the kids at home,” said an organiser of Paralekha, which is targeting students in the age group of three to eight. According to the plan, the women members of the SHGs are conducting 90-minute classes, including 40 minutes on literacy, 40 minutes on numeracy and 10 minutes on general awareness, cleanliness, good habits, social and emotional learning. The centres have been set up at local clubs or public spaces in neighbourhoods. Jolly Roy, a member of an SHG at the Nagori village of Birbhum, said she was happy with the new assignment. “I have been taking classes of around 14 children in a tribal hamlet for the past three weeks. I was shocked when I found that even students of Classes II or III had forgotten basic numeracy or literacy skills. Many of them even forgot how to write. We are starting from the very beginning now,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Five die as rain flattens homes in West Midnapore||Five persons were killed in West Midnapore on Tuesday night amid heavy showers triggered by a low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal. While many parts of Bengal were lashed by rain, coastal areas of twin Midnapore districts bore the brunt, with over 20,000 homes destroyed. In West Midnapore’s Keshiari and Kharagpur, five people died as their homes collapsed on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified on Wednesday as Arun Shant, Bijli Patar, Kohinoor Bibi, Rakhal Hembram and Ahallya Sai. In East Midnapore's Ramnagar, Class VI student Madhumita Sahoo was purportedly bitten by a snake in her flooded home on Tuesday night. She died on Wednesday morning at a Contai hospital. “Some 20,000 homes in West Midnapore and 700 homes in East Midnapore have been irreparably damaged in the downpour,” said an official. “Five persons were killed by rainfall-related (home) collapses in this district. We are assessing damages,” said West Midnapore disaster management official Sandip Biswas. In East Midnapore, district magistrate Purnendu Majhi said the rain had exacerbated lingering damage from Cyclone Yaas in certain areas. Heavy rains also inundated several parts of Midnapore town, in addition to fields and settlements in and around Chandrakona, Daspur and Ghatal. The railway line near Godapiyashal village in West Midnapore’s Salboni submerged and partially disintegrated. The Salboni-Adra line was closed as a result. A car near the area was submerged in an overflowing pond. Bystanders rescued the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee visits gurdwara, backs farmers’ agitation||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday went to a gurdwara under the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where she is a candidate for the September 30 bypoll, and pledged her support to farmers’ movement against three agriculture laws of the Centre. “I completely support the farmers’ movement.… The three bills must be repealed. They had come and met me as well. I had spoken to them over the mobile phone a few times as well. I had also sent my team there.… I totally support this movement,” the chief minister said during her visit to the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road. She went on to add: “Whatever cooperation you need from me, just let me know and I shall execute it. I support Punjab’s movement.” Sikhs and Punjabis make up a sizeable portion of the 2,06,272 voters of the Bhowanipore constituency. Hence, Mamata’s statement was meant to woo this group. Bhowanipore is a cosmopolitan constituency and apart from the Sikh population, more than 35 per cent of the electorate is constituted by the members of Marwari and Gujarati communities. Hence, the Trinamul leadership has planned to reach out to these communities as well. Muslims comprise around 22 per cent of the electorate in Bhowanipore. On Monday, Mamata visited the Sola Ana Masjid. She also went to meet the organisers of a local Durga Puja on the same day. On the other hand, Trinamul Congress leaders are cautious of the Election Commission of India’s instruction to avoid large gatherings and meetings in poll campaigns in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Mamata will not participate in any major rally. Instead, she has decided to carry out smaller visits and meetings such as the one on Wednesday. According to Trinamul sources, Mamata will meet selected voters from each of the eight wards that come under her constituency over the next few days. To begin with, she will meet selected voters from ward 72 on Thursday. The party will decide on the later dates. Senior party leaders, including cabinet ministers, have been handpicked by Mamata to conduct door-to-door meetings in the Bhowanipore constituency on behalf of her. Firhad Hakim, Mamata’s trusted ally and state’s minister of transport, have hit the streets since the polls were announced. Other senior leaders and cabinet ministers like Partha Chatterjee and Subrata Mukherjee have also been tasked to campaign by the chief minister. Others assigned a similar task include MLAs Madan Mitra and Debasish Kumar and MP Kalyan Banerjee. Mamata’s brother Kartik Banerjee is also a key player of the campaign team. “Since we cannot bring a large crowd to one place because of the Covid-19 protocols, we have decided to reach out to the individual families.… We will leave no stone unturned,” a member of the campaign team said. At the workers’ meeting on September 8, Mamata had them not to suffer from complacency. “Don't think that Didi will win anyway and sit back at your homes,” Mamata had said. Senior party leaders have said t her concern stems from the results of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, where the BJP had managed to secure a lead of 476 votes in her own ward. Although the saffron camp’s candidate, a Trinamul turncoat, actor Rudranil Ghosh suffered a defeat at the hand of Trinamul’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay in the 2021 Assembly polls, Mamata and her party are unwilling to take any risk now. ECI notice The Election Commission of India on Wednesday issued a showcause notice to the BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal for violating Covid-19 protocols specified by the poll panel. The showcause was issued on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Trinamul Congress on Monday, where it alleged that Tibrewal had “not only formed a large unlawful gathering in front of Gol Mandir...as well as near Survey Building in Gopalnagar”. The poll panel had asked Tibrewal to reply to the notice by 5pm on Wednesday, explaining “why permissions to hold further political campaigns or meetings must not be stopped with immediate effect...” Tibrewal, in a voice message shared by the BJP’s media cell, said she would reply to the showcause. However, she denied the allegation that there was a large crowd with her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC sets aside rustication of Visva-Bharati students||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday set aside a Visva-Bharati notification that rusticated three students on charges of alleged impropriety. In his order issued on Wednesday, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also asked the varsity to complete the pending administrative process that was required for the students to resume their academic activities. The court’s Wednesday order comes after it had on September 8 kept in abeyance the varsity’s decision to rusticate the three while holding the move as “excessive and disproportionate”. The court on Wednesday also came down heavily on vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and varsity authorities on issues dealing with Visva-Bharati stakeholders. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message seeking his response to the court order. However, a senior varsity official said the court’s order would be obeyed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
