17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal teacher brings classroom to the doorstep amid pandemic||As schools are closed in West Bengal because of the pandemic for one-year-and-a-half, a teacher in West Bengal's Paschim Bardhaman district has brought the classroom to the doorstep of students. The 32-year-old man has painted blackboards on mud walls of several houses on both sides of Jaba village so that children get to know the three Rs of education - reading, writing and arithmetic. "Bengali and English alphabets and mathematics problems and their solutions are written on those blackboards with chalk," said Dwipnarayan Nayek, who has earned the sobriquet "Rastar Master" (the master on the road). The walls on which the makeshift blackboards came up have been given a fresh coat of paint. Colourful graffiti, nursery rhymes and social messages including the need to take vaccines were also painted on them. Classes are taken at regular intervals in the village in the Jamuria area of the district, making both students and their parents happy. Before Nayek, a teacher of Tilka Majhi Primary School in the area, brought the classroom to the doorstep of students, he had started taking classes beside a road under trees in eight spots. "But attending classes under trees was not feasible for everyone due to the presence of insects. Besides, some of them have to help the elders in farming activities. So I decided to draw blackboard on the walls of their homes and take classes there," he said. Initially, there were only two students and now their number has crossed 100. Nayek also considered it important to fight superstition among the villagers. A section of the parents thought that those infected by malaria were possessed by ghosts. "I have managed to bring a microscope to the class in the village and showed them the virus of malaria. I showed them how flowers bloom and how trees grow. Most of these children are in primary stage and they are first generation learners," said the teacher. "I have invented my own teaching manual for them," Nayek smiled as he asked his students, many of them girls, to chant a rhyme written by him on the need to wash hands regularly, and clap after every line. Nayek does not charge anything from his pupils for the service and pulled all his resources. He also gets help from family and friends. "I hope I will be able to ensure zero dropout among children in the area when the school will reopen. But I would like to continue with the present initiative," he said. Rimki Oraon, a student of class six, said they were sad when the school got closed due to corona. "But later, sir started taking classes on road and then at our doorstep. We are very happy now." Sital Baski, a villager, said they thank Nayek for coming forward to teach the children when the school is closed. "The initiative of the teacher is laudable. We are on his side," Jamuria MLA Hareram Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamped: Sunderbans’ bungalow of memories||Gosaba Island, an otherwise remote location on the Bay of Bengal, is set to gain a new lease of life as a tourist destination around Durga Puja this year. South 24-Parganas district administration has spent Rs 75 lakh to renovate and beautify the historical Beacon’s Bungalow on the island, where Rabindranath Tagore had visited in 1932 to see the development initiatives in the area by Scottish national Daniel Hamilton, a businessman-cum-social worker who had made Bengal his second home. Hamilton had built the single-storey bungalow in 1903 on this delta island of the Sunderbans, around 100km from Calcutta. It is also an architectural marvel as it had been built on solid wooden stilts. Hamilton was one of the richest men in British India who headed Mackinnon & McKenzie, a shipping company, and had bought 40sqkm (roughly 90,000 acres) land from the government spanning three islands of Gosaba, Rangabelia and Satjelia. Regarded as a pioneer of the rural and economic development of Gosaba, Hamilton began with helping people weave shawls. He also encouraged farmers to better their lot. He helped them form cooperatives to store crops, and also to learn skills such as cattle farming, fishery, horticulture, weaving, and carpentry in an effort towards develop the rural economy. Hamilton also set up primary schools in the region. In December 1932, Rabindranath Tagore had paid a visit to Gosaba and stayed at Beacon’s Bungalow. The reportedly left a deep impression on Tagore and led him to replicate similar development initiatives in Santiniketan. “Though Tagore visited Gosaba in 1932, the poet had been aware of Hamilton’s activities earlier and had shared with the Scottish shipping magnate his vision of development in a letter written in 1930. Much of Tagore’s cooperative initiatives at Sriniketan and Santiniketan were those he witnessed during his visit to Gosaba,” Sukhen Biswas, who teaches Bengali at Kalyani University, told this paper. The district administration here has already started the construction of a nature park encircling this bungalow, and has plans to install the busts of Hamilton and Tagore, in addition to other fixtures. An indoor archive will also exhibit Hamilton’s possessions. “We are in touch with some people in Santiniketan regarding this archive. At the same time, we are trying to contact people who have items used by Hamilton. We are hopeful that the archive will materialise through everyone’s help,” said block development officer, Saurabh Mitra. Authorities are also contemplating building a watch tower near the bungalow. “However, this will only be taken up in the next phase of development,” a district official said. “The initiative is to make the historical bungalow a tourist destination of the region. The renovation and beautification work of the dilapidated bungalow are expected to be completed before Puja,” said BDO Mitra. Left in a dilapidated condition for years, the bungalow’s revival was proposed by the BDO a few months ago. After a proposal and an onsite review by district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, Rs 75 lakh was allotted for the job. “We have renovated the wooden bungalow but have not made changes to its original look, architectural design and ambience. We are hopeful that tourists will have a pleasant visit at Beacon’s Bungalow and experience the essence of the two great personalities,” the BDO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha wants statehood talks||The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha has demanded that the tripartite talks that Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista had announced only discuss the demand of a separate state of Gorkhaland. The newly formed BGPM’s demand is likely to put pressure on the BJP and its six allies in Darjeeling, including the GNLF, as many believe the saffron camp is not keen on Gorkhaland discussion given its pan-Bengal political interest. BGPM general secretary Amar Lama said on Thursday: “Only Gorkhaland and nothing else should be discussed at the tripartite meeting.” After calling on Union home minister Amit Shah with leaders of the BJP’s hill allies in New Delhi on August 6, Bista had said Shah had conveyed to them that a tripartite meeting would be held in the first week of September and the state government, too, would be invited to the talks. Even though the meeting has not yet been called, Bista reassured that the same would be held in September itself. “In this meeting, the aspirations of the hill people (Gorkhaland) should be discussed and an agreement should be reached on,” Lama said on Thursday. Even though the Union home minister will decide on the list of invitees, the BGPM also has an elected representative in Ruden Lepcha Sada from Kalimpong Assembly segment . “If BJP MLAs, Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, are invited to the meeting, then the BGPM will definitely demand that its representative, too, be called. If invited, Sada would definitely speak in public about whatever discussions which take place at the tripartite meeting,” said a BGPM leader. For the BJP, which has promised a “permanent political solution” for the hills, a positive discussion on Gorkhaland would be a damper for the saffron camp in the rest of Bengal, which is largely against the creation of a separate state. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, had claimed earlier that the agenda of the tripartite talks had been changed from “Gorkhaland” to “issues concerning Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” because of pressure from the Bengal BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government issues order for buses to promote motels, shop hubs||The Mamata Banerjee government has issued an order asking all the state-run buses to pull up at locations near the Karmatirthas and Pathasathis, a majority of which have been non-starters, in a bid to generate more footfall at these government facilities. The state government had set up 70 Pathasathis along the national and state highways to offer passengers motel-like facilities during road trips. Similarly, Karmatirthas or shopping complexes — where youths were supposed to get shops free of cost — were set up to tackle the problem of unemployment in the state. But neither venture has seen much success in Bengal. “None of them (the Pathasathis) could be made fully functional as proper services could not be provided. The state wants to run the establishments by engaging self-help groups. This is why buses have been asked to pull up near Pathasathis so that these facilities get footfall,” said an official. In case of the Karmatirthas, an official said there were no takers for “nearly 11,000 shops” in these complexes. Primary findings by government agencies have revealed that as these units are located outside the busy marketplaces, at more isolated places, there has not been any interest among youths to get the shops in these complexes. “This is why the government is trying to ensure more footfall in the complexes by asking buses to give stoppages in front of them,” said a source. According to sources in the government, Nabanna will give special focus to make these units functional as they have the potential to generate income opportunities. “The self-help groups consist of 10-12 women (each, on an average). So, if Pathasathis are made functional, nearly 700-800 women could be given an income opportunity. Rural areas where these units are set up will witness a boost in economy once these units get functional,”said a senior official. In the case of Karmatirthas, there is an opportunity to employ as many as 11,000 youths by distributing shops. “The main target is to create jobs in the state as the chief minister had promised 1.5 crore employment opportunities in the state ahead of Assembly polls,” said another official. Some officials said that the failure of these facilities set up over the last decade  exposed the lacuna in the state's hands-off land policy. “As the state refused to buy or acquire land near marketplaces for these, they had to be set up in isolated places where the state had plots. This has clearly backfired,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Double-decker bus to be back on Cooch Behar road||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation has decided to re-introduce double-decker bus service in Cooch Behar ahead of the festive season to attract tourists to the heritage town. “We have decided to re-introduce the only double-decker bus ahead of Durga Puja. The bus service will be conducted once a week. Any tourists or common people can enjoy the bus ride by visiting the tourists’ spots of the town,” Partha Pratim Roy, the chairman of the NBSTC, said on Thursday. The tentative route is likely to cover Cooch Behar palace-Sagardighi-Madan Mohan Temple and Narendra Narayan Park. The transport authority had introduced three double-decker bus services in Cooch Behar 35 years ago. One of the buses was completely damaged in 2000. Another bus has to be scrapped in 2015. The third remaining bus was also withdrawn from the service in 2015 because of very high maintenance cost. Sources in the transport corporation have said the double-decker bus has a seating capacity of 90. The highest speed the bus can attain is only 30km per hour. The NBSTC has carried out all necessary maintenance works of the bus. There are also plans to conduct a couple of trial runs. “We will soon hold talks with the tour operators and non-governmental organisations and appeal to them to make the bus ride popular here by including it in their tour itinerary. Apart from that, we will also allow any individual or group to charter the bus for organising different events,” Sunil Agarwal, the managing director of the NBSTC, said. The transport corporation has 969 buses and only 600 of them are operational. Its monthly expenses are around Rs 20 crore and earning is Rs 12 crore. The authority is planning to introduce around 150 buses on different routes by filling up vacant posts of driver and conductors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leadership in Malda asks panchayat chief to resign||Trinamul leadership in Malda district has decided to seek resignation of gram panchayat heads against whom resentment is growing to prevent defection of disgruntled party members. On Thursday, Abul Kalam Azad, gram panchayat pradhan of Enayetpur, was asked to tender his resignation. Trinamul had won all 11 seats of Enayetpur in the last rural polls but sources said that at least six members had complained against Azad to district leaders. Subhadeep Sanyal, Malda district INTTUC president and a member of party’s district core committee, said that they had asked panchayat members to bring any discontentment against their head to their notice. “If the majority of the members do not want the panchayat head to continue than the panchayat pradhan would be asked to step down.” According to panchayat rules, no-confidence motion cannot be moved against the rural body head until two-and-a-half years after the formation of the body. Bengal rural elections were held in 2018, which is why Trinamul leaders apprehend that BJP and other opposition parties might encourage their party leaders to move a no-confidence motion. Of the 146 gram panchayats in Malda district, Trinamul is in control of over 80 panchayats. Sources said that similar problems were brewing in some more gram panchayats. “We feel this policy is better than letting our disgruntled members hold hands with the BJP to remove our party village head,” said a senior Trinamul MLA. Some leaders wondered what if the policy rebounded. “The popularity of a gram panchayat pradhan must be gauged very minutely or else the plan might backfire,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda police seize 450gm brown sugar, one held ||Malda police seized 450 grams of brown sugar from a youth on Wednesday night in the district’s Kaliachak police station. Sources said the consignment is worth around Rs 25 lakh in the grey market. Esraful Momin, 20, was arrested from Baliadanga under Kaliachak police station. The banned substance was found on him. “The youth was produced in court and he would be grilled further to know the source of the narcotic substance (obtained from him) in such a high volume,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police. “Although brown sugar from different areas of Baishnabnagar, Kaliachak and Englishbazar police station areas is regularly seized, the quantity seized this time is much bigger,” a police official said, adding it was necessary to get to know from where the substance was received. A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, has been registered against the youth, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Causes of ‘mystery’ fever in kids found||Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and Influenza B have been detected in some samples of children admitted with high fever to the Jalpaiguri district hospital. The findings brought relief to health authorities as before Thursday the cause of fever among hundreds of children in the region had been a mystery. Laboratory diagnoses have also confirmed dengue in some cases, said a state health official. Sources in Jalpaiguri district hospital said swab samples from 10 children under treatment had been sent to the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine on Tuesday. “RSV was found in three samples and Influenza B in other three samples. Nothing was found in the rest four samples,” a source said. Health officials in Calcutta said on detailed inquiry by the state expert committee, no specific outbreak was found so far. “Fortunately, RS virus infection is generally self-limiting and is cured within three to four days. Death rate is extremely low for the infection.” Sushanata Roy, the office-on-special duty, north Bengal, said: “Presence of this virus (RSV) in a child’s body is very common. It spreads through common cough and cold. RSV is infectious and I request parents to rush to nearby hospitals if symptoms show up.” Although 700 children have been admitted across north Bengal and more than 200 have been admitted with symptoms of fever and pneumonia in hospitals of Purulia district in south Bengal, state health officials have come up with comparative figures to show that the number of cases is not abnormally high in 2021. Citing an example of Jalpaiguri district hospital, a state health official said while 1,195 patients were admitted between September 1 and 15 this year, the figures were similar for September in previous years till 2017, except 2020. “In September 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, admissions numbered 2,279, 2,049, 2,083 and 640. The low numbers in 2020 were owing to Covid-19 pandemic. There were six deaths in September 2017, four in 2018 and no deaths in the last two years,” the official stated. This year, six child deaths have been recorded across north Bengal in the past 72 hours. Health officials, however, said some of these children had comorbidities and that discharge rate of admitted patients was also high. Nevertheless, the state government is sending an expert team from Calcutta to north Bengal districts to further review the situation. Most of the north Bengal districts have also formed committees to monitor the respective paediatric units in hospitals. At the Falakata Super Specialty Hospital in Alipurduar district, there is no child specialist though children are being brought to its OPD by parents. Of the two child specialists at the hospital, one is currently down with Covid-19 while another has recently quit the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Dooars forests now open to tourists ||The state government has decided to throw open the gates of reserve forests to tourists from Friday, causing tourism stakeholders of the Dooars to breathe a sigh of relief. Rajendra Jhakar, chief conservator of forest wildlife (north), said: “This afternoon (Thursday) I received a notice stating that from tomorrow (Friday), sanctuaries and national parks will be opened for tourists.” On Wednesday, the forest department had opened to the public parks like Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, Padma Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and South Khayerbari Nature Park, the last a rescue and rehabilitation centre for felines in Alipurduar district. But reserve forests were still closed. The Telegraph had reported in its Thursday edition that tourism stakeholders were in a fix about accepting bookings at a time they were flooded with holiday season enquiries as the region’s main attractions were still off bounds. Now, however, tourists can enjoy the reserve forests that are the major attractions of the Dooars region comprising parts of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. They include the Jaldapara National Park, Gorumara National Park, Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, Buxa Tiger Reserve and Chilapata forest. Elephant and car safaris will also start. Elephant rides are held in Jaldapara and Gorumara, car safaris are organised in all reserve forests. To start with, bookings for car and elephant safaris will have to be done on the spot but officials maintain that online bookings would be available within a couple of days. Tourists, however, have to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols. All aged above 18 will have to carry the final certificate of Covid-19 vaccination (double dose). All government and private establishments will have to be sanitised. “The divisional forest officer has also been given special powers to impose any suitable safety norms as they deem fit,” said a source. Biswajit Saha, president, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association, said he was happy. “The decision has come as a major relief as we can now start accepting bookings for the Puja, and tourists, too, can start making their plans. We are happy that elephant and car rides have been allowed. Elephant rides in Jaldapara and Gorumara are huge attractions,” said Saha. Sources said that national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves located in the Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve will open only from October 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Youth’s desperate hunt for job and documents for survival||Gangadhar Pramanik, the 33-year-old from Bankura who returned to his village on Wednesday after spending three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara, may be a free man now, but he knows that there are more challenges facing him. For the school dropout, who doesn’t possess any specific skill, the immediate concern is to find a job to survive along with his ailing mother Bharati. The other challenge is equally daunting as he has to get documents to prove his Indian citizenship. “I am happy to have walked free from the detention centre but I have many hurdles to cross before I can get absolute freedom. I need a steady job to feed myself and my ailing mother. My mother also needs treatment for her oldage ailments. I also need to get legal documents to prove that I am an Indian citizen,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his village at Radhanagar in Bankura’s Bishnupur. The story of Gangadhar’s life is like any other migrant worker from Bengal. Around 10 years ago, he had left his remote village in Bankura with the hope to make enough savings for his struggling family that consisted of his parents and an unmarried sister. He worked hard at an eatery, on the outskirts of Guwahati, but life took a terrible twist on December 12, 2017, when he was declared a foreigner by one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam and thrown into a detention camp at Goalpara. Gangadhar was found guilty of not responding to a notice asking him to prove his citizenship and also for not having requisite documents to prove himself as an Indian. The Bankura youth managed to walk out of detention on bail following the chance intervention by the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), an organisation pursuing cases of those spending life in the camps. The time spent at the camp has left Gangadhar so traumatised that he hardly interacted with villagers even as he went around Radhanagar looking for odd jobs on Thursday. “I desperately need to earn some money. I went to a twowheeler repairing shop near our village and asked for a job. The owner agreed to give me a job but the wage he offered is not enough to survive. I need a steady income as my mother is unwell and our house is dilapidated,” he said as he struggled to put across his words. Officials of the local Radhanagar gram panchayat, however, turned up at his home to provide Gangadhar with some relief. They gave him 24 kg rice and Rs 2,000 in cash as immediate help. A few villagers have also offered to stand by the family till Durga Puja by providing them with clothes and food. “We are also trying to raise funds to repair their house,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist at Radhanagar village. While Gangadhar welcomed the support of the panchayat and his neighbours, he said he was aware that all this support was temporary and he had to start earning. “I thank all who have helped me, but I need a steady job immediately,” he said. Radhanagar gram panchayat officials said they wanted to help Gangadhar but were unable to assign him a job under the 100 days’ programme as he did not have the required documents to get a job card or open a bank account. “He only has a ration card and that too is very old. He does not have documents like Aadhaar or voter identity cards. These documents are needed to provide him with a job under government schemes,” said Suchitra Samaddar, the chief of Radhanagar gram panchayat. Gangadhar said he desperately needed the documents to survive as well as to prove his Indian citizenship to free himself from the case pending against him at the Foreigners Tribunal in Assam. “I know I need such documents but I don’t know the process to get them. I have an old ration card and would request the government to help me out of the crisis,” he said. CJP activist Nanda Ghosh, who had accompanied Gangadhar to his home in Bankura on Wednesday, said the documents were necessary because they wanted to move court and show how innocent people were being harassed at detention centres by labelling them as foreigners. “He is now out on bail and can live at his village peacefully. But we have a plan to move the court to show Gangadhar’s case as an example of how genuine Indians are being tortured in Assam,” said Ghosh, who heads the Assam chapter of the CJP. Bishnupur SDO Anup Kumar Dutta has promised to help Gangadhar get his documents. “I heard about the person and have asked an official to know what kind of documents he has so far. We will help him to get his required documents in accordance with law,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Indian postal department releases specially designed envelope in recognition of Joynagorer Moa||The Indian postal department, in association with the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority, has released a specially designed envelope in recognition of Joynagorer Moa, a centuryold sweet delicacy that had received a GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2015. The unique delicacy from Joynagar of South 24Parganas district is prepared from popped rice of ‘Kanakchura’ the variety that is held together with fresh date palm jaggery, ghee, khoa kheer, honey and cashew nuts. The objective behind the release of the envelope is to boost the export of the indigenous food items, APEDA authorities said. The envelope was launched on Wednesday at Baruipur head post office by the postmaster general of the south presidency division, Neeraj Kumar. “Our aim is to make the world aware of this unique sweet item,” he said. Sources in Joynagar have claimed that there are 26 authorised Moa makers, which traced its origin to 1904 in the hand of one Ashutosh Das. The members of the Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society, whose contribution is recognised for their tireless initiative for Moa’s GI tagging, have welcomed the joint effort of the postal department and the APEDA. “It is a matter of great pride for us,” the organisation’s secretary Ashok Kumar Kayal said. Postal authorities said 1,000 copies of the specially designed envelope priced Rs 20 each had been printed so far. The copies will be sent to all major post offices of Delhi and Calcutta as well as to the Philatelic Museum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal will protect Hindustan from Talibani mindset: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday projected Bengal as the “protector” of Hindustan and the upholder of “the message of amity”, promising a “fight till the very end” while skewering the BJP’s divisive and communal agenda that she appeared to compare with a “Talibani mindset”. “Hindustan will never become Pakistan…. See, already, in their despicably divisive campaign, they called Nandigram ‘Pakistan’, now they are calling Bhowanipore ‘Pakistan’,” she told a group of voters from various religious and linguistic communities from a cosmopolitan pocket of Bhowanipore from where she is to contest an Assembly bypoll on September 30. “In Bhowanipore, Sikhs, Hindus, Punjabis, Gujaratis, Marathis, Bengalis — we all live in peace and harmony. But even here, there are attempts to drive a wedge between people. A neighbouring nation is being named repeatedly. But we will, yet again, uphold the message of amity,” the chief minister said. “India can never be handed over to people with a Talibani mindset…. Our Hindustan will become an even better Hindustan, and Bengal will protect all of Hindustan,” Mamata added. Since the announcement of the bypoll, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh has accused Mamata of trying to turn Bhowanipore into Kidderpore — a communally loaded reference to the southwestern neighbourhood of Calcutta that has a substantial minority population. Without mentioning chief minister Yogi Adityanath by name, Mamata referred to the recent Uttar Pradesh government advertisement that featured the Maa Flyover of Calcutta. “Nowadays, our development here is being appropriated elsewhere. Actually, in the name of development, they have nothing to show for themselves. That’s why my work is being passed off as their own,” said the Trinamul chief. “Claiming someone else’s thing like this is simply not right. Such cheating should never happen. They could’ve told me, I would’ve taken a picture myself and sent it,” she added. Those who attended Mamata’s half-hour address were from Ward 72, which is mostly made up of Chakraberia, Padmapukur and Bakulbagan. It is one of the eight wards of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. The session was held at Uttam Udyan in Padmapukur in the evening. Shortly after the Uttam Udyan event, Mamata prayed at two shrines in the area — the Laxmi Narayan Mandir and the Gol Mandir — barely a kilometre apart. In her speech, she criticised the BJP for choosing to attack her over her visit to a mosque — the Sola Ana Masjid in Ekbalpore — during her campaign, although she had been to the places of worship of all major communities in the constituency, such as the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road on Wednesday. “They cannot see, unlike us, that the blood that courses through all our veins is uniformly red…. India cannot be surrendered to them. To ensure that, we will fight till the very end. All of you, please support me in this cause. Please elect me so that I can continue the good fight. In the near future, Bengal will show the way to the entire nation,” said the chief minister, repeatedly underscoring her firm faith in and commitment to the pluralistic, inclusive ethos of Bengal. “We will take the fight to them. We will not stop till they are defeated everywhere… even in Ahmedabad (in Gujarat, the home state of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah),” she said. BJP quarrel The BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal, on Thursday got into an altercation with police officers accompanying her on campaign. She alleged that the police personnel were in civvies to make it appear as though she was violating Covid-19 norms by participating in illegal gatherings. “I was served a notice by the Election Commission asking why I have been roaming with a large number of people.… If you come in police uniform, I’d know that you’re not a civilian,” she said during an argument with a cop who tried explaining to her that he and his team were deployed to ensure her security. Tibrewal said she did not seek it. Her election agent, Sajal Ghosh, later wrote to the commission alleging that Calcutta police were working on behalf of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Plea to Bengal CM for law to fix MSP of all crops||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of more than 250 farmers’ organisations, on Thursday sent a “draft Minimum Support Price Bill” to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanding its implementation in order to safeguard the interests of cultivators in the state. The AIKSCC has prepared 28 such draft bills, with minor changes, which will be sent to all chief ministers in India. However, the initiative was launched in Bengal since Mamata has pledged her support to the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three contentious central farm laws, leaders of the committee said. “The chief minister has said she supports the farmers’ movement. MSP is one of the key issues of the movement and hence, we are hopeful that she will be true to her word and implement this legislation in Bengal,” said Avik Saha, the national secretary of the committee. The draft legislation demands the setting up of an independent commission which will determine the MSP for all farm produce in Bengal, ensure that the farmers can realise the MSP for their yield and also make provisions for redressal of grievances in case one is forced to sell the crop at a lower rate. “The commission will not act under the government. It will consist of members from the farming fraternity, private players and the government,” Saha said while addressing a news conference in Calcutta. As of now, the MSP of 23 agricultural products is decided on by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), an attached office of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare. The organisation has demanded the inclusion of all farm products, including those related to horticulture, pisciculture and beekeeping, in the ambit of the independent commission, along with 23 items overseen by the CACP. The Bengal government runs the Krishak Bandhu scheme which ensures an annual monetary help of Rs 10000 to farmers with a cultivable landholding of an acre or more. For farmers holding less than an acre of land, the sum assured is Rs 4,000 per annum. However, sources in the state government said the demand of fixing an MSP for all farm produce in Bengal was “a difficult proposal”. Officials told The Telegraph that the government procures only two kinds of agricultural produce, rice and jute. In case there is a distress call from farmers, the government has procured potatoes as well. However, for almost all other produce, Bengal has to depend on other states. “The open market functions in its own way. If the government intervenes in products other than rice and jute, the natural flow of the economy will be disturbed. Since, we don’t produce a surplus of other products such as fruits and vegetables and largely depend on imports, there is not much logic in defining an MSP for these goods,” a source in the state’s agriculture ministry said. This person added that it was also practically impossible to procure all or even a large share of all that was produced for the government, since it didn’t have enough cold storage chains and other allied infrastructure. “For the potato, we have enough cold chains. Hence, in times of crisis, we can procure it directly. But the same isn’t true for say the tomato or the brinjal. These are all perishable goods. The state will have to incur huge expenses for setting up new infrastructure for these products,” this official said.The AIKSCC, however, said it didn’t want the government to procure the state’s produce. Rather, it wants the state “to perform its responsibilities” towards the farmers by ensuring a minimum earning for them. “Even if the private players are purchasing the farmers’ produce, they must not pay them below the fixed MSP. That is what the government has to ensure,” AIKSCC’s Saha said. “Even if the farmer has to sell his goods below the fixed rate in the open market, the draft law has provisions for redressal. The government just has to enact the law,” he added.The AIKSCC has said it will launch a Singhu-Tikri like farmers’ protests in Bengal if the state government fails to enact the MSP law. “The state doesn’t share the data of farmers’ suicide. It claims the earnings of the farmers have multiplied three times, which is wrong. We hope it will at least accept our draft legislation. Otherwise, we will launch major protests in Bengal,” said Kartik Pal, the state secretary of the AIKSCC. The Sanjukta Kisan Morcha, the organisation spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country, has decided to write to all chief ministers of the country urging them to support the September 27 nation-wide strike called by the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 3 lakh without home after floods in East & West Midnapore||Over three lakh people in East and West Midnapore had become homeless till Thursday as vast areas of the two districts were flooded amid heavy rain in the past two days. Two persons also died on Thursday, raising the toll to seven. Sanatan Soren, 8, drowned in West Midnapore’s Chandmura village. Seikh Firoz, 32, drowned in Kharagpur. The downpour breached embankments of rivers, including Keleghai and Kapaleshwari, causing the floods. The state government has blamed the Centre for not giving funds for multiple projects that could have in large part averted the natural calamity and saved life and property. “At least three lakh people in two districts are homeless following fresh floods on Wednesday. We have opened over 300 relief camps in schools and government buildings. The irrigation department has started work to repair embankments at a few places but the situation is grim,” said Saumen Mahapatra, state irrigation minister. Sources said Sabang in West Midnapore was the worst hit and was facing a calamity of this magnitude after 12 years as embankments of Keleghai and Kapaleshwari rivers had breached at six and four places, respectively, since Wednesday night. “Nearly 1.96 lakh of the 2.92 lakh population of Sabang have been hit by floods as river water entered major parts of the Assembly constituency. Around 61,000 houses have been fully damaged and 20,000 people have been shifted to relief centres,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water-resources investigation and development minister and Sabang MLA. He, along with Mahapatra and other district officials, visited affected areas on boats. Bhunia said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been briefed about the situation. Sources said floods were triggered as the two districts received over 400mm of rainfall in the past two days. This led to at least five rivers crossing the danger level and breaching many embankments. Apart from Sabang, seven blocks, including Pingla and Debra in West Midnapore and Patashpur and Egra in East Midnapore, are badly flooded. Ministers and government officials said the second such incident of inundation of these areas within a month proved the lack of central funds had adversely impacted lakhs of people. In August too, vast areas of these two districts and Hooghly’s Khanakul faced devastating floods. Sources said the flood could have been averted if the Keleghai-Kapaleswari project and Ghatal master plan had been implemented. For the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project, the state government had given Rs 650 crore but much work got stuck as the Centre did not send its share of Rs 147 crore. “The state government did the major work in the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project but it could not be complete as the Centre did not give its share of Rs 147 crore,” said Bhunia. Officials said river Kansabati, which inundated a large part of East Midnapore, would have been covered under the Ghatal master plan had the Centre given the funds. A nine-member Bengal team on August 31 met Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar to seek funds from the Centre for implementing at least four projects, including the Ghatal master plan. “In the meeting, the central government assured us to provide us funds and asked to send a report for the due and fresh demands. We were told that the Centre would inform us what per cent of the total project cost Delhi would be able to provide us now. However, we are yet to receive the letter,” said Mahapatra. Apart from the casualties, a fisherman went missing in West Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Calcutta High Court query on rural jab demand and supply||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed the state government to file an affidavit by September 30, stating the actual demand for Covid-19 vaccines in Bengal’s rural areas and the quantity the government sent to those places. The bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, was hearing a public interest litigation alleging people in urban areas were getting jabs but not those in remote areas. A state panel lawyer told the court that people were getting vaccines in both urban and rural areas and at present, there was no vaccine scarcity. On Thursday, Bengal administered over 3.91 lakh doses out of 2,436 vaccination centres (2,123 run by the government), taking the number of doses administered to nearly 4.89 crore, around 48.9 per cent of Bengal’s population. Of them, over 1.41 crore are second doses, with those fully vaccinated forming around 14.1 per cent of Bengal’s population. The corresponding figures for India stand at 43.4 per cent of the population with at least one dose and around 14 per cent with both doses. Of the districts, Calcutta leads the pack, with over 65 lakh doses administered in all, followed by North 24-Parganas at more than 50 lakh doses. Hooghly is third, with more than 28 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile are districts Alipurduar, Jhargram and Kalimpong. Adverse events following the immunisation were reported in 0.008 per cent of the cases in Bengal. Bengal on Thursday recorded 707 Covid cases, 725 recoveries and seven deaths. Active cases in all dropped by 25 to 8,025 now, with 88 successive days of a fall. Calcutta logged 129 new infections and North 24-Parganas 125, the only two among the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported one death each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest in this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.63. Its mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Thursday. The state currently has over 15.59 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March 2020. The total includes nearly 15.33 lakh recoveries and 18,620 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Coal theft: CBI raids three locations in Delhi and Bengal||The CBI on Thursday raided three locations in Delhi and Bengal as a part of its ongoing probe into alleged coal pilferage. A team of CBI officials carried out searches at the residence of a former ECL director in New Delhi’s Dwarka. Two separate teams of sleuths visited the residence of the general manager of the public sector unit in Asansol’s Kanyapur and his office in the Satgram area and also the official quarter of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector posted at the NTPC in Farakka. This is the first time that CBI officers searched the residence of an official of the CISF, which looks after security at the ECL. Sources said the inspector was earlier posted in Asansol and was allegedly involved in the pilferage of coal from the mines. Senior CBI officers said the searches were aimed at collecting documents relating to the source of income of some of the officials who are believed to be allegedly involved in the theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees. In July, the central investigating agency had searched the premises of some ECL officials in Bengal, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh in the case involving alleged mastermind Anup Majhi and others. NIA probe A team of NIA officials reached BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence in Jagaddal, along with scientists from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, to initiate a probe into an alleged bomb blast outside his residence early on September 8. The scientists collected samples from the spot, carried out some measurements while photographers with the team clicked pictures of the spot. While no one was injured in the incident, Singh had claimed one of the bombs had hit the entrance gate of his house. Singh said he had told the NIA officials whatever he knew about the incident. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has already upgraded Singh’s security status from Y+ to Z category and entrusted the duty to the CISF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
