18-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul month after 'quitting' politics||Former Union minister of state and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo quit the BJP on Saturday and hitched on to the Trinamul wagon, the announcement coming via Trinamul’s official Twitter handle, taking many by surprise. “Today, in the presence of national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien, former union minister and sitting MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool family. We take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome to him,” tweeted Trinamul sharing Babul’s pictures with Abhishek and O’ Brien. Though Babul has not resigned from his Lok Sabha seat yet, on Saturday he said will do so now. This  creates the possibility of Babul being sent to the Rajya Sabha as Arpita Ghosh's replacement by the Trinamul. Addressing a press conference after joining the TMC, Babul said, "If an opportunity comes your way, you should decide, and I have decided to take this." On whether he will quit as MP after joining the TMC, the leader said he will follow the rulebook. He added that he will work towards the development of Bengal. "When I had said two months back that I want to quit politics, I was serious about it. After getting this new opportunity, however, I decided to change my mind. "I am very excited about joining the TMC. I will work for the development of Bengal," he stated. Babul also said that he will be meeting Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. "I am grateful to Abhishek Banerjee, (TMC national general secretary) and Mamata Banerjee for giving me an opportunity to work for the state. "I will follow the rulebook; there is no point in holding on to the Asansol seat when I have joined the TMC," he added. Since he was dropped from the Union ministry in the last reshuffle, a sulking Babul had announced that he had quit active politics, though he continued to remain a Lok Sabha MP. Babul, one of the earliest celebrities from Bengal to join the BJP ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2014, had won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in his maiden election and went on to retain it five years later. Though he shared a warm rapport with Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, whose affection for people from the culture clan is well known, Babul had turned into a fierce critic of hers. Though the chasm had widened between Babul and the Bengal BJP since his defeat from the Tollygunge Lok Sabha seat in this Assembly election, he was retained as one of the star campaigners for the party in the upcoming Bhowanipore by-elections. In fact, the BJP nominee for the Bhowanipore by-election lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal is known for her proximity to Babul. She had represented him in several legal cases and joined the party holding his hands. “Many congratulations Priyanka Tibrewal (of the) BJP. She is a spirited girl & fought all my Legal Battles (Successfully) in Politics since 2014 with a lot of grit, LOGIC and confidence. That was a reason why I asked her to join the Party. Extremely happy for her,” Babul had tweeted eight days ago when Tibrewal’s nomination was announced. A section of the BJP in Bengal is now wondering why the leadership chose to back a candidate who is close to a defector. “Well, there could be sabotage during the elections. His joining the Trinamul has come at a very key moment,” said a BJP source. Babul’s entry into politics came holding the hands of the entrepreneur-television Yoga teacher Ramdev, who is close to the BJP. According to sources, in recent times Ramdev’s ties with the BJP have turned frosty though the actual reason is a matter of conjecture. Whether Babul’s exit is also linked to the dip in Ramdev’s stocks in the BJP is not known. In the seven years between 2014 and 2021, Babul had served as junior minister in urban development, housing, urban poverty alleviation, heavy industries, public enterprises, environment and forest among others. His criticism of the Trinamul had continued even after his loss in the Assembly polls. “Fake IAS, fake police officer, and now a fake CID officer… All of them have one thing in common; photographic evidence of their closeness with various TMC leaders,” Babul had tweeted on July 7. Till 4pm, Babul had not deleted the anti-Trinamul tweets. From Saturday he too would stand to be questioned over proximity with shady characters to Bengal’s ruling party. Before Suvendu Adhikary appeared on the BJP horizon, Babul Supriyo had been Trinamul’s foremost target. Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra had filed a case of “outrage of modesty” against Supriyo in 2017 during a TV debate that was later quashed by the Calcutta High Court. In January this year, before the polls were announced, Abhishek had sent a legal notice to Babul seeking him to apologise or face legal action over alleged derogatory comments. During the campaign of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, a case was filed against Babul under the Arms Act by a local Trinamul leader. He was also accused of entering a temple in a drunken state by the Trinamul. While he would keep locking horns with the Trinamul, his relationship with the BJP leaders in Bengal was an uneasy one. In his constituency Asansol, Babul depended on his band of handpicked youths called Team Babul for carrying out programmes and campaigns rather than the local BJP unit. He was considered an outsider and not a typical BJP leader which often led to public differences with the state unit president Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Woman set on fire over dowry||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly set ablaze by her husband at their Park Circus home in south Kolkata when she allegedly failed to fulfil his dowry demands, police said. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with severe burns on Thursday. Hospital officials said her condition was ‘extremely critical’. “Her husband Sheikh Sajjad, a rickshawpuller, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder,” police said. Sakina Bibi, a resident of a shanty along the Park Circus railway tracks, was found screaming for help and in flames by neighbours late on Wednesday. Her cousin, Asura Bibi, told The Telegraph the couple got married less than two years ago. “Her husband has been torturing her for money since then. Sakina’s father underwent a heart surgery recently. Despite that, her husband was insisting she bring money from her parents. When she refused, he poured kerosene on her before setting her on fire,” she alleged. when she allegedly failed to fulfil his dowry demands, police said. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with severe burns on Thursday. Hospital officials said her condition was ‘extremely critical’. “Her husband Sheikh Sajjad, a rickshawpuller, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder,” police said. Sakina Bibi, a resident of a shanty along the Park Circus railway tracks, was found screaming for help and in flames by neighbours late on Wednesday. Her cousin, Asura Bibi, told The Telegraph the couple got married less than two years ago. “Her husband has been torturing her for money since then. Sakina’s father underwent a heart surgery recently. Despite that, her husband was insisting she bring money from her parents. When she refused, he poured kerosene on her before setting her on fire,” she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government confirms Indian citizenship of Gangadhar Pramanik||A team of Bengal government officials visited Radhanagar village in Bankura on Friday and confirmed the Indian citizenship of Gangadhar Pramanik, who was kept for over three years in a detention centre in Assam after he was declared a “foreigner”. “We have checked the land documents and details of his parents and their voter identity cards. Our officials also found his name in the register of the local primary school, where he studied till Class IV. This information makes it clear that he belongs to Bankura. We will now start the process to generate required documents and give him a job under the 100-day programme,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. The team of officials was headed by Anup Kumar Dutta, sub-divisional officer of Bishnupur in Bankura. Gangadhar, 33, said: “I am really happy after so many officials visited my home and assured me not to worry. It is really a relief that now I will have documents to show that I am not a foreigner.” As a migrant worker, Gangadhar had moved to Assam in search of work to help his poor family. In December 2017, while working at a roadside eatery, he was declared a foreigner and sent to the detention centre, officially known as transit camp, in Goalpara. He was there till Tuesday before the Citizens for Peace and Justice (CJP) helped him secure bail. Nanda Ghosh, the CJP’s Assam chapter in-charge who had accompanied Gangadhar from the northeastern state, said after the visit of the Bengal government officials: “It was really a relief for Gangadhar as well as for us because the state government so quickly responded to help out the innocent person. We really thank the Bengal government for its quick move.” “All of us at the CJP are truly appreciative and grateful for this prompt, humane and utterly constitutional act of the Bengal government in gifting back life and vigour to Gangadhar Pramanik,” Teesta Setalvad, CJP secretary, said on Friday. “For all the misery and anguish he has suffered, including the loss of his dear father, this is some compensation.” “Hundreds of thousands of genuine working Indians of different castes and communities are wilting under this burden of a civil death — manipulative denial of citizenship despite all proof. “We hope that this action becomes a catalyst for this serial harassment to stop. We have managed to get 50 such hapless persons released on provisional bail. Genuine Indian citizens should not have to be at the mercy of vicarious acts of the Assam border police,” Setalvad added. Apart from confirming Gangadhar’s citizenship, the Bengal administration recorded the name of his mother in the list of widow pensioners. She will start getting the pension soon. The Swasthya Sathi form was also filled up in the name of his mother, which will ensure her free treatment. The officials have provided Rs 5,000 in cash, rice and clothes to the youth as immediate support. “We will immediately start the process to issue his voter identity card and Aadhaar card. Once the documents are ready, we will give him a job under the 100-day programme,” an official said. The local gram panchayat has arranged a temporary job for Gangadhar at a local sweetmeat shop, where he will join on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Astronomy outfit gifts remote hubs Covid aid ||An organisation in north Bengal primarily engaged in amateur astronomy and promotion of science will provide Covid-19 patients in some remote parts of the state with sophisticated medical equipment that it received as a grant from Italy. The Sky Watchers’ Association of North Bengal (SWAN) has taken the initiative to develop independent networks in three different regions of the state, the Terai, the Dooars and the Sunderbans. Here, groups headed by coordinators will volunteer and provide for free services of gadgets such as oxygen concentrators and CPAP machines to Covid-19 patients. “We are calling it the Covid Third Wave Preparedness Network or CWPN to help people in deep interiors of the Dooars, the Terai and the Sunderbans. The idea is to ensure they have access to basic critical care,” said Debasis Sarkar, founder secretary, SWAN, an affiliated networked institute of ISRO and recognised by the NASA Afterschool Universe. Sources in SWAN said before the initiative, they studied activities of around 30 organisations and few rural health centres  in remote areas. “We will hand over the equipment at their doorstep and train them on their use and maintenance. They will be monitored by dedicated coordinators of SWAN to confirm the equioment are being used at their optimum capacity at critical time of need,” Sarkar added. He said even if there is no third wave of the pandemic, these gadgets will empower people of far-flung areas. “Coordinators will prepare a database on the usage which can help researchers in future too,” he added. Around three months back, SWAN qualified for a grant from PRO-VIDA of Italy under its philanthropic initiative plan. “Initially, we were offered cash of around Rs 1 crore. But keeping in mind our infrastructure, we scaled it down and asked for a grant of Rs 40 lakh in the form of  equipment,” a source said. “They approved it and we could get sophisticated equipment made by reputed international companies. This, we believe, is the largest non-government grant received by anybody in north Bengal,” the source. added||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bidyut Chakrabarty eloquent on rank, mum on students||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Friday tried to show the varsity’s “serious” effort in containing the relentless fall in its national rankings, for the first time in his nearly three-year tenure at the helm, but was not “in a position” to answer when rusticated students would be taken back in keeping with a recent Calcutta High Court order. Visva-Bharati was placed 64 among various state and central universities across the country in the list brought out by the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) last week, a big slide from last year’s 50th spot. The decline seems to have become a trend, as the varsity ranked 37 in 2019, 31 in 2018 and 16 in 2016, when it first participated in the NIRF rankings. Chakrabarty joined Visva-Bharati in November 2018. On Friday, Visva-Bharati held a news meet where officials handling the NIRF ranking and the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) were present, besides Chakrabarty and varsity officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and others. They tried to explain how authorities were worried about the slide in rank and were eager to take steps against it. The VC added: “In the two-and-a-half years, we did not think regarding this (fall in NIRF ranking) seriously. Now, the NAAC assessment lies ahead and I took the fall in NIRF ranking as a wake-up call.” But asked when the three rusticated students would be allowed to go back to their academic activities, the VC said he would speak on it later. “We are not in a position to answer what you want from us. We will meet you again, when I will speak on it,” he said. The high court on Wednesday ordered the rustication order be set aside for three dissenting students, Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty. The students said they had not heard anything from the varsity so far. Many said Chakrabarty’s silence on the students contradicted his avowed intent to improve the varsity’s rankings, as students and teachers working in harmony is crucial to the performance of an institution “The performance of teachers and students is an integral part of the NIRF ranking, and interestingly both these communities have been living in an environment of fear following several unjust, harsh steps, like rustication and suspension. Chakrabarty should first be inclusive to get a good result, as no one can perform well in the environment of panic,” said a senior varsity professor. Sudhanshu Sekhar Maity, a statistics professor tasked to explain the poor show, claimed the fall in rank was the result of many better institutions taking party every year, but the varsity was trying to keep its score constant.  In the 2021 NIRF ranking, Visva-Bharati’s score was 42.76, down from 46.84 in 2020. Maity said the number of publications and their quality was a component in which the varsity has been lagging behind.  “We have to improve in several sectors, including the teachers-students ratio, which was very bad, as there was an embargo by the UGC on recruitment from 2014 to 2020. However, we have started recruiting faculty members now,” added Mahato. On Thursday evening, Visva-Bharati showcaused Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the suspended professor of economics, for his alleged role in instigating students in a protest movement over the rustication of the three students, in which the VC’s home was gheraoed for around a fortnight. “I did not instigate it, but I personally participated in the movement, as the teachers are facing unjust and disproportionate punishments, only for protesting the wrongs on campus,” said Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. Rusticated student Sow had lodged a complaint against a teacher of Visva-Bharati’s Sangeet Bhavana with Santiniketan police, accusing him of insulting him over his caste. Sow belongs to the Scheduled Caste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||2 cousins dead in unused vehicle in Murshidabad||Two cousins, who were playing in Murshidabad district’s Taltala village while their parents were away in Friday prayers, died a tragic death on Friday afternoon after wandering inside a junked private vehicle and getting locked in. A third cousin has been admitted to Behrampore Medical College on Friday evening in a critical state. All the three boys were aged between five and seven. Police have said that a faulty locking mechanism in the out-of-use vehicle contributed to the tragedy, with the prevailing afternoon heat claiming two lives in a matter of less than three hours. “The power windows were up and obviously there was no electricity in the car. The seat covers and inner windows bear signs of a desperate fight for life that these children fought in their final moments,” said a police official in Hariharpara. The deceased were identified as Ismael Sheikh, 7, and Israel Sheikh, 6. Alin Sheikh, 5, remains admitted in hospital. The three children are first cousins and live in the same household. Maennuddin Sheikh, Ismael’s bereaved father, spoke to the media later saying it was a “regular Friday afternoon” and the thought of their children being “trapped” inside a vehicle had not even occurred to them till around 3pm. “We simply thought they were playing somewhere and getting late,” said a distraught Maennuddin. They started getting worried when there was no sign of the children as the afternoon wore on. “Around 3pm, we got desperate and broke the darkened windows of the car lying near our house, just as a final guess as to where the boys could be,” he added. The shocked search party discovered the three children motionless inside. They were rushed to Hariharpara block hospital where Israel and Ismael were pronounced dead. Sources said Alin was “barely clinging to life” and was referred to Behrampore Medical College. The owner of the vehicle, Feroze Khan, was taken to Hariharpara station for interrogation and his defunct vehicle was seized. Police, prima facie, do not suspect any wrongdoing on his part. “Khan should have kept the doors of his vehicle locked, but maybe they weren’t working. We will find out,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Rs 1cr gold seized near border||A Border Security Force (BSF) team seized 2.24 kilo of gold valued at Rs 1.07 crore from a truck driver in North 24-Parganas on Friday. The BSF authorities have alleged that driver Kamal Hasan, 52, went to Satkhira land port in Bangladesh with export items a few days ago and returned to Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas with 16 gold biscuits. Hasan and his helper Rajab Dhali, 45, — residents of Itinda and Panitor in Basirhat, respectively, were arrested and handed over to the customs authorities, along with the seized gold. J.S. Negi, the commanding officer of 153 battalion of the BSF, said: “Our team intercepted the vehicle near zero point at the border after it entered India on Friday morning. The gold biscuits were recovered from the driver’s cabin.” BSF sources said Hasan confessed during interrogation that the consignment was to be delivered in Basirhat. “Hasan was offered cash for this job and engaged as a carrier,” a BSF official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Illegal liquor seized, one arrested in Alipurduar||Police seized illegal Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth around Rs 9 lakh and arrested a person in this connection from Birpara in Alipuduar district on Thursday. “Our team intercepted a truck heading to Siliguri from Assam. As the vehicle was searched, 12,000 foreign liquor bottles worth around Rs 9 lakh was found. We have seized the vehicle and arrested driver Feroz Ahmed, who hails from Kanpur, after he failed to furnish any document to prove that the consignment is legal. We suspect the driver is associated with a racket that smuggles liquor to different states,” said a police officer. On Friday, Ahmed was produced in a Alipurduar court and remanded in police custody for seven days. In Siliguri, two persons were held with 21.6 kilo of cannabis estimated at Rs 1.25 lakh from Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus on Thursday. Police said Dipankar Mallick and Anil Ram, both residents of Siliguri, had travelled from Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal mulls shift from ‘unwilling’ banks ||The Bengal government is contemplating to shift its accounts from some private and public sector undertaking banks as it has been observed that many of them are not participating in the government’s flagship welfare programmes. In a message to district magistrates, chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi has conveyed that most private banks were not participating in schemes such as student credit card, financing self help groups and issuing kisan credit cards and some public sector banks were reluctant to engage with the student  credit card scheme. “In the circumstances, the state government is contemplating to shift all the accounts of its different departments, corporations etc held with all private banks and few PSU banks, which are not wholeheartedly supporting the afore-stated flagship programmes, to those banks from whom the requisite support is readily available. FS (finance secretary) is requested to kindly prepare a list of such non-participating banks,” the chief secretary wrote. The message is significant as over three crore people have visited the recently concluded Duare Sarkar camps to register under welfare schemes wherein the government transfers money to bank accounts of beneficiaries. “If the government does not get support of banks, it is not possible  to deliver timely benefits,” said an official. Sources said Dwivedi was trying to ensure that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet project, the student credit card, can roll out smoothly. Under it, all students from Class XI onwards can get collateral-free loan up to Rs 10 lakh for education. “The KCC and loans to SHGs are not a big headache as all PSU banks are supporting them. But students’ credit cards scheme is being refused by both private and PSU banks,” said a senior official. Sources said most banks feared rolling out the students’ credit card scheme as it covers all categories of students and there is no guarantor. “Banks are not sure if they can recover loans from all. It would have been more apt if the government had restricted it (the scheme) to certain categories, particularly students of technical subjects,” said a source. State government departments, district magistrates and various government agencies keep crores in the accounts of private and public banks before the money is utilised. For example, the earnest (or guarantee) money deposited by contractors for carrying out government projects are deposited in some private banks. “At least a few crores are deposited under this head every day. Similarly, funds for centrally sponsored schemes are kept in bank accounts before they are utilised. Moreover, district magistrates often keep unutilised funds with banks,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Three swollen rivers breach West Midnapore dams||Floods continued to wrack West Midnapore on Friday as well, with fresh breaches being reported in the dams of at least three overflowing rivers that impacted over 100 villages, mostly in the district’s Keshpur and Ghatal. Bagui, Keleghai and Kangsabati rivers overflowed at several points, in addition to breaching their dams. With this, the number of homes damaged in this week’s flooding is 74,232. “Rain abated as of Friday morning, but the combined effect of downpour that started on Tuesday has been immense,” said a district official. Two persons were feared dead on Friday. In Sabang, octogenarian Rajabala Kar, 85, was pulled in by rushing floods near her home. In Pingla, a similar fate befell homemaker Menaka Pengua, 45. Both went missing, prompting the National Disaster Response Force teams to rush to the areas. Earlier this week, five persons died when their homes caved in, and two drowned in floods. Keshpur, Daspur and Ghatal were reported waterlogged till late Friday evening, with over 50,000 people having to shift from homes for safety. District and NDRF officials have reportedly set up 463 rescue centres in West Midnapore this week. “The main damage has stemmed from the flooding of the Chandia river on Thursday night,” said an official. “Several betel and paddy fields have been destroyed,” he added. Residents of Keleghai did not permit the opening of nearby sluice gates on Friday morning fearing further flooding. They gheraoed district and irrigation officials to voice their demand, in the face of which large tracts of standing water could not be cleared in Mathura gram panchayat. On Friday, the Kangsabati river in Panskura was seen to be flowing some two feet lower from its level the previous night, providing a sign of assurance to local residents. “Still, we are keeping local metal roads closed to heavy vehicles pending further inspection,” said Chaitanyapur gram panchayat pradhan, Sasanka Bera.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Odisha blocks Digha dyke work by Bengal government||The construction of an embankment by the Bengal government on Udaipur beach, on the Odisha border of East Midnapore’s Digha, was stalled on Thursday evening by police in the neighbouring state. The Bengal irrigation department had reportedly undertaken the repairs and the construction of embankments in the area following Cyclone Yaas. “There is a concrete road in the area that serves tourists in getting to the beach, and it is effectively the border between the two states here,” said a local resident. “The following year, they had objected to the construction of a paid lavatory there, which we can accept. But how can we accept their objections to the construction of something which has proved to be vital to our survival here,” the villager said, referring to damage from floods. Speaking about the impasse, Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Ray said: “We have informed our district officials who will take up the matter with their counterpart in Balasore.” An officer from Talasari police station in Odisha said: “This is a disputed land. Construction cannot be allowed.” Bhograi Tahesildar of Balasore district Kamalakanata Panda told The Telegraph: “There are many disputed sites along the Odisha-Bengal border. On this particular site at Udaipur beach (on Odisha side) near Digha beach, there is a disputed area of around 100 to 200 metres that both the states claim as their own. In 2016, it had been decided that no construction would be undertaken on the disputed site. Any such activity could be undertaken only after joint verification by senior officials on the disputed site. However, Bengal officials defied the decision.” Officials of the Bengal irrigation department, however, explained that they had even tried to persuade the Odisha officials to undertake the repairs of the portion of the guard wall falling on their side, an approximate 50m of a 100m project, but the work was halted. “The talks have been unfruitful so far,” said a source. Additional reporting by Subhasish Mohanty in Bhubaneswar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Metropolitan Police rescue local minor girl from Bihar||A team of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police rescued a local minor girl from the neighbouring state of Bihar on Thursday, where she was allegedly taken by a youth in the pretext of marriage. Rudal Kumar, the accused in his mid-20s, is arrested. Police said the 14-year-old girl got introduced to Kumar through social media. “On August 30, she went missing from her house and a complaint was lodged at the New Jalpaiguri police station. The girl was rescued from Damgara village in Bihar and will be handed over to her family after appropriate legal process,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal tourism's cry to junk entry rule||Stakeholders of the tourism industry in north Bengal have threatened to launch a movement against alleged highhandedness of the Sikkim government over the entry of hundreds of youths who serve in different hotels in the Himalayan state. According to them, the hotel employees who are from Bengal and other states, are not allowed to enter Sikkim unless they are fully vaccinated. “This is complete biasness. On one hand, tourists are allowed even if they have received a single dose and are carrying RTPCR negative reports. On the other hand, these employees are being stopped at the entry points in Rangpo and Melli even if they carry such reports. Otherwise, they will have to stay in a paid quarantine in the state for seven days. This is something unacceptable,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary,  Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network . According to sources, there are around 1,800 hotels in Sikkim, 70 per cent of which are being run on lease by companies based in Bengal. So far as the employees are concerned, around half of the staff at these hotels are from Sikkim while the rest are from Bengal and some neighbouring states. Because of absence of staff, half of the hotels are yet to reopen in the state. Avijit Sengupta, a Siliguri-based hotelier who runs a number of hotels in Sikkim, said tourists had already started pouring into the region. “These days, we are receiving bookings for accommodations and in the coming weeks, the inflow of tourists will only increase. If we cannot post our staff at the hotels, it would be tough to provide services to our guests once they check in. The Sikkim government should immediately give a second thought to the restriction that they have imposed over the entry of employees,” he said. Another hotelier pointed out that considering the different categories of hotels in Sikkim, there are at least five to seven employees who are from other states and who need to join their jobs immediately. “Altogether, there are around 7,000 people who serve in different places, ranging from reception to kitchen to housekeeping to restaurant. Their absence can pose a problem for any hotel if the number of guests goes up,” he said. The HHTDN, sources said, has already communicated with the chief minister and the chief secretary of the Himalayan state. “If there is no change in the situation by September 27, we will be forced to launch a movement. The Sikkim government should understand that proper services should be ensured to each guest checking into a hotel or else, it sends a bad message for the industry,” said Sanyal. Officials of the state tourism department of Sikkim could not be contacted. Another senior state official, who spoke on anonymity, said they are aware of the issue. “We hope the matter will be resolved in due course. The concerns of the tourism stakeholders might be genuine but the government will have to make a decision keeping in mind that the pandemic is not yet over,” he said. Celebration The HHTDN will organise different programmes throughout this month to celebrate the World Tourism Day. On September 27, that is, on WTD, they will hold an award function to felicitate different people and facilities associated with the industry. They have also taken a joint initiative with the Union tourism ministry to provide hospitality training to 90 drivers in Siliguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong from September 19 to September 21. A similar training will be hosted for the forest guards at Chalsa in Jalpaiguri district. The organisation has also lined up cleanliness drives in the stations of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, along the embankments of Murti river, a popular destination in Dooars and at Pedong in Kalimpong, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 719 more cases, 727 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Friday logged 719 new Covid-19 cases, 727 recoveries and nine deaths. Total active Covid-19 cases fell by 17 to 8,008 on Friday, with 89 straight days of a fall. Calcutta logged 138 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two among Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged three deaths and North 24-Parganas five. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and ahead of the national rate of 97.63 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.19 per cent and that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate was 1.79 per cent on Friday. The state currently has over 15.6 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.33 lakh recoveries and 18,629 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC mouthpiece carries MP speech pitching Mamata over Rahul as PM||The front-page of Trinamul Congress’s Bengali mouthpiece on Friday carried a speech by a party MP who said Rahul Gandhi couldn’t become the alternative face to Narendra Modi and the entire nation wanted Mamata Banerjee. MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s punch was part of an article laid out under a screaming headline in large, black and red font in Jago Bangla. The article read: “Rahul Gandhi pareynni Mamatai bikawlpo mukh (Rahul Gandhi was unable, only Mamata is the alternative face)”. The piece highlighted the key content of the speech delivered by Bandyopadhyay, Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha, at a two-day meet of party workers which ended on Thursday. “We are never suggesting an Opposition alternative by excluding the Congress. But Rahul Gandhi is yet to be able to become the alternative face to Narendra Modi. The alternative face in the nation in Mamata Banerjee,” began the article. The piece does carry the disclaimer that it was not a decision of Trinamul, but only the stand taken by some leaders at the workers’ meeting. Although Mamata, during her tour of Delhi in July, visited interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence and met both the mother and the son there, doubts have remained on the Bengal chief minister’s perspective on the Wayanad MP and his leadership in the non-BJP space. “I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time. But I am compelled to say this, that he has not been able to become the alternative face to Narendra Modi. The entire nation wants Mamata,” said Bandyopadhyay. The Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said it was “way too early” for such forecasts or speculation, warning Mamata and her party of eroding their credibility by repeatedly making such assertions at this stage. “She keeps saying everywhere that the Opposition alliance’s face will not be decided now. In Delhi, her party participates in the meetings of the national (non-BJP) alliance. Here, they are going on and on about Mamata supposedly being that face.” Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira on Friday approached Delhi High Court, praying for quashing of the summons by the Enforcement Directorate to them to appear in New Delhi. The duo sought the court’s directives that they be examined in Calcutta in accordance with the law of the land. “There is a serious apprehension about the fairness of the investigation being conducted by the ED, New Delhi, which is a department under the central government, and it is evident this agency is being used to intimidate, threaten, coerce and attempt to falsely implicate them,” said their lawyer Rupin Bahl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India holds virtual meeting on 68-year-old law||The Tea Board of India held a virtual meeting on Friday with representatives of various associations of tea producers to discuss the proposal to review the Tea Act. The Tea Act, which is one of the key legislations that governs the industry, had been enacted  in 1953. For the past few months, there are indications that the Narendra Modi government intends to amend this act to make it contemporary to suit the current market scenario and make business easier for the tea industry, sources said. The Centre has already obliterated a number of clauses related to prohibitions over extension of tea plantation area. “These days, when most acts pertaining to industries have gone through the processes of deregulation and decontrol, the Tea Act which is 68 years old also needs to be updated,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, the secretary general of the Tea Association of India. Bhattacharjee added that the act had to be relevant to the times. Sources in the industry said that the act has provisions which mention the power of the central government to control price and distribution of tea or tea waste. Such a provision does not match the present market where teas are merchandised through different channels, including a modern online auction system which did not exist when the act came into force, sources pointed out. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said they had also sought relaxations in the licensing process. The small tea sector contributes around 50 per cent of India’s total tea production. “According to the Tea Act, there are various provisions when one needs to take an NoC (no-objection certificate) or licence from the tea board for certain activities. These are no longer required today. Also, back in 1953, there were no small tea growers in the country. That is why we have said that the amended act should have proper provisions for the protection and development of this sector,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Team from Calcutta visits sick kids in north Bengal||A five-member health team from Calcutta reached north Bengal on Friday to check out the health infrastructure available for children in the state-run establishments of the region and to confirm that the admitted children are getting proper medical care. For past 10 days or so, hundreds of children have got admitted to different hospitals of north Bengal, especially Jalpaiguri and Malda districts and Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. All of them showed symptoms such as fever, cough and cold. Doctors have recently found that in most cases the fever is being caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and B-type Influenza. During their visit, the team went to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri and the Siliguri district hospital. As of now, around 60 children are under treatment at NBMCH, among whom nine have fever. There are two others who have been detected with dengue and Japanese encephalitis, said sources. On the other hand, 54 children are under treatment at Siliguri district hospital. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said illness of the children from various areas of the region have made them draw up a fresh plan. “We are engaging surveillance teams to identify whether any cluster is developing in any locality. If any child is admitted with fever, the team will visit the patient’s house and also check out another 50 surrounding houses. The idea is to prevent mushrooming of clusters with the infection,” he said. In the NBMCH, 50 more beds for children will be added along with the existing 120 beds, added Roy. Later in the day, the team went to Jalpaiguri. As of now, 107 children are under treatment at the Jalpaiguri district hospital while in Malda Medical College & Hospital, around 200 children are under treatment. The visiting team  spoke with Jalpaiguri district health officials who informed that more beds would be made available for children. “The team members have suggested that to ease the load on the Jalpaiguri district hospital, authorities at block and subdivisional hospitals would be asked to treat the children in their places. Only if there is a critical case, should the child be referred to the district hospital,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
