19-09-2021||India||After Babul, another Bengal BJP MLA expresses anguish against party leadership||Expressing his anguish against the party's leadership, BJP's Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani on Sunday said he will take a decision on his political future soon if his grievances are not addressed. Speaking to reporters, Kalyani said those leaving the BJP must have serious grievances which have not been taken care of. "I have distanced myself from all programmes of the party and have given a deadline by which, issues raised by me should be addressed or else I will have to think," he said. Kalyani, however, did not elaborate on his grievances. Asked whether he will join some other party, Kalyani said that he was contemplating options and would make public his decision at the right time. MP Babul Supriyo and four MLAs, including Mukul Roy, have left the BJP to join TMC after assembly election results were declared on May 2. "It has to be seen on what circumstances they are leaving," Kalyani said. The TMC district leadership in Uttar Dinajpur said that they would welcome Kalyani to the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Life has opened a new avenue for me, says Babul Supriyo in press meet after joining TMC||Former Union minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who switched over to Bengal's ruling TMC in a surprise move, on Sunday said life has now opened a new avenue for him from the prospect of being "retired hurt" from public affairs. Supriyo also said he has nothing to prove to anybody, and he has been involved in politics from the grassroots level since becoming an MP in 2014 on a BJP ticket from Asansol. "Life has opened a new avenue for me from the prospect of being retired hurt from public life," Supriyo said, addressing a press conference at the Trinamul Congress headquarters here. "I received a lot of love and support from a party (TMC) with which I had a very tumultuous relationship," he said. Blowing hot and cold for several weeks after being dropped from the Narendra Modi government, the BJP MP sprang a surprise on Saturday when he joined the TMC and asserted he will work for the development of the state. Supriyo, a two-term MP from Asansol, had earlier declared he will quit politics, before being persuaded by the BJP leadership to continue as a Lok Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Jumbo birth prompts forester vigil  in Bankura’s Sonamukhi||A wild elephant, moving with its herd gave birth to a calf in Bankura’s Sonamukhi on Friday evening. The birth prompted the forest department to halt the process of driving away the herd from an area close to human habitation and towards the state of Jharkhand. The forest department has posted around a dozen volunteers to ensure that the mother and newborn are undisturbed. “A wild elephant gave birth to a calf on Friday evening. We have alerted the residents of villages nearby not to disturb the animals now. Our guards are keeping watch from a distance,” said Kalyan Rai, divisional forest officer (north) in Bankura. Officials said they will wait till the baby elephant becomes capable of walking with the herd. The herd of wild elephants entered Bhulapathra forest of Bankura’s Sonamukhi from Dalma forest of Jharkhand a few days back. “We were driving the herd towards Jharkhand when we discovered that one of the female elephants gave birth to the newborn. As we know the herd may be violent, we stopped driving the herd away,” said a forest official. “We are yet to know whether the cub is male or female as we are keeping watch on the jumbos from a safe distance,” he added. Foresters said they had alerted villagers not to enter the forest to collect dry leaves and branches of trees. The volunteers have been deployed at the head of roads leading into the forest. Sukumar Roy, a volunteer and resident of a village near the forest, said: “There are many villages in the area and people use the forest to cut down on time. Since Friday night we are guarding stretches that people use to get into the forest. We are keeping a cautious watch on the cub and both the mother and newborn seem to be doing well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Doctor dead, husband on the run in Purulia||Police on Friday night recovered the decomposed body of a lady doctor from her official quarters of a government hospital in Purulia and started a murder case based on a complaint lodged by her family members. The police said the body of Suchitra Singh, 40, a medical officer posted at Barabazar primary health centre in Purulia for the past 12 years, was recovered from her residence  locked from outside. The body was recovered after her neighbours complained of a bad smell coming out of her residence. “We have lodged a case of murder and started an investigation. Probe is on to find out the assailant,” said S. Selvamurugan, the superintendent of police in Purulia. Police said they would have to wait for the post-mortem report as the body was decomposed. Suchitra’s elder brother Salil Kumar Singh, a medical officer with Calcutta Municipal Corporation, accused her husband Santanu Pal of murder. Police said Santanu, along with his four-year-old son, was absconding and his mobile phone was switched off. “I last spoke to my sister on Monday night when she was with her husband and son. However, I could not contact either my sister or her husband after Wednesday. After I reached Purulia, I came to know that her husband Santanu had called up the block medical officer on Tuesday to inform Suchitra was unwell and would not work. I firmly believe Santanu is behind the murder,” said Salil. Her family members said Suchitra married Santanu, a medical representative, eight years ago without their consent. They said the two recently had a fight when Santanu allegedly tried to get access to Suchitra’s money. “My sister was unhappy with her married life. There was marital discord as Santanu controlled her finances. She was trying to come out of the relationship,” said Salil. The police said they were trying to get to the bottom of the case. “We are trying to nab the husband. That the residence was locked from outside raised our suspicions about him,” said a police officer. The Indian Medical Association’s Purulia chapter and Service Doctors’ Forum, have protested against the alleged murder and have written to the police and health department for a high-level probe. “The murder of the doctor in Purulia has proved the poor security of medical officers in government quarters. We demand better security in all government hospitals and doctors’ quarters,” said Sajal Biswas, a senior health official and state general secretary of the Service Doctors’ Forum. “We demand stern action against the culprit,” said Ajit Prasad, the IMA’s Purulia chapter secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government allots Rs 64 crore for court building||Two judges from Calcutta High Court on Saturday visited Alipurduar’s existing court campus and the proposed site where the building of the district and sessions court would be built, after the state government recently approved Rs 64 crore for its construction. Alipurduar became a separate district in 2014 — it was carved out of the Jalpaiguri district — and the district court is yet to come up here. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to build a G-plus-six storey building in Alipurduar where the district and sessions court and some other courts will be set up. Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and Justice Rajashekhar Mantha of Calcutta High Court reached Alipurduar on Saturday morning. They were accompanied by members of the judiciary from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar, along with representatives of the local bar association. “The state has approved Rs 64 crore for construction of the seven-storey building where all the courts would be accommodated. We thank the chief minister and also Calcutta High Court as today (Saturday), two senior judges visited the campus and the proposed site of the building. They will submit a report to Calcutta High Court and we hope the process to set up the district court would be initiated soon,” said Surhid Majumder, secretary, Alipurduar Bar Association. A lawyer based in Alipurduar said because of the absence of a district court, proceedings of all cases pertaining to the district court are carried out in Jalpaiguri. “Whether it is the police and other government agencies or the litigants, all have to travel over 100km from Alipurduar on a regular basis,” the lawyer said. From places like Jaigaon and Kumargram, one has to travel nearly 150km to reach Jalpaiguri. The lawyer said that on September 7, the bar association had sent a letter to the Acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Rajesh Bindal, and had urged him to expedite the process of setting up the district court here. “It is good that soon after our letter, the acting Chief Justice sent these two judges here to check out the available land and for other ancillary information,” the lawyer added. Though administrative officials remained tight-lipped over the judges’ visit, sources said the district and sessions judges’ court is likely to be opened soon on an existing building on a temporary basis. “It will take around two-and-half years to get the new building ready. There is information that Calcutta High Court does not want people to face inconvenience anymore, so the district court is likely to be opened soon in another building,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Kid dies after bomb mistaken for ball bursts in Nandigram ||A nine-year-old girl was killed and two of her friends, both boys, were seriously injured on Saturday morning when a purported crude bomb exploded amid them in East Midnapore’s Nandigram after the trio mistook it for a ball. Class IV student Jahirun Khatun, 9, succumbed while being rushed to a private hospital in Calcutta from the Nandigram super speciality hospital, where she and her injured friends were taken to by bystanders. The boys, aged 9 and 10, are admitted in Nandigram in a critical condition. “The bomb was reportedly discovered near an abandoned home in the area, which had  been under litigation for years. It seems the children had wandered inside,” said Kalicharanpur panchayat pradhan, Sohail Kazi. “Why the bomb burst remains under investigation,” he said. District police superintendent Amarnath K. said a case of unnatural death had been started by Nandigram police. A forensic investigation has begun probe at the site. BJP leaders of the area alleged that goons had been stockpiling bombs with active support of Trinamul. “Ruling party goons always gather in that area and they must have left it (the bomb) there. Unfortunately, a child had to pay the price,” said district BJP vice-president Pralay Pal. Trinamul leader and panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher refuted BJP’s claims, saying “such an incident should not to be politicised”. “Police will probe the incident,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Narcotics haul, 3 held in Jalpaiguri||The north Bengal unit of the special task force arrested three persons with 1kg of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, worth around  Rs 1 crore from the Pankouri area of Jalpaiguri district on Friday night. Tausif Ansari, who hails from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Alimuddin Rehman and Saddam Ali, both from Kamrup district in Assam, were heading to Bihar in a bus when they were held. “Three ATM cards, about Rs 35,000 and some documents have also been seized from them,” said a source. Also, six persons were held with a gun, bullets and sharp weapons from Naukaghat area in Siliguri, on Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||In U-turn, Congress leader to contest bypoll||Congress leader Jaidur Rahaman on Saturday announced he was going back on his word and would contest the bypoll from the Samserganj Assembly seat in Murshidabad. The move comes as a huge relief for state Congress chief and Behrampore MP Adhir Chaudhury, who had been trying to persuade Jaidur to contest the election. Jaidur had earlier decided not to contest citing family reasons. His brother happens to be Trinamul district president and MP Khalilur Rahaman. Now, Jaidul will take on Trinamul’s Amirul Islam and CPM’s Modassar Hussain in the September 30 bypoll. Amirul had won the seat in the 2016 polls. “I will actively participate in the contest as the Congress candidate and from today (Saturday) will join the campaign,” Jaidul told this paper. Earlier in the day, a video clip went viral in which Jaidur said he had decided to contest. “A few days ago, I announced my decision of withdrawing from the contest. I had begged pardon from Congress workers for my decision. However, I am reversing my earlier decision following pressure from a few (Congress) leaders and the people. I will contest as the Congress candidate. I hope the people of Samserganj won’t misunderstand me,” he said in the video address. He confirmed the authenticity of the video later. Congress sources said Jaidur, who lives in a joint family home and runs a tobacco business, had cited family compulsions for withdrawing from the battle earlier. On Thursday morning, a delegation of Congress leaders, including Jangipur sub-divisional unit president Hassanuzzaman and MP Abu Hasem Khan Chowdhury, had visited Jaidur’s home to convince him to contest the bypoll. Jaidur had stuck to his stand even after the meeting. Afterwards, party workers had painted graffiti asking people to “vote for the Congress” without naming the candidate. This appeared to have changed Jaidur’s mind. Asked about Jaidur’s decision to contest as a Congress candidate, Khalilur said: “I am unaware that he has changed his mind. We will discuss it within the family.” Khalilur had earlier said that the Congress was putting pressure on his brother but such tactics would not work. “This is not how politics works. He (Jaidur) has had a change of heart since April and should be allowed to step aside,” he had said earlier this week. On Thursday, Jaidur had told reporters that he was “no more interested in politics" and was “busy with family business". Since May, Jaidur had gone on record as an outspoken admirer of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and praised her in front of the media and on social media. Bypolls for Samserganj and Jangipur seats were necessitated owing to the deaths of two candidates in the Assembly polls, respectively, Rezaul Haque of the Congress and Pradip Nandy of the RSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Five crore Covid vaccine doses administered in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday recorded 728 new Covid-19 infections, 757 recoveries and 12 deaths. The state’s active cases fell by 41 to 7,967, less than 8,000 for the first time since April 2, 169 days ago. On Saturday, with around 12.34 lakh jabs administered from 4,859 centres (4,532 run by the state government), Bengal went past 5 crore doses of vaccine administered, with close to 5.06 crore doses in the state with a 10-crore population. Close to 2.62 crore doses have been given to men and 2.44 crore doses to women. The 5.06 crore includes nearly 1.47 crore second doses -- which means around 14.7 per cent people of the state are now fully vaccinated. The national total of the fully vaccinated is 14.9 per cent of the population. In Bengal, the 18-44 age group has received around 2.36 crore doses, the 45-60 age group has received 1.62 crore doses, while the 60-plus age group has received 1.08 crore doses. Calcutta leads the districts with more than 66 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas, with nearly 52 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile is the smallest district of Kalimpong, with 2.63 lakh doses. On Saturday, Calcutta logged 127 new infections and North 24-Parganas 121, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.65 per cent. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.91 per cent on Saturday. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress holds citizenship protest in Bankura||The plight of migrant worker Gangadhar Pramanik, 33, who returned home to Bankura’s Radhanagar village on Wednesday after three years at a detention camp in Assam, took a political turn on Saturday with Trinamul holding a protest rally at his native place to highlight how a genuine citizen was profiled as a foreigner and thrown into a “hellhole” in a BJP-ruled state. Trinamul workers also burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and shouted slogans on the dangers of having the BJP in power. Trinamul’s move came a day after state government officials confirmed the Indian citizenship of Gangadhar after verifying documents such as his land and school records. Trinamul leaders said the purpose of the protest was to alert the people of Radhanagar about the dangers of the several citizenship matrixes that the duo of Modi and Shah wanted to thrust on the nation. The protest is politically significant as the BJP in Bankura, which is a part of Jungle Mahal, won eight of 12 Assembly seats this year. However, BJP’s Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh switched over to the Trinamul recently and was present at the Radhanagar protest. “Gangadhar is an Indian citizen and a son of Bankura. The BJP-led Assam government did not bother to check Gangadhar’s antecedents before dumping him into a detention centre, where he was mentally and physically tortured. The story of this young villager tells how persons from other states are treated in BJP-ruled states,” said Alok Mukherjee, Trinamul president of Bankura organisational district. Mukherjee said the party planned to take the protests to other areas of the district to show how the BJP was dangerous for the country. “The incident justifies our chief minister’s protest against implementing the National Register of Citizens (NRC),” Mukherjee added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been vocal against the NRC since its implementation in Assam. She has repeatedly assured the people of Bengal that she would not let it roll out in Bengal. When the NRC was being implemented in Assam, she sent a team of MPs in August 2018 to the neighbouring state but Trinamul leaders were not allowed to step outside Silchar airport. During her visit to Assam’s Dhubri while campaigning for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata dubbed the NRC as a conspiracy by the BJP-ruled Centre. Trinamul sources said they would raise their pitch on Gangadhar’s plight as the NRC issue had paid the party rich dividends in Assembly polls. BJP president of Bishnupur organisational district (in Bankura) Sujit Agasty said Trinamul leaders were “playing dirty politics” with Gangadhar’s plight. “It is true he had been detained in Assam but it was the outcome of a decision taken by the Foreigners Tribunal in that state. Assam BJP had no role in it. We are happy he is back home but condemn the dirty politics that Trinamul is indulging in,” Agasty said. A chance intervention by the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) helped Gangadhar walk out on bail on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo-less saffron party on bargain high horse  ||State BJP leaders claimed in private on Saturday that although former minister and party MP Babul Supriyo’s defection to Trinamul had embarrassed the party for now, in the long term the singer-turned-politician’s exit would send the right message to its rank and file. “A celebrity quitting will make headlines and embarrass the party struggling to cope with the (Assembly) election results,” said a BJP insider. “But in the longer run, we will gain. It’s clear to everyone that Babul quit the party after failing to bargain with the central leadership after he was asked to resign from the cabinet. The fact that our party doesn’t allow leaders to bargain is a message that must trickle down the ranks,” he added, narrating the chronology of events since the Union  July shuffle in the Union ministry. Supriyo, then the junior environment minister, had to give up his berth and he didn’t hide his displeasure. He had tweeted on July 8, the day he resigned: “I am really sad for myself.” He deleted the post later. In July-end, in a Facebook post the singer-politician announced he was bidding “alvida” (farewell), signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. Although a BJP MP since 2014, Supriyo has had differences with the state party unit, especially its president Dilip Ghosh, who had accused him of not taking interest in the BJP’s  organisational matters. Several BJP insiders said that Supriyo’s long absence from the state during the first phase of Covid and after the Assembly polls cost him dear. According to a source, reports of Supriyo’s “reluctance to stand by party workers under attack” reached the Delhi leadership that cost him his ministerial berth. “Instead of changing himself, he tried to bargain with the central leadership after the reshuffle,” said another source. “One day he called up Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and said he wanted to meet him to tender his resignation as an MP.… As the news reached Amit-ji (Shah), he made it clear that Babul was free to resign. When the Speaker’s office contacted him to know when he would come to tender his resignation, he sought some time,” said a BJP source, adding that Supriyo had been upset on learning that he would have to vacate his sprawling residence in Lutyens Delhi. He apparently met party president J.P. Nadda and they agreed he would not resign as an MP, but distance himself from politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul Congress||Former Union minister and BJP’s Asansol MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamul Congress on Saturday. “Today, in the presence of national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and RS MP Derek O’Brien, former Union minister and sitting MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool family,” Trinamul tweeted in the afternoon. Supriyo is the first MP and fifth BJP lawmaker — after MLAs Mukul Roy, Tanmoy Ghosh, Biswajit Das and Soumen Roy — to have joined Trinamul in the past four months since the saffron camp’s Assembly poll setback. A two-time MP and minister known for his proximity with the BJP’s central leadership, Supriyo had been sulking since the July shuffle in which he was dropped as junior environment minister. He had earlier offered to resign as an MP, a decision he changed later, and announced his plan to quit politics. Once a bitter critic of the Trinamul regime, especially Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek — Supriyo had also publicly announced that he would not join any other political party. On Saturday, Supriyo tried his best to justify his decision to make a U-turn and hold the Trinamul flag. Speaking at a brief news conference after his induction, he said that the “opportunity” to join Trinamul and work for the people of Bengal suddenly came his way, “just four days back”. “When I said I’d quit politics I meant it from my heart. However, I believe a huge responsibility to serve the people of Bengal is being entrusted upon me (by Trinamul).… This happened over a matter of four days when I had called up Derek (O’Brien) over my daughter’s admission. Then I spoke to Didi and Abhishek. I’m proud to have changed my decision...,” Supriyo said. He added that his family and friends had already been asking him to reconsider his decision of bidding goodbye to politics. Asked if he would quit as Asansol MP, he suggested that he would. “Obviously!” he said. “Since I’ve joined Trinamul there is no point in holding the Asansol seat.… I’ve come to politics because of Asansol and I’ll do whatever I can for them.…” Asked whether he would be sent to the Rajya Sabha, Supriyo deflected the question to Derek, who helped him dodge a barrage of questions that flew thick and fast at him. Supriyo is scheduled to hold another news conference on Sunday. Trinamul sources said Supriyo might be asked to campaign for Mamata in the Bhowanipore constituency for the upcoming bypoll. If this happens, the irony would be striking as Supriyo had on September 10 congratulated Priyanka Tibrewal for being picked as the BJP’s candidate for the contest against Mamata. Supriyo was also named by the party as one of the star campaigners for Tibrewal. However, he had rejected outright such a possibility as he had “quit” politics. Although most leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit had been unhappy with Supriyo for the past few years, they said his exit was an embarrassment in the short run while the party would gain in the longer run. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP chief, said: “He was never a party worker. He used the party to be an MP and a minister.… For eight months during Covid-19, he sat in Delhi and never cared for the workers here.… Neither did he ever stand by the people, who were facing attacks by Trinamul goons after the Assembly polls,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. Ghosh, who always had differences with Supriyo, used the opportunity to express his displeasure with the central leadership. “I’ve been proved right about a lot of people.… Same goes for him. We have expressed our discontent with these leaders to our central leadership time and again, but nobody listens.” The BJP’s Asansol organisational district vice-president, Subrata Mishra, said Supriyo’s departure would only help the party to get stronger in the area because “nobody liked him”. Trinamul state secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh has said that while Supriyo joined on Saturday, several others were waiting to switch to the party as they were unhappy with the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
