20-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP sacks Dilip Ghosh as Bengal unit chief||The BJP removed its Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh in a surprise move late on Monday evening, and handed over charge to the party’s Balurghat MP, Sukanto Majumdar. BJP insiders say the steady erosion in the party's ranks despite emerging as the only major Opposition in Bengal could be one of the reasons behind Ghosh’s sudden removal. For Union minister Babul Supriyo was the latest heavyweight to leave the BJP for the Trinamul Congress, saying that it was Mamata Banerjee's party had given him the opportunity to work for the people again. Ghosh was also criticized for leaving the BJP’s doors open for anyone and everyone from any political party to make a switch. In his defence though, Ghosh had claimed he was not in favour of the policy but was following instructions from the national leadership. The tenure of Ghosh, who has been at the helm of the party since 2015, was to continue till December 2022. As a consolation, the Kharagpur MP was made one of the national vice-presidents of the BJP. A hardcore RSS man, Ghosh was inducted to the BJP in 2014, when it won two Lok Sabha seats in Bengal. While almost the entire country was swept by the Narendra Modi wave, Bengal had largely remained untouched. Ghosh, a thorough organization man, was also a loose cannon whose comments often left the party red-faced. However, it is to his credit that the BJP gradually built an electoral machinery in Bengal. In 2016, the BJP managed only three MLAs, including Ghosh’s maiden electoral victory over the Congress stalwart “Chacha” Gyansingh Sohanpal from Kharagpur Sadar. Three years later, under Ghosh’s leadership, the BJP had a stellar performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the party won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats, and dealt a body blow to the ruling Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee, forcing her to change her strategy, like roping in poll strategist Prashant Kishore. Ghosh himself was elected as an MP for the first time. The 2019 Lok Sabha results gave rise to the BJP’s hopes in Bengal, a still unconquered territory, and it was projected as a viable alternative to the Trinamul as the traditional Bengal parties, the Left and the Congress, continued to bleed. The 2021 poll results, however, turned into a debacle as the BJP came nowhere near forming the government, or even posing a threat to the Trinamul. Ghosh’s supporters in the party, however, insist that it was under him that the party got its highest number of seats ever, 77. Though Ghosh led the BJP during the elections, he did not contest the polls himself, while several other MPs like Locket Chatterjee contested and lost. Things have, however, changed for worse for the BJP in Bengal as its elected representatives made slow but steady shifts to the Trinamul camp. While the MLAs who have defected are those who came from Trinamul, on Saturday two-time BJP MP Babul Supriyo made his exit and switched to the Trinamul. On Sunday Trinamul minister Firhad Hakim had claimed that even the likes of Dilip Ghosh were keen to defect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo meets Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who joined the Trinamool Congress last week, met Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. Supriyo, the BJP MP from Asansol, visited state secretariat Nabanna to meet Banerjee. "It was great meeting 'Didi'. We had a very good discussion. I thanked her for giving me an opportunity to work for Bengal and serve the people. I am really touched by the affection and warmth of 'Didi' and Abhishek Banerjee," he told reporters after the meeting. Asked about his role in the TMC, Supriyo said it was for the party to decide. "I have nothing to say about it. It is for the party and our supremo Mamata Banerjee to decide. It is her prerogative," he said. This was Supriyo's first meeting with Banerjee after he joined the TMC on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: BJP cries out of RS bypoll, TMC's Sushmita Dev will be elected unopposed  ||The main Opposition BJP in West Bengal said on Monday that it would not field a candidate for the October 4 Rajya Sabha by-poll, paving the way for the ruling TMC nominee's election to the upper House unopposed. The TMC had last week named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, as its candidate for the by-poll. Dev, the daughter of veteran Congress leader from Assam,  the late Santosh Mohan Dev, was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress. She is likely to file her nomination on Monday, sources close to her said. The by-election has been necessitated as TMC's Manas Bhunia quit the Rajya Sabha after winning the assembly election from Sabang in Paschim Medinipur. "BJP will not nominate any candidate for Rajyasabha bypoll due in West Bengal. Outcome is predetermined. Our focus is to make sure unelected CM to be unelected once again. Jai Ma Kali," leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari tweeted. Adhikari, who defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, was apparently referring to her contesting by-election from Bhabanipur assembly seat in Kolkata. In an earlier by-election for a Rajya Sabha seat in July, the BJP had decided against fielding its nominee. TMC candidate and former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar had got elected unopposed. The BJP had won 77 of the 292 seats in the March-April assembly elections and the Trinamool Congress 213. The ISF and GJM had bagged one seat each. BJP MLAs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats, bringing down the party's strength in the Assembly to 75. Four other BJP legislators switched over to the TMC but are yet to resign as MLAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata anchor ‘gang-raped’ in Patna hotel alleges police inaction ||A 24-year-old woman from Kolkata who works as an anchor has alleged that she was gang-raped at a hotel in Patna in July, when she went there to anchor a programme organised by an event management company. According to her complaint, two men, including the owner of the company, had allegedly raped her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. She returned to Kolkata and lodged a complaint with Jadavpur police station in south Kolkata in July, after which the case was shifted to Patna. The woman alleged on Sunday that even more than two months after the complaint was lodged, Patna police had not made any arrest. She said she was still receiving threat calls from the alleged perpetrators. Officers of the Patna police said they were probing the matter and would take necessary action. “It is a two-month-old incident. The case was initially registered with Kolkata police and then moved here. Whatever is there in the FIR, we are looking into them. There are serious allegations of rape. Why wouldn't they be arrested? But before that we are making a detailed investigation,” said Rahul Ambarish, superintendent of police, Patna City (Central). The station house officer (SHO) of Gandhi Maidan police station in whose area the hotel is, denied that ‘nothing has been done’ by the police. “We have sent teams from Patna to Muzaffarpur thrice in the past two months. Both accused were absconding. Their phones were switched off. Their last tower location was in Muzaffarpur,” said SHO Ranjit Bats. Bats, the SHO, said the police had examined CCTV footage and were trying to verify the anchor’s account. The woman had mentioned in her complaint lodged with Jadavpur police station that she had gone to Patna in the last week of June to anchor an event. “I was categorically told by the wife of the event management company’s owner that my husband should not accompany me as they were not in a position to bear any additional expenses. She assured me that she and I would stay on the same floor of the hotel. But on reaching the hotel, I was told that she was not there,” the complainant said on Sunday. The alleged incident happened early on July 3 — hours before she was to catch a train back home from Patna Junction. “After the event, the owner came to my room around 1am to make the payment. When he started opening a bottle of whiskey, I strongly objected and started shouting. At that point, another man — a friend of the owner — entered the room and shut the door. I realised they had come prepared,” she said. The woman said she tried to pick up the receiver of the land phone in the room but the men snapped the wire. The men allegedly threatened to kill her if she dared raise her voice. “I tried my best to resist them but they overpowered me. After that, they dragged me into the washroom and poured water on me to wipe all evidence. One of them thrust a contraceptive pill in my mouth before they both accompanied me to the station to ensure I did not raise any alarm,” she said. The woman boarded a train at 4.25am and reached Kolkata in the evening. The next day she went to Jadavpur police station and lodged her complaint. A senior police officer at Lalbazar said they had started a ‘zero FIR’ under IPC sections related to gang-rape and transferred the case to the Patna police. Zero FIR can be lodged anywhere irrespective of the place of occurrence. The woman said she went back to Patna on July 29 to get her statement recorded before a magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. “I have been calling up the investigating officer in Patna, who keeps assuring me the accused will be arrested. But to the best of my knowledge, nothing has been done. Now, the wife of the event management company’s owner is threatening me with dire consequences if I do not settle the matter,” the complainant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||2 dead in car-truck crash on highway in Alipurduar ||Two persons died and another got injured in an accident on NH31C in Mantharam under Kalchini police station of Alipurduar district on Sunday. Police said Jyotish Sakar, 31, and Ratan Sarkar, 35,  were headed towards Siliguri in a car from Srirampur of Assam. On the way, the vehicle collided head-on with a truck and fell into a roadside ditch. Both the occupants of the car died on the spot. Police rushed to the spot and rescued the injured truck driver. Both the vehicles have been seized. “We have obtained details of both the victims. Their family members have been informed,” said a police officer. Troops of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) posted at the India-Nepal border arrested a Chinese national on Saturday. Sources said the SSB personnel of 41 battalion intercepted Lobsang Nayma at Panitanki, around 35km from Siliguri, and found Indian voter, Aadhaar and PAN cards along with Chinese identity proofs and currencies of India, Nepal and China on him. He was handed over to the police of Kharibari, Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 635 new cases, 685 recoveries and 11 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday logged 13 weeks or 91 days of a non-stop fall in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 635 new infections, 685 recoveries and 11 deaths. Active cases fell by 61 to 7,906. Calcutta logged 117 new infections and zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, with 107 cases were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.7 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate was 1.66 per cent on Sunday, down from  almost 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung visit each other’s strongholds||Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung were at each other's home turfs on Sunday, signalling an intense rivalry to influence each other’s core constituencies. Anit Thapa, the president of the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantrik Morcha, was in Tukvar, long considered to be a fiefdom of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Gurung. “He was there because we, too, have our supporters in large numbers there,” said a leader of the newly formed BGPM, who did not want to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media. The social media team of Thapa was quick to widely publicise the cavalcade of vehicles accompanying Thapa and the welcome he received in Tukvar. Even after being on the run for the past three-and-half-years since the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Gurung’s Morcha faction did lead from Tukvar during the  Bengal Assembly elections this summer. Gurung’s candidate P.T. Ola, however, lost the Darjeeling seat to GNLF leader and BJP candidate,Neeraj Zimba. Old-timers recalled how leaders from other political parties would hardly visit the Tukvar when Gurung was in absolute control of the hills. “One would hardly find any Opposition leaders visiting the area to organise political events. Those contesting the elections, mostly Assembly elections, would just do a road show in Tukvar at the most,” recalled an old-timer. Much has changed since.. When Gurung was on the run, Binay Tamang, who was then the chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, did visit Tukvar. Tamang headed the rival Morcha faction. “There seems to be some message in Thapa’s decision to hold a meeting at Tukvar,” said an observer. Gurung, too, has been in Kurseong for the past few days. On Sunday he visited the Sitong-Latpanchar area in Kursesong which has a relatively strong presence of Thapa supporters. Gurung trekked for 3 kilometres to reach Rolak village in Sittong area on Saturday. “I have no interest in doing politics for my gain but I am in politics to ensure a better future for the youths and the coming generation,” said Gurung. Former Morcha leader Binay Tamang also made news. Tamang, in Kalimpong, hinted his new political party will be floated before Diwali. Mann Ghisingh, the president of Gorkha National Liberation Front and Subash Ghisingh’s son, is also touring Kalimpong, where supporters of other parties joined his party. Mann’s one-time friend Ajoy Edwards, who left the GNLF recently after claiming he was sidelined, however had the largest number of persopns joining him on Sunday.  Mnay from Tamsang, Salbari, Ghoom, Dudhiya, Jhaldhaka, Sukhiapokhri, Chota Mangmaya, Takdha, Singtam and other places came to extend their support to Edwards, has not yet floated any political party. He will visit Kalimpong soon, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: TMC leaders ask party workers to stop infighting ||Trinamul leaders in Siliguri subdivision directed party workers in different rungs of the party, especially in rural areas, to refrain from internal feuds and instead make an effort to secure rural and urban bodies that it had never won so far. According to party insiders, on Saturday evening a meeting was held at Shivmandir Matigara block of the district where Papiya Ghosh, the newly appointed Trinamul president of Darjeeling (plains) asked party workers to work in a concerted manner to improve the performance in the district. “Ever since I took charge, all I found is that workers and leaders in different positions are meeting me only to complain about their party colleagues. It is unfortunate that instead of coming up with concrete proposals on how Trinamul can perform better, they are busy fighting with each other. This has to stop,” Ghosh told party supporters. Sources said Ghosh lamented that if such infighting went on, “it would not be possible even for Mamata Banejee to bring a change in Darjeeling district.”. Although Trinamul has won Bengal’s seat of power thrice since 2011, the party’s performance in Darjeeling district has remained abysmal. “The party could win only the Siliguri Assembly seat once (in 2011) and the Mirik municipality. In all other elections, right from the parliamentary to panchayat, the party has lost to the Left and Congress earlier and now to the BJP,” pointed an observer. The new district president, sources said, has made it clear that there is specific instruction from the state leadership to take all necessary steps so that Trinamul can secure a win in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad, both prestigious entities. Trinamul has never won in both, an observer pointed out. Gautam Deb, the former MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari who lost to BJP in the Assembly polls this year, spoke on similar lines. “Our party may be in power in the state but in this district, we are the Opposition. This is something we have to change,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid jab rider puts Bengal traditional drummers in a fix||Naresh Mali, a veteran dhaaki or traditional drummer, would travel to Guwahati from Cooch Behar every year during the Durga Puja to play the dhaak at a Puja organised by a club there. Earnings would be decent and Mali would return with gifts too, given by club members and pandal-hoppers happy with his performance. This year, when less than a month is left for the Puja, Mali is morose. Sitting at home in Malipara under Cooch Behar-I block, Mali is unsure  whether anyone in the neighbouring state will hire him during the festive days. “The scheduled date for the second dose of my Covid-19 vaccine is after Durga Puja. But in Assam, the puja organisers have made it clear that they would hire only a dhaaki (drummer) who is fully vaccinated with both doses. Most of us like me (with one dose of the vaccine) are in a fix and don’t know how many of us would be able to make it to Assam,” the 55-year-old drummer said. Altogether, around 15,000 drummers live in Cooch Behar district. During festive occasions, at least 5,000 of them go to Assam while others fan out across Bengal. “Durga Puja is the festival for which we eagerly wait every year. This is the occasion when we make most of our earnings for the whole year. But the pandemic has changed everything,” said Uttam Badyakar, a drummer in Vivekananda Colony, also in Cooch Behar I block. According to him, among drummers, hardly half have received the first dose. Only a few hundred of them have received the second dose, he added, dimming their chances of getting hired. Usually,  Puja organisers enter into a contract with well-known drummers during the Vishwakarma Puja. “But hardly any club turned up this year (for Vishwakarma Puja on Friday). Even in our state, clubs are preferring drummers who have received both doses of the vaccine and asking for certificates. So very few among us will be able to get jobs during Durga Puja,” said Badyakar. Tapash Mali, another drummer, said the district administration and health department should understand their compulsions. “They should see to it that all the drummers get vaccinated. Also, a drummer who has received one vaccine dose should be allowed to perform in clubs with an RT-PCR negative certificate,” he suggested. A health official said they could take steps to facilitate the first dose for drummers. “But as far as health protocols in festivities are concerned, the onus is with the state governments. Drummers who are yet to take their second dose will get them in due time based on the Centre’s regulations,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Sip and surf at tea stall run by varsity student||Rubel Shah, 25, is a second-year history master’s student at the Murshidabad's Open University. But the student of history who lives in Domkal, Murshidabad, could well inspire management students with his innovation in business. Son of marginal farmer Saidul Shah, Rubel saw hard times as the pandemic started last year. To supplement his farmer’s meagre income from farming, Rubel had opened a tea stall on the ground floor of his family home in March 2020. But the lockdown happened, and the tea stall was shut for three months. When it opened, business took time to pick up. Rubel said he noticed that tea stalls in Domkal, or for that matter Murshidabad district as a whole, not only serve biscuits and snacks, but also leave a television set on the whole day. Customers love watching news or sports or films on television as they take a bite of bread or biscuit and sip from their cuppa. But Rubel could not afford a television set. “The television at a tea stall is a cultural touchstone over here. No one will come to a stall without a television set,” Rubel said. So he did what he could, serving the best tea possible, introducing coffee, keeping his snacks fresh and his service warm. He got a loyal clientele but without television people did not linger at his tea stall. A lingering customer means more business as he keeps ordering tea and coffee at intervals. Finally, this June, Rubel thought of an out-of-the-box idea to draw bigger crowds than his competitors in the vicinity. Rubel took a leaf out of coffee shops in cities to offer free Wi-Fi to his customers. The innovation, unique in his area, completely changed his business. Rubel installed a fibre optics broadband cable in his tea stall and made the bandwidth publicly available. As word spread, from early July, his tea shop turned into an office, a library and a hangout rolled into one. “People are coming here from even Islampurbazar, 8km away. Customers come for the free Wi-Fi, but it compels them to stay longer and they end up drinking more tea and coffee,” said the enterprising youth, who lives on the second floor with his parents. Business is good. He pays a bill of Rs 590 a month for the unlimited broadband usage. In turn, over July itself, he generated Rs 25,000 in revenue. His father Saidul also helps him out. Murshidabad is no stranger to large numbers of unemployed youths in a sparsely industrialised area. It is known as one of the main generators of migrant labour  across India. In such a scenario, Rubel’s initiative to do something different while studying has drawn appreciation. “His tea is excellent too,” added a regular customer. Rubel insists his customers wear masks and follow Covid safety protocol given the prolonged crowding. “People are willing to follow precautions for the reward (Wi-Fi),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda girl’s body exhumed, murder finger at kin||The body of a 12-year-old girl, who was allegedly strangulated by her grandparents and uncle around 10 days back, was exhumed on Sunday after her parents filed a police complaint on Friday. The police are in search of the three accused who have gone into hiding. Sources said on September 17, Tazkera Khatun and Sahabuddhin Sheikh of Milangar-Kochpulur village under Harishchandrapur police station, had filed a police complaint, alleging  their daughter Dolly Khatun had been murdered. A police officer investigating the case said that according to the parents, they were away on some work on September 9, and on their return found Dolly dead at home. “Mahabuddin Sheikh and Uzlefa Bibi, Sahabuddin’s parents (the girl’s grandparents), and Tarikul Islam, their younger son (the girl’s uncle),  strangled the girl and claimed that she committed suicide, the parents said in the complaint,” said the officer. The victim’s mother told the police that the relatives buried the body in a graveyard in a hurry and did not let them inform the police or send the body for an autopsy. “That’s why I suspected my daughter was killed. I became convinced when my brother-in-law Tarikul threatened to kill my younger daughter too,” Tazkera said. She claimed that Sahabuddin, her husband, had bequeathed his land to his two daughters which the grandparents and uncle did not accept. On Sunday, a police team went to the graveyard. The body was exhumed and sent to post mortem. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report. Searches are on for the accused,” said Sanjay Das, inspector-in-charge, Harishchandrapur police station. As the news spread, angry residents demanded stringent punishment for the accused. “It is disappointing that a girl had to lose her life at the hands of her grandparents for ancestral property. The police should find all the three accused,” said Hanif Sheikh, a schoolteacher and a local resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo dominates Bengal byelection bites ||Former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo’s defection to the Trinamul Congress dominated the campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll on Sunday with the BJP seeking to downplay his importance and Trinamul claiming that more leaders would desert the saffron camp soon. “He (Supriyo) is a political tourist. Going to Trinamul is an emotional outburst (for him)..… Those who cannot settle themselves down in one place will never be able to settle anywhere,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said on the sidelines of a meeting in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment on Sunday. “Thousands, lakhs of leaders and workers had joined us, coming from Trinamul, before the election. Did that stop Trinamul from winning? Likewise, even in this case, his departure will make no difference to the BJP,” he added. The BJP had named Supriyo as the party’s one of 20 star campaigners for Priyanka Tibrewal, its candidate for the bypoll. The Asansol MP had announced earlier that he would not participate in the campaign. Asked at a news conference on Sunday if he would campaign for chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Bhowanipore candidate of his new political party,  Supriyo hinted that he was not keen on that either. “Priyanka is like a sister to me. She fought several cases for me. We know our families as well. I hope my party (Trinamul) will spare me this embarrassment. She is a fighter,” said Supriyo. “But does Mamata Banerjee even need me to campaign for her in Bhowanipore? I don’t think so,” he added. Earlier in the day, Tibrewal had said Supriyo was virtually a sibling to her. At the news conference organised by Trinamul, which Supriyo had declared on Saturday would be a tell-all, he opted for sarcasm or silence on certain questions. Some of the key questions were why he had quit the BJP, what ailed the party in Bengal and what Trinamul had offered him, which he, by his own admission, couldn’t refuse. Minister Firhad Hakim, who was campaigning in Bhowanipore on Sunday, said: “Why only Babul Supriyo? Many, many others will join Trinamul now because the BJP has no future in Bengal.” “Even the likes of him (Dilip Ghosh) are keen to defect,” he added. “Slowly, but surely, they will have no importance in India either…. The BJP is a party of madmen. They can’t be allowed to run the country any longer. Those who are slowly realising that are abandoning ship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal meets kharif paddy cultivation target||The Bengal government has achieved the target of sowing kharif paddy this season despite Cyclone Yaas and floods and the officials are giving the credit to the welfare schemes initiated by the state for farmers. “This year, the target of kharif cultivation was 42.06 lakh hectares. A total of 100.80 per cent of the target area was cultivated in the kharif season this year. This is a success considering the challenges we faced because of the cyclone and floods,” said a senior government official. But, sources said, schemes like Krishak Bandhu scheme and Kisan Credit Cards played an important role in drawing farmers to the fields despite the cyclone and floods that had inundated their fields. “In June, the first instalment of Krishak Bandhu Scheme, which ensured Rs 10,000 for an acre, was released. Moreover, compensation for the cyclone-affected was also released by June. All these gave confidence to the farmers to cultivate their plots,” said a source. A section of officials also said the initiative by the government to issue KCCs to majority of the farmers also helped. “Now, nearly 80 per cent of the 72 lakh farmers are covered under the KCC which enables them to get loans on easy terms from the banks reducing their dependency on local money-lenders. Moreover, crops of the farmers who get loans are insured automatically. So, the farmers who were facing trouble also went for cultivating their plots,” said another official. Achieving the target of kharif season is important in Bengal as this is the only season when maximum paddy production is done. Besides, the state also needs huge quantum of paddy to run free foodgrains scheme like Khadyasathi in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “So achieving the target will mean that we will remain self-reliant on rice,” said an officer. Bengal has a consumption requirement of 155 lakh tons of paddy, while the state’s average production is 165 lakh tons. “So, a shortfall in production could have led to a tough situation for the cash-strapped government. The government would have been forced to buy paddy from outside to run the cheap grains scheme,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI calls Bhuniya for questioning today in connection with probe into iCore scam||Bengal minister Manas Bhuniya has been summoned by the CBI in connection with its probe into the iCore deposit-mobilisation default “scam”. The water resources investigation and development minister was asked to meet the sleuths at their office at the CGO Complex in Bidhannagar near Calcutta on Monday. Sabang MLA Bhuniya has been asked to appear before the CBI since the investigators plan to quiz him over his purported presence at an event organised by the now defunct iCore group. Bhuniya was purportedly present at the event alongside Anukul Maiti, the chief of the group. The investigators have access to video footage of the event and want to question Bhuniya over praise he purportedly lavished on the group, said sources. Maiti, who was arrested by the CBI and was lodged in the Jharpada prison in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, succumbed to Covid-19 in November last year. “The programme was held around the time when several complaints were already lodged against iCore for allegedly duping investors,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||1,000 acres of land in Durgapur not of power utility: Bengal||The Bengal land department has ended a dispute between two government organisations, the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA) and power utility Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL), over a plot measuring over 1,000 acres. The land department earmarked the 1,067.04 acres to the ADDA, which the DPL had claimed as its own. Land officials said after a thorough survey they found the land parcel originally belonged to the ADDA but in records was mistakenly said to be of the DPL’s. The joint secretary of the land and land reforms department wrote to West Burdwan district administration on September 1 asking them to rectify records of the 1,067.04 acres in favour of the ADDA and report to the government. The DPL’s claim to the acres had come after the loss-making power utility started taking stock of 3,759 acres it purportedly owned in the wake of the state government deciding to either sell or lease out the company’s unused land. The DPL management had claimed the land that has been “occupied” by the ADDA was located at Gopinathpur mouzas, presently known as Bidhannagar and Fuljhore in Durgapur town. Here, private schools, colleges and hospitals have come up since past decades. The DPL also put up boards on the lands saying it belongs to them. Sources in the land department said that entire land in Durgapur and its adjoining areas excluding privately owned lands belonged to the Durgapur Development Authority (DDA) or the Industrial Board during the 1950s. The DDA later transformed to ADDA. “The land which the DPL had been claiming was either of the DDA or the Industrial Board. There may have been a communication gap in the land records or they were not updated properly after the formation of the DPL and the ADDA,” said an official. Former chairman of ADDA, Bansagopal Chowdhury during the Left regime, had earlier said that both DPL and ADDA were government organisations and the matter could be sorted out easily. “I had earlier said that the matter could be solved easily if the government takes initiative. It is not a big issue,” he said. However, DPL officials said after rectification of the land records for 1067.04 acres, DPL land has been reduced to nearly 2,700 acres. The DPL comprises a power plant, coke oven plant and water works. Of the 2,700 acres, the power plant, coke oven plant, water works and township have come up on around 2,400 acre. The government has already decided to hand over the water works to Durgapur Municipal Corporation. The closed coke oven plant on 200 acres is in the process of being dismantled to free the land. The township will be merged into a smaller area to free around 600 acres. “The government is eyeing vast unused plots of the DPL to monetise land. Apart from lands of the closed coke oven plant and township, after the merger we have to evacuate encroachers from the rest of the unused plots,” said a DPL official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||School funds cloud on principal in Murshidabad||The headmaster of a reputable high school in Murshidabad’s Bhrampore had been chargesheeted by police in June for alleged misappropriation of Rs 10.43 lakh from school funds, but “scant action” has been taken against him since then, the institution’s authorities have said in a news meet. Administrators alleged the whereabouts of accused Himadri Chowdhury, headmaster of the 150-year old school since 2019, are known and he was living at home despite the chargesheet saying he was “absconding”. An FIR relating to the same offence was filed in February by the school managing committee, along with a letter to the district inspector of schools prompting an internal investigation, authorities of Krishnath College High School told the media on Friday. “Initial estimates pegged missing funds in excess of Rs 23 lakh, which prompted us to write to the district inspector,” said Debashish Nandy, a managing committee member of the school. “The DI’s review confirmed Rs 10 lakh was unaccounted for, following which we filed an FIR in Behrampore in February. Nonetheless, scant action has been taken against the offender (Chowdhury) despite a chargesheet and evidence of his wrongdoing. This is why we held this press conference,” added managing committee president Sanjib Mazumdar. Administrators have since alleged this inaction could be because of “ruling party connections”. “There is ample evidence of his wrongdoing, starting with an internal probe by the DI. Bank officials were consulted too,” said Mazumdar. This paper tried to contact two of Chowdhury’s phones but none was answered. Managing committee members are of the opinion that aside from the evident crime, Chowdhury and his “evasion of justice” were bringing "slander to our prestigious school". District superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar, said he had not been apprised of the details of the case yet but would make an inquiry. Police said that an arrest could not be made without a court warrant unless the proven offence attracted at least seven years in prison. Chowdhury stands to be proven guilty, according to committee sources, under Sections 420, 406 and 403 of the Indian P enal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
