21-09-2021||West Bengal||Even Messi didn't want to exit Barcelona: Babul Supriyo ||Former Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who moved from the BJP to the Trinamul Congress in the past few days, today reiterated that he wants to be part of a team that embraces him warmly and makes him part of the playing 11. Once again deploying sports metaphors, the Bollywood singer-turned-politician's move has reportedly created a buzz on West Bengal political circles -- days after his move, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh was replaced with Sukanta Majumdar. This has been perceived as a move to stem any haemorrhaging in the state party unit. Mr Supriyo, however, refused to be drawn into the matter. "Now that I am with the Trinamul, I consider this the BJP's internal matter. Speaking as a political analyst or a commoner, I can say that Dilip Ghosh has done good work for Bengal. But his language, his commentary...that has not been taken well by the people of Bengal," the Asansol MP said during an exclusive interview with NDTV. "I have not created history...I'm not the first to leave a party and join another one." Referring to the new West Bengal BJP chief's reported comment that the state was facing "Talibanisation", Mr Supriyo said the term ought not to be used lightly. He said he had opposed it, too, when the opposition and critics like lyricist Javed Akhtar had said similar things about the BJP. "Taliban is the name of a very wrong and cheap mindset. The term should not be used casually," he said. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Trinamul Congress member said he has worked with them for seven years and learnt a lot from the BJP. He emphasised that his own 2014 electoral victory from Asansol may have been based on his image as a Bollywood singer, but it was his public worked that ensured his 2019 re-election. "Whenever I play for whichever team, I'd want to give my sweat and blood in the playing field itself. It is not in my DNA to take the salary and perks from the public and then warm the benches," Mr Supriyo said. "I will play for that team which puts me in the playing level and, to use a football terminology, in the various formations in the field." Mr Supriyo was seen to be upset after he was made to quit as Union Minister ahead of cabinet reshuffle in July. Will he not be now accused of shifting the goalpost? "I was the lone person opposing when the BJP had opened its doors completely in Bengal and people from all parties were shifting to it," he pointed out. "If the BJP feels it was wrong on my part to join the Trinamul, if it feels it was Mir Jafar-esque, it should garland all those who joined it and send them back to their older parties." He rubbished the allegation that he had joined the Trinamul to stay in power. "If that is so, what power have I got in Trinamul? I have already sought an appointment with the Honourable (Lok Sabha) Speaker. I want to stay on this moral ground. I am immediately resigning as MP of Asansol," he said. "I have left the CRPF and all those perks that I was getting as a minister or as a central leader...He quoted Shashi Tharoor saying, 'an MoS (minister of state) is like a person standing in a graveyard. There are thousands of people below him, but no one is listening'." Returning to sports metaphors and citing the example of footballer Lionel Messi, he said: "Did he want to leave Barcelona? The situation was such that he cried during the press conference. Then he went to PSG. And now you are saying that 'while playing for PSG, is he expected to core against Barcelona? Or is he going to stand still in front of the goal post because he needs to be loyal to his ex-team…which transformed him'." He ended the interview on a musical note. Talking about his meeting with Mamata, during which she reportedly asked him to work and sing with all his heart, he refused to divulge the details. He, however, broke into an old and popular Bollywood number: Yeh duniya wale poochhenge, Mulakat hui, kya baat hui, yeh baat kisi se na kehna." This roughly translates as "People will ask, 'You met up. What did you talk about?' But don't reveal this to anyone."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal DGP submits report on chitfud cases to Calcutta HC||The director general of Bengal Police, Manoj Malviya, on Tuesday appeared before the Calcutta High Court to submit a report on the progress of investigation in cases related to two chitfunds. A division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on September 2 directed the DGP to appear before it personally to inform it about the status of the probe. Malviya, while submitting his report, told the court that the police were taking all necessary steps. The court suggested that the DGP appoint a nodal officer to keep track of its proceedings and orders. The division bench directed that the matter would be taken up for hearing again on December 21. The lawyer representing the West Bengal government assured the bench that the state advocates will appear before the court as per schedule. Taking up the hearing on cases related to Real Sunrise Chemtech Ltd and Sunplant Agro Ltd, the two chitfund companies which are alleged to have duped depositors of their funds, the bench had on September 2 found that the state was not represented by any lawyer and expressed its displeasure over the absence. The petitioners have prayed for return of their invested money in the two companies and their matters are pending since 2015-2016, lawyer for the depositors in the Sunplant Agro case, Arindam Das, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul awaits a churn: Babul, Shrreya and BJP's Ashok Lahiri||A churning within the ruling Trinamul is on the anvil as aspirations and promises come to clash over the next few months. Seemingly unrelated events unfolding over the past few months are now falling into place, as the party dithers over the fate of two ministers, one ailing and the other unwilling. The ailing minister is Sadhan Pande. And finance minister Amit Mitra is reluctant to continue. Little over a month ago, Pande, currently under treatment in Mumbai, was retained as minister without portfolio, and his departments (consumer affairs, self help group and self-employment) handed over to Subrata Mukherjee. Mitra, on the other hand, has been reluctant to make any public appearances, and did not contest the elections. From November 5 he will cease to continue as Bengal's  finance minister. Urban development minister Chandrima Bhattacharya’s presence at the GST council meeting held last Friday has led  to speculation that she could be Mitra’s replacement. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s choice to replace Mitra however is not anyone from her own party but the BJP’s economist-legislator, Ashok Kumar Lahiri, former chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi government. Trinamul is actively wooing the first-time legislator who had raised eyebrows by placing Mitra above his predecessor Asim Dasgupta as finance minister during the debate in the state Assembly on the 2021-22 budget. Sources said the BJP’s current unofficial top leader in the state, Suvendu Adhikary, also the leader of the Opposition, is aware of Trinamul’s plans for Lahiri. "Suvendu is determined not to let it happen under his watch,” said a source. The few legislators of the BJP who have flipped to the Trinamul were turncoats. Lahiri, if decides to switchover, would be the first sitting MLA from the BJP to make a move, like Babul Supriyo, the Asansol MP, did on Saturday. During her first meeting with Supriyo on Monday, sources said, the chief minister apparently promised him the urban development department, currently headed by Chandrima Bhattacharya. Supriyo has already declared that he would resign from the Lok Sabha soon. He could then be made a minister and then get elected to the Assembly in six months. The possible choice of seat for Supriyo could be Maniktala, the current MLA of which is the ailing Sadhan Pande. While Maniktala appears to be the solution, it could also be the source of trouble for Mamata in the coming days. At this moment Maniktala is a pie that has too many eyes on it. The biggest claimant to the Maniktala seat is Shrreya Pande, daughter of the ailing minister. Since July Shrreya has been a regular at her father’s constituency offices in Goabagan and Kakurgachhi. Shrreya who had once dabbled in acting, calls herself a social worker on her Facebook page. She has been attending Trinamul party events, blood donation camps, football matches, religious festivals held in her father’s constituency, making clear her aspirations to take the next step in politics. “Sadhan da has been a nine-time legislator. In case the party decides to replace him mid-term, bringing an outsider like Babul won’t be easy. The Pande family has a following in the area,” said a Trinamul insider. Also eyeing the seat is Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, a former Rajya Sabha MP, whose rehabilitation in the party since his fallout with Mamata after he was once arrested in connection with the Saradha scam is still incomplete. Also looking for his share is the party’s Bidhannagar councillor Shanti Ranjan Kundu, also head of the youth wing in North Calcutta. “It is difficult to say how the scenario will unfold but it is not going to be easy. The party will have to placate Shrreya too,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Rainfall to continue till Wednesday in South Bengal, predicts IMD ||The Met department on Tuesday predicted more rainfall in south Bengal even as several low-lying localities and streets in the metropolis and its adjoining areas lay submerged on the account of the previous day's record downpour. The weatherman noted that thunderstorms with lightning, along with heavy rain, may lash all districts of south Bengal till Wednesday morning, with coastal South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and its neighbouring Paschim Medinipur likely to receive heavier downpour. The low-pressure area that has formed over the southern parts of Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Odisha with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level still persists, tilting south-westwards, the IMD stated. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated very heavy falls are likely over Gangetic West Bengal & Odisha on 21st; isolated heavy falls on 22nd September, 2021 and decrease in rainfall activity thereafter (sic)," the IMD tweeted. Kolkata had logged 142 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday, the highest in a day in September since 2007, according to the Met department. Waterlogging caused by torrential rain for several hours since early Monday in the metropolis and surrounding localities, including Salt Lake and New Town, threw life out of gear, as people remained stuck at home and those outside experienced a hard time to reach their destinations. Similar scenes were witnessed in Sonarpur, Baruipur, Medinipur and Haldia. Sagar Island on the Bay of Bengal coast recorded West Bengal's maximum rainfall in 24 hours till Tuesday morning at 212.8 mm, while Kolkata, which received light to moderate showers, registered 60.6 mm. Dum Dum, on the northern outskirts of the city, recorded 134 mm rainfall, while Salt Lake received 118.2 mm rain, the Met department data stated. Other places which received heavy rain are Canning at 115 mm, Diamond Harbour at 105 mm and Barrackpore at 102 mm, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP to fight against 'Talibanisation' of Bengal, says new state chief||Newly appointed West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar on Tuesday vowed to fight against the "Talibanisation of the state" and asserted that the party would rectify its mistakes and emerge victorious in days to come. Refusing to attach much importance to the series of defections plaguing the saffron camp in the last few months, Majumdar said those committed to the ideology and cause can never leave the party. "With the cooperation of my predecessors and party leadership, I would continue my fight against the Talibanisation of the state. For us, BJP workers are our real assets. If we have committed any mistake, we would rectify it," Majumdar said while addressing the felicitation ceremony at the party's state headquarters. "Those who are thinking that they can harm the party by deserting it are wrong. The BJP would emerge victorious in days to come. Those who are committed to the ideology and cause can never leave the party," he said. The BJP on Monday replaced Dilip Ghosh as its West Bengal unit president with Majumdar, the Lok Sabha MP from Balurghat, amid infighting and a string of defections from the party to the state's ruling Trinamool Congress. In a statement, the party had announced that Ghosh, also a Lower House MP, has been made a national vice president of the saffron camp. The change of guard happened 15 months ahead of the expiry of Ghosh's term as state BJP chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamp on radar for wholesale market in Siliguri||The state agriculture marketing department has decided to revamp the regulated market at Mallaguri in the northern end of Siliguri. This was decided at a recent meeting held by Biplab Mitra, Bengal minister for agriculture marketing, at the state guest house here with officials of his department, Darjeeling district officials and chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation Gautam Deb. “A private consultancy agency will prepare the detailed project report,  and after necessary formalities, work will commence in the market area,” said an official of the department. Spread over some 50 acres, it is the largest wholesale hub of fruits, vegetables, fish and other perishables in north Bengal. Set up in the early 1990s, it needs immediate revamp. Every day, hundreds of trucks from all over the country bring various items to the market that has around 800 stalls. Goods worth Rs 5 crore to Rs 6 crore are transacted here every day. “It is also the main hub from where vegetables, fish and fruits are supplied to the hills, and also from where the famed Darjeeling oranges are sent across the country and also to Bangladesh,” said a wholesale fruit merchant. According to him, the market hardly has any space for vehicles which leads to traffic snarls. Water logging, bad roads, dirt, improper disposal of garbage, and dilapidated stalls are some obvious problems the market faces. Officials of the state agricultural marketing department said it had been decided for now that once goods are unloaded, trucks would go to Paribahan Nagar in Matigara, 3km away, for parking. “A boundary wall will come up, CCTVs will be put up Styrofoam boxes will be banned in the market,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress starts fresh bid to woo tea workers in Dooars ||The Trinamul Congress has started fresh initiatives to woo people living in the tea gardens of the Dooars as panchayats polls are round the corner. The ruling party had performed miserably in the Dooars in the general election of 2019 and the Assembly polls of 2021. Trinamul, along with its labour wing INTTUC, has drawn up a new plan to reach out to tea plantation workers and their families in each garden and apprise them of the Mamata Banerjee government’s initiatives for their socio-economic development since 2011. “There is no reason why tea estate workers shouldn’t stand by us..... Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for them and even launched the first-of-its-kind housing scheme for the workers. But what we have found is that most of these people do not have any inkling of these initiatives. Even if they are getting benefits of the state-run social welfare schemes, they have no idea who has mooted the schemes for them,” said Prakash Chik Baraik, the Alipurduar district Trinamul president. In Alipurduar, which is one of the tea-producing districts of the state, the BJP has managed to march ahead of Trinamul — much like in Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri (two other tea-producing districts of Bengal) in the elections. In 2019, the BJP had won all these three Lok Sabha seats and in 2021 also, most of the Assembly seats went to the party. In Alipurduar and Darjeeling, Trinamul could not win a single Assembly seat despite its overwhelming performance in other parts of the state. Such contrasting performance in the tea belt had left state Trinamul leaders peeved with their colleagues in the districts. Recently, a number of office-bearers were changed and new faces, including youths from tea estates, have been brought to the forefront of the party. “There is a specific instruction from the state leaders that no stone should be left unturned to boost our support base in tea estates. As a part of the plan, we are conducting block-level workshops where four-five youths from each tea garden are invited,” Baraik said. On Sunday and Monday, a two-day workshop of Kumargram block was held at a private resort in Rajabhatkhawa, located on the outskirts of Alipurduar town. Representatives from all 12 tea estates of the block were present at the workshop. “We are explaining to them the social welfare schemes run by the state, especially for the tea workers. They are being told about details of the schemes and how these are benefiting thousands of people. The participants, in turn, will reach out to the people in their areas. The initiative, we believe, can help the residents understand the schemes better,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University applications hit a record||North Bengal University (NBU) has received over 28,000 applications for its 1,900 postgraduate seats for 35 subjects, a record in the varsity’s history. Usually, the varsity receives anywhere between 5,000 and 7,000 applications a yea for its PG courses. Senior faculty members,  when asked about the probable reason for such a huge number of applications, said the varsity’s decision to waive the application fee this year amid the pandemic may be one of the reasons. For the current academic year, the varsity had sought online applications from students from September 1. The applications were received till September 15, which was stipulated as the last date. On Sunday, as the authorities published the list of applicants on the official website of NBU, it was found that the varsity has received 28,000 applications in total. “Among them, 17,000 applicants are from colleges affiliated under NBU while the rest are students of other universities of the state. We also have some applicants from other states,” said a source. Usually, the varsity charges Rs 100 as application fee for all PG courses other than MBA. For MBA, the application fee is Rs 500. “Though the application fee is not very high, it seems that as it was waived, many students who wouldn’t have applied otherwise thought of giving it a try. Also, there are many who have made multiple applications for PG courses in different subjects. That is why the number of applications has been so high this year,” said a senior faculty member. Manas Esh, secretary of the faculty council for postgraduate studies in arts, commerce and law, said the varsity, based on merit, will admit students of NBU’s affiliated colleges in 80 per cent  of the seats while students of other universities will be admitted in remaining 20 per cent seats of each course. Sources said 20 PG courses are available in these three broad streams and 15 more subjects in the science stream. “From this year, women’s studies and bioinformatics have been included as new PG subjects,” said Joydeep Biswas, secretary of the faculty council for PG studies in science. Oxygen plant The trial run for one pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant with a capacity of 1,000 LPL was done at North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH) on the outskirts of Siliguri on Monday. S. Ponnambalam, the Darjeeling district magistrate, said another trial run of the plant would be done soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Clamour for panchayat elections in Darjeeling grows||The demand to hold panchayat elections in the hills is getting louder as all the major political parties, including the BJP and Trinamul, are voicing support for the rural polls last held in 2000. Hill leaders such as Anit Thapa, the president of the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), Binay Tamang and Ajoy Edwards have been vocal on panchayat polls. With new political equations emerging amid some prominent faces seeking to chart their own course, the demand is resonating from all corners. Thapa, at a public meeting at Bijanbari on Monday, reiterated the demand. The Telegraph on Monday reached out to Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the BJP and Trinamul for their view on panchayat elections. Leaders of all these parties told this newspaper that they want panchayat elections. Roshan Giri, general secretary, Morcha said they had recently pursued the issue with state panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee. Giri admitted that the final call lay with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Even the BJP is not averse to rural polls in the hills. “I have been advocating for panchayat elections. In the absence of an elected rural body, massive corruption is taking place in the hills,” said Kalyan Dewan, president of BJP Darjeeling district (hill) committee. Unlike other parts of the state, the Panchayat issue is a bit complex in the hills. In 1993, the Constitution was amended to put in place a two-tier panchayat system in the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) areas, unlike the three-tier system in the rest of Bengal.  The three tiers are gram panchayat, panchayat samitis and zilla parishad. However, in 2000, the elections were held only to gram panchayats and many believe then GNLF chief Subash Ghisingh did not want polls to panchayat samitis as he believed that its powers would overlap with the then existing DGHC. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA and secretary-general of GNLF, said his party has no objection if the two-tier panchayat elections are held now. “Since the amendment (brought about in 1993) gives special status to Darjeeling hills, we are against three-tier panchayat elections, but have no problems if panchayats to two tiers are held,” he said. For a three-tier panchayat to be held, the Constitution has to be amended. To complicate matters, a Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed in 1993 for the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. The SMP functions like the zilla parishad or the highest tier of the rural administrative system. The Constitution has provisions for one zilla parishad in one district. “We will welcome if panchayat elections are held as it is an issue of decentralisation of power. There are some constitutional lacunae but we will accept whatever the state decides,” said N.B. Khawash, Trinamul coordinator for Darjeeling assembly segment. Most parties which earlier were keen on a three-tier system, like Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, however, seem to have tweaked their stand. Many in the hills believe that the softening of stand from three tier to two tier elections is probably because of the hill parties’ eagerness for a share of power. “Bimal Gurung discarded the GTA in 2017 and he cannot tell the public that he wants to be in that chair now. Anit Thapa, too, recently said he would go to the GTA only through elections. The GNLF has filed a case in the high court against the GTA. Given this scenario, the panchayat could be their path to power for these hill parties at this moment,” said an observer from the hills. The TMC, which won the Mirik municipality in 2017, might also be wanting to test their strength after the new alignment in hill politics, the observer said adding the same logic could hold true for the BJP, which won both the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly seats in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Eight college students arrested with drugs, gecko in Alipurduar||Police arrested eight college students from a locality here on Sunday evening for allegedly consuming narcotics and also seized a tokay gecko, a rare lizard species, during the raid. Amlan Ghosh, the additional superintendent of police of Alipurduar, said a section of residents dwelling on Maya Talkies Road in ward 18 of the town had complained that some local youths often consume cannabis in the open. “The youths, aged between 19 to 21 years, have been arrested. Also, a tokay gecko has been recovered from the house of one of these students,” Ghosh added. In north Bengal, the state forest department and other agencies have time and again recovered tokay gecko, a small animal that has huge demand in the grey market as it is used in making traditional Chinese medicine. According to police sources, among the eight, seven have been alerted to abstain from drug abuse and released on personal bond. The youth from whose house the animal was recovered, has been charged under Wildlife Protection Act. He was produced at a local court on Monday and sent to police custody for 10 days. “We need to find out whether he is involved with any smuggling racket,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Angry mob lynch suspected cattle rustler in North Dinajpur district||A suspected cattle rustler was lynched by a group of irate villagers in North Dinajpur district on Sunday night after he allegedly fired gunshots at them while trying to escape the area. A gang of three-four miscreants had entered Kajigach village, under Chopra police station, to allegedly steal cattle on Sunday night. “Soon some villagers got alert about their movement and they gave the gang members a chase. While escaping, one of the miscreants fell into a ditch. As the villagers tried to catch him, he fired at them. This left the villagers irate and they beat him to death,” said a source. Sachin Makkar, chief of Islampur police district, said: “The body has been recovered. An improvised firearm and one round of live cartridge were recovered from the spot. Searches are on to nab his associates.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to set up four helipads in Sunderbans, South 24-Parganas||The state government will set up four permanent helipads in remote and strategic locations of the Sunderbans and coastal South 24-Parganas in a bid to reach out to these pockets during cyclones or floods when vast swathes are inaccessible to road or waterways. Sources said the transport department last week approved four helipads in Gosaba, Patharpratima, Kakdwip and Diamond Harbour II, following a proposal sent by the district administration after Cyclone Yaas earlier this year. “South 24-Parganas is a unique district, with vast areas of the Sundarbans, and nearly a hundred riverine islands. During disasters, evacuating people to relief centres and transporting pregnant women and aged people with health emergencies get very difficult. Helipads will help us respond immediately to people in distress with choppers,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. Sources in the transport department said the district would be the only one in Bengal with four permanent helipads for mitigating natural disasters. In other districts, temporary helipads are made during visits of dignitaries, such as the chief minister or the Prime Minister. District officials said in the wake of three cyclones, Fani, Amphan and Yaas, it was seen that evacuation from isolated islands was a challenge with damaged roads. Journey by waterways was time-consuming. Even central teams or VIPs can’t access the worst flood-hit areas because of lack of communication. These helipads will help minimise that problem too, said sources. After Yaas hit the coastal pockets and islands of the Sundarbans, district officials did a survey to find locations where helipads could be set up. A special committee was formed, which earmarked four government plots in Gosaba, Patharpratima, Kakdwip and Diamond Harbour. “All the helipads would be set up in four islands, from where other islands can be covered easily. The plots we chose are on elevated land so that helipads won’t be submerged during crises,” said a senior official. The public works department will construct those helipads with its own funds, he added. A senior official in South 24-Parganas recounted that they had to send a boat during one such disaster to bring a pregnant woman to a local hospital in Gosaba. “It took around four hours. If we had a helicopter, we could have done it a lot sooner. We receive alerts from several people in crisis, but can’t reach them with proper service. The choppers will help us do so,” the official added. Sagar Island earlier had a helipad, which got damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Tornado-like strong  wind column strikes South 24-Parganas||A state government-run tourist cottage and a few shops were severely damaged and several electric poles and trees uprooted when a tornado-like strong column of wind lashed a 500-metre radius on Temple Road at Sagar Island in South 24-Parganas on Monday morning. The spiralling tornado-like storm, which originated in the Bay of Bengal, rose to around 10 feet before sweeping the area for about two minutes at 10.45am, unleashing panic among traders and tourists. It was accompanied by low pressure-induced rain. Monday’s downpour left several areas in South 24-Parganas waterlogged and damaged at least 419 houses, prompting the district administration to evacuate 9,825 persons to safer places. Sources in the Indian Meteorological Department said on Monday evening that South 24-Parganas had experienced 75mm of rain in past 24 hours. However, the talking point in Sagar was the column of wind. Its impact was so strong that corrugated sheets on the roofs of all 20 rooms of the tourist cottage “Sagar” flew off in seconds and many parts of the building collapsed. The tourist cottage is run by the local panchayat samity. Block development officer Sudipto Mondal said: “A heavy column of spiral wind that stayed barely for 2 minutes unsettled everything on a stretch of road close to the Kapil Muni temple at a time when we are preparing for the upcoming Ganga Sagar Mela. The Sagar tourist cottage has been severely damaged as at least 37 full-length corrugated sheets of the cottage and its ancillary units have been blown to almost a kilometre away.” “Twenty rooms of the tourist cottage have been damaged as some of the walls have collapsed or cracked. Air-conditioning machines have been damaged and require immediate repair since the building becomes a control room during the Ganga Sagar Mela,” the BDO said, adding the Kapil Muni temple was spared. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan added: “The tornado-like circulation of wind damaged the Sagar cottage but luckily claimed no human life.” However, the torrential rain caused inundation in low-lying Gosaba, Canning-I and II, Kakdwip, Diamond Harbour-I & Diamond Harbour-II, Budge Budge-II, Thakurpukur-Maheshtala block as well as Maheshtala, Baruipur, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Joynagar-Majilpur municipalities, Ulaganathan said in a press release. Heavy downpour also hampered train services in the district on Monday because of waterlogged railway tracks. Fearing more floods in low-lying areas, especially the coast amid the spring tide scheduled on Monday night, the district administration has deployed 350 volunteers and 15 boats for rescue services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 524 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 92 straight days of a fall in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 524 new infections, 608 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 96 to 7,810. Calcutta logged 105 new infections and North 24-Parganas 103, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Calcutta reported two and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, its highest  this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.7 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen up to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.99 per cent on Monday. Bengal now has 15.62 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.35 lakh recoveries and 18,664 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo meets chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna||Former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Monday. After a half-an-hour interaction, the former BJP leader who defected to Bengal’s ruling party on Saturday, said he and Mamata talked about everything from muri to music, but revealed nothing about Trinamul’s offer or his role in his new party. He said Mamata gifted a book for his father, and him an uttoriyo, which he wore. The Asansol MP said he was likely to go to Delhi on Wednesday to submit his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Mamata, who remained silent on the issue, went into a huddle with her nephew and party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, instrumental in Supriyo’s induction, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor at Nabanna. Later, along with Abhishek, Trinamul state chief Subrata Bakshi and others, she went to a Sitala temple in Bhowanipore where she is a bypoll candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Pneumonia jabs await children aged between 6 weeks and 9 months||The Bengal government is set to start its maiden immunisation programme against pneumonia in the second week of October for children aged between six weeks and nine months. The initiative has been planned in the backdrop of a large number of children falling ill with fever in a few districts. Health department sources said they had already received one lakh doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) from the Centre and sought another three lakh doses to kick-start the immunisation soon. “We are ready to administer PCV to infants from the second week of October. Children in the age group of six weeks and nine months will be vaccinated with three jabs,” said Jayanta Sukul, additional director of health services looking after expanded immunisation programme (EIP). Health department sources have said infants would get their first jab when they are six-weeks old, second at 14 weeks and the final booster dose at nine months. “Hundreds of fever cases are being reported among children from various places in the state and some among them are suffering from pneumonia. We are in a hurry to start the vaccination to protect children from fever-related diseases they are suffering from,” Sukul said. Sources in the health department said PCV was launched in 2017 in the country and several states, including Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, had already enlisted the vaccine under their Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). Bengal and Gujarat are among the two states that have decided to launch the vaccination drive now. Health department data state around 36,00,000 children across the country are affected by pneumonia every year and approximately 70,000 succumb to the disease. In Bengal, over a lakh children suffer from the disease annually and around 3,000 die every year. The vaccination is expected to curb the count of kids getting affected with pneumonia. The Centre has sent one lakh PCV jabs, which go by the brand name Pneumocil and is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, to the state and are being preserved at the central vaccine store in Calcutta. “We need at least three lakh more jabs to start the drive in all districts and we hope we will receive them soon,” said a senior health official. As it is a new vaccine and the jab needs to be administered on the right leg of infants, the state health department has started the process of training ground-level health workers. “We have already completed training of district nodal officers for the immunisation programme. Now, the districts are holding trainings for block and ground-level nurses and health workers,” said an official. Asked about administering the vaccine to children aged over six weeks, the official said such kids would be given the jabs at an interval of two months each till the age of 13 months. He added the vaccination was expected to help address problems of fever among children in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “If the vaccination for pneumonia starts, we think the number of children reporting with fever issues and pneumonia will drop,” said a health department official said. Paediatric Covid care The state government has assigned two medical colleges — Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital in south Bengal and Malda Medical College and Hospital in north Bengal — as Centre of Excellence for paediatric Covid care in addition to three other existing facilities. “The aim is to treat paediatric patient suffering from Covid at these medical colleges,” a health official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh floods sweep  East and West Midnapore districts||A depression over the Bay of Bengal triggered heavy downpour across coastal Bengal since early Monday, including East and West Midnapore districts, and inundated new areas in a region already battling damage from floods last week. East Midnapore saw rain throughout Monday, which caused rivers Keleghai and Kansabati to overflow. Keleghai floods proceeded as far as 25km inland after breaching dykes, bringing the number of displaced people in the district to 6.87 lakh in the last two weeks. “East Midnapore received much less rain on Monday than Calcutta, but enough to exacerbate damages from previous week,” said district disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. “Patashpur, Bhagabanpur and Bhupatinagar are the worst hit.” On Monday, many roads in East Midnapore were lined with homeless families seeking shelter under tarpaulins. Subhas Paria, 65, a farmer from Nilkanthapur village, said he lost all his belongings on Monday. “We had thought the worst was behind us (last week’s floods),” he said. On Monday evening, the Kansabati seemed to have abated somewhat, but the Keleghai kept swelling. District officials on Monday were operating 250 relief and shelter camps. In West Midnapore, two weather-related fatalities were reported on Monday. The toll in both districts in over two weeks is now 14. “In West Midnapore, 6.27 lakh persons became homeless since last Monday (one week),” said disaster management official Sandip Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Security cover for Trinamul turncoats irk Bengal BJP leaders||A section of top BJP office-bearers in Bengal is upset with the central leadership that many Trinamul Congress turncoats who have distanced themselves from the saffron camp after the Assembly poll continue to enjoy the security cover provided by the Union government. “Our state unit was recently asked by the leadership in Delhi to assess the need for central security for 60-odd leaders, a majority of whom began disassociating themselves from the party after the Assembly election results. The state unit informed the central leadership that more than 50 per cent of these people do not need central security, but no action has been taken as yet,” said a BJP insider. The fact that most of these leaders who are either on their way to Trinamul or have already switched sides are still enjoying central security has become a talking point at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the state headquarters of the BJP. A BJP source has said more than a dozen central force personnel provide security to former minister Rajeeb Banerjee, who is apparently making all possible attempts to reach out to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee to return to the party. Similarly, Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh, who had joined Trinamul last month, also has a couple of central force guards for his security, the source said. “The list is long.… Almost everyone, who joined the BJP with Suvendu Adhikari was given central security ahead of the polls. After the elections, another set of people, including new BJP MLAs and some of their associates, got central security. The total number was not less than 180,” said another BJP source. According to the source, while some BJP leaders do face a threat perception, continuing to give central security to so many people even three months after the polls defies any logic. First, it is a waste of tax-payers’ money, said the source referring to the need for central security to leaders like Raiganj BJP MLA Krishna Kalyani or Karam Hossain Khan, a party leader in Suri in Birbhum, controversial leader of the port area Rakesh Singh or Shanku Deb Panda, the party’s Calcutta zone co-convenor. “I know that a Minority Morcha vice-president, who claims to be close to Adhikari, in North Calcutta, visits the gym everyday with his security guards, who help him in his workout. Is this proper utilisation of the force?” asked the source. Speaking to this correspondent, Rajeeb claimed he had written to the CRPF authorities to withdraw his security detail, but that didn’t happen. Ghosh wasn’t available to explain why he was still enjoying central security. A senior state BJP leader admitted that there was no point in continuing with central security for so many leaders. “But there is a process to withdraw.… The Centre has recently written to the state government to accord security to 61 state BJP leaders and may be that is the first step towards withdrawal of the forces,” said the leader. Dilip Ghosh, who was removed from the post of state president on Monday evening, said: “We had sent our views about the threat perception of the leaders when we were asked by our central leaders.… We did mention that many of these leaders didn’t need security. The final decision, however, lies with the Union home ministry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Sukanta Majumdar replaces Dilip Ghosh as Bengal BJP president||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has been removed from his post and replaced with Sukanta Majumdar, MP from Balurghat in South Dinajpur. Ghosh, 57, has been appointed a national vice-president of the BJP. He had been made the party’s state president in 2015, a year after the RSS had loaned him to the party. The sudden change of guard coincides with a slew of defections from the state BJP after its crushing defeat in the Assembly elections. Multiple sources said the removal of Ghosh, whose term was scheduled to end in November, was primarily triggered by the departure of former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who joined Trinamul on Saturday. “Dilipda’s term was to end this November and the broad consensus was that he would be allowed to complete his second term.… The series of defections in Bengal after the polls, and especially Babul’s exit, have hastened the change at the top,” a source said. The BJP had won 77 seats in the Assembly polls but the number has now fallen to 71, besides the loss of Supriyo, an MP. The news of the change of guard came around 8.30pm. Around three hours before the announcement, Ghosh had attended a news conference at his home in Calcutta and sources close to him said he had appeared unaware of the imminent change. “At Babul’s multiple meetings with the party’s central leadership after he had been dropped as a central minister, he had blamed Ghosh for the inner-party strife in Bengal. Several other leaders from the state, including some MPs, had also complained against Dilipda’s style of functioning, and especially his style of communication,” the source added. Unlike Ghosh, Majumdar, 42, measures his words and is known to maintain a low profile. The appointment of Majumdar, a PhD in botany, is significant as this is the first time the state BJP is getting a president from north Bengal, a region where the party performed much better than in other parts of Bengal. A state BJP leader said the appointment of Majumdar, who cut his teeth in the RSS before joining the party in 2019, was aimed at addressing the problem of inner-party differences. “Dilipda and Suvendu Adhikari were having regular tiffs as both are high-profile leaders.… Now the party has taken a decision that will allow all the focus to be on Suvendu while Sukanta will be doing the organisational work,” a source said. Some BJP insiders wondered whether Majumdar, not known to too many party workers beyond north Bengal, would be able to discharge the responsibilities of party president at a crucial time like the present. “This is shocking. After all, Dilipda led our journey from being a zero to becoming the most crucial Opposition party in the state. The most important question is, how many people know Sukanta?” a state BJP functionary said. Majumdar, a cousin of former Union minister and MP Debashree Chaudhuri, told reporters in Balurghat that his priority would be strengthening the party in the state. “I shall work towards further strengthening the sturdy foundation of our party created by Dilipda. We need to strengthen the BJP for the betterment of Bengal and Bengalis,” the MP said. Ghosh welcomed the change of guard. “It is only natural that a change would come. I had met Naddaji in July where I was told that there would be a parivartan, a change of guard…. It’s all right. I’ve been given a new task. The new president will need time to prepare since the panchayat polls are due in a year and a half. We are all with him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
