22-09-2021||West Bengal||If you want to see me as CM, vote for me, says anxious Mamata ||The aura of invincibility that surrounded Mamata Banerjee for more than three decades appears to have faded as the Bengal chief minister, known for her street-fighting prowess, made an impassioned plea to voters in Bhowanipore to elect her in the September 30 bypolls. “If you don’t vote for me, I will not remain the chief minister. If you want to see me as chief minister, vote for me. Every vote is important for me,” Mamata said at two public meetings held at Ekbalpore and Chetla localities, both part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. Trinamul insiders admit that the recent Nandigram defeat may be playing on her mind. Yet, she is "Didi", they say. Overcoming adversity is what she thrives on. Since her stunning debut in parliamentary politics in 1984 when a rookie Mamata defeated the former CPM stalwart, the late Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee, she had lost only once in any election: 1989. Mamata’s 1984 victory came riding on the sympathy wave in favour of the Congress led by Rajiv Gandhi after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Five years later, as the ghost of Bofors chased Rajiv, Mamata felt the brunt and lost to the CPM’s Malini Bhattacharya by 30,900 votes. From 1991 till the last Assembly elections held this summer, Mamata had an undefeated streak which came to an end in Nandigram, where she lost to her once close aide Suvendu Adhikary, who had defected to the BJP, last December. Even in 2004, Mamata was the sole MP to win her seat for the Trinamul Congress, as the party faced a rout across Bengal. This time, while the Congress has refrained from putting up a nominee against her, the BJP and the CPM both are in the fray. Although it should be a cakewalk for her on her home turf, Mamata seems anxious. Once bitten, twice shy. “Many are thinking that Didi will win easily. But every vote is important. Even loss of one vote could prove costly. Come rain or storm, whatever happens step out of your homes and vote for me,” Mamata told voters. Trinamul insiders said they have never seen Mamata sound jittery in any poll campaign. “It is quite evident that the Nandigram defeat is playing on her minds. She is well aware the BJP can go to any length to see her removed as the Bengal chief minister,” said a Trinamul MP. “There is no doubt in Bengal there is no other leader who can stop the BJP.” Mamata’s bete noire Suvendu Adhikary who campaigned for party nominee Priyanka Tibrewal in Bhowanipore on the same day urged voters to consider the "ills of the state government" and not go by persona. “This is not about any one individual, rather the vote should be on the performance of the government. Only to ensure that she remains in the chief minister’s seat even the chief secretary of the state is pleading,” said Adhikary. While announcing the bypolls, the Election Commission had said it had given the green signal for the polls to be held despite the Covid threat following a special appeal from the Bengal government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal||IMD predicts low pressure area in Bay of Bengal, more rains in store for Bengal||The Met Department on Wednesday forecast the likely formation of a low pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal on September 24, even as several low-lying areas in and around the metropolis remain submerged following torrential rainfall earlier in the week. The weatherman warned of downpour at one or two places in South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and Paschim Medinipur districts on September 26-27, and rain or thundershowers across most districts of South Bengal, including Calcutta. A cyclonic circulation lies over the Myanmar coast, which is likely to move to northeast Bay of Bengal and intensify into a low pressure on September 24, it said. Calcutta recorded the heaviest one-day rainfall for September in 13 years - 142mm in 24 hours - on Monday, Met office data showed. Mukundapur, where numerous hospitals are located and Rahara, where three members of a family were electrocuted in a waterlogged room on Tuesday, are among the places still submerged, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal|| Hardeep Singh Puri on door-to-door campaign in Bhawanipur for Priyanka Tibrewal||Union minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday went on a door-to-door campaign in Bhawanipur assembly constituency in support of BJP's candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and said he saw clear support for the saffron party in the area. Puri, the Narendra Modi cabinet's Sikh face, also prayed at a local Gurudwara. "In my conversations with residents of Ram Mohan Dutta Road in the Ray Street area of Bhabanipur, shared their issues & concerns," Puri said on Twitter. "But there is clear support for the BJP candidate Smt. Priyanka Tibrewal," he said. Tibrewal, who accompanied Puri, is challenging Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her home constituency Bhabanipur, a seat which the TMC had won in elections held to the state assembly earlier this year. The seat was vacated by winning MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay to make way for his party leader. Banerjee had lost elections in Nandigram by a narrow margin to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari who is now BJP's leader in the West Bengal assembly. The Nandigram election is however subject to an ongoing court challenge. Puri, a former Indian Ambassador to the United Nations, also visited Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's and Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee houses, both located in the Bhabanipur area, to pay homage to the two leaders. "Visited the ancestral home of staunch nationalist & firm believer in India's unity & development, Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Ji & joined @BJP4Bengal karyakartas in paying homage to the memory of one of the founders of Bhartiya Jan Sangh. His vision & ideals continue to inspire us," he tweeted. Puri later said there is disillusionment among people about the ruling Trinamool Congress in the constituency and predicted this will be reflected in the results, if people vote freely .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP stopped from campaigning near Mamata's house ahead of Bhowanipore bypolls||The BJP on Wednesday said it was not allowed by the police to campaign for the Bhowanipore by-election in the area near Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence. State BJP president Sukanta Majumdar claimed that they were prevented from campaigning on Harish Chatterjee Street that leads to the residence of Mamata, who is also a candidate in the bypoll. He alleged that the police stopped the BJP's campaign as the TMC was in fear of losing the September 30 election. Rubbishing the allegation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Akash Magharia said, "They did not have vaccination certificates and they were trying to breach the high-security zone which is why they were diverted from that road." BJP MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato and Magharia were involved in a spat at the spot. Mahato claimed that they were in compliance with the number of people specified by the Election Commission for the door-to-door campaign, but the police said that there were more people in the entourage. "The TMC has got afraid and is not allowing the BJP to campaign, but the people will break the barricades," Majumdar, who then campaigned on another end of the street, told reporters. He accused the Kolkata police of bias against the opposition political parties. "Professionalism of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police has been destroyed," he said. Majumdar said that steps will be taken over the matter after discussion within the party. BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Banerjee in Bhowanipore , claimed that she was prevented from campaigning on the street on Tuesday as well despite having requisite permission. "There are voters on that street and despite having permission, why cannot I or our party go there to campaign?" she questioned, claiming that ruling TMC leaders were freely campaigning in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||In a first, Bengal to count big herbivores during tiger census this year||Bengal for the first time will count big herbivores such as deer and elephants while undertaking the tiger census this year, a senior forest official said on Wednesday. Earlier, the tiger census was done solely focussing on the big cats but from this year, the population of big herbivores will be included in the count as stipulated by the All India Coordinated Tiger Census, Chief Wildlife Warden Debal Roy told PTI. "Herbivores are important to the ecosystem inhabited by tigers. Thus, it is imperative to know how many herbivores are co-existing with tigers in a forest area," he explained. Deer, antelopes, gaurs, rhinoceroses and elephants will be counted depending on the region, Roy said. While the 2019-2020 census put the number of tigers in Sunderbans at 95, the Forest Department is hopeful the upcoming census that will begin in December and continue till January will throw up higher figures. "Apart from camera trapping technique, other statistical models will be used to arrive at the most probable figure and minimum probable figure," Roy said. "The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will analyse the data, following the census," he said. Sundarbans National Park, Buxa Tiger Reserve, Gorumara National Park, Jaldapara National Park and Chapramari National Park will be covered during the exercise, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar starts with divisive message ||Sukanta Majumdar took charge as the Bengal BJP president in Calcutta on Tuesday with a clear hint of the party’s continuance with divisive politics even as a section of leaders expressed doubts over the Balurghat MP’s ability to steer the organisation by addressing the challenges facing it. “The Trinamul Congress is using the people of a certain community to attack Hindus in Bengal,” Majumdar said in his first address as the state BJP president. Majumdar, a PhD in botany, had replaced Dilip Ghosh as the state BJP chief on Monday. “Our new president is an educated man. But it is doubtful whether he will be able to solve the problems,” a state BJP functionary said. According to several BJP insiders, Majumdar’s biggest handicap is his little or no connection with the party’s organisation as the MP had mostly concentrated on his own parliamentary constituency in the past two years and hence, had little exposure beyond Balurghat. “The only organisational experience he has had since his election as an MP was after November last year when he was appointed as the in-charge for the party’s Sikkim unit. Apart from that, he used to look after our national president J.P. Nadda’s Bengal itinerary ahead of the Assembly polls. Lately, he was appointed as the party’s co-in charge for the upcoming polls in the Jangipur and Samsherganj Assembly segments,” a source said. Getting acquainted with the party and its functionaries will take time for Majumdar and some insiders asked whether the BJP could afford much time as large-scale defections had begun at all levels in the Bengal BJP. While comparing the challenges facing Majumdar with those which Ghosh had to handle after coming from the RSS, a source said the Midnapore MP had got a year or so as a general secretary before he was made the party chief in November 2015. “As a result, Dilip-da had regular interactions with workers and hence, already had a first-hand experience of the organisation before he was made the president. Besides, Dilip-da, with his rustic comments, had become a crowd-puller,” said the source. Majumdar himself admitted the BJP was suffering because of differences in opinion among leaders, but he hoped it would not come in the way of the party’s functioning. “Our party has democracy and hence, people have their own views which they share. There are differences in opinion, but there is no difference in our hearts,” he said. The BJP insiders remained divided on whether the attempt to pursue the divisive agenda would work for the party in the coming days. “Our attempts at polarising the electorate didn’t work in the Assembly polls.... It remains to be seen whether it will work in the future,” said a source. Trinamul didn’t miss an opportunity to take a jibe at Majumdar’s appointment. The party’s spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy said the new BJP chief would take a year to know and understand the demography of Bengal. On the other hand, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the BJP had made a scapegoat out of Dilip Ghosh by removing him. “Leaders like Amit Shah had made huge claims before the polls. Why didn’t they step down? Why should Ghosh alone take all the responsibility?” Roy asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||GNLF leader Mahendra Chhetri quits over ‘ideological surrender’||Veteran leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) on Tuesday formally announced his decision to quit the party floated by Subash Ghisingh. Mahendra Chhetri, who joined GNLF in 2011 and was its general-secretary and spokesperson since, in an official press release stated he was severing ties with the party. “My journey with the GNLF ends today,” reads the first line of the release. Recently, Chhetri had expressed disappointment with the leadership, including present party chief and Ghisingh’s son Mann Ghisingh, for “surrendering the party’s ideology and principles to the BJP and for functioning solely at the directive of some leaders of the saffron camp”. On September 15, The Telegraph had reported on Chhetri’s stand where he had also hinted he would part ways with the GNLF. On Tuesday, he confirmed his decision. He said in the release that “realisation has hit many of us in the party” that the GNLF is “more committed towards the BJP and its leaders in Calcutta and Delhi, than its hard-working party cadres and leaders”. He was critical of Mann, too. “Ever since the electoral alliance that was stitched with the party in power in Delhi, our president has completely surrendered the entire organisation, neglecting the ethos and the aspirations of the Gorkhas. The president- seems rudderless. His actions and decisions, which are only taken keeping his coterie in mind, have been more detrimental to the cause of the Gorkhas than anything else,” Chhetri said. This is the second major blow for the GNLF, after Ajoy Edwards, another prominent face, walked out of the party. On his future plans, Chhetri was brief. “I will let you know in due time if I join any other political organisation,” he said. None of the prominent GNLF leaders could be contacted. Calls made to them went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Brown sugar haul, 1 held in Alipurduar||A person with brown sugar worth Rs 30 lakh was arrested from here on Monday night. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional police chief of Jaigaon, said a car was intercepted on Asian Highway 48 at Pasakha More near Jaigaon, located on the India-Bhutan border. Milan Mian, a resident of Jharnabusty in Jaigaon, was held with 300 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin. Sources said the cost of the seized narcotics is around Rs 30 lakh. Mian, booked under NDPS Act, was sent to a special court in Jalpaiguri on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Two CPM ex-councillors join Trinamul Congress in Siliguri||Two senior former councillors of the CPM, who are popular faces of the party in Siliguri, on Tuesday went to the district Trinamul office and joined the party. Sharmila Das, former councillor of ward 28 in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), and Tapas Chatterjee, the immediate past councillor of ward 32, were welcomed in Mamata Banerjee’s party by Darjeeling (plains) district president Papiya Ghosh and veteran leader and chairperson of the SMC board of administrators Gautam Deb. Since May this year, five former Left councillors have joined Trinamul, sources said. “Many leaders and workers from other political parties and some apolitical faces have approached us and intend to join Trinamul. We are, however, inducting them only after consent from the state leadership,” said Deb. Trinamul insiders said the party wants to consolidate its base by getting Left leaders and supporters on board. In Bengal, Siliguri subdivision has been one of the last bastions of the Left. Till last year, the Left were in power in both SMC and the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP). Till Assembly polls this summer, veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya was the MLA. Time and again, Trinamul leaders had expressed surprise as to why, despite a series of development work done across the subdivision by the Mamata Banerjee government since 2011, the party has failed to secure a majority in the SMC and SMP. “During past couple of years, BJP managed to develop its base in and around the city. Also, the Left still has some supporters. That is why on one hand, our leaders working in the board of administrators are focusing on development at the civic body, and on the other hand, we are exploring options to get more and more people from other parties, including the Left, on our side,” said a party leader. The presence of former councillors, who know their wards and localities of the city, would help Trinamul, he pointed out. These former councillors apart, Dipak Seal, a former district general secretary of Trinamul in Siliguri who had defected to BJP ahead of the Assembly elections, re-joined the party on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Help for students who lost breadwinners to Covid-19||Darjeeling based Vik-Run Foundation along with GTA Headmasters’ Association and various educational institutions from the hills have come forward to provide assistance to 14 students from the region who lost their breadwinners to Covid-19. “In June this year, we decided to come up with a Covid crisis scholarship scheme, Siksha Sahara, to help students who have lost breadwinners during the pandemic,” said Vikram Rai, lecturer at St. Joseph’s College (North Point) and founder of the foundation. After scrutinising applications and cross-checking them with various institiutions, the foundation along with GTA Headmasters’ Association short-listed 14 students, three of whom are college-goers, for the scholarship. “We made an appeal to various schools to waive tuition fees,” said Rai. Loreto Convent, St Robert’s High School, West Point and St Teresa Girls Higher Secondary School from Darjeeling along with Pokhriabong High School and Pankhabari High School were some schools that have decided to waive their annual tuition fees for these students. The group is also sponsoring their uniforms and textbooks for the next academic session in the hills that starts in March. “These are difficult times for students who have lost their breadwinners. We also collected Rs 1.4 lakh from our well-wishers and it was distributed to students today (Tuesday),” said Rai. The event was held at Ramakrishna Siksha Parisad (RKSP) school in Darjeeling on Tuesday. The group plans to continue the scholarship in the days to come. “We hope the third wave of the pandemic does not occur but if the situation arises, we will come forward to help,” said Rai. “We are facing difficult times and this has come as a big help for me,” said a student. Vik-Run Foundation, which formed a legal cell, had also taken up a case of a private hospital in Siliguri “overcharging” a Covid patient from Darjeeling, who ultimately lost the battle.The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission directed the hospital to refund Rs 2.3 lakh as compensation to the deceased’s family. In the course of the 20-day treatment, the hospital had handed the family a bill of Rs 8.34 lakh. The foundation, which has a bank of 40 oxygen cylinders and nine oxygen concentrators, is providing free services to the poor all through the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Purulia: Death awarded to child-killer duo||A young mother and her elderly paramour were sentenced to death by a Purulia court on Tuesday, after they were found guilty of killing her three-year-old daughter by pushing seven needles into her in 2017. The additional district and sessions judge of the Purulia court Ramesh Kumar Pradhan deemed the crime was “rarest among the rare”. Mangala Goswami, 28, and Sanatan Goswami, 60, were found guilty under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts committed by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) by judge Pradhan on Tuesday afternoon. “The court considered the case as rarest of the rare, as a mother, who is the safest shelter of a child had played a key role in killing her own daughter. We welcome such a punishment as the people would see how cruel a mother can be,” said Anwar Ali Ansari, the special public prosecutor. “The police investigation revealed they played the radio at a high volume while pushing the needles into the  little girl,” Ansari added. Police and court sources said Mangala had an extramarital affair with Sanatan, and they started living together in Nadiara village of Purulia with her daughter in 2017. After a few months, villagers heard the girl cry continuously but neither her mother nor Sanatan took her to a doctor. In July 2017, villagers requested a patrolling police van to take the girl to a hospital. Doctors found metal needles inside her body, including in lungs and abdomen. She was shifted to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and then SSKM in Calcutta, where doctors took out seven needles, but the child died later. The Purulia unit of Childline lodged a police complaint against Mangala and Sanatan, which turned into a murder case. Mangala was immediately arrested, but Sanatan had fled to Uttar Pradesh. After a 13-day search, Sanatan was finally arrested from the Sonbhadra area of Uttar Pradesh. “Police submitted the chargesheet within 52 days and the trial continued keeping Mangala and Sanatan in judicial custody,” said a police officer. After the judgment was delivered, both claimed they were not guilty. A large number of people came to the court compound of Purulia to witness the verdict. The duo were found guilty on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Wire kills 2 flood-relief workers at East Midnapore village||Two persons engaged in relief work in a flooded East Midnapore village of Itaberia panchayat died after coming in contact with a live wire on Monday night. Seven volunteers had gone by boat to distribute relief materials to flood-hit residents of Kotmukha village when the incident took place. Local sources said the volunteers, including team leader and pradhan of Itaberia gram panchayat Sumita Jana, had been using a bamboo pole to row the boat. When the wet bamboo pole came in contact with an overhead electric cable, all occupants of the boat were electrocuted and injured, a panchayat official said. “One person, Sourabh Mondal, 26, fell off the boat owing to the impact of the bamboo pole coming in contact with the overhead cable and went missing. We took the six others to Itaberia block hospital where Pradip Maity, 31, was declared brought dead,” said the panchayat official.On Tuesday morning, Sourabh’s body was was spotted floating. Three other injured volunteers who were admitted to the Itaberia hospital turned critical on Tuesday and had to be shifted to the Tamluk hospital, the official added. “It is a very unfortunate incident. Those who are involved in relief distribution work in our area are all villagers who volunteered to help flood victims,” Gouranga Mondal, a member of the Itaberia panchayat said. “We are providing relief materials for the last two days,” Mondal added. Totrrential rain pounded East Midnapore on Tuesday as well, along with other parts of coastal Bengal. Incessant rain aggravated floods in East and West Midnapore districts. The river Keleghai flooded newer areas. East Midnapore’s district disaster management officer Mrityunjoy Halder said: “Fresh rain on successive days for a stretch now has worsened the situation in areas adjacent to the Keleghai river. These areas include Patashpur and its adjacent places that have already been devastated by floods.” In West Midnapore’s Burisole, Tiyasha Bhuniya, 3, died when her thatched house, where she lived with her parents, caved in on Tuesday morning on account of the impact of the rain and floods. Her mother Soma Bhuniya, who is in an advanced stage of pregnancy, has been seriously injured and is admitted to the hospital. The weather office has forecast light to moderate rainfall, along with thunderstorms in major parts of Murshidabad, Birbhum and South Dinajpur districts from Tuesday afternoon. The weather forecast on Tuesday has unleashed a fresh possibility of more inundation in south Bengal on a day continued rain aggravated the floods in East Midnapore’s Patashpur and Bhagabanpur and West Midnapore’s Sabang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 537 new cases, 592 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 93 straight days of a fall in its overall number of active Covid-19 cases, with 537 new infections, 592 recoveries and 14 deaths. Covid-19 active cases in the state fell by 69 to 7,741. Calcutta logged 108 new infections, the only one among the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths while 15 Bengal districts logged zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, its highest this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.72 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent and that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Its daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 1.62 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal now has nearly 15.63 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.36 lakh recoveries and 18,678 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Robbers raid gold loan firm in Hooghly’s Chandernagore||Police arrested two armed robbers of a four-member gang after they raided the office of a gold finance agency in Hooghly’s Chandernagore on Tuesday afternoon. The gang fled by firing a few rounds in the air. The police, who had rushed to the spot after getting information about the raid, also fired in the air. An employee of the agency was injured when a gang member hit him on the head with the butt of a firearm. The police, however, could not confirm whether the gang had taken away cash and gold ornaments. Sources said the robbers raided the office of the agency at Laxmiganj market around 2.30pm. Local people, including a few traders, were alerted by the sound of firing coming from inside the office. They immediately alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and cordoned off the office. Traders said the robbers had opened fire first inside the office and then while fleeing. “We had never witnessed such a situation in Chandernagore before,” said Sujit Palit, a local resident. He added the arrival of the police had panicked the robbers and they tried to escape. The police said they could catch two robbers, while the rest managed to flee by climbing onto the roof of the building. “At Laxmigunj bazar under Chandannagore police station, an incident of robbery took place at 14.44 hours onwards….Immediately upon information NAKA was erected all along Chandannagar Police Commissionerate exist points and police has been able to arrest two criminals, rest two criminals ran away by negotiating with terrace and roof,” reads a press-note issued by a senior police officer in a WhatsAap group of local media persons. However, the police are yet to disclose whether the robbers have been able to burgle the firm. Sources said a search was on for the gang members. Chandernagore police commissioner Arnab Ghosh and deputy commissioner Vidit Raj Bhundesh did not take calls from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Driven by dream, artisan builds ‘bus-house’ near Santiniketan||A 42-year-old artisan near Santiniketan had a childhood dream that he would one day own and drive a bus. After years of living hand to mouth as an adolescent and adult, Uday Das of Dhanai village found out that buying a bus would not be a cakewalk. So, Das, now a father of three children, has fulfilled his childhood dream in a different way by constructing a “bus-house”. The home has become an attraction for people around Santiniketan, many of whom make weekend trips to the site. “In my childhood, the only vehicles that we witnessed were a few buses of the Bolpur-Suri route plying on our village road. As I can’t buy a bus, I thought about it differently. I am happy as many people are coming to see my home and are taking photographs within a fortnight of its completion,” said Das. Das’s house is 22-feet long, 7.6-feet wide and around 8-feet high —with bus owners confirming it was exactly like a medium-sized bus. “Our bus has no engine or steering. I made the driver’s cabin our kitchen. There are slabs where at least 20 people can easily sit” the artisan’s wife Chandana Das said. Villagers said they knew Das as having a knack to create something new, including cement idols for local Pujas. “He is a different kind of person who is always busy in making something new. But we had no idea that he would be able to construct such a bus-house,” said Radharani Mondal, a villager. Now, his village became a place of attraction for many from Santiniketan, who board the stationary concrete bus and return with memories and photographs. “I heard about the bus-house two days ago and came to witness it. I took a few pictures of the house and plan to bring my family members here,” said Ataul Hoque, an English teacher of a local high school and a resident of Santiniketan. Das said he would apply for a government identity card which could help him get a government allowance of Rs 1,000 per month as an artisan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
