23-09-2021||West Bengal||Big-time BJP leader all set to join our party, claims Firhad Hakim||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Firhad Hakim on Thursday said a “big leader from BJP” is set to join Trinamool Congress in a few days and claimed that the BJP will disintegrate in the state. Firhad Hakim, who is campaigning for TMC chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the September 30 Bhabanipur by-poll, said the party is not indiscriminately inducting BJP leaders into its fold. Trinamool Congress is checking antecedents, track record and image of each BJP leader who has come to TMC and is deciding on their appeal after due deliberation, Mr Hakim, who is also a senior minister in Mamata Banerjee's cabinet, said. Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee during an election campaign had said, "The Trinamool has kept its doors shut. The day we open it, the BJP will become empty. There are so many people waiting to cross over." Bengal saw several BJP leaders defecting to TMC after Mamata Banerjee’s party swept to power in the Assembly poll this year. “The process has only started,” was Firhad Hakim's cryptic reply when he was asked by reporters whether there would be more crossovers to the TMC after Babul Supriyo and Mukul Roy earlier. "Wait for a few more days. A big-time BJP leader is all set to join our party... BJP will disintegrate in West Bengal," he said without elaborating. Reacting to Hakim's comments, BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said, "The TMC should think about ethics and ideology before trying to poach BJP leaders. Those not interested in power and position, but love BJP will not leave," he asserted. Newly-appointed Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumder appealed to disgruntled party leaders to discuss their grievances with their seniors and assured them he will be ever attentive to address their issues. "Don't take any decision which will weaken the fight for people's democratic rights in Bengal," he appealed. Besides Babul Supriyo and Mukul Roy, three BJP MLAs have also joined TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP set to move high court against 'defector' Mukul Roy||The BJP is all set to move the Calcutta High Court seeking the disqualification of the "renegade" MLA Mukul Roy, who switched to the Trinamul in June without resigning as MLA as per the anti-defection law. The case, to be filed either on Friday or coming Monday depending on the weather in Calcutta, will be the first of its kind. While defections have been happening in the Bengal Assembly ever since the Trinamul Congress was formed, no member has ever been disqualified. The leader of the Opposition, Suvendu Adhikary, announced the decision to seek legal recourse after the fourth hearing in this matter at the Speaker’s office in the Assembly was inconclusive as Roy stayed away. Instead, a letter signed by Trinamul’s chief whip, Nirmal Ghosh, was submitted to the Speaker’s office claiming that Roy was unwell. “This letter from the ruling party’s chief whip proves that Mukul Roy is with the Trinamul Congress,” Adhikary said later on Thursday afternoon. Adhikary said their lawyer had submitted a judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of a Manipur MLA, which states that issues related to defection have to be settled in three months. “Unless the law (Tenth Schedule referred to as the anti-defection law) is changed, the Supreme Court's judgement has to be treated as a ruling. The Speaker has sought time to study the judgment. We don’t have any issues with that. More than four months have elapsed since Roy defected. We will now move court,” said Adhikary. "I am the government chief whip. Any MLA can talk about their problems with me. I have only conveyed an information to the Speaker's office. I don't see how I have done anything wrong," said Nirmal Ghosh, Trinamul MLA and chief whip of the ruling party. During his days in the Trinamul, Adhikary was one of the prime movers behind the defection of several Congress and a few Left MLAs, from Murshidabad and elsewhere, to the Trinamul. While the Congress and the Left moved petition after petition before the Speaker’s office, neither of the parties took the matter to the court. In the previous Assembly, Dipali Biswas, elected on a CPM ticket, had defected to the Trinamul (and later BJP) skipped all 23 hearings that were held to discuss her disqualification. “The letter from the Trinamul chief whip has been submitted without any medical certificate or evidence of his medical condition. Mukul Roy could have written the letter himself,” said Adhikary. He said other legislators who had defected to the Trinamul from the BJP will have to face by-elections soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek mocks BJP, says its leaders are queing outside TMC office||Amid a series of defections from the TMC to the BJP in West Bengal, the national general secretary of the state's ruling party, Abhishek Banerjee, on Thursday said if his organisation keeps its door ajar, the saffron camp will collapse in no time. Addressing a rally at Murshidabad district's Samserganj constituency, where polls are set to be held on September 30, Banerjee claimed that BJP leaders, mostly MLAs, have been queuing up before the TMC office, the doors of which are shut. "We have kept the doors closed. If the doors are opened, the BJP will surely collapse," he said. The Diamond Harbour MP further said that the Mamata Banerjee-led party, during the March-April Assembly polls, had driven "outsiders" away, and it would do so again in the upcoming polls. The TMC has often referred to the BJP as a "party of outsiders". "These outsiders need to be taught a lesson again... The saffron party will be defeated in the upcoming elections. Wherever the BJP is in power, we will go there and dislodge the party," he asserted. The MP also alleged that the BJP government in Tripura has imposed restrictions under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to stop him from holding rallies in the neighbouring state. "How long will the order be in force in Tripura? The TMC will register victory in Tripura for sure. People will see what the TMC is capable of achieving in the next three months," he added. Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in Tripura in early 2023. The TMC has fielded Amirul Islam from the Samserganj seat, where polls were earlier countermanded following the death of Congress candidate Rezaul Haque.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows EC to file affidavit in Bhowanipore bypolls case||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday allowed the Election Commission (EC) to file an affidavit regarding the contents of the notification issued by it for the Bhowanipore bypoll. The court was hearing public interest litigation that urged it to step into the poll process in the constituency, as the EC allegedly mentioned that a constitutional crisis would arise if the by-election to Bhowanipore was not held, which the petitioner claimed the poll body cannot. The advocate representing the EC sought a short adjournment to file an affidavit regarding the contents of two paragraphs of the notification issued for the election, in view of the arguments raised by Bikash Bhattacharya, the senior counsel for the petitioner. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj adjourned the hearing in the PIL till Friday when it will be taken up again. The West Bengal government had during an earlier hearing on September 13, submitted that the chief secretary of the state had only written to EC, requesting that the bypoll be held and the commission had accepted the request. It had submitted that the state has no role in the decision to hold the bypoll and that it is the sole preserve of the EC. Bypoll to Bhowanipore was necessitated following the resignation of Trinamool Congress MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay to facilitate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election to the assembly. Banerjee lost in Nandigram, as per the results of the Assembly election declared by the EC in May. According to the constitutional provision, a person has to get elected within six months of taking oath as a chief minister or a minister. She took oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Two children electrocuted in Dum Dum||Two 12-year-old girls who were returning from tuition classes through a waterlogged street in Dum Dum in northeast Kolkata were electrocuted when one of them accidentally came in contact with an iron post wrapped with a livewire on Wednesday evening. Both were taken to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital where they were declared dead. Residents of Bandhab Nagar Colony said the girls were wading through water when a four-wheeler was speeding down the stretch. The girls apparently stepped aside to make way for the car when one of them grabbed the iron post for support. “One of them touched the iron post and got electrocuted. The other girl tried to help her and got electrocuted, too,” said a resident of the area, Krishna Banik, who said he was among the first few persons to reach the spot. The neighbours identified the girls as Anushka Nandi and Sneha Banik. Both are students of Class VI in the same school. Sneha’s family members said Anushka went to their home around 4pm, after which they left for their tuition class. The tragedy struck when they were returning home. Surajit Roy Chowdhury, the coordinator of Ward 9 of South Dum Dum Municipality, where the incident happened, said he had spoken with the power utility and asked them to cut off power supply till the area was examined and declared safe. “It was raining continuously. The moment I came to know about the incident, I alerted the fire department and the police. I have contacted the power utility company and asked them to cut off the supply tonight. It will be restored only after a thorough inspection of the area is conducted tomorrow morning,” he said. The incident happened a day after three members of a family were electrocuted in their house, which had been waterlogged for days. Electrocution has been the biggest killer in Kolkata after every spell of rain. Cyclone Amphan had caused 19 electrocution deaths in the city last year. The six deaths reported in the city in the past 24 hours suggest nothing has changed. Pedestrians continue to die while walking through waterlogged footpaths after coming in contact with lamp posts or snapped wires hanging along the road. In May, a 25-year-old engineer had died after coming in contact with a lamp post on a footpath near Raj Bhavan. In June, an 18-year-old youth and a 36-year-old biker got electrocuted in separate accidents in Patuli and Haridevpur. In 2016, a 14-year-old student was electrocuted while wading through water on a Bhowanipore road and collapsed after touching a lamp post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Family shock probe takes time||Over 24 hours after three members of a family got electrocuted in their waterlogged home in Khardah in North 24 Parganas district, police and state electricity board officials did not seem to be in any hurry to find out what exactly caused the death. A senior officer of the Barrackpore city police said police stations had been asked to coordinate with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company, the state-run power utility, to conduct an inquiry and create awareness. An official of the power department said “the incident happened inside a private consumer installation” and suggested it did not demand an immediate probe. “I have asked the officers in charge of all police stations in my division to ask the electricity board concerned to conduct an inquiry into the matter and coordinate with them to create awareness among people so that such incidents can be averted,” said Aashish Maurya, deputy commissioner (central zone), Barrackpore city police. Several families living in the same compound, whose ground-floor units are still flooded, have left their homes, scared after the three deaths. Many, who have no alternative, have been forced to stay back. “Any of us can suffer the same fate. We still do not know how to secure ourselves while living in this waist-deep water for days. Yesterday, after the incident, the power supply was off for an hour, after which it was restored. We are scared if there is electricity, we are equally scared if there is no electricity as snakes are entering our homes,” said homemaker Mitun Sarkar, who lives a few blocks away from the Das’s home, where the tragedy struck. Mitun, her husband — who works in the GPO — and their 18-year-old daughter shift to a relative’s house every night so he can reach his workplace in dry clothes. Once he leaves for office, the mother and the daughter return to spend the day in their waterlogged home. Asked about the cause of Tuesday’s electrocution that killed Raja Das, 38, wife Poulami, 30, and their son Neel, 10, an official of the state power department said it was a ‘private consumer installation’ and the tragedy happened inside a private property. “The incident happened inside the house. According to the protocol for an electrical accident, we have reported the matter to the police. That’s all we have to say regarding this case,” said the official who refused to be named. The official said the power supply had been restored in the entire area by Wednesday and that they would take action if they received further complaints. Soummo Patra, 23, a resident, said a foot infection because of long hours in the water and an overflowing commode forced him to move into a neighbour’s place. “Every corner of the house is flooded from kitchen to washroom. There is no way we can use the washroom. I have developed an infection on my feet after I tried to stay at home in the water for the last few days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Sample tests of ill kids to start at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital||Consistent spike in influenza-like illness (ILI) cases among children in different districts of north Bengal has made the state health department draw up a plan so that samples of such children can be tested at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). Over the past couple of weeks, most of the ILI cases among children have been reported in Jalpaiguri and Malda districts and also in Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling. Cases have also been reported from other districts of the region, but they are fewer. “So far, the blood and swab samples of these ill children were being sent to The School of Tropical Medicine in Calcutta from the NBMCH as well as other hospitals of the region (north Bengal). This led to delay as pressure was mounting on the institute’s labs. That is why it has been decided that from now on, the testing facility would be introduced here at the NBMCH itself,” said a source at the hospital. Even now, around 50 children with viral infection are under treatment at the NBMCH. Similar number of children are also undergoing treatment in Jalpaiguri and Malda, said sources. S. Ponnambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling, said that NBMCH authorities would use multiplex PCR kits which can test the samples of children from across north Bengal. “A tender has already been floated to procure the kits. At NBMCH, six types of kits will be used to test the samples and we hope the results will come much faster. The plan is to start the testing from next week,” said the district magistrate. Superspeciality block In another development, the state has also planned to open the superspeciality block at the NBMCH soon. “However, we need to clean the NBMCH area for which the administration has sought help from Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA),” the Darjeeling district magistrate added. Sources said the SJDA, which has been entrusted with cleaning, has recently sent a letter to NBMCH authorities, saying they need to spend around Rs 7 lakh per month for the regular cleaning work and it was getting tough for them to continue the work every month without getting suitable funds. “Regular cleaning of garbage, medical and clinical wastes is necessary. The district administration and state health department should resolve the issue (of funds for the purpose),” said a senior faculty member of NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||App, drone for vigil on Durga Puja days in and around Siliguri||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police will launch a mobile app for pandal-hoppers in and around Siliguri ahead of Durga Puja this year. The decision was made at a preparatory meeting that senior police officers held on Tuesday with Puja organisers of the city. Sources said 280 Pujas in all are held in the civic area while close to 400 Pujas are organised in the Siliguri Metropolitan Police area every year. According to police sources, any smartphone user who intends to visit the Durga Puja pandals can install this app in to obtain detailed information on the location of pandals, traffic and its curbs in different parts of the city, locations of police assistance booths and the nearest healthcare unit. “The app will also enable a user to call up the police control room in case of an emergency. Also, a host of other information will be there in the app to confirm that people enjoy festive days in a hassle-free manner,” said Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. “We will engage drones for aerial vigilance. This would help us to know about the movement of traffic and crowd and can also help us to intervene in case of any need,” said a police officer. In all, police will run 18 police assistance booths in different strategic locations of its area that covers a major part of Siliguri subdivision and some contiguous parts of the Jalpaiguri district. During Durga Puja days, additional forces will be deployed in various places of Siliguri, including key crossings and near prominent Pujas. Along with the police, the civic authorities also held a meeting with different departments on Tuesday to discuss preparations for Durga Puja. Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, spoke with department officials to ensure no disruption in basic civic services are made during Puja days. “Immersion of idols will be allowed from October 15 to 17. Organisers can collect permission from the civic body till October 4,” said De. “According to the decision of the state government, permission will not be granted to any new Durga Puja this year. In due course, Covid 19 protocols will also be circulated among Puja committees,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to pay Rs 2 crore for dirty rivers: NGT||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has instructed the Mamata Banerjee government to pay an interim compensation of Rs 2 crore so that the sum can be used to reduce pollution in the Mahananda river and Fuleswari and Jorapani two rivulets. The Mahananda is the principal river that flows through Siliguri and the two rivulets crisscross the city. On Monday, the NGT bench, comprising chairperson Adarsh Goel, along with three judicial members, Brijesh Sethi, Sudhir Agarwal and B Amit Sthalekar, and expert members Saibal Dasgupta and Nagin Nanda, said that despite repeated orders issued by the NGT, officers and state agencies who are supposed to take steps to reduce pollution of these three water bodies and restore the quality of water, have not carried out their responsibilities. “The principal bench has asked the state government to deposit a sum of Rs 2 crore with the district magistrate of Darjeeling so that it can be used for the improvement of these water bodies. Also, the chief secretary of the state has been asked to attend a hearing in January next year with the action-taken report,” said a source. In Siliguri, issues of Mahananda’s pollution and encroachment of its banks, as well as the condition of the rivulets have  time and again been raised by environmentalists and people in general. In 2005, the Centre  granted around Rs 60 crore under the Mahananda Action Plan for the restoration of the river and two rivulets. Initially, some initiatives were taken up, but eventually, the plan was not implemented fully. The dilapidated condition of Mahananda had prompted Subhash Datta, a Calcutta-based environmentalist, to file a petition with the NGT a few years back. This made the NGT react and pass as many as 12 orders to the district administration, the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and to Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority to take necessary steps. “The bench is aggrieved with the performance of these agencies and has mentioned in its order that a recent field survey has shown that even now, there are 88 encroachments in the Mahananda. It has also mentioned that the SMC should remove all encroachers and the unauthorised structures by March 31 next year,” the source added. While environmentalists and residents have welcomed the tribunal’s order and are hopeful that the river and the two rivulets will be cleaned, civic authorities have decided to hold a meeting soon to draw up the plan of action to curb pollution. “We will hold a meeting to ensure that the Mahananda flows freely and the sources of pollution are curbed through appropriate measures,” said Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Armed gang threatens and abuses BDO in Alipurduar district||An officer of the state administrative services posted as the block development officer (BDO) of Kalchini in Alipurduar district was threatened by armed persons at his residential quarters on Wednesday around 12.30am. This occurred hours after Trinamul president of Kalchini block, and some others, went to the BDO’s office on Tuesday afternoon and accused him of functioning without consulting elected representatives of rural bodies. Prasanta Barman, the BDO, who ran inside the washroom of his quarters when he saw the armed men and heard their threats “in vile language”, called up his colleagues and Kalchini police from there. He emerged from the washroom 40 minutes later when his colleagues and police arrived. He later filed a complaint with the police. No arrests have been made so far. In recent times, Barman hit the headlines for going beyond the call of his duty to help people get benefits of the state’s social welfare schemes. “I stay alone in my quarters. Around 12.30pm, I heard somebody knocking on one of the windows that I had left open. As I got up and approached the window, I saw some four people carrying firearms. They hurled abuse at me and threatened to kill me. I rushed to the washroom,” the BDO said. “I fail to understand why I was threatened. I am only discharging my official responsibilities as the BDO,” he added. On Tuesday, when Barman was in his office, Pasang Lama, block Trinamul president of Kalchini, with other leaders, gave him a memo. Lama was heard saying that from now on, he and his associates will prepare the list of beneficiaries under the 100-days-work scheme and the BDO won’t have a role in it. “If the matter is not sorted within seven days, we will launch protests against you. We won’t let you work at the behest of some central ministers,” he was heard saying in a clip that came on social media. On this, Barman said: “I will not bow before anybody. I am working under state government’s guidelines. On Wednesday, Lama said the BDO should respect rural representatives. He condemned the night’s incident. “I am a panchayat functionary for around 15 years now but have never seen a BDO initiating a project without discussing with us. As far as the night’s incident is concerned, we condemn it and want the police to take appropriate steps.” Calls made to Bholanath Pandey, the Alipurduar SP, went unanswered. Another police officer speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were probing the case. “We are working on inputs and trying to trace those who had entered the BDO’s residence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Film-maker Sandip Ray launches new book Aparajito Satyajit||Film-maker Sandip Ray, along with Kalyani University vice-chancellor Manas Kumar Sanyal, launches a book — Aparajito Satyajit — to mark the birth centenary of his father Satyajit Ray in Calcutta on Wednesday. The book is a collection of memories and articles on the legendary film maestro penned by eminent names, including actress Sharmila Tagore, who has acted in many Ray films. It has been published by Kalyani University. Ray, born on May 2, 1921, in Calcutta, made his directorial debut in 1955 with Pather Panchali, an adaptation of Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s novel of the same name. Ray was also an accomplished writer, illustrator, graphic designer and music composer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Schoolgirl pedals 12km a day for water in North 24-Parganas village||Schoolgirl Toma Das, 15, cycles 12km every day to bring drinking water home in her North 24-Parganas village from a roadside PHE reservoir. In the last week of July, Toma, who studies in Class X Hulorchar village of Hansnabad block, submitted an appeal through the Prime Minister’s public grievance portal, saying that fetching water hampered her studies. “Every day, I bring 30 litres of water, which is not sufficient for a family of five persons. Sometimes, we blatantly avoid offering a glass of water to guests since it will only reduce our stock,” the student stated in the portal. “The regular journey for water costs me valuable study time in the morning as I spent two hours to bring water. Sometimes, it becomes tough to attend school,” the girl added. The Class X student had willingly taken the burden of bringing 30 litres of drinking water home in two plastic containers after finding out the hard way that the groundwater her family used to drink from the tube well was excessively saline-rich and therefore not healthy. Till two years ago, her father Subol Das, a mason, used to bring home water from the local tube well. Then, he fell ill. Secretary of Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society, Subhasis Mondal, an organisation that is working for the socio-economic development of the Sunderbans, said: “It (excessive salinity in water) is a tremendous problem with which children are growing up. But unlike their parents and grandparents, they are not ready to accept it lying down anymore. Constant saline exposure leads to several skin problems.” According to sources, areas like Amlani, Bhawanipur-I, Hansnabad, Patlikhanpur, Barunhat, Rameswarpur, Bhawanipur-II gram panchayat under Hansnabad block Bispur, Dulduli, Gobindakati, Jogeshganj, Kalitala, Rupmari, and Sandelerbil under Hingalganj block are suffering from exposure to salinity. Toma is among a few thousand persons living in 14 gram panchayats of Hingalganj and Hansnabad blocks, in Basirhat subdivision, who either walk or pedal a few kilometres every day to fetch drinking water, having no other recourse. Enveloped with several rivers connected to the Bay of Bengal, most blocks of the Sunderbans spanning North and South 24-Parganas suffer from high groundwater salinity. No block has recently reported salinity below 300mg per litre, which is unsafe for drinking. Hence, people do not drink the water they draw through deep tube wells. The latter is an unchanged arrangement dating to the pre-Independence era. For instance, Toma collects water from a roadside PHE reservoir near Bailani market in Hingalganj block. In 2009, the Centre had launched the National Rural Drinking Water Programme aiming to provide safe and adequate water for drinking, cooking and other domestic needs to every rural household on a sustainable basis. The state government had planned to provide piped water to 70 per cent rural households by 2020. However, only 25 per cent of households received the facility so far. The Bengal government last year announced a Rs 58,000-crore Jal Swapno project to provide piped water supply to two crore rural households over the next five years with support of central funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Bus carrying migrant workers crashes, 70 injured||A private bus carrying migrant workers and their family members from Jharkhand to Lucknow went off NH12 at Rupahar near here on Wednesday night, injuring many of the 70-odd passengers. North Dinajpur district police chief Sana Akhtar said the bus had rammed into a small vehicle and then fallen into a ditch. “We have admitted around 40 passengers to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. The bus is yet to be pulled out of the ditch,” Akhtar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal|| Siliguri Metropolitan Police special op group seizes narcotics, two held||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested two persons with narcotics on Tuesday. Police sources said Khaibul Muhammad, a resident of Islampur of North Dinajpur and Bapi Singha, a Matigara resident were nabbed with 260 grams of brown sugar — a derivative of heroin — and 22 bottles of cough syrup during the raid at Biswas Colony, a locality under Matigara police station. In the past 72 hours, this is the second such raid conducted by the SOG in which narcotics was seized. In another incident, a team of the state forest department  and the Sashastra Seem Bal (SSB) seized a number of illegal timber logs from different locations of Nagrakata block on Wednesday. The team, sources said, raided areas like Dangapara, Khasbusty, Hajipara and Bamandanga. Also, a deer horn was seized from Nagrakata. Paku Kheria, a local resident, has been arrested in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Two persons on hilsa hunt killed by lightning in East Midnapore||Two persons were killed by lightning in East Midnapore’s Mahisadal early on Wednesday while drawing in their catch of hilsa from the Rupnarayan river. The deceased, Samir Pal, 35 and Biswanath Bhuniya, 25, were part of a group of four. Milan Bhuniya, 30, Biswanath’s younger brother, and Sheikh Faruk, 42, are undergoing treatment at Tamluk district hospital and Mahisadal block hospital, respectively. Biswanath and Samir reportedly died on the spot. “The tragedy comes after the inclement weather began last Monday,” said district disaster management official, Mrityunjay Haldar, noting that flooding that had been triggered by the overflowing Kansabati and Keleghai rivers on Monday was exacerbated on Wednesday. The youths who had gone fishing amid a lull in the storm were not fishermen by profession. All were idol makers who had a few days’ break from Puja preparations, owing to the monsoon. “We live right by the river and my brothers have always been used to trying their luck during the hilsa season,” said youngest brother Haripada Bhuniya, 15. “This is fishing season for average citizens. There were several others along the bank when the incident occurred,” said Mahisadal panchayat samiti member Dipali Bhowmik, adding that “heavy rain” had commenced by dawn on Wednesday. On Wednesday, rain-related woes in Patashpur worsened. The Telegraph had reported on Tuesday how flooding in the Keleghai and Kansabati had displaced lakhs and damaged innumerable homes. The residents of the area gheraoed panchayat officials who were in the area to survey the damage to dykes. The protesters said they had also emailed irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra regarding an immediate solution to the flooding. “Our district magistrate brought this development to the notice of the state chief secretary during a meeting today,” said a district official, adding the irrigation department had verbally informed district officials that “the repairs would take time owing to persistent flooding”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 recoveries surpass fresh cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 683 new Covid-19 infections, 687 recoveries and 13 deaths. Active cases fell by 17 to 7,724 in all in Bengal. The number of active cases fell for 94 straight days. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of India’s active cases and is seventh on among states with the highest number of such infections. Calcutta logged 112 new cases and North 24-Parganas 108, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new cases. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas five on Wednesday. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.74. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.63 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.37 lakh recoveries and 18,691 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill tea bonus talks fail again over instalments||Bonus talks between hill tea garden unions and officials of the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) failed for the second time on Wednesday. Although hill planters agreed to pay bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ annual earnings, their proposal to pay it in instalments was rejected by eight hill unions. Hill unions wanted planters to pay bonus at one go. Hill unions of major parties like Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Party, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Gorkha National Liberation Front, CPM, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists and others, who are otherwise bitter rivals in hill politics, came up with a joint statement seeking payment of the 20 per cent bonus at one go. “We all trade unions of the hill stand united to oppose the discrimination and suppressing policy of the hills tea garden owners and appeal your good self to justify our demands… that please do not split the bonus of accounting year 2020-2021 and let it be paid at one go,” the letter to the additional labour commissioner states. At a time of intense competition among hill parties, many believe none of them  can afford to back an inch on the bonus issue now. The meeting was held at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri on Wednesday and sources said that the next meeting has been scheduled for September 27 at the labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri from 1.30 pm. Planters cited their problems. “We don’t have any cash flow. It has been stated to the unions that we are agreeable to pay 20 per cent bonus but in instalments. We need time to get the money,” a tea planter said. Owners of tea gardens in the Dooars region agreed to pay the bonus at the rate of 20 per cent at one go in their very first meeting. Darjeeling Tea industry officials, however, insisted that the scenario was different in the hills. “Darjeeling tea is orthodox tea largely dependent on exports badly hit by the pandemic. There is also a crisis of containers because of which tea should not be shipped,” a DTA source had earlier stated. The official added that last year there was a drop in crop produce by 40 per cent too. “The gardens in the plains produce CTC tea which has a domestic market,” the source added. Last year, the hill gardens had paid a bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent. The previous year, bonus was again paid in instalments of 12 and 8 per cent. However, there were allegations that some gardens did not clear the instalment according to the agreed dateline, which prompted the “payment at one go” clamour. Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA while 12 gardens are members of the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry according to lease documents, many have been merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. The hill gardens employ around 70,000 workers. The ITA usually agrees with the agreement reached by the unions with the DTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul might be in for bypoll surprise, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday campaigned for the BJP candidate for the Bhowanipore bypoll with “a great deal of confidence and hope” after paying a visit to a gurdwara as “a proud Sikh”. Puri, the central minister for petroleum and natural gas, and housing and urban affairs, said if voting took place the way it should, the Trinamul Congress might even be in for a surprise in the constituency where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is its candidate. “I can tell you, looking at the composition of the electorate, looking at the qualities of our candidate, I certainly approach this with a great deal of confidence and hope. Bhowanipore is a constituency with people from all over the country…. It reflects Bengal’s syncretic culture. They are mature voters. I hope they see through this (various alleged dualities in Trinamul’s stand on national issues),” Puri told this newspaper. “If the voting takes place in the manner in which it should, don’t be surprised if the result is not according to the ‘popular expectation’, and it is more a reflection of the will of the people. Trinamul may be in for a surprise,” the Union minister said regarding the constituency never lost by Trinamul since a delimitation resurrected it in 2011. The BJP lost the seat by a margin of 22.55 per cent of the vote share in the Assembly polls this year. The BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal in the bypoll. Puri alleged that Trinamul had won its third consecutive victory in Bengal on the basis of a “vitiated” narrative. “Let’s be serious, anybody pitted against Mamata Banerjee, with so many years in power, and other things.… We all know what we’re talking about here. These things happen in certain places and can’t happen in other places. So the political narrative here, I found vitiated in the last election. But I see remnants of that taking place this time as well,” said Puri — a 1974-batch retired Indian Foreign Service officer with nearly four decades as a civil servant. Puri, who calls himself “a proud Sikh”, was sent by the BJP to campaign in the cosmopolitan south Calcutta constituency with a considerable Sikh and non-Sikh population originally from Punjab. The 69-year-old began his day with a visit to the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road, which Mamata had visited exactly a week ago. Asked what he thought had gone wrong for the BJP in its quest for conquering the unvanquished territory of Bengal, Puri said he was “not sufficiently familiar” to do that. “Each election has its own defining characteristics. Whether we should have done this or that. I am a student of political processes and I am more interested in the study of where we started out and where we reached,” Puri said, apparently choosing to focus on the BJP’s rise from three MLAs in 2016 in the 294-seat Assembly to 77 in 2021. The tally has subsequently come down to 71 following resignations and defections. Asked what he thought were Mamata’s chances nationally, he said: “I wish her the very best. There are a lot of very senior, seasoned leaders that are there…. I keep hearing of interesting sparks flying every time they try to resolve these issues (of leadership).” The Union minister conducted a door-to-door campaign on Ray Street, visited Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s residence, then Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s residence, followed by lunch at a party worker’s residence on Alipore Park Road. Post lunch, he met students at a Lord Sinha Road address and then met representatives of the business community at the Hotel Hindustan International. He went back to Lord Sinha Road for a street-corner there, followed by a visit to the Ajanta Dhaba, and then another meeting with representatives of the business community in the evening. “When I went to the Gurdwara Sahib this morning, seeking blessings, both for myself and the candidate... somebody told me there that she (Mamata) had come there and spoken about the kisan andolan (farmers’ movement). Now what the kisan andolan has to do at a gurdwara or in the Bhowanipore constituency is something that escapes me altogether,” said Puri. Regarding the alleged kick-up to Dilip Ghosh, who was replaced before the end of his term as state president earlier this week, Puri said it was because the BJP was “truly democratic”. “In one of my books, Delusional Politics, one of the comments I recall making was that during the 16 years in which Shrimati Sonia Gandhi was Congress president, the BJP had changed six presidents. Our presidents, both at the national and state levels, have defined terms. I think the gentleman’s (Ghosh’s) term was anyway coming to an end, in November,” he said. Bhowanipore has about 3-5 per cent Punjabi electorate and bringing Puri to campaign for Tibrewal was a strategic move on the BJP’s part, sources in the party said. He reached the gurdwara around 8 in the morning and “paid obeisance and sought blessings”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt puts south Bengal districts on alert after rain forecast, extra vigil in Bhowanipore Assembly||The Mamata Banerjee government has put all south Bengal districts on alert after the Met office predicted heavy rainfall in the region in the next seven days but the authorities asked officials to keep extra vigil in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment of Calcutta where the chief minister is contesting a bypoll scheduled to be held on September 30. State chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi on Wednesday held a video conference with the disaster management department and district magistrates after the rainfall alert reached Nabanna. “The chief secretary asked all districts to be ready with dry food, medicine and other relief material to help people in case floods hit the districts. The chief secretary also asked the authorities to keep NDRF teams on standby for Bhowanipore as by-election would be held on September 30 and the state does not want any hindrance in holding the polls,” said a senior state government official. The heavy rainfall predicted in the next one week has left the authorities worried for two reasons. First, the state has already witnessed a good monsoon this year and hence, all water bodies, including ponds and rivers, are filled to their capacity. In such a situation, consistent rainfall for the next few days could cause a severe flood in large parts of the state. Second, the authorities are concerned over completing the poll-related arrangements in Bhowanipore, which is considered to be important for the state administration as Mamata Banerjee has to win to continue as the chief minister. According to sources, the booths have to be kept ready and polling officers have to be sent there ahead of the voting day. Moreover, officials need to visit the residences of the elderly and people with physical disabilities with postal ballots before September 30. “All these preparations could be hurt if Calcutta remains waterlogged in the next few days. That is why the authorities are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the city, particularly the Bhowanipore area, does not get waterlogged,” said a senior official. While the authorities are worried over the poll preparedness, the Trinamul Congress appeared to be concerned over the heavy rainfall predicted as it could leave the city waterlogged for a few days just ahead of the polls. The chief minister herself explained that Bengal had received such a heavy rainfall this year that it had never witnessed in the past 30 years. “Earlier, the city used to remain waterlogged for seven days. But now, we have carried out several projects so that water recedes within a short span,” Mamata said during an election meeting near Alipore Bodyguard line on Wednesday. Beside parts of Alipore, Mominpur and Ekbalpur, engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said, Northern Park, Elgin Road and Doctor Sudhir Bose Road were among the waterlogging-prone areas in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. The chief minister said a water pumping station was being built in the Bodyguard line area which would help people get rid of prolonged water logging problems. Another pumping station would come up at Kabitirtha, which would help people living in Ekbalpur and Khidderpore get rid of waterlogging problems. Additional reporting by Subhajoy Roy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi asks Bhowanipore electors not to be complacent, & step out to vote||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday appealed directly to the Bhowanipore electors against complacency, warning them against taking her victory as a foregone conclusion and therefore, not stepping out to vote on September 30, especially in case of rain. “(Suppose) It’s raining. You think, ‘O Didi will win anyway, so my not going (out to vote) will not make a difference’…. Please, please have mercy and do not think that way. Please have mercy and do not do this,” the chief minister urged voters, repeatedly, with folded hands. “Every vote of yours, if I don’t get, I will have to suffer losses. If I do not get every vote of yours, remember, you will not get me. Every vote, therefore, is very necessary,” the chief minister added, in a street-corner at Ekbalpore. She reiterated her appeal, almost verbatim, in a similar campaign exercise at Chetla. Bhowanipore, which agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chhattopadhyay won with a margin of 28,719 votes (22.55 per cent of the vote share) this summer, was vacated for Mamata by him in May. The Trinamul Congress chief, who took oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5, has till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. “Our party has an absolute, two-thirds majority. But for remaining the chief minister of Bengal, if I am not able to win, then somebody else will become the chief minister. I will not be able to remain as the chief minister…. This I am telling you very clearly, to explain to you why there is a need for each and every one of you to go and vote,” said Mamata, who had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat. “Irrespective of a storm, inundation, downpour, 100 out of every 100 people must come out to vote. Because this is a much bigger fight (than just the bypoll of Bhowanipore),” she said. “Who will fight against the NRC, the CAA, the NPR (the three components of the contentious citizenship matrix of the BJP-led Centre), against demonetisation, against the riots of the BJP, against atrocities, for development?” she asked, as the audience chanted “Didi, Didi!”. “Every vote from you, remember, will help us march forward to Delhi in future.” The chief minister said she had gone on a whim to contest from Nandigram and rued not having contested from her home turf, attributing to destiny the need for her to contest from the bypoll in Bhowanipore. “I grew up in this constituency…. My mother had suggested once, that I contest from here. I had asked her why, she had said then she would be able to cast her vote in my favour,” said Mamata at Chetla. “Even when I went to contest in Nandigram, I used to miss not contesting from Bhowanipore. Maybe this is fate, which brought me back here, to win the bypoll and continue as Bengal’s chief minister,” she added, before reiterating that a “fearsome” conspiracy had been hatched – even putting her life at risk – to ensure her defeat in Nandigram, and asserted that the truth would soon be revealed. She said for such reasons, the bypoll this time was “very challenging”. “The BJP will conspire in various ways, they will try to foment tension, disturb peace, try to instigate riots… have the elections cancelled somehow. Do not yield to their provocation, their conspiracies,” she added. BJP leader dies BJP candidate Dhurjati Saha, who had contested unsuccessfully from the Magrahat West constituency, on Wednesday succumbed to injuries he had allegedly received on counting day on May 2. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
