24-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams Centre's 'PM-Cares is not a government fund' claim||Slamming the Centre over its assertion that PM-Cares was not a government fund, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday stated that complete transparency should be maintained in the transactions made with the money collected by the trust. The PM-Cares fund bears our national emblem, but the central government has insisted that it is not a government fund, "leaving us all confused", the chief minister said, tongue in cheek. "The Chief Minister Relief Fund is regularly audited. PM-Cares fund was formed for Covid-19, but yesterday they (Centre) told the court that it is not a government fund. Government employees have donated money there, funds through CSR have been donated there, lakhs of crores of rupees have been donated. So where is that money?" she fumed. The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the PM-Cares Fund is not a government fund as donations to it do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, and no third party information can be parted with irrespective of its status under the Constitution and the Right to Information (RTI) Act. An affidavit filed by an Under-Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said that the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor -- a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Mamata, during her campaign in bypoll-bound Bhabanipur constituency, also hit out at the BJP-led Union government over the Pegasus snooping scandal, claiming that the country's opposition leaders were being spied on. "It has been proven that the Union government snoops on opposition leaders; our phones are tapped. The Centre bought this software from Israel to snoop on us. No one can speak out against them. If you speak out, efforts will be made to intimidate you by using (central) agencies," she claimed. The Trinamul boss further criticised the state unit of the saffron party for "carrying out a demonstration" near her residence on Thursday with the body of a BJP worker. "Yesterday, BJP leaders staged a protest outside my residence over the death of a BJP worker. That BJP worker died a natural death, and they are claiming that he died during violence. We won't tolerate such hooliganism. If they think they can protest outside my residence with a dead body, we, too, can do the same outside their homes with the carcass of a dog. "We can teach them a lesson in the language they understand," she said. The chief minister maintained that her fight against the "demonic BJP" would continue till it is ousted from power, and after winning the Bhabanipur by-poll, the party would take its battle to other states. Mamata, who is contesting the September 30 bypoll from the Bhabanipur seat to retain her chief minister's chair, claimed that destiny had this plan in store for her. "People want me to be a representative from this seat and continue as the state's chief minister," said the feisty Trinamul leader, who lost to the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram during the April-May Assembly polls. Mamata has to get elected to legislature by November 5, in conformity with the constitutional provisions, to continue as the chief minister. Shortly after the poll results were announced in May, state cabinet minister and Trinamul MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. A resident of Bhabanipur, Mamata had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare her former protege and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. Though she powered the Trinamul to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, the TMC boss failed to register victory in Nandigram. The Chief Minister has claimed that a conspiracy was hatched to hurt her and defeat her in Nandigram. She had suffered an injury on a leg during electioneering in the constituency. "If I speak about the conspiracy that was hatched to injure me and kill me, all of you will be shocked. I had to move around in a wheelchair for 1.5 months. But that did not stop me from hitting the campaign trail," she said. The Trinamul supremo is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas in Bhabanipur. The Congress did not field any candidate for the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Where did the lakhs of crores of money donated to PM-CARES fund go, asks Mamata||Slamming the Centre over its assertion that PM-CARES was not a government fund, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday stated that complete transparency should be maintained in the transactions made with the money collected by the trust. The PM-CARES FUND bears our national emblem, but the central government has insisted that it is not a government fund, leaving us all confused , the CM said, tongue in cheek. "The Chief Minister Relief Fund is regularly audited. PM CARES FUND was formed for COVID-19, but yesterday they (Centre) told the court that it is not a government fund. Government employees have donated money there, funds through CSR have been donated there, lakhs of crores of rupees have been donated. So where is that money?" she fumed. The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the PM CARES Fund is not a government fund as donations to it do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, and no third party information can be parted with irrespective of its status under the Constitution and the Right to Information (RTI) Act. An affidavit filed by an Under-Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said that the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor -- a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Mamata, during her campaign in bypoll-bound Bhowanipore constituency, also hit out at the BJP-led Union government over the Pegagus snooping scandal, claiming that the country's opposition leaders were being spied on. "It has been proven that the Union government snoops on Opposition leaders; our phones are tapped. The Centre bought this software from Israel to snoop on us. No one can speak out against them. If you speak out, efforts will be made to intimidate you by using (central) agencies," she claimed. The TMC boss further criticised the state unit of the saffron party for carrying out a demonstration near her residence on Thursday with the body of a BJP worker. "Yesterday, BJP leaders staged a protest outside my residence over the death of a BJP worker. That BJP worker died a natural death, and they are claiming that he died during the violence. We won't tolerate such hooliganism. If they think they can protest outside my residence with a dead body, we, too, can do the same outside their homes with the carcass of a dog. "We can teach them a lesson in the language they understand," she said. The CM maintained that her fight against the "demonic BJP" would continue till it is ousted from power, and after winning the Bhowanipore by-poll, the party would take its battle to other states. Mamata, who is contesting the September 30 by-poll from the Bhabanipur seat to retain her chief minister's chair, claimed that destiny had this plan in store for her. "People want me to be a representative from this seat and continue as the state's chief minister," said the feisty TMC leader, who lost to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram during the April-May Assembly polls. Mamata has to get elected to legislature by November 5, in conformity with the constitutional provisions, to continue as the chief minister. Shortly after the poll results were announced in May, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhowanipore Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. A resident of Bhowanipore , Mamata had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare her former protege and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. Though she powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, the TMC boss failed to register victory in Nandigram. The CM has claimed that a conspiracy was hatched to hurt her and defeat her in Nandigram. She had suffered an injury on a leg during electioneering in the constituency. "If I speak about the conspiracy that was hatched to injure me and kill me, all of you will be shocked. I had to move around in a wheelchair for 1.5 months. But that did not stop me from hitting the campaign trail," she said. The TMC supremo is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas in Bhowanipore . The Congress did not field any candidate for the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
24-09-2021||West Bengal||On Bhowanipore bypolls, high court has a few questions||Less than a week before the Bhowanipore Assembly by-elections, a set of questions raised by the Calcutta High Court has left the Election Commission of India as well as the Mamata Banerjee government scurrying for answers. A division bench of the high court, comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Rajarshi Bharadwaj, reserved its judgement in the matter but questioned the necessity of winning candidates resigning from their constituencies to force bypolls, which could lead to wider electoral reforms once the matter comes to its logical conclusion. The Bhowanipore bye-election is scheduled for September 30. In its note issued on September 4, the election commission had referred to the West Bengal chief secretary’s claim, “…in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid vacuum in the state bye-elections for 159 Bhabanipur-Kolkata from where Ms Mamata Banerjee Chief Minister intends to contest elections may be conducted.” The acting chief justice questioned whether the central poll panel agreed to the bye-election because the chief minister had expressed her desire to contest from a particular seat. “Can a chief secretary write that the CM wants to get elected from a particular constituency therefore bypolls be held?” asked acting chief justice Bindal. From 2011 onwards Mamata has represented the Bhowanipore Assembly seat twice. She moved to Nandigram this year, but there, she lost to BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikary. Soon after Mamata took oath as chief minister, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from Bhowanipore to pave the way for his party chief to get elected to the Assembly. Unless Mamata gets elected by November 5, she would cease to be the chief minister. Soon after the EC’s announcement of the bypoll in Bhowanipore (along with Shamshergunj and Jangipur where elections were deferred), excluding 31 other Assemblies and three Parliamentary constituencies lying vacant across the country, Sayan Banerjee, a Calcutta high court  advocate, had filed a petition questioning why a particular constituency was being favoured. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had also argued before the Election Commission that a “constitutional crisis” will prevail in Bengal if the Bhowanipore bypoll was not held. On Thursday, the high court asked the Election Commission to submit an affidavit on whether the CS could make such a recommendation. The commission could not give a satisfactory reply to the division bench’s question. “What is the role of the chief secretary behind writing this letter? The petition was filed on September 13, why couldn’t a satisfactory response be elicited till now? Why did the CS refer to a “constitutional crisis”, what is the constitutional crisis? Why is the exigency only for one constituency and not others?” asked the acting chief justice. To a query on poll-related expenses, the Election Commission had replied that Rs 3 crore was  spent on an election. “There is a growing trend of winning candidates resigning and money being spent unnecessarily on bypolls,” the bench observed. Hearings on this issue will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Two more electrocuted, 48-hour toll rises to 8 in Kolkata||Two men were electrocuted at Agarpara and Belgharia, on the northern fringes of the city, on Wednesday night and Thursday morning. The places are near Khardah, where three members of a family were electrocuted on Tuesday, possibly when they were trying to charge a mobile phone in a flooded room. The twin deaths took the electrocution death toll in the Dum Dum-Khardah area to eight within a span of 48 hours. Police said they were making announcements in waterlogged areas asking people to be cautious while moving through flooded streets and switching on electrical appliances at home. However, the deaths indicate a lack of awareness among people about maintenance of electrical wiring. At least four of the electrocution victims died while charging mobile phones. Dipak Nath Chowdhury, 65, a resident of Tarapukur in Pashmim Pally in Agarpara, was electrocuted late on Wednesday when he was trying to open the collapsible gate of his house. The police said Chowdhury had gone out and was about to step in when the tragedy struck. His daughter was with him but escaped her father’s fate. Chowdhury was taken to BN Bose Hospital where he was declared dead. The police suspect cracks in the wiring of the doorbell, which was attached to the collapsible gate, could have caused the electrocution. Hours later, on Thursday morning, a contractual labourer at the Texmaco railway workshop was electrocuted after he plugged his mobile phone charger into the switch board and turned on the switch. The police said the entire ground floor of the workshop was flooded. The victim, Sona Roy, 36, was engaged in cleaning one of the officer’s rooms when he got electrocuted. Roy was taken to Kamarhati ESI Hospital where he was declared dead. An officer in the Barrackpore City Police said the exact cause of the electrocution could be ascertained only after forensic department officials examined the spot. The power utility company has been alerted, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Death lurks: Whose fault is it?||At least eight persons have been electrocuted in Kolkata and on the outskirts in 48 hours. Such deaths have become common after every spell of downpour. The deaths are followed by kind words and condolences. But no one is held responsible. Metro spoke to some of those in positions of power in places where the deaths have been reported from. From the Amphan experience we have learned that such incidents may happen after heavy rainfall. We have coordinated with the power service provider and asked them to investigate the deaths. We can carry out a probe if we receive a specific complaint. Otherwise, the police’s role is limited to creating awareness. We are making announcements about precautions. Q: On Wednesday, a senior official of the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company had said electrocutions inside private properties were not the look-out of the state electricity board. What do you think? A: This is wrong. Unless we know the cause of electrocution, how do we create awareness? I have sought a report on all electrocution deaths. Q: Who is responsible for the electrocution deaths in the city? A: I will not be able to answer that before the investigation reports come. We are only the power supply agency. Q: Do you think the state is doing enough to create awareness? A: Awareness drives have always been there. Spokesperson for CESC (the utility that supplies power to Dum Dum, where two 12-year-old girls died from electrocution on Wednesday) Q: Who is responsible for the electrocution deaths in Dum Dum? A: We are only a power supply agency. Lamp posts are set up and maintained by the local civic body. Q: As the area is still waterlogged, who will decide whether the power supply should be on or off? There could be more such accidents. A: We act on orders from the local civic body that maintains lamp posts. In this case, it is South Dum Dum Municipality. The area where the girls were electrocuted was part of Ward 9 Metro called Roy Chowdhury at 9.13pm. The man who answered the call, without introducing himself, asked the identity of the reporter and then said Roy Chowdhury was busy in a meeting and could take calls only the next morning. A WhatsApp message was sent to Roy Chowdhury’s mobile number asking whether the junction box attached to the lamp post that caused the deaths was open and whether South Dum Dum Municipality was responsible for its maintenance. No reply came till late on Thursday. Q: Is it true that the lamp post that caused the death of the girls had its junction box open and wires were exposed? A: That is hearsay. The executive electrical engineer (of the municipality) has to send a report in three days. I will be able to tell only after I get the report. I have asked the electrical wing to conduct a survey across the 35 wards (of the municipality). If any post is found faulty, it will be replaced. I have given them 15 days for this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Eight people electrocuted in Kolkata||Eight people have been electrocuted in Calcutta and its vicinity since Monday during the heavy rains, bringing into sharp focus the question who should be held accountable for what has become an annual ritual. Among the dead are two 12-year-old girls, Anushka Nandi and Sneha Banik, who were returning after taking private tuition on Wednesday evening. Between Wednesday night and Thursday morning, two men were electrocuted on the northern fringes of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||‘LPG leak’ blast tied to mobile charging||Four of a family in Beckbagan were injured in an explosion possibly triggered when a family member switched on a mobile charger connected to a switchboard in a room filled with LPG gas because of an overnight cylinder leak, police said. “Preliminary findings of forensic department officials suggest it was a vapour cloud explosion,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Three of the four victims have been hospitalised with burns. Anand Das, 40, wife Kiran, 35, son Shivan, 7, and niece Bhumi Chowdhury, 16, were in the house on the ground floor of a five-storey building in Ahiripukur First Lane, close to Beckbagan. The incident happened after 5.30am on Thursday, one of their relatives said. “I received a call early in the morning from my younger sister. She said there was an explosion in her home. I rushed over and found that their house had been damaged and my brother-in-law was seriously injured and covered in debris. My sister and nephew were also injured. Many people had gathered to see them but no one was coming forward to help them,” said Kiran’s elder brother Vijay Nayak. A wall of the house and a portion of the main door exploded. Such was the intensity of the blast that a window grille was twisted out of shape under its impact. Nayak said his sister told him that the family was sleeping when his brother-in-law Anand woke up and went to the washroom. On returning, he plugged his mobile phone to the charger and switched it on when the explosion happened. Anand, who his landlady said works as a cook at a consulate, and Kiran have been admitted to a private hospital on Park Street. Their son has been admitted to SSKM Hospital and niece Bhumika was treated and discharged from the hospital. Anand suffered the most severe burns, including on his hair and face. Kiran had burns on her hands while their son injured his hands and legs. Investigators said they had found two LPG cylinders in the house, one of which was empty. “According to a preliminary opinion of the forensic science laboratory (FSL), an electric spark could have triggered the explosion as the air was already heavy with leaked gas, possibly from the gas cylinder,” said an officer. The switch board and the electrical connections of the house were also being examined by the FSL team, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Dead child’s family refuses compensation||The family of 12-year-old Anushka Nandi, who died from electrocution along with friend Sneha Banik after one of them touched a light post in a flooded street in Dum Dum in Kolkata, refused to take the Rs 2 lakh the state government offered as compensation on Thursday. Anushka’s family told Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, state education minister Bratya Basu and Pachu Ray, the chairperson of South Dum Dum Municipality’s board of administrators, to leave their house when they arrived with an entourage to express grief. “We don’t need your money. If you really want to help, bring our daughter back to life. Else, please leave this house,” Anushka’s mother Priyanka told Roy. She told this newspaper that they did not need any money from the government. What they want is action against Surajit Roy Chowdhury, the coordinator of Ward 9 of South Dum Dum Municipality, where the incident happened, for criminal negligence. “They cannot fix a price on our daughter’s head. All the lamp posts in our area have exposed wiring and the entire locality gets waterlogged whenever it rains. We had asked Roy Chowdhury to do something about it but he did not heed to any of our requests,” said Priyanka. The 12-year-olds were returning home from tuition wading through water on Wednesday night when one of them accidentally touched a lamp post with exposed wires. She got electrocuted. The other girl tried to help her and got electrocuted, too. The principal responsibility of maintaining lamp posts in all wards of South Dum Dum lies with South Dum Dum Municipality. Roy Chowdhury, the coordinator of the ward, passed the blame to CESC. “We can do little about waterlogging as the main drainage channel, Bagjola canal, is overflowing. The maintenance of electrical lines as well as posts rests with CESC and I cannot do anything about it,” said Roy Chowdhury. Metro on Thursday found the entire neighbourhood flooded and almost all lamp posts had electrical wires jutting out. The hatches on most of the posts — meant for carrying out maintenance and repairs — were open, increasing chances of someone coming in contact with a live wire again. Residents said this was the way they had been over several years. After the deaths on Wednesday night, some of the hatches have been hurriedly taped. Koel Dey, a schoolteacher, who used to teach dance to Anushka and Sneha, said residents had visited the ward office and told the ward assistant about the state of affairs but nothing was done. “It has taken the deaths of two young girls to finally nudge the authorities into some action. But even then they have done a shoddy job,” said Dey. Residents of the locality who had gathered to catch a last glimpse of the two children said they were living in fear. Ray, the chairperson of South Dum Dum Municipality’s board of administrators, said they had formed a committee to probe the deaths. “We will have a report in three days and take action against anybody who has been negligent,” said Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal keen to vaccinate all college students in early October||The Bengal government set to start Covid-19 vaccination drives for students enrolled in 550 colleges and 40 universities across the state in early October in a bid to open the institutions for in-person classes in November. District magistrates and chief medical officers were instructed by senior health and education officials in Calcutta via a videoconference on Thursday afternoon to send a database of college and varsity students’ vaccination status within this week and start the process of vaccinating them “as soon as possible”. Colleges, universities and schools in Bengal have been officially closed since the first outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. “District officials have been asked to send students' vaccination statuses within this week and to chalk out a plan for vaccinating students with special priority. The drive was conceived after a recent communication from the higher education department expressing their desire to open campuses of certain educational institutions soon,” said a senior health department official in Calcutta. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in August had said  the state government would try to open schools and colleges after Puja vacations on alternate days in an effort to wait out a possible third wave. “After Puja vacations, we will try to reopen schools and colleges on alternate days,” Mamata had said at Nabanna after a meeting with the state's global advisory board on Covid-19 headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on August 5 this year. Sources said several colleges and universities have sent a primary database of students to the higher education department, in order to help the health department assess the needs of vaccine doses. “We have asked colleges and universities to give a database with the status of students’ vaccination as many students may have taken jabs on their own. As soon as we get the database ready, we will not delay a day to start the vaccination,” said Bidhan Ray, Birbhum district magistrate. There are over 550 colleges and some 40 universities in Bengal. Nearly 10 lakh students are waiting for both doses. According to a primary survey, around 3.5 lakh students have got the first dose. Under a tentative plan, the government has asked college and university authorities to open vaccination camps on campuses before Durga Puja and invite students with a schedule based on the daily capacity of doses. “Health department officials will be deployed to organise such camps. However, there will be an option for students who live far away from their respective campuses to get vaccinated from the nearest government-run vaccination centre,” said an official. Ashis Kumar Panigrahi, pro-vice chancellor of Burdwan University, said all heads of departments would coordinate with the varsity to send a database to the higher education department this week. “We have around 3,000 students and all of them have been given online forms to furnish their details,” he said. Many college and varsity teachers said they were worried for students in science or engineering courses as they can’t attend practicals with institutions staying shut. “Once campuses open, it will be of great help to them. In-person classes are crucial for students of humanities too,” said a professor at Visva-Bharati. Sources said the government is also focusing on full vaccination of teachers and staff of government-run schools too. It is planning to reopen schools on alternate days. “We need to ensure that all teachers and staff are vaccinated. As most teachers were on election duty during the recent Assembly polls, it is presumed that most have already received both doses. But we will make sure that the staff in schools have been fully vaccinated,” said a source in the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Power turned off in flood zones in East Midnapore||Rain-related woes continued into Thursday in East Midnapore, where a 10-day spell of near continuous rain battered dykes and caused widespread inundation, displacement and fatalities related mostly to electrocution. Bhagabanpur and Patashpur blocks remained largely without power till Thursday. “Most substations in the blocks have been submerged. Although there were no fresh incidents of electrocution, substations that did not get submerged have been turned off for safety,” said a West Bengal State Electricity and Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) official. “That brings the total number of days without electricity in the blocks to four as of Thursday. Over one lakh people have been without power,” the official added. On Thursday morning, residents of Bhagabanpur and Patashpur raised a blockade on the Egra-Bajpur state highway near Manglamaro to protest against their continuing predicament. “It is an injustice. It does not take one week to fix power lines, even if the damage has been substantial. We now believe the only way out for us is to create a scene about it, unfortunately,” said Chinmay Das, one of the nearly 1,000 protesters. Sources said the Keleghai river, which reportedly caused widespread damage, was still flowing above the normal level on Thursday. Following the electrocution of two relief workers in Bhagabanpur’s Itiberia on Tuesday, the Contai divisional area manager (transmission) and Madhakhali station manager were showcaused by the power utility. “As there is no electricity, pumps are not functioning and we are facing an acute drinking water crisis. We have been forced to buy water,” said a resident of Bibhishanpur, where one electric tower was reportedly angled into caving slush on Wednesday. Another resident of Bibhishanpur echoed his neighbour and vented ire against the administration for forcing them to live without power for days. “We can’t even charge our cellphones to make important calls. We have to travel a few kilometres from our waterlogged homes to pay and recharge our mobile phones from trucks equipped with generators,” she said. “We are aware of the protests. A committee is being formed to survey the areas in person so as to restore electricity in a safe manner,” said WBSEDCL regional manager Shyamal Hazra, adding that the committee would consist of the BDO, the local officer-in-charge, a substation manager and a panchayat representative. One more life was lost to waterlogging at Kajlaghar village in the district’s Bhagabanpur area early on Thursday. A child aged a little over one year was sleeping along with his parents when he fell from the bed into flood water that had entered the room. By the time the parents realised that the child had slipped off the bed, he had died of suffocation, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Funds crunch for children’s Covid units in Bengal ||The cash-strapped Bengal government has been forced to sanction only 679 paediatric intensive care units (PICU) beds in state-run hospitals across Bengal though it had initially planned on 1,300 such beds as part of its preparedness for the third wave of Covid-19, which is likely to impact children more. Health department sources said the state could not sanction the rest of the 621 beds as Nabanna could not give funds for new buildings. “A paediatric ventilator will cost around Rs 5 lakh to Rs 8 lakh. Even though the state government can afford the cost of machines, it can’t afford to set up new buildings to install these units,” said a senior state government official. The order issued on September 17 in which 435 PICUs out of 679 PICUs were sanctioned clearly stated that funds would be given for only minor renovation and installation of air-conditioning systems and other infrastructure. “This means it is clear that no new building would be allowed to be set up for PICUs. The problem is that a majority of the state-run hospitals don't have enough vacant space to convert into PICUs by installing additional ventilator beds,” said a senior government official. As of now, state-run hospitals have a total of 3,816 paediatric beds of which 229 beds are in PICU. The state government had identified the paucity of paediatric intensive care units in June and had taken initiatives to increase the number of beds in PICU keeping in mind that more children could be affected in Covid-19’s probable third wave. Initially, 244 beds in PICU were sanctioned in July. In September, another 435 PICU beds were sanctioned. Sources said more PICU beds are required in the state as intensive care units for children are different from those for adult patients. “In case of intensive care units for kids, it is necessary that the units have enough space to accommodate any of the parents of the sick child. This why more PICU beds could not be installed in existing facilities,” said a source. Some officials blamed both the Centre the state government for failing to arrange funds for this purpose. “The Centre did not give  special funds to develop infrastructure for children though it was being discussed these past few months that more children could be affected if the third wave comes as they are not vaccinated yet. Exactly this is how the Centre overlooked the need to generate more medical oxygen during the second wave,” said an official. Another official said the state government also failed to arrange funds.“It spent heavily to kick off welfare schemes promised by the chief minister ahead of polls. But it could have saved some money to develop Covid-19 treatment facilities for children,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Three protests in Siliguri over Covid-19 vaccine shortfall||Protests over shortage of Covid-19 vaccines erupted in at least three locations of Siliguri on Thursday. Among those who had to face protests was Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Deb faced people’s ire at Buddha Bharati High School Haiderpara under ward 40.  According to sources, it was earlier announced that only 200 residents would get vaccines here. However, as more people kept coming, civic and health staff on duty had to turn away many. When Deb reached the venue at noon to check if vaccination was being held properly, angry residents surrounded him. “We stood in queue for hours and health workers are now saying we will not get vaccinated. We can’t accept this. You have to resolve the issue or else, we will continue with our protests,” one of them was heard telling Deb. Deb soon had the situation under control by saying that going by stocks, another 50 persons would get jabs. “For the rest, the camp will be organised on Friday as well. This ward (40) covers a large area and we will keep on organising camps in the coming days to cover the entire population,” he said. Another protest erupted at Pateshwari Junior High School in ward 41 with some residents alleging anomalies in the vaccination process. “Many of us have been standing in queue since early morning with coupons. But we saw many coming later without coupons and getting jabs,” said a protester. Civic employees calmed the crowd. The third protest was witnessed near the principal’s chamber in North Bengal Medical College & Hospital on the outskirts of the city. Sources said some who had come to collect coupons for vaccination got angry when they were denied coupons. “In all, 100 coupons were supposed to be distributed for the first dose of vaccination among people aged between 18 and 45. But as news spread, more people stood in queue. When they learnt no more coupons would be issued, they got angry,” said a source in NBMCH. Deb, when asked about the protests, blamed the Centre and said chief minister Mamata Banerjee time and again has said how the Centre was failing to send enough vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Advanced unit for kids launched in Cooch Behar||A 15-bedded sophisticated Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) was inaugurated at the Maharaja Jitendra Narayan (MJN) Medical College and Hospital here on Thursday. In Cooch Behar district, this is the first of its kind unit launched for children aged up to 12 years. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said the facility earlier had a Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU). “It was a level II unit and in case of major complications, children had to be referred to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital for treatment. The PICU is a level III unit with sophisticated equipment.” “The unit has a comprehensive oxygen supply network, along with C-PAP and Bi-Pap machines, an echocardiography unit and other facilities. We will have specialist doctors at the unit round the clock, along with a team of paramedics who are experienced in critical care. It is a major development in terms of health infrastructure in the district,” added Roy. Pawan Kadyan, the district magistrate, along with Roy and other health officials, inaugurated the unit. Every year, around 200 children with critical problems are referred outside the district for intensive care. In another development, an echocardiography machine was installed at the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. “We have requested the state health department to appoint a cardiologist here so that the machine can be utilised properly,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling ration dealers seek exemption from Duare Ration||Ration dealers in Darjeeling have sought exemption from “Duare Ration (ration on doorsteps)” in the hills citing high transportation cost owing to terrain and Internet connectivity snags, among others. There are 614 ration shops across Darjeeling hills, including Kalimpong district, of which 111 shops have been brought under Duare Ration launched by the state government recently. “Our dealers are facing various issues given the difficult terrain in the hills. It will be fair and just if the hills are exempt from further carrying on the project,” said Pemba Tamang, president, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill MR Dealers’ Association. Under the Duare Ration scheme, ration dealers have to deliver food items at the beneficiaries’ door. Dealers get a commission of Rs 150 per quintal. “Everything (cost) has to be taken care of from this commission. In reality, our expenditure is at times more than commission,” said a dealer. Dealers not under Duare Ration get a commission of Rs 75 per quintal. The commission rate for both hills and plains is the same, which dealers maintain is unfair given the topography in the hills. Ration dealers maintain in the hills all homes can't be reached by road and often there is no other way apart from carrying load on the head..“Head-load costs us a minimum of Rs 20 for a 50 kg sack (in labour charges),” said another ration dealer. Ration dealers in the hills maintained that apart from transport cost of Rs 3,000 on an average, they have to hire two labourers at Rs 2,000, an electronic point of sale operator at Rs 800 per day, bear loading and unloading charges at Rs 1,200 and provide food for five persons costing Rs 500. The total cost comes to Rs 7,500 per day, they said. The other major problem cited by dealers is erratic Internet connectivity. “Biometric authentication is mandatory for Duare Ration at the point of sale, but owing to network issues, in many places we can’t get the authentication done,” said Tamang. Many dealers also said that many daily wage earners are not at home when they reach. Dealers are expected to segregate beneficiaries in 16 clusters and mark a fixed distribution day in a month from the first Tuesday to the fourth Friday and stick to the days in the upcoming months. “Most daily wage earners and tea garden workers can take ration only during weekends,” said a dealer. Many dealers also complained that at sale points there are no provisions to charge e-POS weighing machines. “The E-POS machine gives a back-up of three hours while weighing machines have a back-up of four to five hours. Even charging these machines is a problem in the hills,” said a dealer. On Tuesday, the association members submitted a memorandum highlighting their grievances to Rajya Sabha MP Shanta Chhetri. Chhetri, has reportedly assured the members to take up the matter with the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Three-day tourism event to focus on homestays, toy train ||The Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT), a north Bengal-based organisation has lined up events for three days from Saturday to culminate on World Tourism Day, September 27. These include a meet of homestay owners, an organic “haat” and a ceremony at Siliguri Town station, one of the oldest stations of the region that had been the terminus of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway toy train for decades. “The Covid-19 pandemic had a massive socio-economic impact on tourism. We have designed the events to bolster the confidence of people like homestay owners, popularise organic items and highlight the toy train,” said Raj Basu, ACT convener. According to him, Saturday will see the Homestay Congress at Mainak Tourist Lodge. Former footballer and ACT’s ambassador Bhaichung Bhutia will be present. “He will tell participants on how we are trying to transform his native village (in Sikkim) and some villages in the hills and foothills. The idea is to promote sustainable rural tourism,” said Basu. Experts will also address issues that homestay owners face. On Sunday, the ACT will celebrate “Himalayan Organic Day” with a “haat” on Church Road. “Organic farmers from Siliguri and Sikkim will join the event with their produce. There will be an exhibition of rural handicraft and handloom products of this region, information booths on rural travel and more,” said Sanjukta A. Bose, an ACT member. On World Tourism Day, the ACT will host an event at the old platform of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) at the Siliguri Town station. “The station needs a revamp. People visiting the region should have the option to visit the station and learn about DHR’s history,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 746 new Covid-19 cases, 12 more fatalities||Bengal on Thursday logged 95 days on the trot of declining active Covid-19 cases, with 746 new infections, 754 recoveries and 12 deaths. Active cases in Bengal fell by 20 to 7,704 in all. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 132 new infections and North 24-Parganas 125, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported two deaths each. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.75 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate is 1.81 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent  and India’s is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.64 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.38 lakh recoveries and 18,703 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Six migrant workers die as bus plunges into ditch||A bus carrying migrant workers and family members veered off NH12 at Rupahar near here on Wednesday night and plunged into a ditch, killing six men and injuring 30. The private bus was on its way from Jharkhand to Lucknow. Three of the injured are admitted to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, while others were discharged after primary treatment. All the deceased and the injured were from Jharkhand. The bus, police sources said, was on its way to Dalkhola in North Dinajpur from where it was to have entered Purnia in Bihar and headed for Uttar Pradesh. However, when the bus reached near a diversion of the four-lane highway (where the stretch is yet to be four-laned) around 11pm, the driver lost control of the vehicle. The bus bumped off the road and fell into the ditch filled with water. Within minutes, local people came out of homes and started rescuing the passengers. After some time, Raiganj fire station personnel, volunteers of civic defence and disaster management arrived, along with police. A number of passengers were rescued and finally, the bus was pulled out of the ditch around 2am on Thursday. It was then that six men’s bodies were pulled out of the bus. The accident triggered traffic halt for around two hours. Even on Thursday morning, trained divers were engaged to find out whether any passenger was in the ditch. None was found till afternoon. Senior police officers and officials of North Dinajpur district administration have blamed the pathetic condition of NH12 – which is maintained by the National Highways Authority of India for the accident. “The condition of the stretch where the accident occurred is pathetic. We have asked NHAI officials to immediately take up repairs,” district magistrate Arvind Kumar Meena said. Residents of Rupahar have also trained guns at the NHAI. Jagat Sharma, a resident, said the NHAI had not carried out repairs on the stretch where work on a flyover is about to start. “A few months ago, there was flat land on the side of the road but as the highway was widened, earth was dug and used for the  work. As a result, ditches formed and they got filled with water during the monsoon. Had there been land, the number of casualties would have been less,” said Sharma. A bus driver who regularly moves through the route has said the road has a number of such diversions where the stretches are yet to be four-laned. “The curves to the diversions are steep and the signage at each location is not distinct. During night hours, there is every chance that a driver misses the signage,” he said. NHAI officials, however, said they carried out repairs regularly. Dinesh Kumar Hansaria, a project director of the NHAI in Malda, said the top bituminous layer had been damaged because of consistent rainfall. “We have already initiated repairs on the damaged stretches,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata assails Tripura govt over Durga Puja prohibitory order ||Mamata Banerjee has brought up the imposition of prohibitory orders in West Tripura through Durga Puja till Diwali this year to lambast the BJP over its divisive and “false” campaign against her that she was not allowing people to celebrate Hindu festivals in Bengal. The Bengal chief minister touched on the topic in her three public speeches since Wednesday during the campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll. The Trinamul Congress has alleged the BJP government in Tripura enforced Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Agartala and other parts of West Tripura district to prevent political activities by Mamata’s party. The prohibitory orders came in the wake of Trinamul’s plan to take out a road show in Agartala with MP Abhishek Banerjee at the forefront. “Before they (the BJP) come here to seek votes in Bhowanipore, first let’s talk about this…. In Tripura, till Diwali (November 4), you imposed Section 144. So, you imposed Section 144 on Ma Durga? Section 144 on Lakshmi Puja, on Deepavali, on Navratri, on Kali Puja? We will never do this,” Mamata said in Hindi at the Ajanta Restaurant crossing on Thursday evening. The Biplab Deb government had told Tripura High Court earlier this week that the prohibitory orders had been clamped because of apprehensions of a surge in Covid-19 cases and political violence. “We never, ever do these things. How many Pujas do we have here, in Bhowanipore alone? I visit hundreds of Pujas, personally, every year,” she added. In her speeches at Ekbalpore and Chetla too, on Wednesday evening, Mamata had broached the subject. “During elections, they falsely say I don’t allow Durga Puja, Lakshmi Puja, Saraswati Puja and what not…. Countless Pujas take place everywhere in Bengal, every year. It is a global spectacle, a wonder of the world. We don’t impose restrictions, unlike in BJP-ruled states… instead, we help out thousands of organisers,” the chief minister said on Wednesday, referring to the state government’s disbursal of Rs 50,000 each to 36,000 puja committees. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata had been making use of those opportunities to call out the BJP on its “hypocrisy”, with an eye on the 2024 general election. They pointed out how she had repeatedly been underscoring that the Bhowanipore bypoll was much bigger than just a bypoll in a single Assembly constituency. “B for Bhowanipore, B for Bharatvarsh, B for Bharat Mata,” said the chief minister on Thursday. “The khyala (game) from here, will begin in Tripura, in Assam, in Goa, in Uttar Pradesh…. The BJP ought to know by now, that the player who will defeat them has finally arrived,” she had said on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC asks EC to reply within 24 hours on CM bypoll||The high court on Thursday questioned the manner in which the Election Commission announced its decision to hold the bypoll to the Bhowanipore seat based on a request from the state administration. Following a petition by advocate Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj asked the EC to file an affidavit within 24 hours stating the law that empowered it to act according to a written request of chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi for this bypoll. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal in the September 30 bypoll. Mamata has to win it to stay as CM. Mamata had lost from Nandigram to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in the Assembly polls. When the petition seeking judicial intervention in alleged irregularities on the part of the EC in declaring bypoll only to the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency came up for hearing on Thursday, the bench questioned why the bypoll date was announced only for Bhowanipore when several other bypolls had been pending for months. Petitioner Chatterjee told the court that the poll panel, while notifying the election dates, had stated that chief secretary Dwivedi, in a written request to the EC, stated that the state would face a constitutional crisis if the bypoll in Bhowanipore was not held within six months of the last Assembly polls as the chief minister had expressed her desire to contest from the constituency. “The para 7 of the notification said that on the basis of chief secretary’s request it (the commission) had decided to hold the bypoll in Bhowanipore on September 30," Chatterjee added. The petition was moved a week ago when the bench had adjourned the hearing of the case asking the lawyer why it took him days to approach the court after the poll panel issued its notification. Against this backdrop, the court’s directive to the poll panel to file its affidavit within 24 hours surprised the legal circles. However, Opposition parties in Bengal had been raising questions right after the Bhowanipore bypoll date was announced by the commission. When contacted, senior advocate and CPM MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, who argued the case on behalf of the petitioner, said: “The other vital point that I have referred is that such a notification might influence people in casting vote in favour of Trinamul Congress candidate as they would feel that a constitutional crisis would be created if they do not vote for the chief minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Congress MLA Moinul Haque joins Trinamul in Murshidabad||Former Congress MLA Moinul Haque joined the Trinamul Congress at Jangipur in Murshidabad district on Thursday in the presence of Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. Haque was a five-time Farakka MLA and the Congress’s in-charge for Jharkhand. Haque accepted the Trinamul flag from Banerjee, as did nearly 200 other Congress workers from Murshidabad, which was once considered as an impregnable fortress of the Congress. “Congress block presidents and leaders of various wings from Farakka joined Trinamul,” said a source. Haque’s switch to Trinamul came after he had submitted a letter dated Tuesday stating that he was resigning from all posts and portfolios in the Congress. After the induction ceremony on Thursday, Haque was seen alongside Banerjee in the campaign for Trinamul nominee Amirul Islam at the Samserganj football grounds. “Trinamul is a party of its word. That is why it is gaining as much ground in Tripura as it is in Bengal,” Haque told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
24-09-2021||West Bengal||District overhaul awaits BJP in Bengal||The Assembly poll setback has taken the Bengal BJP back to the drawing board as the state leadership is eyeing a structural overhaul of the organisation. A three-member committee set up by BJP joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, who looks after the party’s affairs in Bengal, has prepared a list of organisational districts that it wishes to delimit. “This is a complete organisational restructuring. We need to shrink the size of many districts where we are weak. It is easier to concentrate on smaller units,” a state BJP functionary said. “The list has been prepared accordingly,” this person added. While Bengal has 23 administrative districts, for the BJP, the state is divided into 39 organisational districts. Although the new rejig will not bring about much change in the number, several districts will shrink in size while others will expand, party sources said. One of the internal analyses of the poll debacle, done by the party, has shown BJP leaders that while the party’s organisation is strong in all districts of north Bengal and some districts in the west, it is still quite weak in the south. On the basis of this report, Shivprakash had asked state BJP vice-presidents Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, Ritesh Tiwari and Raju Banerjee to look into the matter and a prospective delimitation. “The number of districts will mostly remain unchanged. The proposal is to break away parts of an existing weak district and join them in a district that looks organisationally stronger,” another BJP source said. Brawl Bengal BJP president and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar got involved in a brawl with Calcutta police near chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s residence on Thursday. Majumdar and a few other BJP leaders, including the party’s Bhowanipore bypoll candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, were leading a convoy of cars carrying the corpse of Dhurjati Saha. Saha, a BJP candidate in the summer polls, had allegedly been beaten up by Trinamul goons on May 2. He passed away on Wednesday. On their way to the crematorium, Majumdar got out of his car and sat on the crossing near Mamata’s home. The police immediately removed him. The area is under Section 144. Majumdar later said he would ask Tibrewal, who is a lawyer, to file a case against the police for harassing women members of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
