25-09-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain in store for south Bengal next week||Shortly after West Bengal breathed easy having learnt that a developing cyclonic storm over Bay of Bengal is expected to give the region a miss, the IMD on Saturday predicted the formation of a new low-pressure system near the coast of Myanmar, which, in all probability, will dump heavy rain in the state's southern districts next week. Kolkata and its adjoining areas, which are still reeling under the impact of torrential rain that occurred earlier this week, should brace for heavy showers next Tuesday and Wednesday owing to this new weather system, the IMD said in its forecast. A cyclonic circulation is likely to emerge over northeast and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal near the Myanmar coast around September 27, and under its influence, a low-pressure area may develop in the subsequent 24 hours, the Met office said. "The system is expected to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal coast around September 29," it said in a special bulletin. By-election to Bhabanipur assembly seat, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is a contestant, is scheduled to be held on September 30. The weatherman further said that the existing deep depression over north and central Bay of Bengal may intensify into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Visakhapatnam and Gopalpur by the evening of Sunday. Under the influence of these two weather systems, rain and thundershower with lightning are very likely to occur at "many places" in south Bengal on Sunday and Monday and "most places" on Tuesday and Wednesday. The deep depression may also bring heavy rain to East Midnapore on Sunday and West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas on Monday. The newly developing low-pressure system, on the other hand, could trigger heavy rain at one or two places in Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly districts on Tuesday. Additionally, Bankura, Jhargram, East and West Bardhaman and Purulia districts may receive rainfall on Wednesday, the Met office said. The weatherman warned that as an effect, water levels will rise in rivers, low-lying areas may get flooded in the city and the towns, and crops could be damaged in parts of the state. Squally wind with speed reaching 45 to 55 km per hour and gusting up to 65 kmph is very likely over North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts. In Kolkata, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly districts, the wind speed may hover between 30 to 40 kmph, gusting up to 50 kmph. Over the next few days, sea conditions will be rough to very rough, and fishermen have been told to keep away till further notice. Several areas in Kolkata and neighbouring districts of South and North 24 Parganas that have been battered by last Monday's torrential rain still lay inundated, causing immense difficulties to locals. The metropolis on Monday recorded the highest one-day September rainfall in 13 years at 142 mm, according to Met data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Why Bengal Cong loyalists are seething at the all-important high command ||From Calcutta or any other distant part of the country, the Congress high command is seen the way the ancient Grecians would look at the Mount Olympus, the seat of the Greek Gods, seeking invocation and sacrifice. One such prayer in the last one month from the Bengal unit of the party to the omnipotent high command was to field a candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore bye-elections, scheduled for September 30. The high command-cited larger Opposition unity and denied the prayer that has upset a section of the dwindling party in Bengal. The events unfolding in three different parts of the country—Bengal, Tripura and Goa -- should force the high Gods of the Congress to rethink  how it handles the volatile Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress. An editorial in the Trinamul official mouthpiece published on Saturday accused the Congress of going soft on the BJP. “Today’s Congress is a failure, directionless. To defeat Trinamul they forge an alliance with CPM that helps the BJP. The flag of Congress is now in the hands of the Trinamul. It is the sea, Congress is a squalid pond,” the editorial said. This is a continuation of a strategy taken by the Trinamul to attack the Congress while it is trying to establish itself as a viable alternative to the BJP across the country, and at the same time harp on Opposition unity. On Friday night,   campaigning in the Bhowanipore constituency, from where she is seeking a third term, Mamata attacked the CPM and the Congress top brass without taking any names. “CPM ruled in Bengal for how many years? 34 years. They committed innumerable atrocities, did they face any CBI, ED cases? Not a word was said against them. Only Chidambaram (P Chidambaram, former Union finance minister and senior Congress leader) was arrested, their (main people) were left untouched,” Mamata said. The “main people” is believed to be a reference to the holy trinity of the Congress—the Gandhi family comprising Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul and Priyanka. “They tried to drag the Gandhi family in the National Herald case. If they couldn’t find any evidence against them, what can we do?” asked a Congress leader from North Calcutta. "As a gesture of goodwill and courtesy we did not field any candidate but she does not deserve this courtesy Madam (Sonia Gandhi) herself instructed us not to contest against her. She (Mamata) is really a political humbug," said state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury. Chowdhury feels Trinamul is following the Aam Aadmi Party’s line and should be held responsible for cracks in the Opposition unity as 2024 nears. “The Aam Aadmi Party and the Trinamul are working on similar lines. Wherever they can they are trying to queer the Congress pitch in favour of the BJP. They are targeting rebels and others unhappy within the party. This same tactic both the parties are using in different states. Goa is one of them,” said Adhir Chowdhury, the state Congress president and Berhampore MP. Incidentally, 18 years ago on a September afternoon, then BJP MP Balbir Punj (closely associated with the RSS) had described Mamata as “sakshaat Durga” (Durga’s incarnation) at an event organised by the Sangh. Mamata reciprocated calling the RSS  “true patriots.” While the AICC was thinking the move would placate Mamata, the Trinamul in an apparent attempt to strengthen its organization is making forays into Tripura and Goa. Mamata has been eyeing Tripura for a long time. Like in Bengal, the Trinamul in Tripura too made up of  Congress turncoats, many of whom later joined the BJP before the 2018 Assembly polls. Last month, late Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev’s daughter Sushmita joined the Trinamul and is believed would be projected as the face of the party in Tripura, though she has been nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Bengal. Former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar has claimed as many as 22 CPM workers have been killed in recent times in the state, which the ruling BJP says is a legacy of the Left. While CPM party offices were burnt and its workers killed, Trinamul jumped into Tripura after some members of a professional political advocacy group I-PAC members, which has a tie up with Trinamul, were stopped from working in the state. Trinamul’s all India general secretary’s proposed march in Tripura is not for the sake of his party workers but professionals. Again, during the Bengal polls, similar activists hired by the BJP were arrested in East  Midnapore’s Contai. In the 2018 Tripura Assembly polls, Trinamul had received only 0.3 per cent of the vote share, while the CPM still held 42 per cent of the votes. A year later in the Lok Sabha polls, the CPM’s vote share, however, fell to just above 17 per cent, while the Congress which has zero legislators bagged 25 per cent of the votes. Many feel Trinamul’s renewed vigour in Tripura would help divide the Opposition votes in case the Left and the Congress decide on a joint electoral strategy in the state and ultimately help BJP retain power. The Trinamul sent MPs Derek O’ Brien and Prasun Banerjee to hoist the Trinamul flag on  Goa's beaches, where the party does not even have any name to project. There are number of factors on which the handful of Congress workers still active in Bengal are fuming. The most unhappy man in the Bengal unit at this moment is the party’s South Calcutta district unit president and local Bhowanipore lad Pradip Prasad. While Congress bigwigs from the same locality have jumped ship over the last 23 years and turned into stalwarts in the Trinamul, Prasad has stayed with the Congress. This time he was keen to contest against Mamata in the Bhowanipore bypoll but the AICC which decides on all matters turned him down. Since 2016 when the Left and the Congress went into an alliance, the Bhowanipore seat was left for the Congress. The Congress nominee, Md Shadab Khan, received 5,211 votes, barely four per cent of the total votes. In the absence of the Congress, the CPM has fielded advocate Srijib Biswas. The BJP had bagged 35 per cent votes in the last elections from the seat. “I would have lost the bypoll, but at least the Congress would have been in the picture. What do we gain by conceding ground to the Trinamul? This sends a wrong signal to the remaining voters who are still loyal to us,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganglord arrested in Alipore jail attack ||Sona Pappu, who had allegedly hatched the plot to kill an undertrial as soon as he stepped out of Presidency jail on bail earlier this month, has been arrested, police said. Pappu has multiple criminal cases against him. He was arrested from a housing complex in Kaikhali in north-east Kolkata early on Friday. Biswajit Poddar — who later came to be known as Sona Pappu — has been booked under IPC sections related to rioting and attempt to murder, and under the arms act. The 40-year-old who has allegedly committed a series of crimes — from murder to extortion — was once an “ordinary young man” working in his father’s jewellery store on Picnic Garden Road in south Kolkata, police said. Originally a resident of GS Bose Road in Kasba, Biswajit had a reputation as an obedient son. Friends and family expected him to follow in the footsteps of his father, Hari Narayan Poddar, and run the jewellery business, recalled a senior police officer. “His nickname was Pappu. Because of his association with his father’s gold jewellery business, people in the locality called him Sona Pappu. He gradually became involved in crime after joining the construction material supply business and soon emerged as one of the most dreaded criminals in the Kasba-Tiljala belt,” said the officer. He was out on bail, the police said. Munna Pandey, who Pappu and a team of around 40-50 men had allegedly planned to kill on September 9, had multiple criminal charges against him. Twenty-five of the men allegedly involved in the attack have been arrested but Pappu, who the police said led the attack, was on the run. Pandey and Pappu — two ganglords of Kasba —  had often found themselves at loggerheads over gaining control of areas and running supply syndicates in Kasba, Tiljala and Tangra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Reports on electrocution deaths yet  to come||Over three days have passed since the first electrocution deaths were reported from the city after the recent spell of showers but the authorities concerned have yet to find out the cause of the electrocution. A couple and their 10-year-old child were electrocuted at their home in Khardah in North 24 Parganas district on Tuesday, apparently while trying to charge a mobile phone. The deaths were followed by at least five more electrocution deaths in the city and on the outskirts in the past 72 hours. The Telegraph spoke to several government officials to find out whether the reports, which they say every day they are waiting for to know the reasons for the electrocutions and fix responsibility, arrived on Friday. The answer from each agency was negative. State power minister Aroop Biswas, who told Metro on Thursday that he had sought a detailed report on each electrocution death, said he was yet to receive any report till Friday evening. “As the incidents happened at different places, it is taking time to compile (the information). I am yet to get any report,” he said. The chairperson of the board of administrators of South Dum Dum Municipality, in whose area two 12-year-old girls were electrocuted on Wednesday evening, said he had not received any report. “I am expecting the report tomorrow evening or Sunday morning,” chairperson Panchu Gopal Roy said. The municipality, he said, has show-caused a private agency, hired to maintain the lamp posts in all 35 wards, for alleged negligence. He had not mentioned any private agency while speaking at length with this newspaper on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Debabrata Mukherjee elected chairman of Audit Bureau of Circulations for the year 2021-2022||Debabrata Mukherjee, chief marketing officer, United Breweries Ltd, has been unanimously elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) for the year 2021-2022. He has been part of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, Council of Management, since 2011 and has served as the chairman of the council. Pratap G. Pawar,  publisher member on the council, has been unanimously elected as the deputy chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress declares Goa foray before Assembly elections||The Trinamul Congress on Friday declared its decision to take the Goa plunge ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. The declaration on the front page of Trinamul’s Bengali daily Jago Bangla decisively ended speculation that had been rife since poll consultant Prashant Kishor and 200-odd members of his team had been seen testing the Goa waters. Although Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee did mention Goa in passing in a couple of her speeches during the campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll over the past few days, it wasn’t until the formal declaration in the mouthpiece that her party’s attempts for a westward expansion was established beyond doubt. In the story laid out under the headline “Target sarkar toiri, Goay vote-juddhey Trinamul (The target is to form the state government, Trinamul in the electoral battle of Goa)”, the party said the groundwork had already begun. “A team of Trinamul Congress MPs would visit Goa very soon. Before participating in the electoral battle in Goa, an I-Pac (Kishor’s team) group is already there and has begun work. Utmost preparations are underway,” read the piece. The Assembly elections in Goa — with barely 11.5 lakh voters — are likely to take place in February next year when the BJP-led Pramod Sawant government would seek re-election in the 40-seat House. The principal Opposition in Goa is the Congress. In 2017, in a bitterly controversial power-grab, the BJP had formed the government in Goa, despite securing only 13 seats, compared to the Congress’s 17. The majority mark is 21. “Why Goa? The party’s strategy and aim, for now, are the small states…. There is an intense anti-BJP current in Goa. In the past election, although the mandate was against the BJP, the people of the state think by retaining power through the purchase of (non-BJP) MLAs, the saffron army disregarded the verdict of the people,” read the Jago Bangla story, which asserted that the Congress couldn’t keep its flock in order nor could it expand there. “Keeping the West Bengal example forward, the Trinamul Congress’s message in Goa is that the BJP can only be defeated by it, not the Congress,” read the Jago Bangla story. “According to that math, the party’s reach is being put in place. Political steps will be taken on the basis of an understanding of the situation. Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee will go to campaign for the election,” it added. Since his appointment as the party’s national general-secretary on June 5, exactly a month after Mamata was sworn in as chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term, Abhishek has – in close coordination with Kishor – been busy exploring opportunities for expansion for Trinamul. Abhishek has on more than one occasion made it clear in public that whichever state Trinamul goes to henceforth, it will do so with the intent to win, not just to start a state unit and get a handful of MLAs. Since then, the party has been seen taking some decisive steps towards becoming a force to be reckoned with in the northeastern states of Tripura and Assam. “Very important is the increasing number of Lok Sabha seats we are gradually getting access to, ahead of 2024. There are the 42 seats of Bengal, 14 in Assam, and two each in Tripura and Goa. That’s 60,” said a Trinamul vice-president, asserting that the expansion beyond Bengal’s borders over the next three years was with the core objective of a stronger presence in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Nine Visva-Bharati teachers to face probe for 'misconduct' ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday night issued letters to nine senior teachers informing them that they would have to face a probe for their “misconduct” in connection with alleged confinement of at least a dozen English teachers for six hours by varsity officials in the presence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty in February this year. Officials said it was the first time in recent memory that nine senior teachers of the varsity would face a board of inquiry at the same time. However, at least 13 teachers and employees of the varsity had been served suspension orders, while several others faced punishments like termination, salary cut and non-payment of retirement benefits ever since Chakrabarty took over as the VC in November 2018. “The officiating registrar of the varsity has sent letters to nine faculty members, saying they would have to face a board of inquiry that consists of several officials, including a few retired people who are perceived close to Chakrabarty,” said a senior varsity professor. The nine teachers are from the departments of English, philosophy and physics. Sources said the English teachers had allegedly been confined by the varsity authorities in a bid to collect a copy of a mass petition that some faculty members had written to Prime Minister and Chancellor Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to complain about the manner in which Chakrabarty was running the varsity. After six hours, a teacher of the English department had informed his colleagues about the confinement and around a dozen teachers had come forward to rescue those in alleged detention. Two senior teachers had also lodged a police complaint against the officials. The complainants had accused the varsity authorities of illegally detaining their colleagues. The varsity, however, denied the charge of confinement and claimed that the English teachers were attending an official meeting. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a WhatsApp message regarding the varsity’s decision to summon the teachers before a board of inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypoll: Didi adds Pegasus, PM CARES to campaign narrative||Mamata Banerjee on Friday added two key national issues, alleged Pegasus snoopgate and the ownership of PM-Cares Fund, to her campaign narrative for the Bhowanipore bypoll, along with Tripura BJP government’s imposition of prohibitory orders in Agartala during Puja and Diwali this year. The Bengal chief minister wasted no time in adding the two crucial issues to the Bhowanipore mix, a day after proceedings in the judiciary had brought both back in the news. “My phone, your phone, everything has gone to Pegasus. Pegasus is dangerous…. It does not only record and transmit audio, it takes and sends photos, video…. I found out fully after I was talking to PK (poll consultant Prashant Kishor) and Abhishek (Banerjee, her nephew and Trinamul Congress’s Number Two) in my Kalighat office ahead of the election. I was shown (later) how I was tapped through their phones, which were tapped,” said Mamata at a public meeting in Sambhunath Bazaar, near Balwant Singh’s Eating House in Bhowanipore. According to digital forensics conducted by Amnesty International’s Security Lab, Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek and poll consultant Kishor were among the numerous targets of the hack. Her remarks came a day after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the Supreme Court would pass orders next week on the constitution of an “expert committee” to probe allegations that the Centre had used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to illegally snoop on citizens. “Tap one phone and you can (indirectly) tap a thousand…. They do this using the phone cameras, which are kept on by them. You think you have switched off the phone and nobody can hear anything. That’s not the case. Even through a switched off phone… nothing is safe…. In the future they will scan our brains. Nothing can be put past them,” added Mamata. Mamata quickly moved on to bring up the fact that the Prime Minister’s Office had told Delhi High Court on Thursday that the PM Cares Fund is not a Government of India fund, but a charitable trust whose collections do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, and that it does not come under the purview of the Right to Information Act. “But government employees were made to contribute to it. Corporates also contributed. Lakhs of crores were deposited,” said the chief minister. She went on, for the third consecutive day, to bring up the imposition of prohibitory orders in West Tripura through Durga Puja till Diwali this year, to lambast the BJP over its divisive and “false” campaign against her that she was not allowing people to celebrate Hindu festivals in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC scan on Dwivedi letter and process for bypoll ||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked whether the Election commission of India could take a decision of holding bypoll to the Bhowanipore Assembly seat based on a request from the Bengal chief secretary. During the hearing of a public interest litigation which challenged the process in which the Bhowanipore bypoll had been announced even as some other by-elections were pending, a division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj raised several other questions related to the holding of bypolls. “The manner in which the court tossed the questions makes it clear that it wants to address the broader issue of bypoll in a seat that was already filled, but got vacated after the MLA resigned to offer the seat to someone else,” said a lawyer not involved with the case. The PIL referred to alleged irregularities in the poll panel’s notification for the September 30 bypoll in Bhowanipore from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. The PIL has highlighted that the notification claimed it was announcing the bypoll based on a letter from chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, who had mentioned that not holding the bypoll in Bhowanipore would result in a “constitutional crisis”. While the matter was heard on Friday, the court asked the following questions: After the conclusion of the hearing, advocate Sayan Banerjee, the petitioner, said he was not praying for the cancellation of the bypoll, but wanted answers to the legal queries about the bypoll. The bench said the verdict would be pronounced “sometime later”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 744 fresh infections and 13 deaths ||Bengal on Friday recorded 96 consecutive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases, with 744 new infections, 746 recoveries and 13 deaths. The total fell by 15 to 7,689. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 130 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with three-digit figures of new infections. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, which is the highest and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.75. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.77 per cent on Friday. Calcutta reported three deaths, while North 24-Parganas logged four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.65 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.38 lakh recoveries and 18,716 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Evacuations begin ahead of rain in South 24-Parganas ||The South 24-Parganas district administration on Friday began evacuating people to disaster shelters in preparation of fresh spells of rain accompanied by squall that are slated to begin on Saturday afternoon. In East Midnapore, officials have issued three days of “strict alert”, with restrictive measures extending to fishermen and tourists. Met department sources said there might be winds  exceeding 45kmph starting Saturday along with heavy rain. The weather office in Calcutta has advised fishermen not to venture into deep sea areas of the north Bay of Bengal from adjoining central Bay of Bengal on September 25 and 26 as well as on the Odisha coast and adjoining areas of west-central Bay of Bengal. It has also been advised that those who are in deep sea should return to the coast by Friday night to avoid any danger. “Our primary objective is to save people,” said district magistrate P.Ulaganathan. On Thursday, the district administration held a meeting at the Kakdwip subdivisional office to discuss disaster management measures. “An integrated command for disaster management has been set up comprising all stakeholders in the district in addition to a round-the-clock control room at the district, subdivision, and block headquarters,” the DM added. Officials in the coastal districts began making announcements over loudspeaker from Friday. Officials of the state fisheries department were seen visiting fishing harbours and interacting with fishermen’s organisations to ensure that those in the sea returned early and none ventured for fishing. Additional director of fisheries (marine) South 24-Parganas, Jayanta Pradhan said: “We are taking no risk. We have over 13,000 registered fishing boats, of which 1,000 are in the sea now. We have requested the fishermen’s association to call them back.” His counterpart in East Midnapore, Surajit Bag, added: “We have taken extensive public announcement measures at harbours to alert fishermen so that they don’t dare to venture out into the sea.” According to instructions communicated from Nabanna, the district administration has already started imparting special training to relief workers at the grass roots and has arranged for adequate tarpaulins and relief materials ready at different strategic locations. “Our efforts would be to reach the victims in the shortest possible time. To make this possible, volunteers have been deployed and relief workers kept alert,” an official said. At the same time, power utilities, public health engineering and PWD authorities have been asked to keep their quick response teams ready for any emergency situation. Public health engineering authorities have been asked to send water pouches to blocks, along with PVC tanks, for storing drinking water in vulnerable spots. “District authorities were also asked to keep medical teams and shelters ready to accommodate evacuated people. Making arrangements for gruel kitchens has also been advised apart from alerting people to the possibility of snapped electric wires,” an official in Nabanna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri relishes Richa’s Australia innings||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh continued her brilliant batting in Indian women team’s ongoing Australia tour even on Friday as she reached close to a half-century mark, much to the jubilation of cricket enthusiasts here. Even though India lost at the last ball of the match, her crucial knock with ace opener Smriti Mandhana (86 in 94 balls) helped her team score a mammoth total of 274 for loss of seven wickets on Friday. Ghosh scored the second highest for her team while batting at number five and made 44 with three boundaries and one shot over the rope, while facing total 50 deliveries. “We are not surprised by her innings today. In the previous match, she had also shined with her bat. In that match, she batted at number seven and played an important partnership with Jhulan Goswami, which helped the team score 200-odd runs,” said Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. In the nail-biting second ODI played at Harrup Park of Queensland on Friday, the local girl was found flawless in her innings and helped to build the foundation of the big innings of her team by adding 76 runs in partnership with Mandhana on fourth wicket and 28 runs with Dipti Sharma, before she got bowled by Tahila Mcgrath of Australia. “She has proved that there is no point in sending her to bat at number seven. Today, the team management got the result by promoting her to number five. It is absolutely disheartening that her brilliant innings went in vain. But such efforts will definitely encourage more talents here and develop a confidence in them,” Verma added. SMKP sources said they were planning a grand felicitation programme once Richa reached back Siliguri. In the first ODI, she had made a 40-odd runs partnership with ace Indian pacer Goswami on eighth wicket and helped the team score 225. Manavendra Ghosh, her father, was proud of her daughter’s performance, but because of some family engagements, could not watch the match till the end. “This is her natural play. She used to open for Bengal in domestic tournaments. In her debut match at the World T20 final in Melbourne, she did not feel nervous. It is now proved that the team management is showing confidence in her batting and promoted her at number five for her big hitting capacity. I am happy that she did her job and performed well, but unfortunately, they lost the match,” the father said. Jayanta Bhowmik, the former coach of ace cricketer and Siliguri boy Wriddhiman Saha, who presently holds the post of the chairman of the coaches’ committee of the districts’ sports bodies under Cricket Association of Bengal, was equally elated by Richa’s performance. “She is a gem of a cricketer from the region. With her performance, she has managed to establish herself as an eminent face of cricket in Siliguri and in Bengal as a whole,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Narcotics and liquor seized, five arrested in Siliguri||Three suspected smugglers were arrested with 280 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, at Bhittabari located around 15km from here late on Thursday evening. The trio were held in a joint raid conducted by the special operation group (SOG) of Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bagdogra police. “Our men intercepted an SUV and found the narcotics from the vehicle. The trio have been arrested under the NDPS Act,” said a police officer. Those arrested have been identified as Umesh Chhetri, a resident of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district, and Raju Sheikh and Mustafa Khan, who hail from Kaliachak in Malda district. The estimated price of the seized narcotic is around Rs 30 lakh, sources said. In another incident, 110 cartons of IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor), which was meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh, was seized from a pick-up van at Naxalbari on Friday morning. Bijoy Mukhia and Suraj Baraik, residents of Phansidewa of Siliguri sub-division, have been arrested in this connection. They were carrying the liquor from northeast to Bihar, sources said. Also in Maneybhanjyang of Darjeeling district, a pick up van loaded with cartons of IMFL, meant for sale in Sikkim, was intercepted by a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) team on Friday morning. The consignment has been handed over to the Customs department in Sukhiapokhri, police sources said. “The vehicle’s driver is absconding. We are in search of him,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Four die of electrocution in Malda||A civic volunteer, who also worked an electrical mechanic, got electrocuted while carrying out repair works at Nayagram village in Malda district on Friday. Sources said Kailash Das, 53, was declared dead on arrival at the Malda Medical College and Hospital. With his death, four persons have died of electrocution in the district in the past 48 hours. Siddique Sheikh, 60, of Sarafattola village, Tulshi Mondal, 37, of Dakshin Chandpur village, and Haraprasad Bhattacharya, 38, of Narsinghdanga village, lost their lives after they came in contact with a livewire in their respective villages. The state power department and its agencies should regularly monitor the power distribution cables in the villages to avert such incidents, villagers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
