26-09-2021||West Bengal||CP(I)M, police clash near Mamata's home after cops stop campaigning||The CPI(M)'s Bhowanipore bypoll candidate Srijib Biswas got engaged in a scuffle with the police on Sunday after he was stopped from campaigning on the road that leads to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty, who was accompanying Biswas, said they have every right to campaign among the voters of the area but were being unlawfully prevented by the police. As the CPI(M) leaders and supporters argued that they have the necessary permission, the police said that the candidate and four others can only enter the road together as per the rules. "Mamata BanerjeeBent," Chakraborty told reporters after being stopped at the entrance of the road in the Kalighat area. CPI(M) candidate Biswas, Chakraborty and three others were later allowed to campaign in the Harish Chatterjee Street area. Last week, BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and the party's state president Sukanta Majumdar also got engaged in a war of words with the police after being stopped from campaigning in the area. The police had then said that they did not have vaccination certificates and were trying to breach a high-security zone. Mamata is the Trinamul Congress candidate in the bypoll, scheduled to be held on September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC ‘real Congress’, says party mouthpiece||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday mounted another offensive against the Congress, calling itself the “Aashol (real) Congress” in the party mouthpiece. The headline in a Jago Bangla editorial is the seventh notable instance of attack on the Congress after Mamata Banerjee called on Sonia Gandhi in the presence of Rahul Gandhi on July 28. The eighth and ninth such instances also came within a few hours. In the evening, Mamata attacked the Congress twice in her public addresses for her Bhowanipore bypoll campaign. In her speeches at Collin Street and Shakespeare Sarani, Mamata accused the Congress of succumbing to the fear of victimisation by the BJP and striking secret deals every now and then. The editorial in Jago Bangla read: “The flag of the Congress heritage is today in the hands of Trinamul. This is the shomudro (sea). The pawchadoba (putrid small pond) is irrelevant today.” “Most Congress supporters have felt that Trinamul is the real Congress in Bengal. Rajiv Gandhi used to be affectionate towards this same Mamata Banerjee, used to indulge her…. The Congress of today is unsuccessful, disoriented…. The days of resting on the laurels of history are over. The holy war now is on the basis of performance on the ground,” it added. “Whoever is still in the Congress, is welcome in Trinamul. Even in the case of Delhi, that is the tendency,” the editorial said. The persistent and seemingly unprovoked attacks have prompted questions on Trinamul’s intentions towards pan-India Opposition unity. Mamata has been urging non-BJP forces across the country to close ranks against the BJP in good time, much ahead of the crucial Lok Sabha polls of 2024. Jago Bangla is handled largely by Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s office, with inputs from Mamata, since its relaunch as a daily on July 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans Tiger Reserve to open from October 1 for tourists||The Sunderbans Tiger Reserve will be thrown open to tourists from October 1, with only one condition. All adult tourists must be vaccinated with at least one dose against Covid-19. Over half a dozen camps in the eco-tourism chapter of the tiger reserve had been closed in March this year following the outbreak of the second wave, putting all tourism stakeholders of the area, including guides and boatmen, in economic jeopardy. “Under government orders, all forest camps in the Sunderbans tiger reserve will be opened to tourists from October 1. The only condition for adults is they need to have at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine,” said Jones Justin, deputy field director of the STR. Senior forest officials said they had taken measures, including training guides and boatmen, to ensure awareness about Covid safety protocols. “All tourists must follow Covid protocols. Wearing masks is mandatory visiting forest camps. We have sanitised all the camps and our staff are fully vaccinated,” said a forester. All 55 guides registered with the tiger reserve and over 100 boatmen, have been given both Covid doses. “Boatmen and resort owners will check if all tourists, except children, have received one vaccine at least. We have held meetings with all stakeholders reminding them of the importance of Covid protocols. Boatmen have been asked not overcrowd to their vessels,” he added. Tourists to the Sunderbans mainly visit forest camps on several islands, including the Sajnekhali sanctuary, Dobanki, Jhinkhali, Jharkhali and Bali. The sole animal rescue centre where sick tigers and crocodiles are kept for treatment will be closed to tourists. Sources said at least 10,000 people, including boatmen and owners of homestays or resorts were facing huge financial losses since the reserve closed its camps in March 2021. “We are facing a huge loss. But now we are hopeful of getting a good number of tourists around the Pujas and this will help us survive,” said Monoranjan Sarkar, the owner of a homestay in Jharkhali of South 24-Parganas. Officials said guides at the Sunderbans were facing the biggest financial loss. “Our income became zero after the camps got shut for Covid,” said guide Usha Sankar Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 762 more Covid infections, 11 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 762 new Covid-19 cases, 766 recoveries and 11 deaths. Active Covid-19 cases fell by 15 to 7,674 on Saturday in an unchecked drop of 97 days. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 137 new infections and North 24-Parganas 127, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.75. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.66 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.39 lakh recoveries and 18,727 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to provide Rs 2,000 a month to each Covid orphan||The Bengal government will provide a monthly aid of Rs 2,000 to all children who have become orphans owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR), who was here on Saturday, said: “Data indicates so far around 3,400 children have become orphans in the state because of the pandemic. It has been decided that each will get Rs 2,000 as monthly assistance. We are taking steps to ensure they can continue with their studies and are properly taken care of by their relatives.” Among these, some have lost both parents to the pandemic. Others had lost one parent earlier and the other died owing to Covid-19. The WBCPCR, sources said, is hastening the process of conferring legal guardianship on relatives with whom the children are staying. Respective child welfare committees and district child protection departments will monitor the progress of these children and see to it that they are being well looked after by relatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling gears up for rap battle in unique musical event at Glenary’s||The hills are set to witness a battle royale of lyrics, music and wits. The Darjeeling Initiative and the Edwards Foundation, two social organisations from Darjeeling, and the Artists of Darjeeling (AOD) have decided to organise the first ever “freestyle rap battle” in this hill town next month. The focus of the event is to connect with youths and spread the message on the ills of drug abuse. “The first ever freestyle rap battle will be held at Buzz (a pub) in Glenary’s on October 8 and there is prize money to be won,” said Praggya Lama, a well-known musician in the Nepali music industry. In a freestyle rap battle, a concept in the music world that started in the 1980s, an impromptu musical piece is played by the organisers and participants have to “battle” each other through clever lyrics and wordplay. Focus is on the rapper’s improvisational skills. It is considered shameful to recite pre-written or memorised rap during a freestyle battle. “Such contests have not been held in the hills but many youths are taking up this genre. We wanted to give due recognition to this genre and provide a platform to talented youths,” said Arbind Subba, member of Darjeeling Initiative. In freestyle rap battle, many believe that a large part of winning depends on how an audience responds to a rapper. The winner is, however, judged by a panel of judges. “We invite all to participate in the event as our motto is to spread awareness on the ills of drug abuse,” said Subba. Forms for the event will be distributed at Glenary’s starting Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||No leave for Bengal government employees till October 5||The Mamata Banerjee government has cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5, put all PWD engineers on alert and set up a unified control room to deal with the possible heavy rainfall next week. Sources in Nabanna said the state government was not taking any chances as heavy rainfall is likely to hit Bengal again and could coincide with the bypolls at Bhowanipore scheduled on September 30 where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. “The first target is that all vulnerable people should be moved to safe places. Moreover, we want to ensure that preparations for the bypolls are not affected,” said a source. The combined control room includes representatives of all related state government departments, including disaster management, Calcutta Police, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, PWD, power and health. “The CMC will send its force whenever waterlogging is reported. The disaster management department will send rescue team if anyone is trapped,” said a senior official. The PWD has asked its engineers to intensify inspection of vulnerable roads, bridges and approach roads. Engineers across the state have been asked to initiate immediate steps to restore damaged roads and bridges.The PWD has made it clear that more funds will be available for repairs in case cost exceeds the limit of funds released for maintenance or minor jobs. The state government has also cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5 as it is apprehended that the government might have to work round the clock to repair the damage that could occur owing to heavy rainfall. “It is vital to repair damages before Pujas. We need to ensure all preparations for the Bhowanipore bypolls are in place even if heavy rainfall occurs,” said a senior official. Weather alert According to a message sent to district magistrates from Nabanna on Saturday evening, the cyclone likely to make a landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coast on September 26 may not impact Bengal much. But heavy rain is expected from Saturday night in Bengal’s coast. The other cyclone likely to hit Odisha and Bengal coast on September 28 may impact the area between Gosaba and Sagar Islands. Heavy rain is likely in Bengal between September 27 and 29. District magistrates and commissioners have been asked to evacuate people in low-lying areas by September 27 morning. Integrated control rooms should be made operational immediately. Irrigation department must deploy engineers in vulnerable areas and repair damaged embankments, if required. The district officials have been asked to keep enough water pouches, dry food and tarpaulin in stock to help people in distress and run relief camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘murders’ in South Dinajpur and Malda||One Anup Sarkar, 50, of village Sadhuhar in South Dinajpur, was allegedly strangled and his body hung from a tree on Friday. Homemaker Tahera Bibi, 44, was found bludgeoned to death at her home in Jadupur in Malda’s Englishbazar on Saturday. Police have detained Anup’s wife Kanchana and are in search of one Imel Hansda, suspected of having an affair with her. In Tahira’s case, police suspect her husband Khalil Sheikh killed her. He is absconding. Police said the way the body was hanging did not look like suicide. In Tahera's case, sources said she fought with husband Khalil Sheikh on Friday evening. Police suspect she was bludgeoned. Heavy objects with blood stains have been found at the spot. Khalil has fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Five held with gold bars worth over Rs 3 crore in Malda||A team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized gold bars weighing 6.172kg estimated at Rs 3.15 crore from Keshtopur village located near Bangladesh border in Malda on Friday. Five persons have been arrested in this connection. On Saturday, the quintet, residents of South Dinajpur district, were produced in a court here and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. The bars were supposed to be smuggled to Bangladesh, DRI sources said. On Friday, the team arrested a person from Kestopur, located under Englishbazar police station. “Based on the information spilled by him, four others were arrested and the gold bars were seized,” the sources said. The arrested quintet have been identified as Akhil Moral, Ashish Kumar Dutta, Uttam Kumar Dutta, Dipesh Kumar Ghosh and Atul Das. In Dhaprahat of Cooch Behar district, the BSF on Friday detained two Bangladeshi nationals after they infiltrated in India. Sabina Khatun and Farzana Akhter Eama, who hail from Gopalpur and Brahmanbaria districts of Bangladesh, have revealed that they were on their way to Bangalore for jobs. Three cell phones and some Bangladeshi currency have been seized from them. In another incident, the BSF nabbed a suspected Bangladeshi smuggler at Hilli in South Dinajpur on Saturday. Md. Abdul Malek, a resident of Dinajpur district of the neighbouring country, was held while he was trying to cross the border. He has been handed over to the Hilli police station, the BSF sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Centre blocked my Rome trip for World Peace Conference: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee disclosed on Saturday that the Centre denied her permission to visit Rome for a World Peace Conference in October. “The central government sent us a letter today (Saturday). They have denied political clearance. Why? Is it not right for the chief minister to go?” Mamata told a campaign meeting in Bhowanipore. Sources later said the state government received a one-line letter from a joint secretary in the external affairs ministry that the event was not commensurate with the status of a chief minister for participation. The Pope, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar of Cairo, the German Chancellor and the Italian Prime Minister are among the other invitees. Mamata was invited by Marco Impagliazzo, the president of the Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association in Rome. She was the only Indian invited to the event. Mamata said the Centre was “jealous” of her and hence insulted her.  “Italy gave us special permission for this huge peace conference and brotherhood. Otherwise India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh are banned in Italy owing to Covid,” the chief minister said. Mamata referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ongoing US tour.  “No one can go to Europe, America, Britain or anywhere else because Covaxin is not recognised by WHO, but our Prime Minister went on a special permission…. We are not against the Prime Minister’s visit, he needs to go at times…. But why didn’t you let me represent (the nation)?” she asked. “The nation’s pride was associated with this tour. All religions will be represented at the meeting. You only speak about Hindus…. I was invited as a Hindu, why didn’t you allow me? You say so much about the Hindu dharma. Jealousy. Just jealousy,”  Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore Junction||Bhowanipore would be knitting its brows in disapproval right now, that is if it were a person instead of a para. To be spoken of in the same breath as a gram! To be referred to like a mere punctuation — ahead of Bhowanipore, X resigns, Y kicked upstairs. There’s that thing Trinamul’s Abhishek Banerjee said while campaigning. “Bh- for Bhowanipore. Bh- for Bharat. If we win Bhowanipore, we shall also win Bharat.” Bhowanipore. Bhowanipore. The air is frenzied. There is a sense that Bhowanipore has only just burst into public memory and is standing on the brink of history. As if to say that all this while it was a nowhere no-place with not a connection or story worth the boast. The earliest recorded history of Bhowanipore dates back to the 16th century. In Abul Kasem Rahimuddin’s book Hey Nagar Hey Mahanagar, the chapter on Bhowanipore begins with a layered and tangential story set in a village inhabited by potters, weavers and farmers. The protagonist is Harimohan Dom, a gunin or magical healer. The story has to do with Harimohan’s involvement with a Brahmin woman, the consequent scandal, her forced marriage with an elderly Brahmin, his death, her sati and Harimohan’s exile. “This happened in the first half of the 16th century,” writes Rahimuddin. In the second half, the aadi sebayat of Kalighat Bhubaneswar Chakraborty’s son-in-law Bhabanidas Bhattacharya settled down in Harimohan’s village and the place flourished through his sustained efforts. The village took Bhabanidas’s name and became Bhabanipur, or Bhowanipore as we say today. This is no exhaustive account of Bhowanipore and its who’s who through the ages. By way of time machine, I have a clutch of books and maps from an excellent research paper by Keya Dasgupta, titled “Genesis of a Neighbourhood: The Mapping of Bhabanipur”. “The original settlement took place along the Adi Ganga, the reason being primarily the ease of transport and trade,” writes Dasgupta. Among the first settlers were kansa baniks or brass merchants, sankha baniks or conch shell merchants, telis or oil merchants and patas or artists. Maps from 1833 onwards show localities named Kasaripara, Teliapara, Sankaripara, Patapara. A map from the early 20th century shows a gaggle of ghats — Babu Madhab’s Ghat, Madan Mohan Pal’s Ghat, Rani Rashmoni’s Ghat... A 1796 map has names of residents and landholders. Note the variety — Guburdan Kessary, Goulab Bibby, Manik Shaw, Nimmoo Tackoor, Rampersaud Doctor. There is a mosque too. The 1825 map is crowded with markets — Setaram Ghose Bazar, Gangaram Sircar Bazar, Sultan Mistry’s Bazar, Jugoobaboo’s Bazar. Jugoobabu-r Bazar, also referred to as Jadubabu-r Bazar — and not mistakenly — exists to date. The ground on which it stands belonged to Sir Robert Chambers, one of the first lawyers who joined the Supreme Court when it was established in 1774. One Joggeswar Laha bought the property and set up a bazar. Later, Rani Rashmoni purchased it for her grandson Jadunath Chaudhuri. The maps show blocks identified as Sailors Hospital, Soldiers Burial Ground, Insane Hospital. There were burial grounds too. Calcutta’s fond barefoot historian P.T. Nair notes that the “old Kasiabagan burial ground was given as a waqf to the Mohammedan community by Nawab Saadat Ali Khan Bahadur”. In 1817, Wazir Ali Khan, the Nawab of Oudh, was buried here, when he died after spending 17 years as a political prisoner in Fort William. But you wouldn’t know this; there is no sign of his grave today. This is what happened. John Woodburn, the man who eventually became the lieutenant governor of Bengal, never met Wazir Ali, but when he was posted in Oudh, he quelled a rebellion inspired by the memory of Wazir Ali’s heroism. The nawab had after all choreographed the “Massacre of Benares”, wherein some British officials had died. Woodburn destroyed the memorials associated with Wazir Ali in Oudh. Decades later, he caught sight of this grave in Calcutta. Woodburn was now fixated on destroying Wazir Ali’s final resting place. Woodburn died in 1902 and was laid to rest in the Lower Circular Road Cemetery but upon the continued efforts of his protegees, the Muslim burial ground was razed and, in 1915, Woodburn Park came into being. In the later part of the 19th century, Bhowanipore came to be the abode of many people from the legal profession as well as many doctors. Sambhunath Pandit, the Kashmiri Pandit who was the first Indian to become judge of Calcutta High Court in 1863, lived here. Ashutosh Mukherjee’s father Ganga Prasad Mukherjee was a medical practitioner who settled here in the 1860s. Jagadananda Chatterjee too was a man of law. Rahimuddin writes that in 1876, Prince of Wales Albert Edward paid a visit to a Jagadananda in Bokulbagan. Prince Albert had an outrageous request — he wanted to meet the women of the household. Chatterjee was greedy to please, and obliged. Bhowanipore and the rest of Calcutta, however, remained scathingly critical of this violation of social mores. The satirist Hemchandra wrote: “Well done Bhowanipore, well done/For the spectacle grand at Bakulbagan/One winter’s day in this, our land/You forsook the purdah for tea with an Englishman.” Elgin Road used to be Peepulputty Road. Chittaranjan Das’s parents shifted here from Pataldanga Road, and Das was enrolled as a student at the London Missionary Society’s Institution here. According to the 1915 Calcutta Street Directory, at No. 4 Elgin Road lived Soumendranath Tagore, grand-nephew of Rabindranath Tagore and leader of the Revolutionary Communist Party of India. At No. 28 lived a Byomkesh, not Bakshi but Chakraborty; and No. 34 belonged to modyo bikreta or spirit vendor Rakhal Chandra Saha. House No. 38/1 belonged to the Raja of Munger and next door at 38/2 lived Janaki Nath Bose, advocate and father of Sarat Chandra and Subhas Chandra Bose. Subhas grew up in this house and it is from here that he slipped away one January night in 1941 only to resurface in Berlin. The 1920s saw a lot of Sikhs in the transport business settle here. Shortly after, Gujaratis arrived. According to the 1931 Census of India, there were 4,713 Sikhs in the city, three times their number in 1921, and “very nearly half of them are found in Bhowanipore”. The 1891 census report of Calcutta states there were 715 Gujarati-speaking people in the city. Bhowanipore is today synonymous with Uttam Kumar. Santosh Ghosh, who is a photographer with The Telegraph, remembers taking a photograph of “Dadabhai” and his wife Gouri Debi at their family home on Girish Mukherjee Road one Lakshmi Puja. But way before the mahanayak, it was home to actor Ahindra Choudhury. The ancestors of actor Ranjit Mallick put down roots here. Bediapara Road was named after Harish Mukherjee, editor of the English weekly Hindoo Patriot. During the indigo crisis, Mukherjee helped the ryots or tenant farmers by drafting petitions and memorials, providing food and protection. His house at Bhowanipore was an asylum for them. In 1860, the indigo planters brought criminal and civil suits against him for this and shortly after his death the house was attached and auctioned off. But it is another street named after another Harish that is the seat of high drama. 30-B Harish Chatterjee Street is the address of Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. I bring out the Bagchi time machine, go back a hundred years. No sign of the address I am looking for. Between 30/1 held by Haridas and C.C. Pal and the Kalighat High School at 31 flows a humdrum street. I run a finger down the page of Calcutta directory and find a line in parenthesis. It reads: “Here runs a nameless street”. Bhowanipore has always been a favoured address of History. And now for the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
