27-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests four persons in Bengal coal pilferage scam case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore rupees coal pilferage scam in Bengal, sources in the probe agency said. The four arrested were close aides of Anup Majhi, alias Lala, who is believed to be the key person behind the alleged pilferage of dry fuel from Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) mines in Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman district, they said. The anti-corruption branch of the CBI summoned the four to appear before its officials at the agency's office in Calcutta. They were nabbed following a brief interrogation. Earlier, the CBI arrested Vikash Mishra, brother of Trinamul Congress youth leader Binay Mishra, in connection with the case. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against Lala, the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee. The agency had raided Lala's official premises, residences and other properties in Asansol, Ranigunj and Calcutta. A look-out circular had been issued against him. The CBI is of the view that the scam, arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of ECL, runs into thousands of crores of rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route for which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also joined the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: Didi must win big, but dwindling victory margins a cause of worry||The last day of campaigning for the Bhowanipore Assembly by-poll ended with blood spilling on the streets near Jadubabu’s Bazar as supporters of Trinamul Congress and the BJP came to blows. Monday’s violence around a rally by the former state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, in which a BJP supporter suffered a head injury, was the second consecutive day when the Opposition came under attack for campaigning in the chief minister’s home turf. Sunday’s battleground was Harish Chatterjee Street where Mamata’s residence is located. There, CPM central committee member Sujan Chakraborty and others were stopped from entering the narrow street, which is also the neighbourhood of Trinamul Lok Sabha MP Kalyan Banerjee. The Calcutta Police had turned down the CPM’s plea to campaign in Mamata’s neigbourhood that turned into a mighty scuffle, as the police finally relented and allowed a handful of CPM supporters to seek votes on Harish Chatterjee street. On Monday afternoon, it was the turn of the BJP to get into a free-for-all with Trinamul supporters when Ghosh was campaigning for party nominee Priyanka Tibrewal. On paper, there is no reason for Mamata Banerjee to lose from Bhowanipore, her home turf. Yet, in this bypoll, which is already in the eye of the storm for being given "preferential treatment to accommodate the whims of a chief minister", Mamata has appeared jittery. One reason of course is her losing to Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the March-April elections. Mamata knows if she can be beaten once, there is nothing to stop a repeat, if the voters so want. That is one of the reasons why she has made repeated appeals to the Bhowanipore voters to come out of their homes and cast their vote on September 30. She has made it amply clear that not a single vote can be allowed to be wasted. Exactly a decade ago, when Mamata contested from Bhowanipore during a similar by-poll in her first term, the victory margin for the first-time chief minister was a handsome 54, 213 votes. Five years later, Mamata took on a combined Left-Congress Opposition and increased her Assembly tally, crossing well over 200 MLAs. But her own victory margin in Bhowanipore had dipped by half as she defeated the Congress’ Deepa Das Munshi by 25,301 votes. The Lok Sabha votes of 2013 was to be a shocker. The detailed result revealed in the Bhowanipore segment of the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat that Trinamul’s lead was a mere 3,168 votes. The trend of reduced victory margins is discomforting for Mamata. This on the home turf of supposedly the most popular chief minister in the country and of course Bengal. In 2021, Mamata moved to Nandigram and suffered the second poll snub of her career. Her trusted lieutenant Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay managed to salvage the situation at Bhwanipore and took the victory tally to 28,000 over the BJP nominee Rudranil Ghosh, who came into politics from films holding Mamata’s hands. This victory margin might seem enough but is a cause of headache for Mamata and the Trinamul. Bulk of the lead votes for the Trinamul, approximately 21,000, came from minority-dominated ward 77, the areas around Alipore, Kidderpore and Ekbalpore. Any split in the minority votes in the constituency could bring the lead spiralling down. Mamata became chief minister for the third time in Bengal after losing her seat. Therefore, it is not going to be enough for her to simply win. She has to win by a handsome margin. And Bhowanipore, at least on paper till Monday afternoon, did not display that confidence. “Those who are saying she will win by over a lakh votes, or that the daughter has come to her home are actually scared. They are scared of the BJP, they are scared of the voters. That is why they are orchestrating such attacks. Our appeal to the Election Commission is that it must be as active as it was during the general election, or else, fair polls will be impossible,” said Suvendu Adhikary, leader of the Opposition and BJP’s Nandigram MLA. State minister Firhad Hakim said, “There is no reason to give any importance to the BJP. They are seeking importance. Trinamul does not obstruct anyone. This is a part of their plan to communalise the polls, make personal attacks. In some places where people are fed up with these tactics, they may have protested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: Dilip Ghosh says he was manhandled, TMC fires back||BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was allegedly manhandled while party MP Arjun Singh faced 'go back' slogans by ruling TMC workers while campaigning for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Bhowanipore Assembly constituency in the city on the last day of campaigning on Monday. Ghosh was allegedly pushed by TMC workers when he went inside a vaccination camp at the Jodubabur Bazar area in the constituency, where by-poll will be held on September 30. TMC in its turn alleged that Ghosh's bodyguard had brandished firearms to scare away the crowd. TMC supporters present at the spot reportedly pushed Ghosh out and shouted slogans demanding that he leave alleging that he was campaigning at a state-run vaccination programme. Ghosh was escorted out of the camp by his security personnel and left in his car. An angry Ghosh later told reporters that the TMC had attacked him without provocation and heckled him and injured a BJP activist. "We will take up the issue with the Election Commission. What kind of election this is?" he asked. Singh, who is in charge of the BJP campaign in the area, faced 'go back' slogans. He was also called 'bohiragato' (outsider) as he went around the area soliciting votes. The MP represents Barrackpore constituency in North 24 Parganas district. Singh accused the state administration and police of doing nothing even when MPs and national level opposition leaders are being attacked. High drama marked the incident as a strong police force barricaded the area and slogan-shouting TMC activists gathered nearby. TMC leader Firhad Hakim, a close confidant of Banerjee accused BJP of provoking the people to create disturbances in the peaceful middle-class neighbourhood. "BJP is resorting to provocation sensing defeat. It is better to ignore them. Common people are protesting against them for spreading hatred, falsehood and personal attacks," Hakim said. In a tweet, TMC allleged that Ghosh's bodyguard had brandished firearms to scare away the people. "@BJP4Bengal HITS A NEW LOW! How DARE a gun be aimed at (the) public in broad daylight? Do people not have the right to protest against leaders they do not support? Such blatant violation of human rights is shameful! This compromises the safety and security of people in Bhowanipore," the party tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Left activists block rail tracks, roads to support Bharat Bandh||Left activists blocked roads and railway tracks across Bengal on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh, while normal life remained largely unaffected in the state. Markets and shops were opened as usual, while public transport operated almost normally, except for a few hitches. Government and private offices registered usual attendance. Educational institutions are shut in state the due to the COVID-related restrictions. In Calcutta, CPI(M) members blocked roads at College Street, Jadavpur and Shyambazar Five-Point Crossing but were swiftly removed by the police. Road blockades were held in most of the major towns and cities in the state, including in district headquarters of Jalpaiguri, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Hooghly and Coochbehar. The Left activists blocked railway tracks at Jadavpur in Eastern Railway's Sealdah division. Reports of rail blockades from the Howrah division also came in. At several locations, Congress activists also joined the protesters, demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The ruling Trinamool Congress stayed away from the 10-hour bandh, but it supported the demands of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the agitation. There was no report of any untoward incident, a police officer said. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||650 BJP supporters join Trinamul Congress in Siliguri||Around 650 BJP supporters, including some office-bearers of the saffron party from different areas of Siliguri subdivision, joined the Trinamul Congress on Sunday. At a programme organised at Patharghata in Matigara block, on the outskirts of Siliguri, those people were inducted into Mamata Banerjee’s party by district Trinamul leaders in the presence of former minister Gautam Deb. “Many of those who joined Trinamul today had been with the BJP for decades. Many others are in touch with us and will join Trinamul in coming days. They have understood that the BJP only makes hollow promises and never delivers,” said Deb. A Trinamul leader of Matigara said: “The three-tier panchayat elections of the Siliguri subdivision are due and this time, we need to secure majority in the rural bodies of all three tiers, including the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad. Those who joined today work at grassroots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain flattens flower fields, crisis looms before Pujas||Around 2,340 hectares of flowers cultivated in East and West Midnapore districts were reportedly destroyed amid heavy showers triggered by a low pressure in the Bay of Bengal since last week. The twin Midnapores are Bengal’s chief districts for flower cultivation and export, producing varieties of marigold, tuberose (rajnigandha), jasmine varieties such as juhi and beli, and rose. Nearly 1,500 hectares are estimated to have been destroyed in East Midnapore and nearly 840 hectares in West Midnapore. Roughly 40,000 flower vendors and cultivators in East and West Midnapore have been affected. Coastal districts, including North and South 24-Parganas also bore the brunt of the rain destroying acres of flowers. The immediate fallout is a crunch in supply and imminent rise in flower prices with Durga Puja only days away. The Puja season is considered to be the lifeblood of flower cultivators in Bengal. “Flowers are mainly harvested in two phases, after monsoon and in winter. It looks like the rain is set to ruin both,” said a member of the Bengal Florists and Vendors’ Association. By the end of the year the losses would be no less than Rs 15 crore, he added. Deputy director of horticulture in East Midnapore, Swapan Sheet, said the district would be awaiting instructions from the state government regarding compensation to florists and farmers. Sheet added most cultivators take loans for land lease and saplings. “Both these assets have been destroyed,” said Sheet. Tapan Kar, a flower cultivator of Degra in West Midnapore, who planted an acre of rajnigandha in June, discovered last Saturday that all his farmland lay under water. Tapan said he had no saplings or money left. “The only way out for small farmers is state help," he said. Mohan Maity, a lotus farmer from West Midnapore's Kolaghat, took a loan of Rs 2 lakh earlier this year to lease and cultivate 20 bighas. “As far as I can see, my money is gone,” he said. His neighbour Gourishankar Ghata calls their predicament a “double loss” with rain ruining prospects of both monsoon and winter harvests. In East Midnapore, Panskura and Tamluk are among the worst hit. In West Midnapore, badly affected areas are Degra, Daspur and Kharagpur. An average of 250mm of rainfall was reported in West Midnapore since Tuesday, “immense” for five days. “The price of rajnigandha, marigold and roses is now five times the usual wholesale rate and will stay that way during Durga Puja owing to shortage. The average customer will be hit,” said florists’ association secretary Narayan Naik, adding the association would submit a memo to the state government for aid. Other districts hit are Howrah, Nadia and Dinajpur, said an association member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Leaders of the National Federation for New States angry at BJP||Leaders of the National Federation for New States (NFNS), a pan-India body representing regions demanding separate and smaller states, are disappointed with the BJP-led Centre for failing to address their issues despite “promising” statehood in several parts of India. The NFNS concluded its two-day convention in Darjeeling on Sunday where the mantle to lead the NFNS was handed over to hill leader Munish Tamang, a proponent of the separate state of Gorkhaland, for a five-year term. The immediate past president of NFNS, Shrihari Aney, also the chairman of the Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi and former advocate-general of Maharashtra, said: “We are disappointed with the government at the Centre primarily because it had promised statehood to several parts of India and it has taken no steps thereafter to fulfil its promise….” The focus this time is on Gorkhaland. The NFNS came up with a Darjeeling declaration supporting the demand for Gorkhaland. The NFNS was started by late Union minister George Fernandes, when he was the NDA convener in 1999 and Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power. Leaders like P.S. Sangma, Shibu Soren, Ajit Singh and Amar Singh have been associated with the NFNS. The members during their meeting said that they were committed to mount “pressure” on the central government to work towards forming smaller states in the country. “In December, we are planning to hold a meeting and probably a convention in the Bundelkhand area. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are scheduled early next year and through the convention some pressure might be built (on the Bundelkhand statehood demand),” added Tamang. The federation has proposed the Bundelkhand state which would cover chunks of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Apart from the proponents of Bundelkhand, Vidarbha and Gorkhaland, the representatives of Tipraland, Ladakh, Bodoland, Dima Hasao and Karbi Anglo and Telangana were also present at the convention in Darjeeling. The NFNS leaders maintained that past experience with regard to creation of smaller states such as Telangana and Jharkhand suggest that “pressure from local representatives in Parliament help a lot to bring the issue into focus.” The leaders in favour of smaller states maintained they would play their part in bringing the Gorkhaland issues in focus at the Centre but added that they expect the local stakeholders to play an active part at the grassroots level in raising awareness. “The NFNS does not participate in local agitations, its members conduct local progammes. We lend support to agitations by providing national exposure and moving the powers in Delhi,” said Aney. Raju Bista, from the BJP, currently represents Darjeeling in the Lok Sabha. The BJP, however, in his election manifesto only promised a permanent political solution for the hills, which so far remains undefined. Its alliance partners in the hills interpret this as a separate state. GNLF break-in bid The GNLF claimed on Sunday that an attempt had been made to break into the central committee office of the party situated at Dr Zakhir Hussian Road in Darjeeling on Saturday night. Party president Mann Ghisingh lives on the top floor of the three-storey building. The GNLF has filed a police complaint related to the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bullets injure 4 in BJP-Trinamul clash in Nadia||Four persons suffered bullet injuries during a clash between Trinamul and BJP activists at Kaikhali village of Nadia’s Hanskhali late on Saturday night. The injured, two each from the BJP and Trinamul camps, were rushed to the Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, where another clash occurred, as a group of ruling party workers, led by a former MLA, allegedly tried to prevent the injured BJP workers from getting admitted to the hospital. The situation was brought under control by police. The injured were identified as Trinamul’s booth president Shila Biswas, 51, her son Subhabkar, 28, BJP activist Tapan Biswas, 53, and his son Debarshi, 29. District hospital sources said Shila received a bullet in her stomach and has been shifted to a Calcutta-based private hospital. Tapan Biswas and his son, shot in their legs, were also shifted to a Calcutta hospital on Sunday. Police have begun a case based on two complaints. Till Sunday evening no one was arrested. A large police team has been deployed in Kaikhali. Police said that trouble began at 10pm, when Trinamul’s Shila and her aides accused BJP’s Bimal of selling bicycles under the state’s Sabuj Sathi scheme meant for students for free. He accused them of conspiring to malign him. The altercation turned into a clash, and several rounds of gunshots were heard. Trinamul's former MLA Samir Poddar alleged Bimal’s brother fired at Shila and her son was injured in trying to save her. The BJP's Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar claimed it was an attempt to kill Bimal, “who is instrumental to our party’s success in the area”. A senior police official in the Ranaghat police district said: “The situation is under control. We have begun a probe and expect to arrest the culprits soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||The envious block my trips: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday reeled off a number of programmes which she couldn’t attend abroad because of alleged meddling by the BJP as the Trinamul Congress supremo stepped up her attack on the saffron camp during her campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll. The latest addition to the list of programmes which the Bengal chief minister wouldn’t be able to take part in is World Peace Conference in Rome in October. “If there is peace anywhere in this nation right now, it is Bengal. That is why Bengal gets asked to attend global peace conferences. Those who are hingshutey (envious), they say, no, one cannot go there, it supposedly was ‘not fit’. What then is fit? Who decides what is unfit? I cannot figure out what is good and what is bad for me, without your explanation,” Mamata asked in her penultimate campaign rally at Jadu Babu’s Bazaar. On Saturday, the Centre had denied Mamata permission for the visit to Rome to attend the event that she had been invited to by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association based in the Italian capital. “There are many states that don’t even seek permission. I do. Because I maintain some courtesies, discipline. Because I believe in matters of external affairs, the states should stand by the Centre. I always extend unflinching support, when it comes to external affairs,” she added. Mamata was the only Indian to be invited to the Rome event. Other invitees included German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, Grand Imam of Egypt’s Al-Alzhar H.E. Ahmad al-Tayyib and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. At the Jadu Babu’s Bazaar rally, Mamata brought up some of the events that she couldn’t attend on account of alleged meddling by the BJP. “Before this, where Swami Vivekananda had delivered that landmark address in Chicago, there, too, my programme was stopped. You know that I had a programme to go to China — not my plans, but of the Centre — but it was called off at the last minute. My lecture at Cambridge, they stopped it. St Stephen’s had invited me, they had stopped it,” she said. Mamata ended her bypoll campaign on Sunday. The trips to the US and China, besides a St Stephen’s College event, that she mentioned were all cancelled in 2018. In September, 2018, Mamata had blamed an “awshubho chokranto (unholy conspiracy)” for her not being able to attend a Chicago event commemorating the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda’s address at the World’s Parliament of Religions. After she had been invited to attend the Chicago event, she received a letter from the Vivekananda Vedanta Society of Chicago, saying it was being called off. In June 2018, Mamata had cancelled her nine-day trip to China hours before her flight as Beijing could not confirm her meetings with the Communist Party of China’s leadership at an appropriate level. The year before that, Mamata had been “advised” by the Centre against going to China to seek investments because of the Indo-China border standoff at Doklam. In July 2018, a proposed address by Mamata to students of St Stephen’s College in New Delhi was cancelled, allegedly under “saffron pressure”. Although the chief minister mentioned Cambridge in her speech on Sunday, sources in her party said she meant a virtual Oxford Union programme last year, which also got cancelled 40 minutes before it was to take place, which Trinamul attributed to “political pressure from the highest levels”. “When she said Cambridge today, she meant Oxford…. She did get invited to deliver a lecture at Cambridge University, in 2010, while she was the Union railway minister, but she did not accept that invitation. In 2011, she was invited to address Harvard University’s history department, but she didn’t go,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Mamata, in her speech at Bhowanipore, went on to dare the BJP over its alleged influence to ensure cancellation of such events. “How many will they stop? Because you (the BJP) are in power today, you think no end of yourselves…. There will come a great fall in the future,” she said. “I am going to talk about global peace from right here…. Where all will you keep me from speaking? Even if I cannot go there, I will say everything from here. Not once, thousands of times,” added Mamata. “I hail the World Peace Conference. I thank them from the bottom of my heart… especially how the government of Italy specially gave clearances so I could attend.” Earlier in the day, BJP MP Subramanian Swamy — with somewhat of a reputation for shooting from the hip and embarrassing the saffron camp — tweeted a statement of support to Mamata, demanding answers from the Centre on the denial of permission. “Why was Bengal CM Mamata prevented by Home Ministry from attending an international conference in Rome? Which law prevented her going?” asked Swamy on Twitter. “I think I should do a tutorial on Article 19 of the Constitution which includes freedom of travel as a fundamental right but subject to reasonable restrictions. SC in many judgments has given the scope of these restrictions. But scope does not include reason of “not fit for CM”,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP, Left raise disruption charge against Trinamul ||The BJP and the Left Front separately alleged on Sunday that the Trinamul Congress had disrupted their campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll out of Mamata Banerjee’s fear of defeat. The BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and the party’s North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari — an actor-singer from Bhojpuri cinema — were shown Trinamul flags by residents while the duo were campaigning on Sunday morning. Trinamul supporters allegedly told Tibrewal and Tiwari to leave the Ambedkar Colony area of Chetla. “Wherever we went through the campaign season, they kept disrupting our activities. What does this say about the chief minister, is this not fear of defeat?” asked Tibrewal. Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, now the agriculture minister, had won Bhowanipore by a margin of nearly 29,000 votes — around 23 per cent of the vote share — this summer. Earlier in the day, CPM leaders had got involved in a scuffle while they were campaigning near the chief minister’s residence on Harish Chatterjee Street. CPM candidate Srijib Biswas was accompanied by the party’s central committee member Sujan Chakraborty and 40-odd supporters. However, they were stopped by police when they tried entering Harish Chatterjee Street. The area is a high security zone because Mamata lives there and there have been several instances of friction between the police and the BJP during the campaign whenever the Tibrewal contingent tried entering the area. On Sunday, two of the three barricades were toppled by CPM supporters and the party alleged that the police had manhandled Chakraborty and Biswas. Later, the police allowed both, along with three others, to access Harish Chatterjee Street and campaign. “Are we living in a monarchy? The people of Bengal aren’t subjects. They are citizens who have basic rights in a democracy,” Chakraborty later said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Beloved Bada Saab can’t retire and leave Bengal||Sixty-nine-year-old Mathew Philips wants to go to his home in Kerala and look after his rubber plantations. But there is a small hitch. Residents of Newlands tea estate in the Dooars are not ready to leave their “Bada Saab”, whom they love as their “father figure”. Philips has spent close to 40 years in the Dooars, and for the past 29 years, as the manager of Newlands, a tea estate in Kumargram block of Alipurduar district. “Other tea estates have managers. But in Newlands, Mathew Philips is our guardian . We don’t want him to go. He is our father figure,” says Prakash Chik Baraik, a youth of the garden. Prakash, also the Alipurduar district Trinamul president, said in the past three decades, Philips brought startling changes to their lives. “I am a living example,” he said. “After my father’s death, he helped me continue with my studies. He stood by three other youths, made them study tea management in North Bengal University and today they are in managerial posts in other estates.” In Newlands, there are 1,545 permanent workers and an equal number of casual workers. For each, Philips is who they turn to in times good and bad. In 1983, Philips, who hails from Thiruvalla town in Kerala, had joined a tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri. In 1992, he joined Newlands, where he stays with his wife. His daughter is married in Kerala while his son is in Canada. Senior workers said he helped the garden stand on its feet. According to them, the garden was in distress when he joined. Also, it had no power connectivity and bad roads. “He brought power here and was instrumental in improving road connectivity. He stopped the sale of illegal country liquor here,” said a senior worker. Philips got women workers to create a transparent welfare fund from where workers could borrow for emergencies, instead of going to money-lenders, and encouraged children in the garden to study, he added. Philips is equally appreciated for his business acumen. In 1999, the garden’s production dipped owing to low yield at the plantations. To ensure production stayed steady, he took up the task of buying tea leaves from closed tea gardens. It also helped workers of closed gardens to earn some money. Workers here also make extra earnings as he has shown them how to grow rubber and betel nut on vacant areas near their quarters. The manager, who is a Christian, has always enthusiastically taken part in celebrations like Durga Puja or Karam Puja, another  employee added. When told that workers don’t want to let him go, Philips laughed. “I am almost 70 now and lack the dexterity that a garden manager needs. There are many dynamic youngsters (who can take my place). I will speak to the workers soon. All I want is to enjoy a retired life back home,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases rise by 9 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday recorded the first rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases after a 97-day streak of fall. For the first time after June 21, the state logged a rise, by nine, in the total of active cases, which rose to 7,683. The state reported 748 new infections, 730 recoveries and nine deaths. “There is no cause for great worry yet,” said a minister. “We have been on high alert in apprehension of the third wave, and we remain cautiously optimistic.” Bengal now has 2.58 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 139 new infections and North 24-Parganas 118, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas two. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.31 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.74 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.66 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.4 lakh recoveries and 18,736 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||20 Trinamul workers hurt in Cooch Behar feud ||At last 20 Trinamul supporters were injured in an alleged infighting at Krishnapur village under Tufanganj police station of Cooch Behar district on Sunday morning. Around 15 are under treatment at MJN Medical College & Hospital. The rest were released after first aid. The village is in Natabari, the Assembly seat of former minister and Trinamul leader Rabindranath Ghosh. “Trinamul infighting has become acute in parts of Cooch Behar, including Natabari. In Natabari, supporters of Ghosh and former party MP Partha Pratim Roy try to wrest control which leads to clashes. It is because of such internal differences that many people have stopped supporting us and back the BJP,” said a party leader. Sources said Mujibar Rehman from the Ghosh camp and Farooque Mondal from the Roy camp led the two groups. On Sunday, their supporters allegedly had an altercation over some trifle that soon led to a clash. Both sides attacked each other with bricks, sticks and sharp weapons. A team of Tufanganj police rushed to the spot and brought situation under control. Both the lobbies have accused each other of violence. Ghosh and Roy denied to comment before the media. Trinamul sources however, said a section of senior leaders have briefed the state leaders about the incident and have sought their intervention to prevent such intra-party clashes in the district. “If such a situation persists, we don’t know how well the party can perform at the upcoming civic elections and in the rural elections due in 2023,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Celebrations’ bitter brew Tea Board of India's directive to celebrate 75 yrs of Independence draws flak from trade unions||A directive issued by the Tea Board of India to to the tea industry of the country to celebrate “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” or seventy-five years of Indian Independence has drawn flak from various tea trade unions in north Bengal. Tea trade unions have asked what the Narendra Modi government has done for the tea workers and their families since 2014 when the NDA government came to power. Around six lakh workers serve this sector. On September 2, an official of the tea board issued a directive, saying that on September 26, each tea estate and small tea grower should celebrate the seventy-fifth year of India’s Independence. In the tea estates, workers were told to congregate and sing the National Anthem while small tea growers will join the celebration by planting around 1.50 saplings in the villages, the instruction went. “It was stated that the management of a tea estate should hand over a packet of 250 grams or 500 grams of tea to each worker as a token of appreciation for participating in the celebrations,” said a tea garden manager in the Dooars. Accordingly, on Sunday, the tea workers were seen joining together in different gardens, holding a banner that was predesigned and sent to the gardens, and singing the National Anthem. After the event, they stood in queues, accepting the tea packets from a distribution point at the garden. “No one has a problem if the workers sing the National Anthem. But the larger question is when the country is celebrating its seventy-fifth year of Independence, all that a tea worker gets is a packet of tea. Since 2014, we have seen central ministers, and even the Prime Minister, making tall claims about the development of tea workers but no initiative has been taken so far. It is unfortunate that the Centre wants the tea population to join in the celebrations but seems to be least bothered about them,” said Mannalal Jain, a representative of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. In north Bengal, questions have been raised over commitments made by ministers of the NDA government that they would speed up reopening of closed tea estates. Before the Assembly elections of Bengal and Assam in 2021, the Union finance minister had announced a corpus of 1,000 crore in the budget, supposedly on  the welfare of the tea population, especially women and children. “No fund has been allotted in any tea estate out of this corpus, though half the fiscal year has passed. This is yet another glaring example of the hollow promises of the BJP government,” said Gopal Pradhan, a veteran RSP leader and a trade unionist in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganga washes away mosque, 30 homes in Malda district||An old mosque and around 30 houses were washed away by the swollen Ganga in Lalutla-Bhimagram village of Kaliachak-III block of Malda district on Sunday morning. Residents lamented the destruction of the mosque, locally known as Jama Masjid of Lalutola, which was over 100 years old. The homeless have shifted to other areas. The area is located under Birnagar-I panchayat in Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency. During the past few months, erosion has become acute in almost all villages of Birnagar-I and there is fear that the entire panchayat area would be eventually swallowed by the river. Ainul Haque, the muezzin of the mosque, said the old building had got dilapidated. “In 2014, we reconstructed the main building by spending around Rs 8 lakh. But today (Sunday), we lost the mosque,” said Haque. He said that one-and-half months ago, a portion of the mosque had got damaged as the Ganga had eroded away some land. “We had thought of carrying out repairs around that time and we had been continuing our prayers at the mosque. But today (Sunday), around 9am, the Ganga suddenly started eroding land. Soon, the building of the mosque developed cracks and eventually, it was gobbled up by the river as we helplessly watched the scene unfolding in front of us,” he said. “I have lost around 10 bighas of land owing to erosion earlier but never felt so sad like I did today (Sunday),” added the muezzin. The erosion caused by the Ganga also made the residents shift to safer places as it took away around 30 houses, leaving families homeless. “The erosion continued for around four hours during which we lost our house. We don’t know what to do now. Our families are sitting under open sky with some belongings that we could salvage in a hurry,” said Biren Mondal, an erosion victim. Alamgir Sheikh, a farmer who lost his house, said this year from a prosperous farmer he became a penniless man. “Since May this year, I lost my entire farmland of around 30 bighas. And today (Sunday) I lost my house. It is because of this relentless erosion that I am penniless,” he said. “In future, what other option do I have other than work as a daily-rated worker?” asked Sheikh who added that he has a family of seven to feed. Officials of the block administration said they are keeping tabs on the situation. “The representatives of the local panchayat have been asked to shift the affected families to shelters and will provide them with relief materials. The administration is in touch with the Farakka Barrage Project Authority and the state irrigation department. Once monsoon ends and the water levels recede, anti-erosion work will commence in the affected stretches,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri district's religious tourism plan mooted||The Jalpaiguri district administration has prepared a comprehensive report of prospective circuits of religious tourism that can be introduced in the district and sent it to the state tourism department for approval. Moumit Godara Basu, the district magistrate, said there were hundreds of ancient religious places in the district, many of which with historical links. “We have readied a detailed report of all such sites based on recommendations at a meeting of the district level committee. It has been sent to the state tourism department. The department, in due course, will come up with circuits to be offered to tourists,” she said. Among the sites include the Jalpeshwar temple, the Bhramri Devi temple, the Devi Choudhurani temple, the St Michael’s & All Angels Church, the Petkati temple and many others. “The Jalpeshwar temple is a prominent Shiva temple of north Bengal where pilgrims come from other states and even from Nepal. The Devi Choudhurani temple has links to the history of Sanyashi Vidroh that was penned by Bankimchandra Chatterjee. These sites deserve proper promotion and can bring in pilgrims, as well as historians and researchers,” said Umesh Sharma, a researcher based in Jalpaiguri. “We thank the Jalpaiguri district administration for coming up with a concrete proposal and forwarding it to the state tourism department. The department is aggressively promoting Bengal as a tourist destination these days and we believe soon it will start promoting religious tourist circuits of Jalpaiguri,” said Sabyasachi Roy, secretary, Jalpaiguri Tour Operators’ Welfare Association. He said that so far, tourists mostly visit the Dooars region of Jalpaiguri, but now options in the region would widen. Officials of the state tourism department, when asked about the proposal, said they have started working on it. Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of tourism in north Bengal, said they have held detailed discussions with the district administration. “We will start promoting these destinations in an integrated manner with hills, forests and other places. Also, those associated with tourism would be asked to promote these areas,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
