28-09-2021||West Bengal||IMD issues red alert for heavy rains in south Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for very heavy rains in some districts of south Bengal for Tuesday and Wednesday as a low-pressure system has developed over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal. In South 24 Parganas, one of the three coastal districts in West Bengal, more than 35,000 people were evacuated from low lying areas, even as the local administration in East Midnapore and North 24 Parganas were keeping the relief shelters ready while maintaining a close watch on the situation. “While red alert, the highest form of alert in the four graded rain alert system, was sounded for three districts – East Midnapore, West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas – on Tuesday, for Wednesday it has been sounded for West Midnapore and Jhargram where there could be rainfall up to 200mm,” said an IMD official in Kolkata Similarly, orange alert, the next category of alert, has also been sounded for multiple districts in south Bengal such as North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Purulia, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||SC notice to Centre, others on West Bengal plea against HC order for CBI probe into post-poll violence cases||West Bengal has made out a case for issuance of notices, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while seeking responses from the Centre and others on the state government's appeal against the Calcutta High Court order directing court-monitored CBI probe into the heinous cases of rape and murder during the post-poll violence there. The apex court refused however to accede to the state's submission that the CBI be directed, in an interim order, not to register any fresh case, saying as per the principle of natural justice no such order be passed without hearing the other side. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose disagreed with the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that the top court should record that the fate of CBI probe in the cases would depend on the outcome of the state's appeal in the top court. "That is always there, we do not need to say this. Moreover, we are posting it after one week and nothing will happen," the bench observed. "We think you (Sibal) have made out the case for issuance of the notices. Let the other side come and file the response...we will hear out the case one day before the vacation," it said and fixed the case for next hearing on October 7. The Mamata Banerjee-led government is aggrieved by the high court verdict. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI investigation into all the alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year, in which the ruling TMC came back to power, after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the monitoring of the court. The high court verdict came on PILs which had alleged that people were assaulted, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought an impartial probe into the incidents. At the outset, Sibal raised issues related to federalism, selection of some members of the Human Rights panel who were entrusted with the preliminary probe into post-poll violence cases and the fact that administration and law and order were in the hands of the poll panel during the continuation of the poll process. The law and order was under the superintendence of the Election Commission during May 2 to May 5 this year and the definition of post-poll violence' was stretched and even ordinary crimes were brought under its ambit, Sibal said. "The Chief Minister took oath on May 5. Your Lordships will have to decide what do you mean by post poll violence," he said. "They said there was inaction on part of the state... What happens is this is flashed all over the country, there is a matter of reputation of the state as well. You do not give us an opportunity, castigate us and pass the order," the senior lawyer said while assailing the high court order. "The high court proceeded on an assumption that the entire police force of West Bengal cannot be trusted and there was no factual basis to support this," he said. "The state government was not given adequate opportunity and time to respond to several complaints related to criminal offences," he said, adding that scrutiny of cases had taken months in the Muzaffarnagar riots cases. The senior lawyer alleged that at least three members of the six-member fact finding panel of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had open affiliation to the party ruling at the Centre and hence there is an apprehension of bias . "The NHRC panel did not follow the proper procedure prescribed under the law," he alleged. "The principle evolved is that transfer of the case has to be done on the case-to-case basis. You cannot say I have received 100 complaints and will transfer them without analysing the facts and hence there cannot be en-masse transfer," Sibal said. After Sibal outlined his submissions, the bench said that it was prima facie convinced that the notice can be issued and it will be better if the entire case is argued after another side appears and responds. Earlier, the state had moved the Supreme Court challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing the court-monitored CBI investigation into all cases of rape and murder during the post poll violence in the state after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. The high court had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Besides CBI probe, the high court had ordered an SIT to probe all other cases and it included Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation". The state failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder, the bench had said, adding, "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction. Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned". The facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state, it said. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that its member Atif Rasheed was obstructed from discharging duty and he and his team members were attacked on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||High court castigates Speaker for dithering on Mukul Roy defection case||The clock is ticking for Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee who has time till October 7 to decide on the fate of Mukul Roy, the BJP MLA who defected to the Trinamul and was elected as the chairman of the Committee on Public Accounts. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said that the court would decide the next course of action in case the Speaker did not act by October 7. The bench observed that the issue pertaining to disqualification of respondent No. 2 (Mukul Roy) as member of the legislative Assembly was co-related with him being the chairman of the Committee on Public Accounts. “A petition filed for his disqualification is pending before the Speaker for the last more than three months, the maximum period fixed in the Keishal Meghachandra Singh’s case for a decision,” the bench remarked. The court pointed out that  in case of Roy, the deadline of three months had already passed. Yet  no action was taken. Roy defected to the Trinamul on June 11 and the following month on July 9 he was elected as chairman of the PAC for the 2021-22 financial year. The decision was challenged by BJP legislator Ambika Roy. On Monday, leader of Opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikary on Monday filed a petition seeking disqualification of Roy as an MLA under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution commonly referred to as the anti-defection law. The bench said that the disqualification petition pending before the Speaker was not a “mere irregularity” but “it is a case of blatant illegality". “The petition for his disqualification was pending consideration before the Speaker, before he was nominated to act as chairman. This cannot be termed to be mere irregularity. It is much more than that if seen coupled with the fact that despite judgements of the honourable Supreme Court the Speaker is sitting tight on the matter of a decision of disqualification… it is a case of blatant illegality,” the court observed. “In case (the respondent No. 2) does not remain the member of the Assembly, there was no question of he being even the member of the accounts committee what to talk of its chairman,” the court said. Never before in the last two decades of Bengal politics since the Trinamul arrived on the scene, has defection, a regular practice in state politics, reached the court. Banerjee’s predecessor, the much respected Hashim Abdul Halim, had actually disqualified two MLAs from the Congress who had defected to the Trinamul. Banerjee on the other hand has held countless hearings in the last 10 years since he has been on the chair, but no defecting MLA has ever been disqualified. “In the case in hand, as is evident from the facts on record, there is failure on the part of the Speaker to discharge his constitutional duty coupled with established admitted constitutional conventions (referring to the PAC chairman post being given to an Opposition legislator). Apparently he has worked on dictates. Finally, he was caught in the web knitted by him,” the bench observed. The court also said failure to discharge duties by those entrusted to maintain constitutional values could endanger the democratic set up. “The objective and purpose of Tenth Schedule is to curb the evil of political defections motivated by lure of office, which endangers the foundation of our democracy. The disqualification takes place from the date when the act of defection took place. The constitutional authorities who have conferred with various powers are in fact coupled with duties and responsibilities to maintain the constitutional values. In case they fail to discharge their duties within time, it will endanger the democratic set up,” the bench observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: HC slams chief secy for behaving as 'servant of party in power'||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday came down heavily on the Bengal chief secretary, while dismissing a petition challenging the September 30 Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is seeking a re-election. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj did not interfere in the poll process but admonished the chief secretary for behaving as a “servant of the political party in power.” “The most offensive part is the conduct of the chief secretary, who projected himself to be more as a servant of the political party in power than a public servant, whereby he stated that there would be constitutional crisis in case election to Bhowanipore constituency is not held from where respondent No. 5 (Mamata Banerjee) want to contest election,” the bench observed. “What constitutional crisis the government could face with one person losing or winning election, was not explained. How the Chief Secretary knew that the respondent No. 5 was to contest from Bhowanipore Assembly constituency? He was not a party spokesperson or a returning officer.” On September 6, the Election Commission of India had issued a notification allowing only the Bhowanipore bypolls to be held while allowing 30 other Assembly seats across the country to remain vacant, following a special plea made by the Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, claiming that the state would plunge into a constitutional crisis if the bypolls were not held from the seat which Mamata Banerjee had selected for herself. The court reminded the chief secretary that his role was not to ensure any particular person to come to power. “We record our strong reservation about the conduct of the chief secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be ‘constitutional crisis' in case by-election to the Bhowanipore Constituency is not held. He is a public servant, who is to discharge his duties in terms of provisions of law, whosoever may be in power. He is not to ensure that any particular person should come in power and in the absence there would be constitutional crisis,” the bench observed. The court also observed that the information provided by the chief secretary was contrary to the situation on the ground regarding Covid-19 as the restrictions would be  in place till September 30, the day of polling. The court also said that the EC was misled regarding the flood situation in the state, as it was known to all that the state had received excessive rainfall. The court, however, declined to interfere in the September 30 poll process at the current stage. On the larger issue of an MLA’s resignation from a seat leading to a vacancy (in the case of Bhowanipore Trinamul MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay’s resignation which led to the bypoll), the court will resume hearing on November 19 whether the public should bear cost of by-elections. While the high court was going hammer and tongs against the state chief secretary, the Election Commission hurriedly announced by-polls to the remaining 30 vacant Assembly constituencies, including four from Bengal _ Khardah, Shantipur, Gosaba and Dinhata_ and three Lok Sabha seats, would  be held on October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police lodge FIR to probe alleged assault on Dilip Ghosh||Kolkata Police has lodged on their own an FIR against unknown people in connection with the incident where BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was pushed and heckled while campaigning in Bhabanipur, an officer said on Tuesday. Several sections of the Indian Penal Code relating to unlawful assembly, rioting with arms and weapons, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation have been invoked in the FIR filed at Bhawanipore police station, he said. Ghosh was Monday pushed and heckled by alleged TMC supporters in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, provoking his security officer to whip out a pistol, as political temperature shot up on the last day of electioneering. National TV channels showed Ghosh being pushed and heckled on a road as a posse of security guards tried to shield him. A suspected TMC supporter was seen grabbing a security man by his collar who swiftly pulled out a pistol to scare away the crowd. The incident occurred when Ghosh had gone inside a vaccination camp in Jadubabur Bazaar area in the constituency, where by-poll will be held on September 30. Ghosh, who was whisked away by his security guards, had alleged TMC supporters "attacked" him without provocation and injured a BJP activist. He had also demanded deferment of the by-poll which Mamata Banerjee must win to stay on as the chief minister. Under the constitutional arrangement, Banerjee can continue as the chief minister only till November 5 without getting elected to the state assembly. She was defeated in Nandigram in the state assembly elections held in March-April this year. A BJP delegation is scheduled to meet Election Commission officials in New Delhi later on Tuesday to register a complaint about the incident involving Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to also go in for lateral entry in bureacracy||The Mamata Banerjee government is mulling following in the footsteps of the BJP-led central government by opting for lateral entry into the bureaucracy in senior positions such as Special Secretary and Joint Secretaries, a senior official said on Tuesday. The lateral entry scheme could see these officials posted in different departments as advisors. The details of their exact job profile and responsibilities have however not yet been "chalked out", according to the official. "All these appointments will be contractual for a specific period only. Their eligibility criteria will be equivalent to an IAS official," the IAS officer said. According to plans the minimum eligibility for such lateral entrants would be 15 years of relevant experience, he added. The pay and perks of these lateral entry officers would be worked out by the state Home Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department. Another highly-placed source, who declined to be named, said that the government would advertise for the appointments for lateral recruitment. "Anyone with a minimum experience of 15 years in the fields of civil aviation, commerce, economic affairs will be eligible for the positions. As of now, it has been decided that the age of the candidate should not be less than 40 years," he added. The proposal may be sent to the chief minister's office for a final nod of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the senior officer added. However, despite several attempts a confirmation from state home secretary BP Gopalika could not be gained. In 2018, the Centre had stated that the lateral entry scheme would fulfil the twin purpose of bringing in domain expertise in the civil services and address the problem of shortage of IAS officers they have been facing. This February, the central government had advertised 30 posts at the level of joint secretaries and directors for lateral recruitment. The UPSC advertisement made that month sought online applications for ministries, departments, PSUs, autonomous bodies for positions that were on contract for a period of three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC dismisses petition on Bhowanipore by-election, polls to be held as scheduled||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition on the by-election to the Bhabanipur assembly seat, ordering that polls will be held as scheduled on September 30. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj said it was inappropriate on the part of the West Bengal chief secretary to have written such a letter in which he had appealed to the election commission for holding the by-election at Bhabanipur. The court dismissed the PIL in which the language used to seek the by-poll was challenged. The chief secretary had in the letter said that a "constitutional crisis" would occur if the by-election to Bhabanipur was not held. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting from the Bhabanipur seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Cash seized in part of bypoll belt, two arrested||Two men have been arrested for carrying Rs 4.34 lakh whose origin or purpose they allegedly failed to explain. Sanjay Sharma and Pawan Kumar Parik were arrested on Saturday night at the crossing of Chowringhee Lane and Sudder Street, which is part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency that will go to the polls on September 30. As the model code of conduct is in force for the byelection, people carrying more than Rs 50,000 in the constituency should be in a position to explain the source and purpose of the cash with documents or face action by the police and the income tax department. “Anyone carrying more than Rs 50,000 should either carry the withdrawal slip if the money is withdrawn from the bank or the ATM slip if it is withdrawn from an ATM,” a police officer said. If a businessman or an employee carries cash, he or she should possess sales documents that could establish the source of the money. “The two men arrested — Sharma, 43, from Uttarpara in Hooghly, and Parik, 22, from Nalini Seth Road in Calcutta, were arrested after they failed to explain how they got hold of Rs 4,34,550,” an officer said. A case has been registered with New Market police station. In Ekbalpore, parts of which are in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency, cops intercepted a vehicle on Monday. The two men in the vehicle allegedly failed to explain the source and purpose of the Rs 4,27,600 they were carrying. “The two claimed they were employees of a transport company and had withdrawn the money from a private bank. We have sought the bank statements and withdrawal slips to verify their claims. The verification is on,” said an officer. Vehicles are checked at random ahead of an election to ensure that unaccounted for cash is not transported to places going to the polls. “Citizens can carry less than Rs 50,000 without being questioned. But any amount more than Rs 50,000 will attract scrutiny. If someone carries more than Rs 10 lakh, the IT department has to be informed,” an IT department official said. When cash is seized, he said, there could be three possibilities — the money is the “proceeds of a crime,” the money is unaccounted for or the money is being sent to or carried from any person involved in the election. “In the first and third case, police register FIRs. But in the second case, only the money is seized. If the amount is more than Rs 10 lakh, the income tax department starts a probe but the police are not involved,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Fake cop held in North 24-Parganas||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly posing as an IPS officer and swindling a woman out of Rs 3 lakh, police said. Raju Debnath, from Duttapukur in North 24-Parganas district, has been arrested on the charges of cheating and criminal intimidation based on a complaint by the woman. An officer said they had seized a police uniform from Debnath’s home. “The accused had posted a few photographs on his social media profile posing as an IPS officer. He had met a woman on social media and taken money from her pretending to be an IPS officer and promising her to return it soon,” said an officer. The woman, who is the complainant, realised at one point that she had been duped and filed a police complaint . Cases involving people allegedly posing as IPS or IAS officers and duping people have been reported in the city over the past few months. Debanjan Deb, who was arrested in June on the charge of organising a fake Covid vaccination camp, had allegedly posed as an IAS officer. Rajarshi Bhattacharya, who was allegedly posing as an IPS officer and roaming around in a beacon-fitted vehicle, was arrested on extortion charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Woman shot dead in Raiganj||A 37-year-old woman died and two of her siblings got injured after a group fired at them in Raiganj town on Monday. The siblings were visiting their parents. The parents had been having problems with their tenant for the past few days. On Monday evening, the tenant turned up with some youths and picked a fight, police said. The youths opened fire after the three siblings asked them to leave. Neighbours rushed them to hospital, where the woman was declared dead. The other two siblings are undergoing treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Boost for private industrial parks in north Bengal||A decision made by the Bengal cabinet earlier this month to allow setting up of private industrial parks on plots measuring five acres and above has come as an element of encouragement for a number of entrepreneurs in north Bengal. A number of them are ready to set up such parks in the region and have drawn up plans to set up MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units which can boost employment. “This is a very productive decision that can encourage industrial growth and contribute to the economic development of the state. Soon after the decision has been made, we have found a number of private investors in north Bengal, who are keen to buy a piece of land or use their existing land to set up such small industrial parks. The prospective units which would come up at these parks will be labour-intensive and in due course, hundreds of jobs would be created at these parks,” said Surajit Paul, secretary, North Bengal Industries Association. Paul, who is also the convener of Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce and Industries – an apex body of district-level trade bodies of north Bengal, said they had already found around 20 entrepreneurs in Siliguri who are scouting for land to set up such parks. “We are helping them in finding appropriate land for their projects in places like Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri (which is just next to Siliguri), where the value of land is around 25 lakh per acre,” he added. On September 13, the Mamata Banerjee Cabinet had announced the decision. It was made to encourage private investments in the MSME sector in the state. Also, the state government has set a target to have around 100 such parks across Bengal in the next few years. “It seems half of those proposed parks will come up in north Bengal, considering its geographical location. There are many entrepreneurs who own five acres of land and they have already started drawing up plans for different types of units, ranging from plastic, iron and steel, food items, bought-leaf factories and other household items,” said a representative of the north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He said some others were planning to join hands, buy the land together and set up their units at the site. According to the trade bodies, the reduction in the land ceiling — from 20 acres to five acres — has encouraged the investors. In Bengal, investors making private industrial parks can get 100 per cent reimbursement of stamp duty, get a power sub-station installed free of cost and also a road that the state would build to connect the site with the nearest major road. Also, investors can get cash back up to Rs 2 crore on parks which are set up on an area measuring between 20 acres to 39 acres. “The new parks, which would be set up on an area between five acres and 20 acres, will also get similar incentives which would be announced shortly. This is another factor that is encouraging the investors,” said an industrialist in Siliguri. Social researchers who have been working here said the decision can largely benefit north Bengal, a region where tea and tourism have been the two principal sectors of employment for decades. “In tea industry, employment opportunities have virtually dried up while the tourism industry has taken a beating during the past one and half years due to the pandemic and many people have lost their jobs. In such a situation, if MSMEs come up in private industrial parks, a new employment opportunity for the youths and can also discourage migration,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Farm laws: Strike on rail tracks in Burdwan||Activists of Left outfits block rail tracks in Burdwan in support of nationwide strike on Monday called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the three farm laws of the Centre. The strike, mainly supported by the Left and its mass outfits, and the Congress, evoked mixed reactions in Bengal. Bandh supporters blocked tracks at various places including Jadavpur, Birbhum and Burdwan. They also blocked state and national highways at various places. Most private buses did not roll out in districts. Drivers of some government buses wore helmets for safety. The strike had impact in East and West Burdwan and parts of Haldia industrial belt. However, many retail shops were open in view of the festive season. In Durgapur, CPM leader Pankaj Roy Sarkar was accused of slapping a person for questioning the strike. Sarkar said he objected to the use of abusive language for strikers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Flood aid theft slur on three Trinamul Congress rural leaders||The block development officer of Harishchandrapur-I block of Malda has filed police complaints against the head of the local panchayat samiti and two of its members for siphoning funds allotted for the aid of flood victims. The trio from Trinamul  are Koyel Das, sabhapati (head) of the Trinamul-run Harishchandrapur-I panchayat samiti, Roushnara Khatun, the member in charge of women and child development at the samiti and Sujata Saha, the leader of Opposition in the samiti. Sujata had won on a BJP ticket and defected to Trinamul, but her designation stayed the same. All three have gone into hiding. Police are in search of them. Trinamul leaders in Malda have distanced themselves from the scam. Sources said since the past few weeks, officials of the block and subdivisional administration of Chanchal have been receiving complaints that genuine beneficiaries affected in a 2017 flood had not received the cash aid though the fund was allocated by the state. “As we probed the allegations, we came to know that these three elected representatives, who are also office-bearers at the panchayat samiti,  made a list of fake beneficiaries, opened fake bank accounts and siphoned the funds while depriving the genuine beneficiaries. That is why police complaints have been filed against them. We are yet to find out the total sum siphoned,” said an official of the block administration. “Such corruption has exposed Trinamul and the party will feel the repercussions in the next rural polls,” said Rupesh Agarwala, a BJP leader. Manik Das, Harishchandrapur-I block president of Trinamul, played safe. “We don’t support corruption. The law will take its own course. If found guilty, the party will also take steps against them,” said Das. “Sujata Saha has won on a BJP ticket at the 2018 panchayat elections but soon defected to Trinamul. Trinamul did not remove her from the post of leader of Opposition and neither allowed other BJP members to take steps so that she can be removed. These three representatives are involved in the scam,” said a source. A few days back, a former panchayat member of Trinamul was arrested in the same block for a similar scam. The BDO filed a complaint against a Trinamul pradhan of the same block for misappropriating funds meant for families affected in the 2017 flood. Officials in the subdivisional administration of Chanchal said they are taking appropriate steps. “Complaints have been lodged based on the findings of our investigation. The police will take further steps now,” said Kallol Roy, the SDO of Chanchal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||30-year-old youth hacked to death in Malda district ||A 30-year-old youth was hacked to death allegedly by his brother at Kotwali, located under Englishbazar police station of Malda district, on Sunday night. Sources said Ranjit attacked Mithun Choudhury with a sharp weapon during an altercation over a family issue. “Ranjit hacked Mithun repeatedly and he died on the spot. Ranjit is absconding,” said a source. Police have recovered the body and are in search of the accused. In another incident, a Trinamul supporter died in Cooch Behar district late on Sunday night. Sumit Kumar, SP, Cooch Behar, said Osman Ali Mandal was injured in a clash between two factions of Trinamul in Natabari early on Sunday. “Seven others have also been injured in the clash. The police have registered a case and 10 persons have been arrested so far for perpetrating violence.” In Natabari, two lobbies which are close to party leaders Rabindranath Ghosh and Parthapratim Roy often indulge in violence to gain control over the area. “District party leaders will have to take steps to end the internal strife which is causing loss of lives,” said Khokan Mian, a district Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with over 40kg cannabis near Siliguri||Two suspected members of a drug smuggling racket were arrested with over 40 kilos of cannabis worth around Rs 5 lakh in Fulbari on Sunday evening. A team of New Jalpaiguri police station under Siliguri Metropolitan Police intercepted an SUV in Fulbari, located on the southern end of Siliguri. “We found 43kg of cannabis from the vehicle. The estimated price of the seized narcotics is around Rs 5 lakh in the grey market. Ranjit Kumar and Motilal Goala, residents of Bihar and Tripura, respectively, who were in the vehicle have been arrested. They were smuggling cannabis from the northeast to Bihar,” said a police officer. “We will interrogate them as they are suspected to be members of a drug smuggling racket,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Plea to frame comprehensive policy for homestays in north Bengal||Homestay owners in north Bengal have asked the Mamata Banerjee government to frame a comprehensive policy to ensure standard services at such hospitality facilities which mushroomed in the region in recent years. The demand was raised at an event hosted by the Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT), a north Bengal-based organisation, here on Sunday as a part of the World Tourism Day celebrations. “There should be a proper rural tourism and homestay policy in Bengal and we urge the state government to mull over it. Many of us are first generation rural entrepreneurs who have stepped into tourism and a laid down policy with proper guidelines can help us improve the services,” said Bijay Thapa, a homestay owner from the Dooars and a member of the Jaldapara Offbeat Tourism Association. North Bengal has close to 3,000 homestays, most of which have come up in the past five-six years. The state tourism department provides financial assistance to them and there is also a provision of getting the properties registered with the department. But so far, the state has not come up with an exhaustive policy on how these accommodations should be run and also on ancillary issues pertaining to local tourism attractions. At the event organised by the ACT — named as Homestay Congress, the owners also pointed out that around 1,200 such accommodations did not have a no-objection certificate issued by the district land and land reforms departments. “This is because these accommodations have come up in tea and cinchona plantations and on the fringes of forests. As most residents do not have land rights, the homestays, too, could not get the NOC and are hence deprived of financial assistance and other benefits extended by governments. As land is a state subject, the state government should look into it,” said a homestay owner in Darjeeling district. Kinkar Roy, a homestay owner from the eastern Dooars and a member of Chilapata Porjoton Samiti, emphasised the need for a common marketing network for all homestays of the region. “The state tourism department is actively working to promote Bengal among domestic and international tourists. It should evolve a common marketing network through which all homestay owners can showcase their accommodations and attractions of their places. This initiative, we believe, can bring in more tourists to the homestays,” said Roy. The ACT hosted an event at Siliguri Town station — one of the oldest stations of north Bengal which used to be the terminus of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train for several years — on Monday as part of the WTD celebrations. “Over the time, the station has lost its glory and is currently in a deplorable condition. We are trying to bring back the lost glory of the station which is a heritage place for us,” said Raj Basu, the convenor of the ACT. Members of the association urged the citizens to come forward and take the initiative to restore the glory of the station. Exhibitions, paintings and other cultural events were organised at the station on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||DHR authorities to come up with more joyrides from October 1||Authorities of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a Unesco recognised world heritage, have decided to come up with more joyrides from October 1. Joyrides are the most popular toy train rides. DHR authorities have also lined up a three-week-long festival from mid-November to encourage conservation of the heritage railway and promote it among tourists. Senior officials of DHR and the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) made the announcements here on Monday. “To ensure that more tourist enjoy joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom, it has been decided to engage more coaches and add more rides along the route from October 1,” said Sanjay Chilwarwar, the additional divisional railway manager of the NFR in New Jalpaiguri. As of now, there are three joy rides in steam locos and an equal number of rides in diesel locos. “The plan is to introduce two more rides (one each in steam and diesel loco) and increase the number of coaches from two to four in each ride. This will help accommodate more tourists,” said a railway official. A couple of years back, for the first time in the history of DHR, the number of toy train passengers (joy rides and regular services) had crossed  one lakh in a year. But last year, toy train services  stopped owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, DHR resumed joy rides from August 16 and regular service between NJP and Darjeeling from August 25. On the winter festival, railway officials said they had named the three-week event “Ghum Festival” after Ghoom, the highest railway station in India above sea level. “Ghum Festival will commence on November 13 and continue till December 5. There will be visits to the heritage railway museum, Tiger Hill (the famed sunrise viewpoint), performances of local bank and folk groups, a trekathon, mountain biking and tour of local tea estates,” said ADRM Chilwarwar. Tourists can also enjoy an exhibition of local food, handloom and handicraft products. “The idea is to popularise DHR and integrate locals and tourists so that they can contribute to its conservation and promotion,” the railway official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to scrap active ration cards of dead||The Mamata Banerjee government is likely to cancel lakhs of ration cards in Bengal because of authorities’ assumption that the cards belonged to people who died in the past few years but free food grains were being collected against them. “The total number of active ration cards in the state is 10.44 crore. After the Duare Sarkar programme, the figure is set to touch 10.5 crore as 6 lakh more people have applied for cards. The figure is abnormally high considering the fact the total population of the state according to the 2011 census was 9.13 crore,” said a senior government official. Sources said a rough estimate of the government put the total number of ration cards in the state marginally less than 10 crore. “If 10.50 crore active ration cards are in place, it clearly suggests a huge number of ration cards of the dead beneficiaries were not cancelled,” a source said. If excess ration cards are in use, it costs the state exchequer dear as the government gives a handsome subsidy to run free food grain schemes for all. As the state government has launched several other welfare schemes like Lakshmir Bhandar which requires additional Rs 17,000 crore a year, various departments are trying to cut down expenditure by all possible means. “Right now, the state government spends nearly Rs 4,500 crore a year to run the free food grains scheme for all. If cards of a few lakh dead beneficiaries are cancelled, the government can save up to Rs 500 crore a year,” said a senior government official. The food and supplies department has already initiated several steps to identify active ration cards of dead beneficiaries. First, district authorities have been asked to ensure the registrars of birth and death play an active role in identifying the dead beneficiaries. Second, ration dealers were also asked to play an active role by sending lists of dead beneficiaries at a regular interval to food inspectors, who would verify the facts with the families of the deceased. The procedure would be adopted to identify dead beneficiaries in the past four-five years. Moreover, the authorities have been asked to collect the lists of Samabyathi — a scheme where the government gives Rs 2,000 for funerals of needy persons. Another instruction is that the authorities verify the voter list of a particular area to find out those whose names were deleted following death. “Moreover, the state government would launch an awareness programme across the state asking people to come forward and report in case any of the family members dies or has already died,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests four persons in coal pilferage case||The CBI on Monday arrested four persons in connection with alleged theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees from Bengal. This is the first time that the CBI has made arrests in this case. The four, believed to be close associates of Anup Maji aka Lala, were arrested from parts of Asansol in West Burdwan and Bankura. The CBI said Narayan Kharka aka Narayan Nanda of Durgapur, Joydeb Mandal of Asansol, Nirod Mandal of Bankura and Gurupada Maji of Shaturi in Purulia had allegedly handled payments on behalf of Maji. The four will be produced in the CBI court in Asansol on Tuesday. “During earlier interrogation, we had found several inconsistencies in the statements of each of the four. It later emerged that the four would strike deals on behalf of Lala, fix rates for movement of pilfered coal and even decide on the mode of payments,” said a senior CBI officer. The arrests came on a day the Enforcement Directorate  sent a reminder to state law minister Malay Ghatak, asking him to appear for a round of questioning in the coal pilferage case. The ED has been probing into the money trail. The ED had earlier asked Ghatak to appear for a round of questioning at its New Delhi office but the minister had evaded it.  The ED had arrested Ashok Mishra, inspector-in-charge of Bankura police station, in this case. The investigations have revealed the four arrested on Monday by the CBI had been allegedly into the smuggling coal for decades. They used to work under Raju Jha — an alleged coal smuggler during the Left Front regime who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in May. Madan questioned The CBI interrogated former state minister and Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra at its office in the CGO Complex in Salt Lake City in connection with the I-Core ponzi scheme on Monday. The agency had also summoned Mitra’s son Swarup in the same case. Sources said Swarup would appear before the investigators on Tuesday. Mitra had earlier been grilled by the Enforcement Directorate in the same case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Sushmita Dev of the Trinamul elected to Rajya Sabha||Sushmita Dev of the Trinamul Congress was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha on Monday in the absence of any rival candidate from the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. Dev, 49, will be able to occupy the Upper House seat — vacated by minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya after being elected as an MLA this summer — till April 2023. The daughter of Northeast Congress veterans, Santosh Mohan Dev and Vithika Dev, she had been an MLA and an MP of the Congress before. Dev is a Master of Laws from King’s College London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 472 new infections and 15 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged a fall in its number of active Covid-19 cases, a day after it reported a rise by nine, in that total after 97 days of an unchecked drop. On Monday, Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases fell by 99 to 7,584. The state reported 472 new Covid-19 infections, 556 recoveries and 15 deaths. Bengal now has 2.65 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. None of the state’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Calcutta logged 76 new infections on Monday and North 24-Parganas 72. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Fourteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate rose to 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.78. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.67 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.4 lakh recoveries and 18,751 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Govt to put in place two bypasses to reduce congestion on DH Road||The state government will put in place two bypasses, a 3.5km-long one first and then a 3km-long one, to reduce congestion on the arterial Diamond Harbour Road (NH117) in South 24-Parganas. Officials across various departments in a meeting held in Calcutta last Friday on traffic snarls in the area, especially near Amtala market, resolved that the first proposed diversion would lead from Bishnupur police station and connect Diamond Harbour Road to Brahmachari Pole with connections at Pallishree (Baruipur road) and Khalpar. However, only small private vehicles and medium vehicles would be allowed on the proposed bypass, and they have to obey speed curbs. “Police outposts will be set up on the stretch to implement the curbs,” a transport department official said. This apart, the state government has decided to take up the parallel construction of another 3km stretch of bypass off Diamond Harbour Road, going via Kriparampur road to connect the arterial road to Nibran Dutta Road junction via Bansta and Jajoyrampur. The construction of the second bypass will however be taken up at a later stage. These decisions were taken by the state transport department in the meeting attended by transport minister Dilip Mondal. Senior officials of public works department, the National Highways Authority of India, public health engineering department, panchayat department, land and land revenue department, WBSEDCL, district officials, Baruipur police administration and local elected representatives were also present. “The state government is concerned and is trying its best to find a solution. The proposals for the construction of two bypass roads were accepted,” Mondal said. However, as an immediate response to the snarls, the PWD has formed a team led by an executive engineer for preliminary work at the earliest, including a survey and detailed project reports for allocation of funds, sources in the state administration said. Traffic snarls at Amtala, particularly on a 2km stretch on Diamond Harbour Road, is a nightmare for commuters. Local residents attribute the problem to illegal constructions encroaching on the road and its pavement. “The road is a chicken’s neck in Amtala market area. The road needs to be widened, but it is a tough job, so we are emphasising on the diversion of traffic through a bypass,” an official of South 24-Parganas district administration said. No-objection certificates from the NH authorities will be obtained before starting work on the bypass, he added. District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “PWD authorities have been advised to do a survey within two weeks, after which further action for administrative and financial approvals for the project will be initiated.” “A report will be submitted to the district administration with details of the road alignment, the land, the utilities (on the land) and their need for shifting, the trees, the encroachment and all traffic details,” the district magistrate added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Flooded coast in South 24-Parganas faces fresh worry||The possibility of a squall moving from the Bay of Bengal into land at Sagar and its adjoining areas in South 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning has forced the state government to embark on high-level preparedness and issue a red alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Bengal. In its forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow warning about the likelihood of very heavy to heavy rainfall (7-11cm) at places in South 24-Parganas, and East and West Midnapore on Tuesday. The forecast stated downpour with a squall. The IMD has also issued yellow warning for Calcutta and south Bengal districts like Howrah, Jhargram, Bankura and Hooghly. The wind speed is likely to be 40-50 kmph in coastal areas of South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. The possibility of a squall and heavy rain has left the administration of East and West Midnapore worried as large tracts of land in these two districts remain inundated following the recent depression-triggered downpours. “Wind is always a threat for coastal pockets as it damages embankments but this time the rainfall has come as a major threat as vast stretches are already waterlogged,” said a senior government official. He added that the state government had already cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5 in view of the forecast. “We have evacuated 35,973 persons from villages in coastal areas of our district. Teams of the NDRF and district disaster management infrastructure are ready,” said P. Ulaganathan, South 24-Parganas district magistrate. The district administration had set up a temporary disaster monitoring centre at Kakdwip with a team of senior district officials and disaster management services. “We had camped in Kakdwip to monitor depression on Tuesday. The main threat is that the area has faced several downpours… the soil is saturated with water. We are fearing inundation if the rainfall matches the forecast,” said Ritwick Hazra, officer-in-charge of disaster management in South 24-Parganas. The forecast of heavy rain is a major threat for East and West Midnapore districts as vast areas of these districts are submerged with many embankments of Keleghai and Kapaleswari breached following rainfall earlier this month. Saumen Mahapatra, state irrigation minister, said his department had been asked to stockpile construction materials at vulnerable points. At least 500 villages of Patashpur and Bhagawanpur in East Midnapore and Sabang and Pingla in West Midnapore are underwater and there is already a shortage of shelters. Over a lakh people are in relief centres and the administration is struggling to identify fresh centres in these districts. “We have alerted grassroots officials and opened control rooms in all 25 blocks of our district,” said Mrityunjay Haldar, district disaster management officer in East Midnapore. Tourists in Digha and Mandarmani in East Midnapore and Bakkhali and Sagar in South 24-Parganas have been evacuated. Hotel bookings in Digha, Mandarmani and other  coastal hubs have been cancelled for three days Tuesday. Bishnupada Roy, the block development officer of Ramnagar I under whose jurisdiction Digha falls. Guards have been deployed in the coastal areas to keep an eye on anyone trying to access beaches. Amid the preparations, the body of one of the two tourists who went missing near Talsari on Sunday was recovered on Monday. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Rava development council unveils alphabets, numbers in Koch script||Representatives of the Rava and Koch communities in north Bengal came up with alphabets and numbers written in Koch, their traditional language, for the first time on Monday. At an event hosted at the Rava Development Council office in Uttar Mendabari under Kalchini block of Alipurduar district, representatives of the council and the Koch Rava Development Council unveiled the alphabets and numbers in Koch script. “In all, around 12 lakh people in India speak Koch but so far, there was no alphabet or number in the language. That is why we thought of developing a Koch script so that it can also be  a medium of instruction in schools for children of communities that speak the language,” said Bijnath Rava, president of Rava Development Council. According to him, most of the 12 lakh people who speak Koch live in Bengal and the Northeast states. “We have been working on the script for two years. There are 10 numbers and 34 alphabets, which include 27 consonants and seven vowels. We will now take up the initiative to popularise the script so that people who speak Koch can also start reading and writing in this language,” said Rava. Day Chand Rangag, who has developed the script, said: “At primary schools, our children face a genuine problem as they study in Bengali which they don’t speak at home. Now they can study in their mother tongue as the script is ready. We are also planning to come up with books in Koch for primary classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Assembly bypoll: Ban crowds on vote day in Bhowanipore, says BJP ||The BJP on Monday urged the Election Commission of India to impose Section 144 of CRPC, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, in the entire Bhowanipore Assembly segment during the bypoll on September 30 to ensure free and fair voting. Chief minister Mamata Banerjere is contesting the by-election and the BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal. In their meeting with poll panel officials in Calcutta, BJP representatives led by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta also sought monitoring of the entire poll process through webcasting and CCTVs and deployment of central forces at all booths. The three demands, BJP sources said, were rolled out as part of an attempt to create a narrative that the situation in Bhowanipore was not conducive to polls. The party has put forward these demands before the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, after two of its MPs — Dilip Ghosh and Arjun Singh — were manhandled while they were campaigning in Bhowanipore on Monday. Although Dasgupta took care to explain the reasons behind placing the three demands, some BJP leaders, including Ghosh, had earlier sought complete suspension of the Bhowanipore bypoll, claiming there was no scope to hold free and fair voting at the moment. Sources in the BJP said the two different sets of demands from the saffron camp — barely 60 hours before the by-election — exposed the chinks in the party, which got a drubbing in the Assembly polls held in March-April. “Some senior state leaders met at the Hastings office on Monday evening and the decision to send a delegation to the poll panel was taken there,” a source said. This person added that while it had initially been decided that the party would demand “complete suspension” of polls, as voiced by Ghosh, the national leadership swatted the idea. “Delhi was absolutely against the decision. It would have been yet another face loss for us if we had demanded suspension of the by-poll three days ahead. This is why there was a change of mind, which evidently Dilipda was unaware of,” this source said. Monday was the last day of campaigning for the bypoll. The Midnapore MP was allegedly attacked by Trinamul supporters during his door-to-door campaign at Jadubabur Bazar in Bhowanipore. Ghosh had entered a vaccination camp organised by the CMC. When he emerged from the camp, some people started shouting “Go Back!” slogans at Ghosh. After a point, the brawl went out of hand and a scuffle followed and two BJP workers received serious injuries — one was bleeding from the head. The injured were first treated at the SSKM Hospital and later transferred to a private nursing home. Several local people said the situation became critical only after two of Ghosh’s guards had pulled out their guns to scare the crowd away. Earlier in the day, the BJP sources claimed, Barrackpore MP Singh was also heckled in front of Sitla Mandir in the same ward. The BJP alleged that the attackers were “goons of Shri Madan Mitra”. “In both the instances, there was a complete absence of Calcutta police again raises the issue of the partisan attitude of the DC South Division, Shri Akash Magharia,” BJP’s letter to the CEO alleged. The delegation demanded removal of Kamarhati MLA Mitra from the area and Magharia from all administrative duties till the polls. Sources said a BJP delegation would meet ECI officials in New Delhi on Tuesday and inform them about the incident. The Trinamul Congress denied all allegations of the BJP. The official twitter handle of the party criticised how “Ghosh’s security guard audaciously took out his gun, pointed it at the people and started threatening them”. State’s Minister Firhad Hakim said: “The common people are outraged by the nonsense spoken by BJP leaders and hence, they have protested. There is no question of stopping them.” The Election Commission had sought a report from the state government over the incident, sources in the poll panel said. The source added that a report had been received but refused to share details BJP leaders in Delhi Bengal BJP president and Blurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, his predecessor and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh and the state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty reached Delhi on Monday night. The trio will meet top leaders, including president J.P. Nadda and national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. “We will be discussing issues related to Bengal and how to go about in the state in future,” Ghosh told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
