29-09-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of bypoll, heavy rain leaves Bhowanipore waterlogged||Heavy rains lashed Calcutta on Wednesday, leading to waterlogging in parts of the metropolis that threw life out of gear, officials said. People had to wade through waterlogged roads even as public transport was few, causing immense hardships. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) pressed into service a large number of pumps to drain water from the submerged thoroughfares, officials said. The well-marked low-pressure area causing enhanced rainfall in the southern districts lay over western parts of Gangetic Bengal and neighbourhood, the weather office said. Rainfall was also reported from the districts of East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia, besides Howrah, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Bardhaman and Birbhum. Heavy rain is also likely to occur at certain places over Purulia, Bankura and West Bardhaman districts on Thursday, the weather office said. "Weather is likely to improve in most districts of south Bengal from Thursday," regional Met director GK Das said. The Bhowanipore bypoll, in which Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is a candidate, is scheduled on Thursday. Election officials said all arrangements have been made in case the rains continue. All polling centres were asked to arrange pumps to drain floodwaters, while police personnel deployed for the election were told to carry raincoats and umbrellas, they said. Several places in the Bhabanipur constituency were under water on Wednesday following the overnight rains, officials said. Waterlogging was also reported from Amherst Street, Thanthania, Central Avenue and Nayabad, among others. Several south Bengal towns such as Kharagpur, Haldia, Contai and Diamond Harbour also reported waterlogging. The port town of Haldia in East Midnapore district recorded the highest rainfall in the 24 hours till 8.30 am on Wednesday at 216 mm, the weather office said. Calcutta recorded 87 mm rainfall during the period, it said. Other places which recorded a high amount of rain are Mohanpur (192 mm), Kharagpur (171 mm), Midnapore (171 mm), Kalaikunda (167 mm), Sagar Island (152 mm), Diamond Harbour (150 mm) and Salt Lake (52 mm), it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypolls: Strict security in place, officials alert over rain forecast||Stringent security arrangements were in place in Bhowanipore with the deployment of 15 companies of central forces ahead of the Assembly by-election, a senior police official said on Wednesday. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were also imposed within 200 m of the polling centres where voting will take place on Thursday, he said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress candidate in the Bhowaniporeby-election in south Calcutta, while the BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal, and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas is in the fray. Inside each of the 287 booths at 97 polling centres in Bhowanipore, half-a-section -- three jawans -- of the central forces will be deployed. Calcutta Police officers will be in charge of the security outside the booths. "Assembly of five or more persons within the periphery of 200 m of any polling premises will not be allowed. A ban has been imposed on anybody carrying stones, weapons, firecrackers and other explosive materials," the Kolkata Police said in an order. Police pickets were set up at 38 locations across Bhowanipore, the official said. On the day of the polling, 22 sector mobile, nine HRFS (Heavy Radio Flying Squad) teams, 13 quick response teams (QRTs), nine teams each of the static surveillance team, flying squad, and an equal number of striking forces from surrounding police stations will be deployed, he said. Besides, three sub-division striking forces will also be deployed, he added. One additional police commissioner along with four joint police commissioners, 14 deputy commissioners and an equal number of assistant commissioners have been deployed for the Bhowaniporeby-election, the official said. "We have also opened three additional control rooms. There will be arrangements for 141 special vehicles to escort the EVMs," he said. Two strong rooms to store the EVMs have been set up at the Sakhawat Memorial Govt Girls' High School on Lord Sinha Road, he said. All policemen have been asked to wear raincoats and carry umbrellas owing to the inclement weather conditions in the city. The Election Commission has also asked the Irrigation Department to be on alert owing to the weather conditions here, the official said. "All the polling centres have been asked to keep pumps ready to drain floodwater. We have also asked the Irrigation Department and Disaster Management Department to be ready in case of any emergency because of the heavy rainfall," he said. Strict security arrangements have also been made in Jangipur and Samserganj where Assembly polls will be held on Thursday, an election official said. There are 363 booths in Jangipur and 329 in Samserganj, he said. The votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta: Portion of old house collapses, one feared trapped||A portion of an old two-storeyed building in the northern part of the city's Ahiritola Lane collapsed on Wednesday morning in which one person is feared trapped under the rubbles, police said. A huge team of disaster management, fire department, police personnel from the local police station are at the spot, an officer of Calcutta Police said. "So far four persons have been rescued. We are trying to rescue two others still trapped under the rubbles. There is still a child and another person underneath," he had said, before the child was rescued. The portion of the building at 9 Ahiritola Lane, where two families have been staying, collapsed at around 6.45 am, he said. "One of the two families managed to get out of the rubbles through a big gap, but another family including a child got trapped under the rubbles. Our men have pulled out four and are trying to rescue others," he said. Locals rushed to the spot and informed the Jorabagan Police Station who along with personnel of the fire department and disaster management department rushed to the spot, the officer said, adding that those rescued have been taken to a nearby hospital. "The entire building is in a very bad shape and we have to conduct the rescue operations very cautiously otherwise there are chances of another disaster," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls to four Assembly seats on October 30 ||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday notified bypolls to four Bengal Assembly seats for October 30 with results on November 2, prompting objections from the BJP which criticised the polls in the middle festive season. In the early hours of Tuesday, the commission notified the bypolls to Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba — part of a list of 30 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha segments around the country. “This is a time for festivals in Bengal. With Durga Puja and Lakshmi Puja, besides various other important occasions, before the bypolls, when does the campaign take place?” asked chief spokesperson for the state BJP Samik Bhattacharya. “There is Kali Puja on November 4. …. What was the need for the commission to show such a hurry, even in the conduct of the September 30 elections, we do not know,” he added. “The commission should first ensure the return of people who had to flee persecution for supporting the BJP. Without their return, the bypolls are meaningless.” In Dinhata and Santipur, victorious BJP candidates Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned, respectively, in order to continue as members of the Lok Sabha. In Khardah, Trinamul Congress’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha died of Covid-19 before the results, and in Gosaba, Trinamul winner Jayanta Naskar succumbed to post-Covid-19 complications in June. Trinamul welcomed the decision. “No constituency at the Assembly or the Lok Sabha level should be left vacant for too long. The decision was taken by the commission, we will abide by it,” said senior minister Firhad Hakim. “Obviously, we are confident of winning the three bypolls on September 30 and the four on October 30,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Illegal mining lens on Bengal government officials||The Anti-Corruption Branch of the Bengal government has found alleged involvement of some senior government and police officials in irregular sand mining, said sources in the agency. “Although no case has been filed yet, the wing has found a series of irregularities in the trade. Some senior officials, including a district magistrate and a police commissioner, have been transferred based on the preliminary reports of the wing,” said a senior government official. The development gives a clear indication that the chief minister is serious about getting rid of the complaints, which were coming up over the years. “The allegations of the ruling party’s involvement in illegal sand mining were tarnishing the image of the government and the chief minister appears to be in no mood to accept these in her third term. The chief minister would try to deal with the problem ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul insider. According to sources, the ACB has already raided offices and residences of police officers and senior officials of land department officials in Jamuria, Kanksa and Pandaveswar in West Burdwan and at places like Jalpaiguri, Dhupguri and Malbazar in Jalpaiguri and Raiganj in North Dinajpur. The wing has reported to the government that more mines than the number of permitted ones are being operated, more areas were being dug up in excess of the permissible areas and challans are being forged while sand is transported to several areas. “The officials were aware of the practice but they did not do anything. The government has removed a DM and CP from a south Bengal district to send a message to the officials,” said a senior official. A section of officials said taking action against the government officials alone would not solve the problem. “Officers are often forced to overlook the irregularities by powerful local ruling party leaders. So, action has to be taken against all those involved in the irregular practice,” said a source. The state government has already decided to bring in a new policy to control the entire sand mining centrally. “But the policy would be implemented across the state only by 2023 as lease tenure of a majority of the mines would be completed by then. But the government wants to rein in the irregularities from now on,” said a source. According to some officials, the ACB has already informed Nabanna about its findings and the wing is waiting for an instruction before it lodges formal complaints in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Showcaused by Centre, says news channel||The editor of Kolkata TV has said the Union ministry of information and broadcasting issued a showcause to the Bengali news channel, asking it to explain why permission granted to it under uplinking guidelines shouldn’t be cancelled following the home ministry’s denial of “security clearance” to the broadcaster. The channel is run by Calcutta-based RP Techvision (I) Pvt Ltd. Kaustuv Ray, the channel’s editor and the chairman of the company, said Vijay Kaushik, an under-secretary to the Union government, had sent the showcasue. “We have been asked to send in a reply within seven days.… I will not wait that long and will write to them seeking a clarification on what basis the security clearance was denied,” said Ray. “This is a question of the future of 300-odd employees,” he added. Ray said he would move court against the notice, if he had to, on Friday. According to Ray, the showcause is an example of how the Centre is trying to curb the freedom of press. “In June 2014, RP Techvision (I) Pvt Ltd took over the rights of Kolkata TV from SST Media Ltd following an order of liquidation by Calcutta High Court. Since then, at least 200 letters have been sent to the ministry to regularise the licence, which was in the name of SST Media Ltd previously. However, the applications have gone unheard.” “Now, we hear we have been denied security clearance,” Ray added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government advice on tea bonus impasse||The state government intervened on the deadlock over bonus between hill tea planters and workers’ unions on Tuesday, advising planters to give the bonus in two instalments in October. In the third bonus settlement meeting for the Darjeeling tea industry, held in Siliguri, the management again insisted on paying bonus to hill tea garden workers in two instalments. The eight hill tea unions, too, stuck to their stand of bonus at one go, which they said gardens in the Dooars and Terai had agreed upon. As the stalemate lingered, the state government intervened and “advised” the management to pay bonus in two parts on October 4 and 30. Sources said minister of state (independent charge) of labour department, Becharam Manna, who was not physically present at the meeting, intervened through official channels to work out a solution. As in the earlier two meetings, the management cited that with exports of Darjeeling tea hit amid the pandemic and subsequent lack of cash flow, bonus could be paid in two instalments, one before Durga Puja and the rest by March 31, 2022. The unions said bonus should be paid at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ total annual earnings (with a ceiling of Rs 15,500) at one go. The state advisory said the 20 per cent bonus is “to be paid in two instalments”, 15 per cent by October 4 and the rest 5 per cent by October 30. It was also stated that the practice of splitting the bonus, prevailing for three years in a row “shall be stopped from next year.” The bonus ceiling was agreed at Rs 15,500.A copy of a letter by Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner, north Bengal zone, to the state labour commissioner, details the proceedings of the meeting. “Bonus talks are mostly settled between the union and management. This is probably the first time that the government has intervened with such a unique settlement,” said an industry veteran. A trade union leader who was part of the meeting said: “We protest this settlement.” If the government discards unions, what can we say? If workers accept 15 per cent as first instalment, what can we say?” There are 87 tea gardens in the Darjeeling Tea industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records second rise in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Tuesday recorded the second rise, in three days, in its active Covid-19 cases after a 97-day streak of fall ended on Sunday. The state’s total number of active cases rose by two to 7,586, with 708 new infections, 693 recoveries and 13 deaths. A minister called this an aberration but said they were on high alert as festivals were coming amid fears of a nationwide third wave. Calcutta logged 137 new infections and three deaths.  North 24-Parganas logged 125 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Bengal now has 2.66 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.79 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.93 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.41 lakh recoveries and 18,764 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Wednesday to be worse, say weather officials||Coastal South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, along with parts of the Gangetic Bengal, saw mild to heavy rainfall on Tuesday owing to  low pressure over northwest Bay of Bengal. Around 8.30pm, most places of the coastal belt of Bengal started experiencing a squall of 40kmph with heavy rain. Contrary to Monday’s forecast, much of Tuesday remained largely normal with no reports of major damage. However, the Alipore weather office issued a red alert on enhanced rainfall on Wednesday with thundershowers in coastal areas and parts of North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram in south Bengal, coupled with a squall. The state government has geared upto combat any emergency in coordination with allied departments and disaster management wings. “The initial outcome of the depression appeared to be quite weak” a senior official of South 24-Parganas district administration said. “But the weather office has predicted a change in the situation from the night (Tuesday to Wednesday). It issued a red alert indicating heavy rainfall, so we are not showing complacence and our monitoring is almost round the clock,” he added. Around 40,000 people from vulnerable areas were shifted to safe shelters, he added. For much of Tuesday, coastal areas were also largely normal with mild rain and there was no turbulence in the sea, said East Midnapore’s Ramnagar BDO Bishnupada Roy. But heavy rain with wind began to lash coastal areas from around 4pm in both 24-Parganas and East Midnapore.  The worst hit were Sagar, Namkhana, and Kakdwip. On Wednesday, rain (from 7cm to 20cm) with intense spells of showers or thundershower with lightning are likely, an IMD official said. “Heavy rain is likely to batter coastal districts East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, as well as West Midnapore and parts of south Bengal. The situation is expected to normalise on Thursday,” he added. Weather office sources said the squall might gain a speed of 40-50kmph over South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore on Wednesday and 30-40kmph over North 24-Parganas, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, East Burdwan and Bankura. BDO of Sagar in South 24-Parganas Sudipto Mandal said: “We spent the day training disaster management volunteers.” Heavy rainfall coupled with gusty wind in several areas of South 24-Parganas in the evening uprooted several trees and electric poles in Kultali and adjacent areas. The uprooting of electric poles led to power cuts in areas that include Raidighi hospital, as well as adjacent areas of Baruipur and Sonarpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Cloud on cash earned by felling ‘shade trees’||A senior leader of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, the tea trade union of the party, has written to the district magistrates of three major tea producing districts of Bengal — Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar — saying that a section of tea companies are selling shade trees and not utilising the proceeds for welfare of tea workers and their families like they should. Trees are planted intermittently to provide shade to tea bushes. “The shade trees save bushes from the scorching sun and help retain the quality of tea leaves,” said a tea expert. If any shade tree dries up or weakens, it is chopped off and a new sapling is planted. “To cut a tree, they have to obtain permission from the state forest department,” the expert added. This is where Prabhat Mukherjee, president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, who has sent the letters to the district magistrates, have accused a section of tea estates. “While obtaining permission, tea companies confirm that the sale proceeds of the shade trees will be used for the welfare of the tea workers and their families. But in a number of gardens, even 10 per cent of the proceeds are not used for workers,” said Mukherjee. The proceeds, he said, should be used for construction and repairing of workers’ quarters, clearing their old dues, among others. But according to Mukherjee, workers do not have any inkling as to how much money has been earned by selling the timber. “We have found that workers in some of the estates are disgruntled because of such practice of the management. That is why we sought an intervention from the district magistrates. They should evolve a mechanism to confirm total transparency,” the senior trade union leader said. Representatives of tea planters’ associations differed. “The guidelines of the state government are strictly followed while felling the shade trees. Tea estates need to show utilisation certificates of the money earned by selling trees to the state forest department to obtain permit to transport the timber,” said Sanjay Bagchi, secretary, the Dooars branch of the Indian Tea Association. A senior manager at a tea estate in the Dooars said the fund is used for various purposes, ranging from construction and repair of roads, bridges and crèche to purchase of materials for sports. “Such spends also come under workers’ welfare,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda homeless vent ire at officials||Angry residents of a village in Kaliachak-III block who lost their houses to erosion caused by the Ganga intercepted a vehicle of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) carrying a team of engineers and officials to the erosion-hit areas on Tuesday. Residents of Sarkartola village detained the team for three hours, demanding immediate rehabilitation. They also accused the FBPA of not carrying out anti-erosion work properly. Officials of the block administration and police had to intervene to calm  the villagers down, who eventually released the team in the evening. Since last Sunday, erosion has become acute in a number of villages under Birnagar-I panchayat of the block. In the past three days, around 300 families have become homeless in Sarkartola and its adjoining villages. The FBPA, responsible for checking erosion in these areas, has initiated some interim work in the past few days. “As of now, they are dropping sandbags on the bank to check erosion and have said appropriate anti-erosion work would be carried out only after monsoon is over and the water level recedes,” said an official of Kaliachak-III block. On Tuesday, around 2.30pm, as the FBPA team was crossing Sarkartola, residents, especially those who are homeless, stopped the vehicle. “We want the barrage authority to rehabilitate us. There are around 200 bighas of land available in Lakkhipur area (of Malda district) which they had acquired earlier. It is lying unused and we want them to give us land there so that we can build our homes,” said Sheikh Mustafa, one of the protesters Protesters alleged that the FBPA hadn’t drawn up any plan to check erosion by the Ganga when “ over 1,000 families” lost their homes. Some FBPA members tried to tell villagers about their helplessness, but in vain. As the news reached the district administration, officials from the local block and a large contingent of policemen rushed to the spot. Police spoke to protesters and managed to convince them to let the FBPA team leave. Around 5.30pm, the FBPA team was allowed to go. A meeting between the team members and protesters.was held at Baishnabnagar police station Because of erosion, Swadhin Sarkar, former BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, is all set to become homeless again. In 2016, the Ganga had gobbled up a major part of his house in Sarkartola. Sarkar rebuilt it. “But in the past couple of days, the river has started eroding land again and is barely a few metres away from my house. I have started shifting my belongings and engaged workers to dismantle it so that I can use the bricks and rods and other items in due course,” said the former MLA, now spending nights at the home of his driver in nearby Bhimagram. “I don’t know where I will stay with my family as the house would be gobbled by the Ganga in another few days,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcuta HC declines to stall bypoll process for Bhowanipore ||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday declined to interfere in the Bhowanipore bypoll process but criticised Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi for “misleading” the Election Commission of India about the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in the state and stating that there would be a “constitutional crisis” in case the by-election was not held. In its order, a division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj came down heavily on Dwivedi for the letter he had written to the poll panel for the bypoll in the south Calcutta Assembly segment. “We record our strong reservation about the conduct of the Chief Secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be ‘constitutional crisis’ in case by-election to the Bhowanipore Constituency is not held. He is a public servant, who is to discharge his duties in terms of provisions of law, whosoever may be in power. He is not to ensure that any particular person should come in power and in the absence there would be a ‘constitutional crisis’,” said the bench. The order raised questions about the conduct of Dwivedi by stating: “Be that as it may, the most offensive part is the conduct of the Chief Secretary, who projected himself to be more as a servant of the political party in power than a public servant, whereby he stated that there would be a constitutional crisis in case election to Bhowanipore Constituency is not held from where respondent No. 5 (Mamata Banerjee) wants to contest the election.” “How the chief secretary knew that the respondent number 5 (Mamata Banerjee) was to contest election from Bhowanipore constituency?” the court asked, referring to the letter he had written to the Election Commission requesting it to hold a bypoll at Bhowanipore. “He was not a party spokesman or returning officer,” the court further added. The judges said the chief secretary had misled the poll panel in his letter about the pandemic and the flood situation to expedite the poll process. “The information furnished by the Chief Secretary of the State to the Election Commission was contrary to the facts as in the State restrictions on account of COVID-19 pandemic had been extended up to September 30, 2021, vide order No. 753/IX-ISS/2M-22/2020 dated September 15, 2021,” the court said. Referring to the government’s decision of extending restrictions on people’s movement, the bench noted that the coronavirus situation was not under control. The other important question about the expenses incurred for the bypoll on a seat that already had an MLA wasn’t, however, settled in the order. The division bench kept the hearing of the case open and fixed it in November. Mukul case Calcutta High Court on Tuesday adjourned till October 7 the petition moved by BJP MLA Ambika Roy, who sought rejection of Bengal Assembly Speaker’s decision appointing BJP turncoat Mukul Roy as chairman of the public accounts committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati topper score: 200 out of 100||Visva-Bharati authorities on Tuesday evening withdrew an admission test merit list from its official website after it was found that four candidates scored more than the total, including one who secured 200 out of 100. Visva-Bharati insiders held the goof-up as an example of how standards have fallen in the varsity set up by Rabindranath Tagore. The merit list of the two MEd courses on the varsity website on Monday evening showed the first two candidates in the social sciences group as having scored 196 and 151 marks, respectively, out of 100 and their counterparts in the language group with 200 and 198 marks out of 100. “There is a central admission cell headed by VC Bidyut Chakrabarty as chairman, and departmental admission committees. How can such a blunder occur,” asked Sabuj Kali Sen, the former acting VC. The coordinator of the central admission committee, Nimai Chand Saha, and the officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to text messages from this paper. Sources said in the case of admission to Vinaya Bhavana, under which the education department falls, an applicant has to sit for a written exam comprising 60 marks and the 40 is calculated from the marks obtained in their earlier board or varsity exam. The central admission committee monitors and cross-checks the merit list before publication, with 30 teachers and officials engaged in the entire admission process. “We have no problem admitting a blunder and we had to withdraw it. But it was a technical mistake. It has harmed the reputation of the varsity,” said a varsity insider. Several senior teachers claimed the gaffe was the result of exclusion of experienced teachers from the system and induction of new faces according to the whims of vice-chancellor Chakrabarty. “The VC drove out good faculty from the admission cell... those experienced in handling such issues have been replaced with those who support his wrongdoings,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the outspoken president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. No official connected with the admission system, along with the acting public relations officials, responded on the blunder and whether any action would be taken against those behind it. Kanhu Charan Sahoo, the principal of Vinay Bhavana, said, “I have no information in this regard. Only the head of the education department can speak on the issue.” However, head of the education department, Benudhar Chinara, refused to speak. A senior varsity official said authorities would seek a written explanation for such a blunder from the persons responsible for compiling the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Police look for BSF jawan for Raiganj firing||A BSF jawan has been identified as the principal accused of the firing that occurred at Sukanta More in the Debinagar area of Raiganj on Monday night. Police have arrested Jayashri Das, the jawan’s sister, and are in search of him and some others. Senior police officers are trying to find out how a quarrel between a former tenant and the landlord’s family led to the firing which left a woman dead and two others, including a police officer, injured. On Monday night, Sital Roy, who is a constable in the BSF, went to the house of Nikhil Krishna Majumdar, a retired deputy superintendent of police, along with some associates. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know Sital Roy used to stay at the house as a tenant earlier and had some problems with the house-owner. We are trying to find out what was the dispute which made him fire at the house-owner’s family,” said Arsh Sharma, the additional superintendent of police of Raiganj police district. Sources said after reaching in front of Majumdar’s house, he called for the house owner. At that time, Rupa Adhikari, Debi Sanyal and Sujay Krishna Majumdar – the daughters and son of Nikhil Ranjan – were present at the house. They dwell in different localities of the town and had come to see him. Hearing Sital’s call, Rupa went out. Soon, they had a heated exchange of words which made Debi and Sujay to step out. Sujoy, who is a police officer posted in Dabgram armed police brigade on the outskirts of Siliguri, asked Sital to leave. “Suddenly, Sital and his associates took out firearms and fired indiscriminately at the sisters and the brother. All three of them suffered serious injuries and fell on the ground,” said a police officer. Locals rushed for help and took the trio to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced Debi (37), dead. Later, Rupa was referred to Malda Medical College & Hospital. As police started investigation, they came to know that Jayashree Das, Sital’s sister, was also with him at the spot. She was soon arrested and on Tuesday, she was produced at a local court. “The court heard the case and has sent her in police custody for 10 days. We need to interrogate her to know what led to the incident,” police sources said. The police are also in search of Ripon Roy, another local youth, who is suspected to be involved in the incident. Sital meanwhile, has managed to escape. The police have sealed his house in Kashibati area of Raiganj. “We have come to know that he is posted in Punjab now. We have passed the information to his senior officers so that he is taken into custody in case he turns up at his workplace,” said Sana Akhtar, SP, Raiganj police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Birthday girl Richa with big bash in kitty||Richa Ghosh, member of the Indian women’s cricket team, turned 18 on Tuesday. For cricket enthusiasts of her hometown Siliguri, there are more reasons to rejoice than her birthday. Richa, who has consistently performed at the recent tour to Australia, will join Australia’s prestigious Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL) 2021 cricket tournament. Richa, who is now in Queensland to play a Test match against Australia, has signed for Hobart Hurricane, one of the franchises of the WBBL . She inked the deal just a day before her birthday. “We are delighted with her back-to-back achievements in Australia. All the people of Siliguri and all sports lovers are proud of her. A local girl after representing the national squad has been selected to play in WBBL. A dream for any cricketer,” said Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. Verma, who is also secretary of Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Organisation, hosted a birthday celebration for Richa at the Kanchenjungha Stadium here on Tuesday. The WBBL will begin from October 14 this year. Richa has joined the tourney with four other colleagues of the Indian team, but for other teams in the league. Shafali Verma and Radha Yadav will represent Sydney Sixer and Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma have signed up for Sydney Thunder. “She (Richa) is a hard hitter in middle-order, which she has proved during the recent two ODIs by playing two crucial knocks for her team. Apart from that, her wicket-keeping abilities came as an added quality that helped her selection in the league,” said Jayanta Bhowmik, a cricket coach of the city. The Indian women’s team lost the recently concluded ODI series against Australia by 2-1. But in the first two matches, Richa scored 32 not out and 44, which helped her team to build a decent total against Australia. “After the Test match, the Indian women’s team will also play T20 matches. We hope to see some more fireworks from her bat then,” said Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Coal case: Court sends 4 to CBI remand||A special CBI court here on Tuesday remanded four persons arrested in connection with alleged theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees into the central agency’s custody. The four were Narendra Kharka alias Narayan Nanda of Durgapur, Joydeb Mandal of Asansol, Nirad Baran Mandal of Bankura and Gurupada Maji of Shaturi in Purulia. They were accused of working as associates of Anup Maji, the prime accused in the multi crore coal smuggling scam. CBI counsel Rakesh Kumar told the court that the four persons were hiding information during interrogations whenever they had been summoned by the sleuths. “These four persons are closely attached to Anup Maji, the prime accused in the case. We need to take them into custody for further and proper information. They are hiding information and not cooperating with the investigating officials,” said Kumar. Judge Joysree Bandopadhyay later granted to the CBI remand of Joydeb Mandal till October 1 and the other three accused persons till October 4. A large police contingent was posted at the court compound.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill’s Nisha Gurung smashes a glass ceiling||For Nisha Gurung, a hockey player from Darjeeling, it definitely is not a man’s world. The 23-year-old from Ging tea garden in Darjeeling has achieved the rare distinction of coaching a men’s hockey team. “In 2019, I coached the Darjeeling district men’s team  for the state hockey championships held in Calcutta,” Nisha told The Telegraph on the sidelines of an award ceremony organised by the Rotary Club of Darjeeling on Saturday. Women hockey coaches are not so frequently seen. Women coaches in charge of men’s teams are rarer, not just in India but across the world. A 2016 survey by US-based Women’s Sports Foundation, founded in 1974 by the legendary tennis player Billie Jean King, had found that in college sports only 3 percent of men’s teams were coached by women. The majority of those teams are minor or co-ed sports. In contrast, 57 percent of the women’s teams are coached by men. Nisha, currently pursuing a course with Hockey India and Asia Hockey Federation to qualify as a technical official, first made a mark as a player. “When I was in school (Nepali Girls Higher Secondary School), teachers asked me if I would play hockey. Without a second thought, I said yes,” said Nisha. There was no stopping Nisha thereafter. She started representing Bengal from 2010 and was the vice-captain of the state team at the Sub-Junior Girls National Hockey Championship held in Patna. She also started representing the state at the senior category and in 2013 her team stood third at the senior national hockey championship. “In 2018 I started working at Darjeeling Children House of Montessori (a Darjeeling school) and it is here I started coaching the boy’s team,” said Nisha. The very next year, she was asked to coach the district’s all men’s team. Did her wards listen to her? “It was difficult to coach boys as initially they would not listen to me. Things improved later,” Nisha smiled. Nisha was last year made the secretary of Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Hockey Association. Its president is also a woman, Kamlesh Rai, who has been a team manager in state and national level games. Although Nisha is working with the montessori, she plans to take a degree in coaching from the Netaji Subash National Institute of School. “I have been selected for a course to be a technical official by Hockey India and Asia Hockey Federation. Once I complete it, I want to complete a degree to be a certified hockey coach,” said Nisha. On Saturday, Rotary Club of Darjeeling awarded the Outstanding Youth Award to Nisha. “Her achievement made us sit up and take notice. It is not often that we come across women coaches for a men’s team,” said Gopal Khemani, president, RCD. The club also awarded Vocational Service Awards to Kamlesh Rai, teacher Sarita Pradhan and taekwondo coach, Rahul Gazmer. The Community Service Award was conferred to Vik-Run Foundation while journalist Gideon Lepcha was awarded The Lifetime Achievement Award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||SC notice to CBI on post-results violence||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the CBI and others on Bengal government’s appeal against Calcutta High Court’s recent order that had directed the central agency to probe into alleged violent incidents following the publication of Assembly poll results in the state on May 2. The Supreme Court posted the matter for further hearing to October 7. Besides the CBI, the country’s top court has sought response of various private parties on whose PILs the high court directed the probe after obtaining a preliminary report from the National Human Rights Commission. After a two-hour long argument by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Bengal government, a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose, however, refrained from staying the CBI probe as urged by the state. Justice Saran, who headed the bench, said the CBI probe would be subject to the final order of the Supreme Court. Sibal assailed the high court order saying the same had been passed on the basis of a “biased” report submitted by a seven-member committee constituted by the NHRC. The lawyer said the panel members had affiliation in one way or the other with the BJP. Sibal argued that principles of natural justice were not followed by the high court which did not hear properly the state government’s views on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
