30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI chargesheets 20 people in BJP worker's killing case||The CBI has filed a chargesheet against 20 people in a case related to the alleged killing of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar in the post-poll violence in West Bengal in May, officials said on Thursday. They have been accused of murder, and also charged under IPC sections related to common intention and destruction of evidence among other offences, they said. Sarkar was brutally attacked by a mob on May 2 at his home in Calcutta, hours after curtains came down on the bitterly fought assembly elections with TMC recording astounding victory and the BJP emerging as the principal opposition in the state. He was taken to hospital where he had succumbed to injuries. Hours before his death, he had reportedly posted a video on social media narrating the violence at his home. Sarkar's family had refused to accept his body claiming it was beyond recognition. It was only after DNA test, ordered by a court, which showed it was Sarkar's body that family accepted it earlier this month. The CBI has filed its final report in the case before ACJM, Sealdah against 20 people: Sanjay Samanta, Samir Samanta, Sankar Das, Arun Dey, Rahul Dey, Sourav Dey, Sukhdeb Poddar, Amit Das, Arup Das, Biswajit Das, Sanjay Barik, Amit Das, Tumpa Das, Gopal Das, Papiya Barik, Sanjay Basak, Sufal Bose, Sanjay Dey, Abhijit Dey and Kajal Das. It was alleged that the accused had attacked the victim with sticks and also broke the household articles of his house, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The agency has kept the probe open, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore records over 50% polling amid skirmishes, signs of nerves ||As the sun-kissed, bright day - marred by intermittent showers - in Calcutta neared the end on Thursday, workers of the Trinamul Congress seemed to behave in bizarre fashion, leaving many  wondering what the party that is confident of Mamata Banerjee’s victory by over a lakh votes was afraid of? Former footballer and BJP leader Kalyan Chaubey’s car came under an unprovoked attacked around 3.30 pm when he was on a tour of the constituency near the Padmapukur area. The damage was not major, the footballer-politician too was unhurt. But the  incident gave a peep into the  ruling Trinamul camp's worries. In some other areas, Trinamul workers managing camps chased away local residents. An unidentified youth, suspected to be a resident of Bansdroni, was caught near the polling booth at Khalsa High School on Puddapukur Road and later snatched away by a group. In a booth at ward 63, some CPM workers identified a resident of Cossipore in North Calcutta, managing the camp. Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP nominee,  claimed the Bansdrdoni youth was paid Rs 500 to cast his vote for Mamata. “I have informed the election commission,” she said. Why the Trinamul needed “outsiders”, which the party has denied, is unexplained. “This is not democracy, this was an unprovoked attack. I will request the Election Commission to probe the reason behind this attack,” Choubey later said. "The BJP is making baseless allegations. Their candidate went inside booths with armed guards to create panic among voters," said Subrata Mukherjee, state minister. "BJP thought they would rig polls here like they did in Nandigram, bribe the Election Commission. Twenty per cent of the voters have either died or left. No arrangement was made for senior citizens. Yet we will win with a huge margin, more than what it was last time," said Firhad Hakim. State industries minister Partha Chatterjee sounded confident. "Voter turnout is in sync with the trend during a bypoll. Higher turnout would have been better. Seventy five per cent of the votes polled will go to Mamata," Chatterjee said. Trinamul leader Baishwanar Chattopadhyay claimed the opposition-BJP and CPM-could not give polling agents in more than 20-22 pee cent of booths. Till 5 pm at Bhowanipore, the polling percentage was  53.32 per cent, almost 10 per cent higher than September 2011 when Mamata first became an MLA to continue as chief minister. Around 44 per cent of the voters had turned out in 2011 _around 77 per cent went Mamata’s way giving her a victory margin of 54,213 votes. In the other two Assembly seats where elections were deferred till Thursday, Shamshergunj and Jangipur, both in Murshidabad, the turnout at 5pm was  78.60 per cent and 76.12 per cent. Since 2011, lesser number of voters in Bhowanipore have favoured any Trinamul nominee, be it Mamata or anyone else. While Mamata has been the undisputed Number One politician in Bengal, the record margin for any chief ministerial candidate is still held by her former bete noire Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. During the peak of his political career, Bhattacharjee had won by a margin of 58,130 votes from Jadavpur in 2006. Bengal’s favourite daughter at least on paper is nowhere near that margin. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP was actually leading from the Bhowanipore Assembly segment of the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat. In 2016, Mamata’s margin was reduced to 25,301 and continued to dip further stopping at 3,168 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This time, the polling having crossed the 50 per cent mark in the constituency of  2.06 lakh voters, would definitely bring some relief to Mamata, as it increases her chances of widening the victory margin. Though traditionally it is believed a higher turnout indicates anti-incumbency playing a role, in successive Assembly polls, the Trinamul under Mamata has defied the trend. In the Assembly polls held this year, the average statewide turnout was 81.33 per cent with the Trinamul winning 213 seats. However, Mamata’s own narrow defeat in Nandigram has exposed her electoral vulnerability. While Mamata would like to treat it as a once-in-a-lifetime blemish, the BJP is looking for an encore. The absence of Congress from the scene has ensured that the anti-Trinamul votes would go to the BJP. After 2011, this is the first time that the CPM has put up a nominee in the constituency, which it had reserved for alliance partner Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||India||MAKAUT heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in bengal||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, West Bengal (MAKAUT, WB) heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in West Bengal. During the past 20 years of its quintessential existence, it has truly poised itself as a premier flagship centre of higher learning. The university has made powerful forays into new emerging domains of engineering and technology, science and management, socio-cultural and heritage initiatives, eco-environmentalism, travel-tourism and corporate social responsibilities – which is truly a phenomenal leap ahead and a cut above the other technical universities of India and abroad. As a Technology University of the state, it provides affiliation to over 200 colleges spread across the State, that offers a wide plethora of UG/PG programmes in classical, neo-classical and contemporary branches of Engineering and Technology, Pharmacy, Architecture, Management, Applied Sciences, in conjunction with non-AICTE programmes of B.Sc., B.B.A. and B.C.A. courses in leading subject domains. The University has started various professional courses in some affiliated colleges since 2018 in line with the directives of A.I.C.T.E. and the U.G.C. The courses are in Information Technology, Computer Science, Bio-technology, Bio-informatics, Material Science & Technology, Forensic Science, Food Science & Technology, Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Business Analytics, Digital Health, Geo informatics, Waste Management and Social Entrepreneurship, Travel and Tourism, Media Science, Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality, Robotics etc. With active patronage and support of the Department of Higher Education, Govt. of West Bengal, the University has constructed its sprawling new academic campus over an area close to 40 acres in Haringhata, Nadia - that garners the rarest distinction of ‘green, clean and environmentally smart campus’. Here from, all academic and administrative machinery are centrally managed and co-ordinated to effective implementation. The University is ambitiously expanding its in-house academic portfolios by launching a large number of new courses, with thrust on professional and vocational ones, setting up of new laboratories in advanced and emerging disciplines, constituting new Schools, Centres and Departments, embarking upon training and consultancy, initiating off-campus and satellite campus programmes, thereby pushing the student enrolment to maximum possible extent. MAKAUT strongly emphasizes adoption of digital technology and use of available digital/online resources by faculty members and students. Application of Learning Management Systems, Flipped Learning and Mobile Learning are the tools in classroom teaching. The University has prepared a repository of online courses culled from different online subject platforms for its affiliated colleges. The courses are assigned with credits and allowance of credit transfer for intending students. The University has adopted Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) ahead of other universities. The University delves to foster ‘academic niche′ on modern learner-centric pedagogy, digital initiatives and entrepreneurship development as path-breaking endeavours and essence of its epistemology. ‘Systems concept and thinking’ occupies the centre-stage here in understanding of dynamism, holism and perturbations of teaching-learning process. It will really be a tryst with destiny to embrace the mentorship of MAKAUT for young aspirant minds, and rich posterity, to the trail blazing path and footprints of glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Voting in Bhowanipore largely peaceful amid tight security||Voting has largely been peaceful in the Bhowanipore assembly seat, where Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting, with 53.32 per cent turnout till 5 PM, officials said. A high voting rate at 78.60 per cent and 76.12 per cent was recorded in Murshidabad's Samserganj and Jangipur seats respectively, where polls had to be countermanded during the April-May Assembly elections following the death of two candidates. Sources told The Telegraph Online that Mamata cast her vote at Mitra Institution of the Bhowanipore constituency at 3:15 pm, while her nephew Abhishek Banerjee did the same around 2 pm on Thursday. A total of 6,97,164 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the three constituencies. Voting will continue till 6 PM. Mamata, who is also the Trinamul Congress supremo, is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas in Bhowanipore . Tibrewal claimed that TMC forcibly stopped the voting process at a polling booth in ward number 72, and that state minister Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee were trying to influence the voters in the constituency. The BJP has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against Hakim and Mukherjee. Hakim, however, termed the allegations as baseless. "Does having tea at a roadside stall tantamount to influencing voters? The BJP knows it will lose the by-poll and are now making lame excuses," he said. A minor scuffle between supporters of the TMC and BJP was reported outside a booth in Bhowanipore over claims of the ruling party bringing fake voters inside the polling centre. Security forces present at the booth brought the situation under control. The TMC also registered a complaint with the EC, accusing Tibrewal of moving with an entourage of 20 cars and intimidating voters, a charge denied by her. The BJP later alleged that its polling agents were not allowed entry inside several booths. Hakim said such claims were politically motivated. "If they don't have the manpower to field polling agents, they could have told us. We would have provided them agents," he said. The chief minister, who lost from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections earlier this year, has to win this by-poll to retain the post. Votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||28 trawlers rounded up in Digha||Police in Purba Medinipur’s Digha, acting jointly with the district administration, on Wednesday morning rounded up at least 20 vessels from deep waters and sent them to the shore for allegedly breaching the weather-related red alert that banned fishermen from entering the sea. A Coast Guard hovercraft despatched near Mohona later reportedly rounded up eight more vessels. In all, 28 trawlers were rounded up. Police speedboats, acting on reports from Mohona coastline that fishing trawlers had been spotted, began rounding up violators and ensured they were docked for the day. An indefinite red alert was in force from Monday evening in coastal Purba Medinipur in view of the weather. Sources on Wednesday said as the weather had improved on Tuesday night, fishermen possibly decided to try their luck on Wednesday. Representatives of the fishermen’s association, however, said the rounded-up vessels had been out  since before the red alert. Police on Wednesday rounded up trawlers from as far as 35km into the sea. Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Ray and officer-in-charge of Digha (coastal), Satyajit Chanakya, were on shore where public address systems warned others from setting sail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Homes collapse in two south Bengal districts||A homemaker died and a couple was injured when their homes collapsed in two south Bengal districts during incessant rain since Tuesday evening that lashed major parts of south Bengal. In West Midnapore’s Chandrakona, homemaker Pratima Bag, 37, died on Tuesday night when the wall of her thatched house collapsed while she was asleep. At East Midnapore’s Ramnagar, Bimal Sheet, 48, and Sankati Sheet, 42, were critically injured when their thatched house caved in amid heavy rain early on Wednesday. The couple were rushed to the local hospital, but had to be shifted to a hospital in Calcutta after their condition deteriorated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 748 new cases, 14 deaths||Bengal, after two days of a rise in active Covid-19 cases since Sunday, recorded a fall again on Wednesday. The total of active cases fell by six to 7,580 on Wednesday, as the state reported 748 new infections, 740 recoveries and 14 deaths. Bengal now has 2.74 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 139 new infections and North 24-Parganas 123, the only two of the state’s 23 districts to report a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported four deaths and North 24-Parganas five. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.81 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. “Some incisive measures are being put in place over the next few days so that our grip on the outbreak remains firm,” said a minister. “The situation must not get out of hand over the festive month ahead.” Bengal now has over 15.68 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year, which includes nearly 15.42 lakh recoveries and 18,778 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Three held with narcotics worth Rs 35 lakh in Malda||Three persons, including a resident of Bihar, were arrested after brown sugar worth around Rs 35 lakh and counterfeit Indian notes were allegedly seized from them in Malda on Tuesday night. Prashanta Debnath, the deputy superintendent of police (headquarters), said on Wednesday that a team of Englishbazar police had intercepted an SUV at a checkpoint at Katagar on Tuesday night. “The vehicle was on its way to Bihar from Kaliachak. As the SUV was searched, 350 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and fake Indian notes to the tune of Rs 1.20 lakh was found. The seized fake notes were all in Rs 500 denomination,” said Debnath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister doesn’t trust Bengal people, says Babul Supriyo ||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo on Wednesday hit out at Narendra Modi for the first time since defecting to the Trinamul Congress on September 18 as he accused the Prime Minister of not having trust on people of Bengal. “In (my) seven years of journey in Delhi, (I’ve) somewhere felt that the Prime Minister doesn’t trust Bengalis. Let alone a cabinet minister, there has not been a minister with independent charge from Bengal in the past seven years,” Supriyo said. “I’m not talking about myself. (S.S) Ahluwaliaji is a senior member, he had come from Congress and even he wasn’t given an independent charge. Somewhere I felt that there is discrimination against the elected representatives from Bengal in the council of ministers,” he said, adding that he had joined Trinamul because he felt he would be able to work for Bengal under the leadership of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Supriyo, who was elected as a first time MP in 2014, was inducted by Modi into his council of ministers as a junior minister. He was dropped from the council of ministers after a rejig this July. Apart from Supriyo, 6 other BJP MPs from Bengal have been inducted into the Modi’s council of ministers in the last seven years. During his first tenure between 2014 and 2019, Modi made Surinder Singh Ahluwalia, the then Darjeeling MP, a junior minister. After returning to power in 2019, Debasree Chaudhuri, the Raiganj MP was made as a junior minister for Women and Child Development. She was dropped along with Babul in the latest reshuffle. Four other MPs from Bengal — Dr Subhash Sarkar, Santanu Thakur, Nishith Pramanik and John Barla — were inducted into the expanded council as ministers of states. BJP’s Barrackpore MP, a Trinamul turncoat, Arjun Singh took a dig at Supriyo by calling him a ‘traitor’. “Traitors always look for newer excuses to betray. Babul Supriyo is one such traitor. He isn’t even ashamed that he was made a minister the day after he started politics and he is now accusing someone like our Prime Minister,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt allows mining of minor minerals again from October 8||The Bengal government has green-lit the mining minor minerals — sand, pebbles and stones — from riverbeds of the state from October 8. For the past few months, extraction of such items from riverbeds had stopped following instructions of the National Green Tribunal. In July this year, the Mamata Banerjee cabinet came up with a new policy that centralised the auction system for mining such items. According to an order from state secretary H.K. Dwivedi, from October 8, mining of minor minerals can resume. Confirming this, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said those intending to mine will have to procure e-challan or permission from the state. “Officials of transport department have been asked to train truck owners on how to obtain e-challan. It is mandatory,” she said. The order has come as a relief for lakhs of workers, who load and unload these basic construction items, and thousands of truck drivers and owners. “It is almost six months now that we have not found a contractor to hire our trucks to carry construction items. It is good if the state has finally decided to allow mining on riverbeds,” said Sanjib Ghosh, secretary of Jalpaiguri United Truck Owners’ Welfare Association. Under the old system, auctions of specific areas of riverbeds were done by district magistrates but under the new policy, it was decided that the West Bengal Mining Development & Trading Corporation, under the state industries department, will hold the auctions. The process will be monitored by the chief secretary and finance secretary. Ghosh, who is also the state vice-president of the Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association, said over one lakh trucks are engaged in transfer of these materials in north Bengal. “There are over five lakh workers who load and unload them. All are jobless,” he added. Earlier in the day, before the state order became known, protests by workers and truck drivers were seen in at least two locations of north Bengal. In Alipurduar town, they blocked a road on Chowpathi for over an hour. There was a similar protest at Tufanganj-II block of Cooch Behar on the banks of Raidak river. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Congress chief minister of Goa joins Trinamul||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, a senior Congress leader with four decades in the party, joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Wednesday. He switched to Trinamul, along with some other politicians and civil society members from Goa, after meeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The 70-year-old general-secretary of the AICC had severed his ties with the Congress and stepped down as the Navelim MLA two days ago. Mamata’s party wants to contest the February 2022 elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly. The tiny western state has barely 11.5 lakh voters. “I’ve met Didi.… I’m happy to have joined the Trinamul Congress today…. I had started my journey from the west coast of the country. Today, I’m on the east coast…. Only Didi was able to successfully stand up to the divisive forces of the BJP. We need strong leadership for the resurgence of Goa. You need a strong leadership to fight the BJP and Didi can provide that,” Faleiro said in the presence of Trinamul national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee and other party leaders Saugata Roy and Subrata Mukherjee at the Kshudiram Anushilan Kendra in the evening. Pramod Sawant of the BJP is the chief minister of Goa where the principal Opposition is the Congress.“I have been a Congressman for 40 years. Today, the Congress has fragmented into Trinamul Congress, YSR Congress, Sharad Pawar Congress (NCP)…. My aim is to bring the Congress family together,” Faleiro said. Besides Faleiro, Lavoo Mamledar of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Goa’s Congress leaders Yatish Naik, Vijay Vasudev Poi, Mario Pinto De Santana, Anand Naik, and Rabindranath Faleiro switched to Trinamul. Litterateur Shivdas Sonu Naik, economic and environmental commentator Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar and advocate Antonio Monteiro Clovis Da Costa also joined Trinamul. Before their induction, the Goa team met Mamata at the state secretariat where, according to Faleiro, they had a long discussion on how Trinamul would go about in Goa and what it planned to do to bring about the promised change. “It’s a matter of great pride for me to welcome Former Goa CM, 7-time MLA and stalwart Goan leader Shri @luizinhofaleiro to the Trinamool Congress family. Together we will stand up for every Goan, fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a NEW DAWN for Goa…. I welcome all of them to our family!” tweeted Mamata later in the evening. Abhishek said Trinamul’s fight was not against the Congress, but his party would not sit idle while the Grand Old Party did nothing. “Trinamul is the only party that has defeated the BJP in the past seven years,” he said, accusing the Congress of being present only on social media, while the real fight was out on the streets. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, accused Mamata of acting as a “Trojan horse” of the BJP to weaken the wider Opposition unity nationally. “What exactly happened at the ED (Enforcement Directorate) office that those who were trying to form a coalition with the Congress earlier are suddenly attacking us?” asked Chowdhury, apparently referring to the nine-hour grilling of Abhishek in Delhi on September 6, after which he and his aunt started bitterly criticising the Congress in public. Of Faleiro’s departure, Chowdhury said: “Paap bidaay holo (Good riddance to bad rubbish).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection campaign echoes TMC’s pan-India aspiration||The Pegasus “snoopgate”, ownership of the PM-Cares Fund, “imperilled” democracy in the nation, National Monetisation Pipeline, demonetisation, state of the Indian economy, contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government, alleged inability of the Congress to lead the national Opposition space, law and order in BJP-ruled states and the “divisive” agenda of the saffron camp. The non-exhaustive list of national issues isn’t yet part of the draft of a manifesto from a key player in pan-India politics ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2024, but they were the principal talking points of Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress in the party’s extensive campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll of September 30. The Bengal chief minister, seeking election to the Assembly that her party swept this summer, has pitched the battle for Bhowanipore as a stepping stone towards unseating the BJP from the Centre, less than three years from now. “B for Bhowanipore, B for Bharatvarsh, B for Bharat Mata,” said Mamata at the Ajanta Restaurant crossing in the constituency on Thursday. “This is a fight for the very idea India, a fight to the finish… a crucial battle which was won by Bengal in the Assembly election. Bhowanipore is another — smaller, but important — battle for that cause,” she said at Shakespeare Sarani on Saturday. The south Calcutta constituency, including some of the city’s most posh neighbourhoods as well as densely populated slums, does comprise over 2.06 lakh electors from various religious and linguistic communities, representing a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds. It has, understandably, been called a “mini India” by not only Trinamul but also its principal rival, the BJP, through the campaign. But Mamata’s apparent intention has been to turn the very local bypoll into an election of national consequence. “Every vote you cast in my favour is important, as every vote will go towards further strengthening our fight nationally… all of India is watching this closely. In the future, Bengal will show the way for the nation, protecting it from this nightmare of a regime at the Centre,” she said in Ekbalpore and Chetla, on Wednesday. The chief minister’s victory on her home turf ought to be a foregone conclusion, according to political scientists. The only real apprehension, said sources in Trinamul, is of a drastically reduced turnout — that might diminish her margin of victory — given the forecast of inclement weather for the three-way contest. Besides the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal, the CPM’s Shrijeeb Biswas is also in the fray. Biswas, for one, is unwilling to subscribe to Mamata’s national spin for Bhowanipore. “One will not become the Prime Minister by winning Bhowanipore.… We have gone to the voters with pertinent issues,” he said. With her national pitch, Mamata participated in 10 public meetings or interactions, besides paying visits to places of worship for Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Jains. Mamata’s trusted lieutenants, such as Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Debashis Kumar, Aroop Biswas and Madan Mitra, besides her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, conducted a thorough campaign over weeks. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Chilli earns hill-district duo GI tag, honour for ‘Dalle Khursani’ belts ||Darjeeling and Kalimpong have got “hotter” as their famed “Dalle Khursani” or red cherry pepper chilli has earned a geographical indication (GI) tag from the Union department of industry promotion and internal trade. Among the hottest varieties in the world, the chilli got a GI tag for Sikkim last year. However, as the chilli is grown in Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well, the GI tag has now been extended to cover these two Bengal districts. A certificate by the registrar of Geographical Indications on September 14, 2021 included Sikkim, Darjeeling and Kalimpong. A GI is a name or a sign given to a product that relates to a specific geographical location or origin. The tag is part of intellectual property rights under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. R.P. Gurung, director, board of directors of North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd, Sikkim, said it was logical to include Darjeeling and Kalimpong, and hoped it would help farmers. “Else Darjeeling would have to apply separately. Now, the most important issue is how do you use the tag for the benefit of the farmers,” said Gurung. Sikkim’s inclusion on the Geographical Indications Registry was based on an application filed by the Guwahati-headquartered North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited (Neramac) on behalf of the Himalayan state. But soon after reports of Dalle Khursani getting a GI tag in Sikkim spread last year, people from different walks of life started working to get the status extended to Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well, said Vikram Rai, assistant professor, St Joseph’s College, Darjeeling. “We worked out the genetic line of the chilli. However, we did not oppose Sikkim’s status,” said Mahadev Chettri, senior scientific officer, horticulture, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The chilli is known to have a Scoville scale at the range of 1,00,000 to 3,50,000 SHU (Scoville Heat Units). The Scoville scale is a measurement used to trace the spiciness of chilli peppers across the world. Many in the region swear by the distinct flavour of the chilli. “Dalle Khursani is known for its unique flavour and efforts must be made to retain this flavour. Perhaps cross-pollination has to be avoided,” said Gurung. Apart from its flavour the product is also high in vitamin A, vitamin E, and potassium, and low in sodium. One hundred grams of fresh dalle khursani will have 240 mg of vitamin C (five times higher than an orange), 11,000 IU of vitamin A, and 0.7 mg of vitamin E. The largest manufacturer of Dalle Khursani products is the Sikkim government-owned Sikkim Supreme, which alone procures around 50 tonnes of chilli annually. Small scale industries in Darjeeling and Kalimpong have also mushroomed. “Since Dalle Khursani can be preserved, I have not come across farmers going for distress sales. It fetches good prices even in the local market,” said Gurung.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||28 ‘defiant’ trawlers rounded up from sea in Digha||Police in East Midnapore’s Digha, acting jointly with the district administration, on Wednesday morning rounded up at least 20 vessels from deep waters and sent them to the shore for allegedly breaching the weather-related red alert that banned fishermen from entering the sea. A coast guard hovercraft dispatched near Mohona later reportedly rounded up eight more vessels. In all, 28 trawlers were rounded up. Police speedboats, acting on reports from Mohona coastline that fishing trawlers had been spotted, began rounding up violators and ensured they were docked for the day. An indefinite red alert was clamped from Monday evening in coastal East Midnapore in view of the weather forecast of heavy rain and squall. Sources on Wednesday said as the weather had improved on Tuesday night, fishermen possibly decided to try their luck on Wednesday. Representatives of the fishermen’s association, however, said the rounded-up vessels had been out at sea since before the red alert. Police on Wednesday rounded up trawlers from as far as 35km into the sea. Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Ray and officer-in-charge of Digha (coastal), Satyajit Chanakya were on shore where public-announcement systems warned others from setting sail. “The red alert stands until further notification. We had told the association  and they should have ensured all fishermen knew the rules,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Surajit Bag. “If any vessel is seen, an FIR will be filed.” District officials said the fishermen's association would get  a notice in connection with errant trawlers on Wednesday. Fishermen insisted these trawlers were returning to the shore from a previous journey. “More than 200 are out at sea. A few were seen in Digha because of better weather, others are docked at Kakdwip,” said fishermen’s association secretary Shyamsundar Das. Vessel leak In South 24-Parganas, Raj Rajeswari, a reportedly unregistered fishing vessel, sprang a leak in turbulent waters near Jambudwip island. Sources said the vessel sailed last weekend. Sources said Fraserganj police took six hours to save its five occupants from drowning with the vessel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||One dead as homes cave in amid downpour in West Midnapore||A homemaker died and a couple was injured when their respective homes collapsed in two south Bengal districts during incessant rain since Tuesday evening that lashed major parts of south Bengal. A low pressure, which formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and its adjoining areas, triggered the continuous rain. Areas of South 24-Parganas, particularly under Canning-II block, Hooghly’s Khanakul, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore’s Patashpur, West Midnapore’s Sabang and Pingla bore the brunt of rain. In West Midnapore’s Chandrakona, homemaker Pratima Bag, 37, died on Tuesday night when the wall of her thatched house collapsed when she was asleep. Neighbours rushed her to the block hospital where she was declared brought dead. At East Midnapore’s Ramnagar, Bimal Sheet, 48, and Sankati Sheet, 42, were critically injured when their thatched house caved in amid heavy rain during the wee hours of Wednesday. The couple was rushed to the local hospital, but had to be shifted to a hospital in Calcutta after their condition deteriorated. “There has been an intense spell of heavy rain since Tuesday evening that left an impact on several areas of West Midnapore, East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Several trees, electric poles were uprooted as well as a few thatched houses collapsed as soil strength had weakened at the base,” said an official of the disaster management wing at state secretariat Nabanna. Weather department sources said till 6am on Wednesday, West Midnapore recorded 110mm rainfall followed by 80mm in East Midnapore. Among towns, Haldia recorded 216mm rainfall and Contai 103mm, leading to severe inundation in both municipal towns. Midnapore and Kalaikunda of West Midnapore recorded 148mm and 167mm rainfall, respectively. Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas received 150mm causing waterlogging in at least 10 wards of the town and prolonged power cuts. The situation in West Midnapore’s Pingla and Sabang has created serious concern for the state administration. “The intense overnight rain inundated several areas of Sabang that are yet to recover from the previous floods. According to an estimate, 42,000 houses have been damaged in the fresh inundation, even as 32,000 people remain camped at relief centres. We are trying hard to meet the demand of tarpaulins and other relief items but everything appears insufficient,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water resources investigation and development minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. “About 23,000 hectares of paddy and betel orchards of around 1,400 hectares are devastated,” he added. West Midnapore’s disaster management officer Sandip Biswas said they opened new relief camps.” Senior officials monitoring the weather observed that the impact of the depression is comparatively low in coastal South 24-Parganas and parts of East Midnapore contrary to the IMD forecast in the absence of strong wind. But incessant rain waterlogged and flooded several areas. Intense rain prompted the district administration to open new relief camps in already flooded Pataspur, Khejuri-1 and Contai in East Midnapore. “We had to shift 500 people on Tuesday night following fresh flooding,” an official of the district administration said. Officials in Hooghly are worried about possible floods in Khanakul and Arambagh. “We are closely watching the situation and have evacuated 400 persons,” said Deepap Priya P, the Hooghly district magistrate. Ponds and water bodies are flooded at Sagar in South 24-Parganas. “Apart from the rain, we are anxious about the scheduled high tide on October 6,” Sagar BDO Sudipto Mondal said. With inputs from Anshuman Phadikar in Tamluk||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Pandemic curbs on India-Nepal border hurt business||Hundreds of traders in Panitanki, the hamlet on the India-Nepal border some 35km from here on the bank of Mechi river, which marks the international boundary, hit the streets on Wednesday, demanding the immediate opening of the border for movement of people among both the countries. Since March 24 last year, movement of common people across the border has been halted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Only trucks carrying goods are allowed to cross the border. This border clamp has left around 2,000 traders of Panitanki in the lurch as their business is almost entirely dependent on residents of the neighbouring country. “Thousands would cross the Mechi river bridge to visit our shops, buy an array of products ranging from groceries and vegetables to garments, furniture and other household items. Since March last year, their entry has been stopped and we are bearing the brunt of it. We want the central government to immediately reopen the border or else it would be tough for us to survive,” said Ram Kumar Chhetri, an adviser of Panitanki Byabsayee Samiti. According to him, goods worth around Rs 1 crore used to be transacted every day at Panitanki before the onset of the pandemic. “The border movement has been closed for around one-and-a-half years now. One can easily assess the loss our members have borne during these months. Many of us find it tough these days to pay  monthly instalments of bank loans and are exploring other options to run families,” added Chhetri. Another senior trader  in Panitanki said that along with traders, rickshaw-pullers, van and e-rickshaw drivers are also in dire straits. In all, there are around 2,000 local vehicles which used to ply on the border. On Wednesday, a delegation of traders also submitted a memorandum to officials of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the international border. “Earlier, we had submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate of Darjeeling through the BDO of Kharibari block. But there has been no change in the situation. Hardly a few shops open at Panitanki these days, and a section of traders are in fact planning to sell their shops and shift to other places. The central government should consider our situation and take steps to reopen the border for people. Otherwise, the situation would only turn more grim in the coming days,” said a grocery shop owner. According to him, ahead of the pandemic, he used to sell goods worth around Rs 60,000 in a day. “These days, I can hardly make a sale of Rs 2,000. Only  local residents of Panitanki turn up at my shop these days,” he said. Sources in Darjeeling district administration said the decision to open the border has to be taken by the central government. “We are aware of the situation and have passed information to necessary quarters. But as this is an international border, it is the Centre that has to take the call,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
