24-05-2021||News||Road to 2022: In UP, the pandemic has changed public discourse, political agenda||If things were normal, by now, Uttar Pradesh would have been abuzz with intense political activities in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections, which will likely be held in February-March.Instead, like many other states, Uttar Pradesh has been ravaged by the second wave. And while the state government’s narrative has been focused on how well it has managed the second wave – to be fair, the numbers do indicate this – anecdotal reports from one of India’s most backward regions do suggest that testing is inadequate in rural areas, and not all deaths are being correctly attributed to Covid.That narrative apart, all is largely quiet on the political front.As Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary says, “With so much misery all around, one doesn’t know if campaigning in any form would be appropriate even after the pandemic subsides.” Chaudhary himself lost his father, Ajit Singh, to complications arising from Covid on May 6.In 2017, the assembly elections were held in seven phases between January 17 and March 8. The elections were announced on January 4 and counting took place on March 11. Yogi Adityanath, the current chief minister, took the oath of office on March 19.Experts believe India may well be hit by a third wave of the pandemic in the latter half of the year, adding to the anxiety of citizens and pressure on the government. It is clear that the state will enter the battlefield in a disturbed atmosphere and all political parties are well aware of that.Also Read | Vaccinators face resistance in some Uttar Pradesh villagesWhile the first wave was more city-centric, the second wave has struck the vast rural areas of India’s most populous state — the lack of medical infrastructure, including medicines, has only added to the misery of people as they struggle for space to cremate their near and dear. As many as 299 of the 403 assembly seats in the state are in primarily rural constituencies.Pandemic changes discourseThe deaths, by all reports, have united castes and communities.Communal passions, especially in the western part of the state, triggered by the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 have cooled, although they have not disappeared completely.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP from Amroha, Danish Ali, says: “The farmers’ movement first diluted the communal animosity and now the pandemic has regrouped communities. There is a change in the air; people who earlier refused to listen to a word against (PM Narendra) Modi or Yogi are not reacting (to criticism) now. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have the machinery to correct course.”His reference is to the six-month long farmer protest against farm bills passed in September that has unified farmers across states and communities.On the face of it, in a state where identity has always mattered, caste and communal issues appear to have taken a backseat — Covid-19 has eclipsed issues such as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the movement in legal cases in Kashi and Mathura for the liberation of places associated with Shiva and Krishna, and the so-called “love jihad”.Author and political analyst Badri Narain agrees: “There is a shift in the public narrative with politics of medicalisation (one’s survival) overtaking the politics of caste and religious identity. Now public health will become the main discourse and not construction of malls or highways. The yardstick of development of the state, too, will change as people have experienced pain and agony.”The ruling party had a glimpse of the public mood in the recent three-tier panchayat polls, in which the Opposition, which was completely decimated in 2017, held its political space. Though the panchayat polls are not contested on party symbols, all political parties were in the fray, openly supporting candidates.Also Read | UP govt schools kids to study Covid, Vedic Maths and Namami Gange tooOf the 3,051 zila panchayat seats, the Samajwadi Party won over 1,000 while BJP ended close with over 800 seats.Is the party worried? BJP state chief Swatantra Deo Singh while addressing the working committee meeting that followed put up a brave front and said: “Media is projecting panchayat polls as semi finals to 2022. They should not forget that the party has won all elections ( referring to by- polls, council and Rajya Sabha elections) since 2014.”Nonetheless, the party has geared up the organisational machinery while senior leaders led by Sunil Bansal are carrying out a detailed review.Party spokesman Naveen Srivastava said, “We are reaching out to the people, connecting with them through our government’s much appreciated ‘ test, trace and treat’ programme. The chief minister himself is touring the state gearing up the official machinery.”Samajwadi Party state spokesperson and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary said: “What would happen with this political tourism now? The CM’s political tourism will not help despite the fudging of data. Despite his tours, the BJP can’t conceal Covid and black fungus deaths due to lack of oxygen, beds, medicines. The daily tours won’t help BJP in covering up the dead bodies that floated in rivers. Panchayat polls have indicated how villagers, farmers, labourers are angry,”Brand Yogi on test Brand Modi helped the BJP sweep the 2017 polls, capturing 312 of the 403 seats. Yogi Adityanath, the mahant of Gorakhnath Peeth and five-time MP, was one of the star campaigners of the BJP.But after taking over as CM, he has sought to build his own brand – one built around Hindutva, aided by his status as a monk, and no-nonsense administration. The party has also sought to project him as an important national leader. Yogi is the only BJP chief minister to have been deployed across the country for campaigning.As an incumbent, Yogi will have to carry the weight of the polls on his shoulders and the pandemic has only made the task heavier. Dozens of BJP MLAs, MPs and union ministers have shot off letters to Yogi highlighting the mismanagement of Covid in the state. For instance, on May 8, union minister Santosh Gangawar wrote a letter to the chief minister complaining about Covid mismanagement in his home town Bareilly. He wrote, “I have received complaints that patients going to government hospitals are not being admitted as the hospital is asking them for a referral letter from the district hospital. The patient keeps running around from one place to another and in the process oxygen level decreases. Please ensure this does not happen.”Also Read | Covid vaccination: Centre enables on-site registration for 18-44 age groupBut the CM has a strong network and an efficient party machinery, and faces a fragmented Opposition. Amid widespread criticism over his management of Covid, he hit the road, visiting districts and villages worst affected by the pandemic. He also enjoys the confidence of the central leadership and has the unwavering support of the RSS.Mritunjay Kumar in chief ministers office opined, “It’s purely his hard work. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, he has not missed even one meeting of the Team 11, formed to monitor Covid management in the state, not even after he tested positive. Immediately after recovering from corona, he started a tour of the state completing all the 18 divisions of the state tomorrow. The cases fell by 234,000 in 23 days.”As Badri Narain puts it, “The party would certainly like to project him as the savior of many lives.” However SP president Akhilesh Yadav is of the view that people won’t spare the government for the precious lives lost. “False propaganda and data won’t help now,” he said.The BJP’s challenge The farmer’s agitation has revived the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Jats are likely to rally around Jayant Chaudhary who has been at the forefront of their movement. His father’s death has also created a groundswell of sympathy for him. The Bhartiya Kisan Union, which had become redundant over the years, has received a fresh lease of life.And even in its strongholds of Varanasi and Gorakhpur in east UP, the government may have to deal with the migrants, who have been forced to return to large cities in the absence of viable job opportunities.Public memory is short but it is likely the Owill hark on deaths and the floating bodies in the Ganga.Central UP has been the Yadav stronghold. The SP suffered losses there in 2017 for various reasons – including an intra-family dispute, and a backlash against the Yadav domination. However, since then, Akhilesh Yadav has strengthened his hold on the party and his recent silent tour of the state to activate his cadre may have helped. As such, 2022 will be a do-or-die battle for the party and its cadre.The Bahujan Samaj Party under Mayawati remains largely inactive. The party is now seen as a friend of the BJP. While Dalits, mainly Jatavs, remain her backbone, she runs the risk of losing support from the Muslim community.The Congress under Priyanka Gandhi has been making some sincere moves to raise public issues from Hathras to Sonbhadra, but the party has to activate the cadre to win some seats. Professor Yogeshwar Tiwari from Prayagraj said, “The Congress should be more constructive and less critical. They should come up with a road map than sporadic actions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/road-to-2022-in-up-pandemic-has-changed-public-discourse-political-agenda-101621855747472.html
24-05-2021||News||Inside India’s new plan to deliver water||A few years ago, many scholars were drawn to a curious social phenomenon in Denganmal, a parched hamlet in Maharashtra. Dire water crises had turned the village’s monogamous population into a polygamous community over time.The village’s men take up to three wives just to fetch water from far-flung sources. More wives mean more hands to draw water and, hence, less hired labour. Sociologists labelled them “water wives”.“This is a common feature in the community where women are looked upon as a human resource for family labour,” says Archana Tamble, a researcher with Savitribai Phule University, who has documented the trend.The emerging crisisMany Indian regions are hurtling towards Day-Zero conditions, when taps and tube wells will simply run dry, according to the state-run think-tank Niti Aayog’s Composite Water Management Index 2019.Nearly 820 million people in 12 major river basins of the country face “high to extreme” water stress. Of these, 495 million inhabit the Ganga basin, accounting for 40% of the country’s gross domestic product. At the last count, 256 districts, or more than a third of a total of 743, faced water stress.Also Read | Over 3.77 crore rural households given tap water under Jal Jeevan Mission: GovtAs the clock ticked, Prime Minister Narendra Modi used his Independence Day speech in 2019 to launch an ambitious national programme, the Jal Jeevan Mission, to tackle the crisis on an unprecedented scale.Apart from mass-mobilisation campaigns to conserve rainwater and restore traditional water bodies, the mission has a never-before target of providing every household with a functional piped water connection that delivers 55 litres per capita per day by 2024.In many large states, it’s tough for rural households to get to a water source. By the World Health Organization’s standard, a household is considered water-stressed if it spends more than 30 minutes getting to its water source.Here’s how some Indian states fare. According to a National Sample Survey Organisation survey, in Jharkhand, it takes women 40 minutes one way, without taking into account the waiting time. In Bihar, it’s 33 minutes. Rural Maharashtra clocks an average of 24 minutes.The contours of the mission The piped water mission aims to change this drudgery. The programme has entered a critical stage, as officials race to meet the deadline amid a raging Covid second wave. The programme requires states and the Centre’s newly formed Jal Shakti ministry to work in tandem, from devising plans to monitoring and implementation.Senior bureaucrat Bharat Lal in the newly formed Jal Shakti ministry, the head of the piped drinking water mission, says progress has been satisfactory so far. Some states of course need to ramp up, he says, pointing to a high-tech dashboard in his office showing real-time, geo-tagged location of every household connected so far with piped water.“From around 17% households (before the start of the mission), we are now at about 37%. That growth is quite good, although I don’t want to sound hyperbolic,” Lal says.The mission prioritises habitations with contaminated water, such as with arsenic, where community water purification plants need to be installed. About 32,000 such plants have been installed so far.Disadvantaged areas with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes also figure in the priority list, as are 61 districts in five states which are Japanese encephalitis-endemic. The mission also prioritises 117 so-called aspirational districts with low human-development indicators. Drought-prone and desert areas are also high-priority zones.India has 190 million rural households, according to Census 2011. At the start of the mission, slightly more than 30 million households had piped drinking water. Since the mission’s launch in August 2019, nearly 40 million new households have been added, official data show.The challenges aheadTo meet targets, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman hiked the allocation for the Jal Jeevan mission for 2021-22 to ₹50,011 crore from ₹11,000 crore during 2020-21. There is, however, a set of challenges.Experts say excessive focus on numbers alone and achieving targets — given the mission’s deadline of 2024 — could be short-sighted.“Ultimately, the biggest red flag is sustainability. We have data to show the biggest failure is often of sustainability of resource,” says Shashi Shekhar, former water resources secretary and senior fellow, World Resources Institute India.Groundwater is the source for 85% of piped-water plants. “The same source is used for agriculture and industry. There is no control over the amount of water that is extracted,” Shekhar says.Experts say the programme must not be contractor-driven, but led by local communities. “It might be successful today, but will it be successful in future because of source sustainability? Is the community ready to take over ownership of such high-cost projects? These are the concerns,” Shekhar adds.The country’s public water-supply systems are leaky. In large cities, much of the assured supply is hogged by the rich. Urban demand is currently 135 litres per person per day, three times as much as rural India’s 55 litres, excluding agricultural use.Experts say no water-efficiency programme, such as the Jal Jeevan mission, can be successful without making India’s agriculture efficient. About 90% of India’s available water goes into farming. This figure is 64% for China and 60% for Brazil, according to WaterAid. It takes India about roughly 5,000 litres of water to produce 1kg of rice, in contrast to China’s approximately 3,000 litres.“Agriculture’s demand for water is disproportionately huge. One of the reasons is free electricity and lot of incentives for crops such as paddy,” says Alok Nath, a former official of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.Despite its water scarcity, India has turned out to be a virtual water exporter because it exports water-intensive foods more than many countries.Virtual water exports refer to the molecules of water used to produce exported goods. Such exported water molecules, in India’s case, are a net 95.4 billion cubic metres a year, according to the Water Footprint Network. This is way higher than that of China and Russia.Groundwater accounts for 90% of India’s irrigation source, but its scarcity is frightening. One way to measure this is the depth at which water is available. In 1998, the average groundwater level depth before the monsoon season was 7.5m.By 2018, this had gone up to 9.2m. Punjab’s groundwater levels have plummeted by 10.6m from 7.2m in 1998 to 17.8m in 2018, while in Madhya Pradesh groundwater levels have fallen by 5m.Agriculture’s demand for water continues to grow. The government’s minimum support price scheme incentivises production of water-intensive crops, such as rice and sugar cane in areas where ground water is scarce. Electricity subsidies have prompted farmers over-extract groundwater cheaply.According to a study by scholars Reena Badiani (World Bank) and Katrina Jessoe (University of California Davis), cutting agricultural electricity subsidy by 10% can lead a 7% decline in groundwater extraction.“The Jal Jeevan mission’s focus to improve India’s water-use efficiency right from the household-level,” says Avinash Arora, editor of the Water Policy journal. “It might be better to start on the farmer’s field,” he says.(This is the first of a four part series on India’s water crisis and the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/inside-india-s-new-plan-to-deliver-water-101621846630599.html
24-05-2021||News||Trafficked, exploited, starved: The story of the pandemic and sex workers||A 55-second video captures the ordeal a 19-year-old, trafficked from Jharkhand to Bihar seven years ago, had to endure. Sobs wrack her delicate frame as she cries, “Papa, papa”, while hugging her father. The father is inconsolable too, as he embraces her in a tight hug. A few seconds into the video, the brother comes forward and the three weep together.The minor was kidnapped from Sindri in Jharkhand when she was 12 years old by a woman who made her smell a laced handkerchief. When the girl regained consciousness, she found herself on a bus. The handkerchief was used again, and the next time she opened her eyes, she was in a strange house in Darbhanga where she was told she had been bought for ₹1 lakh.For the next seven years, she was abused, beaten and forced to be part of a dance orchestra that travelled through parts of Bihar. Nude dances were part of what was expected of her and, each time she cried or asked for her family, she got a thrashing in return.On one of her dance tours, a kind man gave her the number of Virender Kumar Singh, the director of Mission Mukti Foundation. She managed to call him and beg for help. With help from the police, Singh and his team finally rescued her in January this year amid huge drama and many tense moments.She could not be rescued at the first attempt because the orchestra owner had been tipped off and he hid her at a relative’s home. It was only after the police picked up his brother that he relented. He knew the game was up.But while the young woman was rescued, the pandemic and lockdown, challenges have only increased for anti-trafficking activists and organisations.Also Read | Covid second wave: Sex workers get help from Good SamaritansThe pandemic-induced trafficking “Traffickers are using the lockdown to lure young girls into prostitution. The racket is thriving because there are no jobs and families are facing a huge financial crunch. Many girls leave home to take up petty jobs to add to the family income,” says Singh.The data speaks for itself—Singh’s NGO rescued 30 girls between March 1 and December last year, during the first wave. This year, 70 have already been freed; the last rescue was on May 14, in the midst of the second wave.Images of burning pyres and patients gasping for oxygen have not deterred traffickers. According to Singh, prostitution ringmasters are advertising spa centres and massage parlours through WhatsApp chat groups and bulk messaging to expand the flesh trade.In March this year, just when the deadly second wave gripped the country, he sought the police’s help in Surat, from where 14 girls, mostly from West Bengal, were rescued in a single swoop. The “parlour” was littered with used condoms. The rescued included a mother of two children who had been promised a job at a restaurant.Distress in the red light districtsUnlike the traffickers who are managing to push girls into the flesh trade—and operate in the shadows—established red light areas such as the ones in Delhi’s GB Road, Kolkata’s Sonagachi and Mumbai’s Grant Road have taken a direct hit.Delhi’s GB Road, which used to spring to life in the evenings, is now struggling for survival. Of the approximately 4,000 sex workers who resided there, close to half have migrated back to their villages. Those who remain are cramped in the dingy brothel rooms, with empty kitchens and dwindling bank balances.The second wave has hit them harder. Last year, their savings came to their rescue but this time around, they are scrounging for food. NGOs are helping out with dry ration but there isn’t always enough.Anjali Sonu, project coordinator, Centre for Holistic Development and her team are tapping several sources for donation and received help from the Indian Youth Congress. Its president, Srinivas BV, who has become a key source of support and assistance during the pandemic, confirmed that he helped out with dry ration for 250 sex workers to begin with.The sex workers, already stereotyped and marginalised, are grateful for the help from NGOs, but say their problems are multifold. They don’t have enough money to get gas cylinders refilled. Many of the older sex workers have rented rooms for their children—because the kids don’t know what their mothers do—and have not been able to pay rent for the last two months. Some are simply handing their children over to shelter homes now.Usha, who prefers to be called just by her first name (she has a different one for her family), was trafficked from Maharashtra eight years ago. GB Road is her only address, and she says, “I don’t have one rupee today. I used to send ₹3,000 per month to my mother but can’t any more. I use to entertain three or four customers a day and earn about ₹900 but I don’t know what to do now. Sometimes we just eat one meal a day. My mother thinks I work for a detergent company and is waiting for the lockdown to end. I really don’t know when I’ll get a customer again.”Many like Usha have grown accustomed to being sex workers. Till the pandemic struck, the money kept the fires burning; for them and their families in villages. They don’t know any other profession.She says in a matter-of-fact tone, “I can wash utensils and swab floors but that will give me ₹3,000 a month. How will I be able to send money to my mother, who is also looking after my five-year-old daughter? I know what hunger feels like.”Many are dialling their clients for help. Some helped out last year but this time it is getting harder.The absence of institutional supportSonu, project coordinator of the Centre for Holistic Development, detailed the plight of the “most stigmatised community of our society” in a letter to Delhi’s lieutenant governor on April 15.Urging the administration to provide essentials and medical facilities, she sought help for the sex workers, saying that the “horrible impacts of the previous year’s lockdown have not healed” and there is now fear that they are falling into a deeper crisis. No reply has yet been received.According to the National Network of Sex Workers, “There is an increase in mental health concerns amongst the sex workers due to their livelihood being impacted and uncertainty about the future.”The ministry for women and child development puts the total number of sex workers in India at three million. Social distancing norms have impacted each one of them. Lalitha Nayak, founder, Society for Participatory Integrated Development has been helping sex workers for over 30 years. “The pandemic has left them most vulnerable,’’ she says, as she now struggles to feed the workers and children born in brothels.Nayak has been trying to break the chain of trafficking. She runs a centre for children and provides vocational training but the pandemic has left her and other NGOs struggling to just source food. Their only hope is for more donors to come forward.As one worker put it, “I can’t go to a nearby school for a cooked meal because we are taunted and abused. I wait on the stairs, not for a client, but for food. Can you help me?’’Help is what they need the most, as they alternate between survival and starvation. India’s institutions must step up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/trafficked-exploited-starved-the-story-of-the-pandemic-and-sex-workers-101621843506907.html
