27-05-2021||News||The political variables that will shape the 2024 verdict||The 2024 general elections are almost three years away. But then, thanks to intermittent state elections, India is in perpetual election mode. The prevailing circumstances in the country — a raging pandemic, slow pace of vaccinations, derailed economic recovery and strained government finances — entail turbulent times for incumbents both at the Centre and in the states. How will it translate into results? HT analyses what a countdown to 2024 might look like from here on.West Bengal has already put the BJP on a back foot There was a lot riding for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the West Bengal results. It had won 18 Lok Sabha segments in the state in 2019, which played an important role in pushing up its overall tally despite a loss of nine seats in the state of Uttar Pradesh. The All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) scored a massive victory over the BJP in the recently held elections in the state with a vote share of 48% and seat share of 73%. The BJP actually suffered a decline of two percentage points, when compared to 2019, in its vote share. Because the TMC’s vote share increased, it cut into the support base of both the BJP and the Left-Congress alliance (especially the latter), and seat shares changed disproportionately compared to vote share.If the 2021 assembly results are extrapolated at the Lok Sabha level, the BJP would get only 10 out of the 42 Lok Sabha segments in the state. To be sure, existing trends need not hold until 2024 and there is an increasing disjunct between national and state polls. The BJP is the only opposition voice in the state now and it would seize any opportunity given by a misstep of the Mamata Banerjee government. At the same time, the BJP organisation will be vulnerable to the TMC’s renewed hegemonic status in the state. However, between now and 2024, it is the TMC which will be seen as having a political edge in the state.Uttar Pradesh in 2022 will set the mood for 2024, BJP has a massive lead there The 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will be the most important political contest before the 2024 general elections. This is so for two reasons. One, Uttar Pradesh sends the largest number of MPs to the Lok Sabha and the BJP has swept the state in both 2014 and 2019 elections. It won 71 and 62 out of the 80 Lok Sabha segments in the state in these polls in 2014 and 2019 respectively. Uttar Pradesh is also one of the biggest success stories of the BJP’s polarisation politics.The BJP’s 2014 and 2017 victories in Uttar Pradesh came against a divided opposition. The two regional heavyweights Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) contested the elections separately. Their coming together in 2019 made the BJP look vulnerable in terms of pre-2019 arithmetic. But the BJP increased its vote share significantly and managed to cut its losses to just nine Lok Sabha segments. It is this massive lead in Uttar Pradesh which makes an upset in 2022 extremely unlikely for the BJP. The fact that an SP-BSP alliance is also unlikely in 2022 will only add to the BJP’s political advantage. To be sure, it could be the case that the BJP faces massive headwinds against the Yogi Adityanath government in the polls.Also Read | India runs the risk of losing its pharma edgeHT has analysed how different levels of swing at the AC-level could affect BJP’s tally at the state level. This shows that compared to the 2017 election, a swing of up to 5 percent of total votes at the AC-level away from the BJP and to its nearest rival in the AC would still leave the BJP with 211 of the 403 ACs in the state. The BJP had won 312 out of the 403 ACs in the 2017 election. At a swing of 10 percentage points, the BJP would not win a majority of ACs, but neither would any other party. To be sure, a 10 percentage points swing compared to the 2019 election disaggregated at the AC-level would make the SP, BSP alliance in that election a winner (but not a 5 percentage point swing).The anti-BJP baton will be with the Congress in the last lap Four out of the last five major state elections before the 2024 contest will see a direct contest between the BJP and the Congress. These are the states of Gujarat (which will go to poll at the end of 2022) and Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh elections (scheduled for the end of 2023). To be sure, Karnataka, which will have elections in first half of 2023 could also see a Congress-BJP contest in most parts of the state. The Janata Dal (Secular)’s pocket of influence is mostly confined to a few districts in southern Karnataka. It is these states which saw the most radical upsets between latest assembly election and Lok Sabha results in 2019.Also Read | Covid-19 and the disease of inequalityThe BJP’s seat share – calculated at the Lok Sabha level – increased from 47% to 92% between the state and national polls in these four states. This was achieved on the basis of a significant increase in vote share. The BJP’s ability to bounce back from these assembly elections upsets in 2019 is what created a big question mark on the Congress leadership’s ability to create a narrative against Narendra Modi. The BJP’s success or failure in the penultimate round before 2024 will be inversely dependent on the Congress’s ability to put its house in order.The latest election cycle has triggered talks of a federal front in the 2024 elections once again. The TMC, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) led Left Democratic Front in Kerala and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) led alliance in Tamil Nadu has won 78 out of the 101 Lok Sabha Seats in these states. The BJP might face a stronger opposition in the Maharashtra on account of a combined alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress and suffer headwinds in Haryana because of the farmers’ movement. But it needs to be remembered that 182 out of its 303 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 came from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka. The National Democratic Alliance managed to retain Bihar in 2020. Without any serious reverses in the forthcoming state polls in its strongholds, the BJP will enter the 2024 contest as the favourite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-political-variables-that-will-shape-the-2024-verdict-101622120759122.html
27-05-2021||News||How India’s water mission is overcoming the challenge in the Northeast||Sering, a small uphill village in Arunachal Pradesh’s Kamle district, home to the ethnic Nyishi tribe, seems like a relic from a lost century.Located 2,000 feet above mean sea level, it’s connected only by rough walking trails, turning and twisting through thickets and forested hills. The nearest motorable road is about 22 km away. Such remoteness has often thwarted even basic infrastructure creation in this eastern most Indian Himalayan state.To an outsider, the underpopulated hamlet, with just 140 people, feels like paradise, but life for the community can quickly turn into hell.Being rain-surplus, landslides and heavy rains often cut off links to the district headquarters, Raga. Winters are freezing at sub-zero temperatures. Monsoon rains are incessant. Weather patterns like these make trails to mountain springs, the only source of water, dangerous, slippery and sometimes inaccessible.Therefore, when, three months ago, the village blipped on a national grid showing India’s remotest places to be connected with piped drinking water facilities, it was a momentous occasion.Also Read | Dewas catches the rain where it fallsThe piped water facilities for the village was created under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, a programme to provide drinking water to every rural household by 2024. It is funded by the federal government, with states contributing their share. For most states, the funding pattern between the Centre and states stands at 60:40 ratio. For the disadvantaged northeastern states, the central government funds 90% of the costs.In the northeast, the Har Ghar Jal programme, or water for every home, faces challenges quite distinct from those that typically crop up while creating water facilities in parched plains.The engineering challengeIt is in the hilly states of India’s northeast where the water mission faces its toughest engineering challenges. For instance, unlike in Rajasthan, Arunachal Pradesh has surplus water. The problems are therefore not about scarcity but tapping water and channelling them into households in hilly topographies.Sering typifies these challenges. It was indeed an uphill task to get potable water to each of the homes. The Nyishis are one of the largest native tribes of Arunachal Pradesh, who depend on slash-and-burn terraced rice paddies for livelihood.For years, Sering’s small community has relied on arduous treks to nearby springs to fetch water. “In hilly areas, the challenge is to create gravity-based water supply system,” says Bharat Lal, the chief of Jal Jeevan Mission’s Har Ghar Jal programme at the Jal Shakti ministry.Quite simply, it means using the force of natural gravity to move water downhill from a highland source, such as spring or a waterfall. An intake structure is built to tap or collect water, which is then channelised into people’s homes through solar-powered pumps.“The biggest challenge for us was ferrying all the equipment because there is no motorable road,” says Kengu Ngondir, the village head. “Villagers carried cement, pipes, construction material and even boulders on their heads from the dumping site.”The engineering challenge was even more critical. It involved building a collection structure precisely at a point in a nearby stream where it moves the fastest because of gravitational force. The collection structure had to be built on top of another concrete structure to offer it stability.Broksarthang is another small village in West Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh, located close to the international withBhutan at an altitude of around 2,900 meters above mean sea level.Broksarthang has 22 households of roughly 170 persons belonging to Brokpa tribe, which rear yaks for a living. The village is about 70 km from the district headquarters of Bomdila, the point till which Chinese troops had intruded during the 1962 Indo-China war.“Creating the infrastructure was tough for the public health engineering department because of the height at the which the village is situated. Even though there were 22 households, we had to provide them with drinking water because the village faced acute water crisis,” said Tage Lowang, an engineer with the state’s public health engineering department over the phone from Bomdila.Also Read | Jal Jeevan mission goes digital in five statesThe main water plant for Broksarthang is based on piped gravity system and has been designed for the future needs at a cost of ₹67 lakh, along with a treatment plant.Incentivising statesGiven their terrain and challenges, the Centre has provided the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, a performance incentive grant of ₹465 crore for 2020-21 under Jal Jeevan Mission. The grant is also available for Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. For FY 2020-21, the Centre has allocated ₹11,000 crore for the Jal Jeevan Mission.Meghalaya has proposed 100% tap connections to all 589,000 households by December 2022. Allocation for Meghalaya was hiked to ₹174.92 crore in 2020-21. With opening balance of ₹17.46 crore and along with this year’s allocation of ₹174.92 crore, Meghalaya has assured availability of ₹192.38 crore of funds, said Bonoy Sangma, a senior public health engineering official in Shillong.Meghalaya has installed over 68,000 functional household tap connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission so far.Manipur, another rain-surplus northeastern state, faces acute water shortage during lean seasons. The state has got ₹3,050-crore Manipur Water Supply Project under the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal Scheme.The Centre has provided funds for household tap connections to 142,749 households, while the remaining 30% households will be covered by the state government through additional funding from the department for development of north eastern region.Overall, some northeastern states, such as Meghalaya, are behind the targets in creating water supply facilities. “Most far-flung difficult-to-reach areas, cut off from the modern world, have been tapped now. The rest of state will not be as difficult and we’ll catch up,” says Dylan Sangma, a Meghalaya official in charge of the works.(This is the final part of a four part series on India’s water crisis and the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-s-water-mission-is-overcoming-the-challenge-in-the-northeast-101622118539428.html
27-05-2021||News||What’s behind India’s acute shortage of life-saving medical devices?||When the coronavirus pandemic first hit India in 2020, the import-dependent medical devices industry — a cornerstone of the country’s health sector — was already in a churn, scrambling to establish new sources of raw materials and supply lines. This uncertainty would only prove catastrophic when a deadlier second wave suddenly took hold this summer.Most modern medical devices, on the inside, have high-end electronic components. The biomedical and electronics industries were trying to shift supply lines away from China when the pandemic hit, following India’s border conflagration with the neighbour in 2020.The industry is still caught in that transition, manufacturers said. Challenging problems of sourcing of raw materials in the electronics sector have rippled on to the medical-devices industry, experts point out.The crisis The second Covid wave, which has now shown signs of ebbing, brought India’s public health system to its knees. Shortages of life-saving equipment, from ventilators to oxygen concentrators, was at the heart of the crisis. Policies to incentivise domestic manufacturing of medical gear need a relook if the country is to stave off a similar situation in future, experts said.“During the second wave, in which there was a markedly higher demand for oxygen compared to the first wave, we simply could not cope with the demand,” said Shanta Kumar, the managing director of Southern Electronics (Bangalore) Pvt Ltd. Kumar’s company primarily makes oxygen concentrators and is affiliated to the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry, a lobby group. According to Kumar, the medical devices industry has apprised the government of critical issues faced by the industry, such as the issue of sourcing.The Indian medical devices sector, which has the highest potential within the health care market, was valued at ₹50,026 crore for 2018-19, according to latest official figures available. It is expected to reach to ₹86,840 crore by 2021-22. India depends on imports of up 85% to meet its total domestic demand for medical devices.Also Read | India runs the risk of losing its pharma edgeIndian manufacturers, who imported nearly ₹43,000 crore worth of medical equipment in 2018-19, haven’t been able to take enough advantage of key policies intended to boost domestic production due to a painful transition to alternative suppliers forced by India’s conflict with China, a large supplier of raw materials for India.The government’s push and its limitsThe government has a clutch of schemes running to boost domestic manufacturing medical devices. Two of these were approved by the Cabinet on March 21, 2020.One is the performance-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to boost domestic manufacturing of medical devices worth ₹3,420 crore over the next five fiscals.Two, the government also launched a scheme to finance promotion of medical device parks for bulk production with common infrastructure facilities in four designated medical device parks. The programme is worth ₹400 crore. The scheme for promotion of medical device parks also covers cancer-care devices, imaging devices, cardio-respiratory gear, cochlear implants and pacemakers.The PLI scheme offers eligible manufacturing companies and sectors a 4-6% incentive on incremental sales over the base year of 2019-20 for a five-year period. When a firm achieves a given sales target, it qualifies for the incentive. Since the electronics industry, which supplies to medical-equipment manufacturers, began shifting supply lines away from China in 2020, the “base year of 2019-20” designed into the PLI scheme for medical goods has proven to be of no help, analysts say.Here’s why. The base year is not simply a cut-off date. It has far-reaching consequences for the performance of the PLI scheme, especially in the electronics and medical devices sector.Also Read | Local trials for Covid shots scrapped to fast-track imports“The PLI scheme captures (sales) milestone over a base year of production. If you change the base year to 2021 from the existing 2020, then you can tackle a lot of these sourcing issues,” said economist Pronab Sen. Changing the base year to 2021 from 2020 would “base” the scheme in the year when supply disruptions have been most acute. “So, there is a fair amount of legitimacy to the demand to change the base year, but so far, the government hasn’t taken any decision,” Sen added.Switching the year base to 2021 will mean the industry doesn’t lose a precious year of financial incentives, because currently, it is focusing on transitioning to new supply sources, rather than ramping up manufacturing.Prior to the border dispute with China, supplies were not a problem. Firms are still scrambling for alternative suppliers, whose specifications may not be the same as old suppliers, experts say.The changes in specifications require new production lines to be established, which could take up to a year, even as India battles a shortage of medical equipment, Sen said.A way forward on PLI schemeFirms have also demanded hiking the 5% incentive of the PLI scheme in the medical devices sector to 10%, which is the incentive rate for the auto sector, for instance. “This will automatically give policy primacy to the medical industry,” said a spokesperson of Unisur Lifecare Private Limited, also affiliated to the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry.A top-level meeting was held early this month to review all current schemes available to the bio-medical goods and phama sectors, an official of the DV Sadananda Gowda-headed chemical and fertilizers ministry said, requesting not to be quoted.The government may restructure the PLI scheme to focus on manufacturers of medical equipment needed for the “fight and containment of Covid-19”, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/whats-behind-india-s-acute-shortage-of-life-saving-medical-devices-101622115154512.html
27-05-2021||News||BJP works on new West Bengal strategy as CBI breathes down TMC’s neck||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is working on a new strategy to regain ground in Bengal before the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. A significant part of this strategy, party leaders said, is to reach out to people with a new approach that will make the BJP more acceptable and help it counter the general perception that in Bengal it is represented mainly by Trinamool Congress (TMC) turncoats, who switched sides prior to the assembly polls this year.The BJP, which dealt a major blow to the TMC in 2019 by winning 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, ended up securing only 77 of the 294 assembly seats, falling far short of its target to oust the ruling party by wresting more than 200.The BJP’s tally in the assembly has now come down to 75 as two of its winning candidates resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Polls were held for 292 of the 294 seats as two candidates died of Covid-19.TMC secured 47.94% of the votes polled against the BJP’s share of 38.13%, a difference of 9.81%. In 2011, when the TMC and Congress fought as allies and ousted the Left Front government, the difference in vote share between the winners and losers was 7.6%.“We have not yet done a detailed analysis of the poll results, but the preliminary study indicates that public perception even in large parts of Hindu-dominated areas was not in our favour. While the TMC branded the BJP as a party of Hindi-speaking people from north and central India, the presence of so many TMC turncoats led to a sort of identity crisis. Despite having a presence in Bengal since its inception, no matter how small, the Bengal BJP failed to project its own identity. We will focus on this now,” said a BJP leader who spoke on the condition of anonymity.Also Read | For rural India, it is the golden hourThe BJP is working on plans to secure the confidence of Bengal’s voters by working on the ground. On Monday, when the state government was preparing to face cyclone Yaas, BJP national president J P Nadda virtually addressed the party’s Bengal MLAs and MPs and asked them to go on overdrive during relief operations.Countering the outsider tagIn the assembly polls, the battle for securing votes of various castes, sub-castes, religions and linguistic groups, manifested itself in two narratives. The BJP primarily projected Banerjee as an “appeaser,” a code for what the party alleges is the TMC government’s pro-Muslim tilt. Banerjee labelled the BJP’s national leaders from the Hindi belt as “bahiragato” (outsiders) to Bengal’s culture and spirit.Since the results indicate that the “outsider” narrative influenced more voters, BJP wants to counter it effectively.“The outsider tag did not influence voters in many rural areas of north Bengal and south Bengal districts located along the Indo-Bangladesh border where non-Bengali voters are almost non-existent. We secured seats in these regions. Right now, our job is to stand by people facing post-poll violence,” said BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari.Another BJP leader, who did not wish to be named, said they need to focus on the sensitivities of Bengalis. He referred to the raising of the Jai Sri Ram slogans at the celebration of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kolkata on January 21.“Modi’s bid to celebrate Bose’s birthday as Parakram Diwas (day of valour) ran into a political debate with Mamata Banerjee expressing anger at BJP supporters present at the event raising the slogan. Bengali voters, on whom Bose’s ideology has great influence even 76 years after his disappearance, did not take the sloganeering well. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and some old leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit, such as chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, said the sloganeering was uncalled for but central leaders from other states accused Banerjee of politicising the issue and being insensitive towards Hindus,” the BJP leader said.“In the coming days, we have to rethink our ideological stand in reference to the Bengali psyche. The positive response we were getting till January started evaporating after that incident. Also, repeated references to Banerjee as pishi (aunt) and Abhishek Banerjee as bhaipo (nephew) in the campaign speeches of Modi and other BJP leaders had a counter effect on the Bengali mind,” he added.Crucial CBI and ED casesEighteen days after Banerjee returned to power, the CBI arrested her heavyweight ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former TMC leader Sovan Chatterjee in the 2016 Narada sting operation case in which they are accused of accepting bribes to the tune of ₹4 to 5 lakh each. The leaders are still in judicial custody. CBI officials say more arrests and charge sheets are in the pipeline in the Narada and other cases. Their counterparts in the Enforcement Directorate, who are conducting parallel probes in these cases, have dropped similar hints.Although the BJP has dismissed allegations that its central leaders and Union ministers are influencing the probe agencies to cripple the TMC, many in the Bengal saffron camp do not deny this during private conversations that prosecution of accused TMC leaders will help them regain strength.The same leaders, however, also accept that with BJP national vice-president and MLA Mukul Roy and leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Banerjee, being accused in the Narada case, banking on the outcome of CBI probes may not be a good idea.The central agencies began to act against TMC leaders before the polls. The chief minister and TMC youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee became the prime targets in the campaign speeches of all BJP leaders, including Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.The BJP has alleged that Abhishek Banerjee was involved in a coal smuggling case. The probe got a boost on December 31 when the CBI raided three residences of businessman and TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra. He has been declared an absconder.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, has been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines.The CBI has questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, and her sister Maneka Gambhir. The latter’s husband, Ankush Arora, and his father Pawan Arora have also been grilled.The central probe agencies started speeding up the investigations from August 2020 when the Kolkata office of the CBI, which is also probing the Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS Group Ponzi fund scams involving thousands of crores of rupees, revamped its team in the economic offence wing. New officers flew from Delhi. During the same month, the ED sent notices to five TMC leaders in connection with the Narada sting operation case. But this was only the beginning.On August 24, the ED asked Lok Sabha members Saugata Roy and Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, former Lok Sabha member Aparupa Poddar, then TMC minister Suvendu Adhikari and former leader Sovan Chatterjee’s estranged wife, Ratna Chatterjee, to furnish details of their properties in connection with the Narada case.“The ED served me notice after several years. There are clear indications of a political vendetta,” said Saugata Roy.Adhikari left the TMC and joined BJP in December. In the recent polls, he made news by defeating Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram by around 1,900 votes.In March 2017, the CBI also registered an FIR against then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy, who joined the BJP in October that year and became the opposition party’s election strategist in Bengal.Roy and Adhikari have now become prime targets of the TMC.“Unlike Adhikari, Roy did not mention in his declaration to the Election Commission (EC) that he is an FIR-named accused in the Narada case. Why weren’t they arrested along with the four others?” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh.The CBI also wants to wrap up the Saradha Ponzi fund case involving an estimated ₹2,460 crore that was raised from around 1.8 million depositors from West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh.Sudipta Sen, who owned the group, is in jail. Before the assembly polls, Sen wrote a letter to the state government saying he gave a huge amount of money to Adhikari in instalments. BJP has called this a conspiracy to put Adhikari in trouble.BJP leaders admit that the Saradha case is crucial for them because there are allegations that money from the group was used to fund Jago Bangla, the TMC mouthpiece.In August 2019, TMC Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson, Derek O’Brien, was questioned by the CBI as he is the publisher of the mouthpiece. Subrata Bakshi, its editor and TMC’s national general secretary, was summoned too.The Rose Valley scam, estimated at ₹17,000 core, is however the biggest Ponzi scam in Bengal in terms of money involved. In 2014, the Supreme Court asked the CBI to investigate the scams and the role of influential people in money laundering. The ED is running a parallel probe.“The Calcutta high court is overseeing the probes as well as the refund of money to investors, around 200 of whom have died by suicide in these years,” said lawyer Arindam Das who represents the cheated investors of Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS groups.“If the probe agencies arrest top TMC leaders and file charge sheet the ruling party will be in trouble. But there is a catch. Former TMC leaders, such as Adhikari, can land in trouble too. Also, the TMC will intensify its campaign saying we are influencing the agencies to make up for our organisational weakness,” said a senior BJP leader who did not want to be named.Columnist and political commentator Suvashis Maitra said, “BJP will always run the risk of being bracketed as a party that uses probe agencies because CBI and ED work under the Centre. For a long time, there has been a demand to make the CBI an autonomous body like the Election Commission.”Helping people during the pandemicDuring a recent virtual meeting, BJP central leaders from Delhi instructed that all MLAs must be in touch with workers on the field and help people affected by the Covid pandemic. The party feels that this may have a far-reaching effect.“We were told that our MLAs must help the administration set up camps for vaccination, distribute sanitisers and masks and spread awareness among people. This will help the BJP reach out to those who did not vote for us and send out a positive message,” said a BJP state committee member.The party acted on this immediately.Actor-turned-politician Hiranmay Chatterjee, who won the Kharagpur Sadar seat, former economic adviser to the Centre, Ashok Lahiri, who wrested the Balurghat seat, Krishna Kumar Kalyani, the MLA from Raigunj, Subrata Maitra from Berhampore and Shankar Ghosh from Siliguri are among many new legislators who are actively working on the field. More MLAs have followed them.Facing an uphill taskIn the recent polls, the BJP managed to regain the trust of many Hindu, tribal and Dalit voters, who backed the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the south Bengal region which comprises 240 assembly segments.In north Bengal, on the other hand, two prominent TMC ministers lost while BJP candidates won 30 of the region’s 54 assembly segments.In terms of the 2019 Lok Sabha results, the BJP was ahead of the ruling party in 121 assembly segments. But the picture changed in most of the south Bengal districts during an unprecedented eight-phase assembly election.Regaining that lost ground before 2024 is the party’s main priority and it is an uphill task, BJP leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bjp-works-on-new-west-bengal-strategy-as-cbi-breathes-down-tmc-s-neck-101622031854170.html
