02-10-2021||---||Punjab govt transfers Mohali SSP Satinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 2The Punjab government on Saturday shifted Mohali SSP Satinder Singh to Jalandhar (rural) while posting Navjot Singh Mahal in his place.Also, DIG Inderbir Singh is posted as DIG Ferozepore Range.Navjot Mahal is nephew of Congress minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.Capt Amarinder Singh had removed him from post of SSP Hoshiarpur when Bajwa had fallen out with the then CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-govt-transfers-mohali-ssp-satinder-singh-319259
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for stealing Rs 6 lakh, valuables at doctor’s Sector 19 house||Chandigarh Police said they arrested a man they claimed stole Rs 6 lakh in cash and gold jewellery from a doctor’s house in Sector 19.The suspect, Rinku Khan, was arrested at Bihar’s Aurangabad.Police said they found Rs 4 in cash from Khan, who was a security guard at the civil hospital in Mani Majra, and stayed at the victim Dr Rajesh Rana’s house.The theft was allegedly committed on September 25 and came to light the next day.Police said Khan gave a sedative-laced sandwich to the doctor and stole their valuables. The suspect is currently in police custody and police hope they can track down the rest of the stolen cash and valuables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-stealing-rs-6-lakh-valuables-at-doctors-sector-19-house-319251
02-10-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI doctors find skin manifestation after Covishield||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22The researchers of Post Graduation Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have found skin manifestation as an adverse effect of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine.The researchers have described three cases of Covishield induced minor cutaneous (related to skin) adverse effects in paper titled “Erythema nodosum (EN), pityriasis rosea and zoster duplex as possible cutaneous adverse reactions following Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine: report of three cases from India.”The first case was a 25-year-old woman with complaints of low-grade fever, joint pains and red, painful nodules over legs and forearm of three days duration. The dermatological symptoms had resolved completely at follow-up visit after two weeks.Erythema nodosum (EN) is painful disorder characterised by tender bumps (nodules) under the skin.According to the researchers, EN eruption has been described in association with Covid-19 infection as well. “EN associated with other vaccines has been rarely reported. However, this is the first report of any Covid-19 vaccine-induced EN to the best of our knowledge,” said the researchers.The second case was of a 55-year-old man who presented with first episode of herpes zoster of both after Covid-19 vaccination. He reported receiving first dose of Covishield three days prior to cutaneous eruption. Resolution of symptoms was noted on follow up visit after two weeks.In the third case, there was a 24-year-old man with complaints of rashes from three days. The patient reported receiving Covishield 24 hours prior to onset of skin lesions. A diagnosis of pityriasis rosea (PR) was made and he was prescribed a medication.PR is a skin rash that sometimes begins as a large spot on the chest, abdomen or back, followed by a pattern of smaller lesions.The researchers said PR-like rash has been reported previously with Covid-19 infection as well as other Covid-19 mRNA vaccines.Skin related adverse effects of Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have been described recently but similar reports with Covishield are lacking in literature.The researchers said the three adverse events were temporally related to Oxford–AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. While reactivation of herpes and pityriasis rosea have been described with Covid-19 vaccination before, erythema nodosum has not been reported previously.“As these adverse effects were mild and resolved, the general population should feel assured about its safety and should be encouraged to adopt vaccination at the earliest,” the researchers concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctors-find-skin-manifestation-after-covishield-319241
02-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement delay: Clash, lathicharge at Chandimandir toll plaza during farmers’ protest||Panchkula, October 2Farmers broke barricades with tractors and clashed with the police on Saturday near Chandimandir toll plaza while they were marching towards Sector 17 to gherao Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s residence against postponing of paddy procurement, reportedly leaving many from both sides injured.Read also:The police resorted to a lathicharge to push back the crowd, injuring protesters in the process.In a press release, the police, however, denied the claim and stated that the protesters tried to run over police personnel with tractors, leaving few policemen injured.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, in a video message, asked the farmers to reach Chandimandir toll plaza in large numbers.As per Charuni, he may reach the toll barrier in an hour.He said, ‘’The police resorted to a brutal lathicharge in Panchkula in which many protesters have suffered injuries. Protesters have also been taken into custody from two-three spots. I urge nearby farmers, including those from Chandigarh, to immediately gather at Chandimandir toll plaza in large numbers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paddy-procurement-delay-clash-lathicharge-at-chandimandir-toll-plaza-during-farmers-protest-319230
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bid to forcibly enter Chandigarh Air Force Station||Youth nabbed with opiumChandigarh: A 23-year-old youth has been arrested by the police with opium. The police said Dev Raj, a resident of Dhanas village, was nabbed near the football ground in Sector 17 while he was in possession of 500-gram opium. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: A pedestrian snatched a mobile phone from a woman near the wine shop at the Grain Market in Sector 26. The police have registered a case at the Sector 26 police station and started investigation. TNSMC marks ‘cycle to work’ dayMohlai: Commemorating 75th Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, the Municipal Corporation on Friday observed ‘Cycle to Work’ day. All MC employees, including officers and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, came to office on cycles. The Mayor greeted the officials at the entry gate. A selfie stand was also installed at the entry gate where all the employees clicked selfies. The event was held under the banner of ‘freedom to cycle’. TNSBSNL foundation day celebratedChandigarh: A blood donation camp was organised on 21st foundation day of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited at the BSNL Telephone Exchange Building here on Friday. The camp was organised in association with GMCH-32. Total 102 units of blood was collected during the camp. Several trees of medicinal value were also planted. TNSImpact of covid on economyChandigarh: The Post Graduate Department of Economics at GGDSD College, Sector 32, organised a webinar on the “Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Indian Economy and the Road Ahead”. Prof Arun Kumar, Malcolm Adisesheah, Chair Professor at the Institute of Social Sciences, was the key note speaker. This pandemic has resulted in an unprecedented economic collapse and has had a major social as well as political impact and such impacts will be long lasting, he said. TNSFree camp for kids organisedMohlai: As many as 124 kids were given ‘Swarn Prashan’ drops during a free camp organised by Godlefe India at Saraswati Ayurved Hospital and College, Gharuan. The parents were also made aware about the importance of these drops. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-forcibly-enter-chandigarh-air-force-station-319087
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vinoo Mankad Trophy: Bengal boys beat Punjab by seven wickets||Bengal beat Punjab by seven wickets in an Elite - D group match of Vinoo Mankad Trophy at ECIL Ground in Hyderabad today.Batting first, Punjab U-19 boys were bowled out for 158 runs in 47 overs. Mayank Gupta (38), Krish Bhagat (28) and Manroopsingh (26) made useful contributions to the total.Amrit Raj Upadhyay claimed 4/25 for Bengal, while Debopratim Halder took 3/26.In reply, Bengal boys achieved the target in 26.1 overs with skipper Abishek Porel hitting a brisk 74. Rohit Ram made 42 runs. Punjab eves triumphPunjab girls beat Tripura by 153 runs in an Inter-State Women’s U-19 One Day Trophy match in Jaipur on Friday. Batting first, Punjab made 214/6 in 50 overs. In reply, Tripura were all out for 61. Muskan Sogi (5/13) and Mannat Kashyap (4/8) did the maximum damage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vinoo-mankad-trophy-bengal-boys-beat-punjab-by-seven-wickets-319086
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Seafarers observe World Maritime Day||World Maritime Day was celebrated here today on the theme of “Seafarers: At the Core of Shipping’s Future”, to emphasise the invaluable role the merchant navy plays in building trade between countries.Captain TS Bhatia, president, Merchant Navy Officers Association, said the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions on travel and transit had severely impacted the seafarers and placed extraordinary strain on their job. While thousands of men and women could not be repatriated, a number of seafarers have been unable to join ships and earn their living, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seafarers-observe-world-maritime-day-319085
02-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh academies open for 10+ age group||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1The state-run football, hockey and cricket academies are now open for the players aged above 10 years.The academies have opened after a two-year-long Covid induced break.The academies are operational at the Sector 42 Sports Complex, Sector 18 Hockey Stadium and Sector 16 Cricket Stadium.“The academies have been opened while following all the Covid-related protocols. It’s a good sign for players. Trainees have already started practising,” said Dr Sunil Rayat, Joint Director, Sports.Trainees in the age group of 10 to 11 years are inducted in these academies for a tenure of seven or eight years.The tenure of the junior string has been fixed as seven years as per the agreement signed with trainees’ parents.“Trainees have joined back academies. After spending initial days in isolation, they have been cleared to attend practise sessions,” said a senior coach.“Trainees are also attending academic classes at their respective schools. Covid-19 related guidelines are being followed and hostels and academies are being sanitised regularly,” the coach added.The academies had been closed after the onset of the Covid pandemic.After opening all other centres, the Administration has now decided to open these academies too.Conducting championshipsMeanwhile, sources claimed that the Sports Department was still planning to announce the annual calendar.“Since the onset of the pandemic, the department has not organised any championships. On the contrary, many local associations have conducted state championships for different age groups. The higher authorities will take a call on this matter soon,” said a senior official.Sources also claimed that chances of opening swimming pools for recreational purpose were grim.“It may be delayed till winter session. We have already opened pools for professional swimmers. Other facilities have been opened for recreational groups and members. Opening pools for general public amid the pandemic is a bit dicey. We are not in a hurry to take any chances,” said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-academies-open-for-10-age-group-319084
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Estate Office SDO suspended for dereliction of duty||A Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) of the Estate Office has been placed under suspension on account of dereliction of duty.SDO Mohan Lal, presently posted in the building branch of the Estate Office, was placed under suspension by CB Ojha, Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary, Engineering wing, for disobeying the DC’s order.The SDO allegedly failed to attend the meeting of the Plan Approval Committee (PAC) today and also did not submit the agenda before the PAC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-office-sdo-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-319083
02-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Senior Citizens’ Day: SDM calls upon youth to respect parents, elders||Senior citizens are an asset for society. The progress of a nation is not just decided by the GDP and per capita income, but by how senior citizens are treated.The government has framed a policy for the welfare of the elderly people and the measures have been taken to strictly implement it to ensure the safety and security of the elderly, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, SDM, while addressing a function organised by the Rotary Club, Sirhind, in collaboration with the Senior Citizen’s Welfare Association to commemorate the ‘International Day for Elderly’. He called upon the youths to respect and obey their parents and elders as they have vast knowledge. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-citizens-day-sdm-calls-upon-youth-to-respect-parents-elders-319082
02-10-2021||Mohali||‘100 per cent vaccination in Mohali by  October-end’||Maximum complete immunisation of masses would ensure herd immunity thus averting the deadliest effects of the next wave of Covid-19, whenever it hits, said Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Himanshu Aggarwal while presiding over a meeting on Covid management.The ADC said the district was heading towards 100 per cent vaccination with both doses and the target would be accomplished by October-end. He said: “We were fortunate that our scientists have developed vaccines to win this war against the invisible enemy, and now it is our responsibility to come forward for the jabs.”He stated those avoiding or skipping this duty are putting their families at risk.Lauding the efforts of health officials, Dr Aggarwal said NGOs had been playing a proactive role in this mammoth exercise by creating awareness among people and facilitating them with mobile vaccination camps. He assured the health officials of full support from the district administration in its future endeavors to realise the goal of second-dose inoculation of all eligible beneficiaries in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-per-cent-vaccination-in-mohali-by-october-end-319081
02-10-2021||---||PGI to hold GI Emergency Programme for young docs||Chandigarh, October 1The fifth PGI GI Emergency Programme, which will focus on training postgraduates from all over the country, begins here tomorrow.Prof Usha Dutta, head of the Gastroenterology Department, at the PGI said: “We realised that patients who come to the emergency in any hospital in India need evidence-based efficient care to improve their survival. Patients, when they come to the emergency, need expedient management to be instituted at the earliest to improve their outcomes.”The postgraduate residents (MD/DM/DNB/MS) are usually the first contact to the patient. They are in their training process and in difficult cases need to consult senior faculty in order to streamline the management. This results in loss of time which is precious, said Professor Dutta.“This gap in the Indian medical education process needed to be bridged so we made a mobile app for GI emergencies, which was launched in the year 2016 during our first PGI GI Emergency Programme,” she said.The conference, which is an important event for training young doctors in management of GI emergencies, will be guided by Prof R Kochhar, she informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-hold-gi-emergency-programme-for-young-docs-319080
02-10-2021||---||Officers, veterans commemorate 81st Raising Day of Mahar Regiment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1Officers and veterans of the Mahar Regiment, Chandigarh Chapter, commemorated the 81st Raising Day of the regiment, here today.General Officer Commanding, 11 Corps, Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnapa, who is also a Colonel of the Mahar Regiment, was the chief guest on the occasion.War veterans were remembered and homage was paid to soldiers who had laid down their lives in the line of duty.The Raising Day was celebrated simultaneously at five nodal cities, including Secunderabad, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Pune and Chandigarh.The event was live streamed at all locations and a felicitation message was read out by a senior veteran from each location.Mahar Regiment was raised on October 1, 1941 at Belgaum and has served the nation for 80 years. The regiment has participated in the Second World War and all major post- Independence wars and operations.It was also involved in several United Nations peace keeping missions as well as counter insurgency and anti-military operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/officers-veterans-commemorate-81st-raising-day-of-mahar-regiment-319079
02-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Children tread treacherous path to reach school||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1Children from the Makhan Majra and Mauli Jagran – II area are putting their lives at risk as they tread through an unattended junkyard to reach school in the shortest possible time.Though Government Middle School, Makhan Majra, has got a proper approach road, residents claimed that the shortcut through the junkyard saved children about 15-20 minutes.“The approach is far from our locality. It takes almost 20 to 25 minutes to reach school from that road,” claimed a resident as he demanded for a direct road to the school.“A direct passage will help children reach school in five minutes. We have already approached the officials concerned in this regard,” the resident added.The scrap dealer, who had raised the temporary single-door entrance/exit for the passage of children and other people, claimed that the opening had been provided for the benefit of the residents. However, as the treacherous walk through the junkyard drew the media attention, the scrap dealer decided to close the pass permanently.“The pass has been made for the benefit of the nearby residents. As they have raised objection, I am going to close this door permanently,” said Ashok, the owner of the junkyard.“Few months back, same people gathered near my junkyard and fought for the passage,” he claimed.“As per the Estate Office plan, the road ends right on my junkyard… I will now close it permanently. The residents should now fight for the road on their own,” said Ashok.The area also does not have any provision of street lights or armed guards.“Our fight is not with the junkyard owner or any other businessman, but we are questioning the UT Administration,” said one of the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/children-tread-treacherous-path-to-reach-school-319078
02-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration forms Covid task force for paediatric care||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1The Chandigarh Administration has constituted a state-level Covid task force for paediatric care after the directions from the Government of India.The task force comprising 27 members will be responsible for situational analysis, gap assessment, monitoring, review and other necessary activities related to strengthening of Covid paediatric care services at the public health facilities.The task force will be headed by Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health.Director Health and Family Welfare-cum-MD, NHM, Dr Suman Singh will be the Member Secretary of the task force. She will monitor the entire work of the State Level Task Force on Paediatric Care.The other members include of the task force include MC Commissioner; Deputy Commissioner; Director, Public Relations; Director, Social Welfare; Director, School Education; Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16; Medical Superintendent, PGIMER; Medical Superintendent, GMCH-32; Medical Superintendent, ESI Hospital, Ramdarbar; and District Family Welfare Officer, Chandigarh.HoD Paediatrics (PGI); HoD Medicine (GMSH-16); HoD Paediatrics (GMSH-16); ICU in-charge (GMSH-16); HoD Paediatrics (GMCH-32); HoD Medicine (GMCH-32); ICU in-charge (GMCH-32); and Principal, School of Nursing (GMCH-32) are also part of the task force among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-forms-covid-task-force-for-paediatric-care-319077
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh||One succumbs to virus in MohaliMohali: One person died while another tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Friday. Seven persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. The district Covid tally now stands at 68,739 with 67,639 recoveries. There are 34 active cases. The virus has so far claimed 1,066 lives in the district — TNSNo case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: No fresh Covid case was reported from the district for the second consecutive day on Friday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,738. The toll also remained at 377. While 30,342 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 19 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-319076
02-10-2021||---||14-day judicial custody for advocate arrested for taking bribe ‘on behalf of tax official’ posted in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 1The CBI Court has sent advocate Sunil Arora to 14-day judicial custody. Arora was arrested by the CBI on the allegations of demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 80,000 allegedly on behalf of an Assistant Commissioner, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST), posted in Chandigarh.The CBI has registered the case against the accused under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120 B of the IPC on a complaint. He was produced before the court after his one-day remand ended today and the court remanded him in judicial custody.Also read: Advocate nabbed for taking bribe ‘on behalf of tax official’ posted in Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-day-judicial-custody-for-advocate-arrested-for-taking-bribe-on-behalf-of-tax-official-posted-in-chandigarh-319075
02-10-2021||Panchkula||4 of family booked for ‘dowry harassment’ in Panchkula||The police have booked four persons, including the victim’s husband, in a dowry harassment case here.A case has been registered against the victim’s husband Dinesh Saini, her father-in-law Chaman Lal, mother-in-law Urmila and brother-in-law Mohit Kumar under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 406 (breach of trust), 498-A (cruelty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.The victim, identified as Nitu, a resident of Sector 26, had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that she had been mentally and physically harassed by her in-laws for dowry for the past six years.The victim told the police that she got married on November 26, 2015, and her parents spent about Rs18 lakh on her marriage.“At the time of marriage, they (my in-laws) had sought a car costing Rs14 lakh. My father could only give them a Maruti Suzuki alto with an assurance that he would also buy them a big car later on. Since the beginning of the marriage, my in-laws were harassing, humiliating, and maltreating me on the pretext that my parents had not given sufficient dowry,” the complainant told the police.“My in-laws started pressuring me to bring Rs10 lakh and a big car. They used to beat, abuse and torture me for the same reason,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-family-booked-for-dowry-harassment-in-panchkula-319074
02-10-2021||---||Three turnouts replaced on Kalka-Shimla rail section||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1As part of speed-raising efforts in yards of the Kalka-Shimla heritage section (from 15 kmph to 25 kmph), three turnouts will be replaced at Taksal, Gumman and Kumarhatti stations, said Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh.“Today, we have replaced the third turnout at Taksal station completing the job well before the deadline of October 10, assigned by the general manager of the division,” he said. “Speed shall be raised after getting sanction of the CRS for which papers have been submitted to the Headquarters,” he added.The three turnouts have been fabricated at Kathua by Jalandhar Bridge Workshop. These have been installed at Taksal, Gumman and Kumarhatti yards, said Hari Mohan, IRTS, Sr DCM, Coaching, Ambala Division.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-turnouts-replaced-on-kalka-shimla-rail-section-319073
02-10-2021||---||Artists showcase talent at ‘Waste to Art’||Chandigarh, October 1Waste disposal is a huge challenge for every citizen, but the Municipal Corporation (MC) has found a special use for some of its waste material - it has transformed them into a work of art.Celebrating the 75th Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, the MC organised a one-day waste-to-art exhibition-cum-live workshop under the banner, “Apshist Kala Pradrshni”, to honour various artists working in the transformation of waste items into the best art. Artists from different NGOs, organisations and individuals gathered at Plaza, Sector 17, today to showcase their talent.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was the chief guest at the exhibition-cum-workshop. He appreciated the works of artists for their wonderful exhibits which are being miraculously made out of household waste.He said art, which is not only a delight for the eyes but also sends out a strong social message, is the need of the hour. This exhibition-cum-live workshop would create awareness on various environmental issues also. The initiative is also going to boost socio-cultural art in the city and would encourage young artists to come up with new ideas.The exhibits included “Sanitary Waste to Art” by Kala Sagar Group, “Plastic Waste to Art” by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, “Cloth Waste to Art” by Veenu and Laxmi Self-Help Group and “Cloth Waste to Art” by Veenu, Shagun, Reet Self-Help Groups.There was “Waste to Art” display by MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36; PR wing, Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh; Government High School, Sector 54; Government Middle School, Burail; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 32; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 23-A; Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22A; Govt Model School, Sector 8; and by Anuj Saini, son of Late Nek Chand, founder of Rock Garden.75th Azadi Ka Amrut MahotsavCelebrating the 75th Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, the MC organised a one-day waste-to-art exhibition-cum-live workshop under the banner, “Apshist Kala Pradrshni”, to honour various artists working in the transformation of waste items into the best art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/artists-showcase-talent-at-waste-to-art-319072
02-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Graft: 4-year RI for Chandigarh cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1Special Judge, CBI Court, Jagjit Singh has awarded four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to a constable of the Chandigarh Police, Balraj Singh, after convicting him of the offences punishable under section 7 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act in a seven-year-old bribery case.The court awarded him four-year RI under Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and three-year RI under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. Both sentences will run concurrently. The court also imposed a fine of Rs10, 000 each under the two sections on the convict.The CBI had booked Balraj, who was deputed as naib court at the District Courts, Sector 43, Chandigarh, on the charge of demanding and accepting bribe from an accused.While the accused prayed for leniency during the hearing on the quantum of sentence, PK Dogra, senior public prosecutor of the CBI, pleaded for an exemplary punishment to the convict in view of the fact that the accused was a policeman. Dogra said since the act was done by a policeman, he should be given a maximum punishment under the law.The constable had demanded the bribe in lieu of helping the complainant in a bail case. The CBI had registered a case against the accused on a complaint of a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, Rohani, alias Romy. Romi had complained to the investigating agency on April 4, 2014, that Balraj was demanding Rs5,000 as bribe to help him get bail in a case of voluntarily causing hurt registered at the Sector 11 police station.The CBI had arrested the constable while he was taking the bribe amount of Rs3,000 outside the courtroom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-4-year-ri-for-chandigarh-cop-319071
02-10-2021||---||Chandigarh civic body signs tripartite pact with Administration, Centre||Chandigarh, October 1To achieve the aspiration of urban transformation, a tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) outlining the commitment, roles and responsibilities was signed digitally between the Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh Administration and the Central Government today. This agreement will help in making further progress in sanitation and water sectors in the City Beautiful.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Swachh Bharat Mission – Urban 2.0 (SBM-U 2.0) and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation 2.0 (AMRUT 2.0) today. The SBM (U) and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improving urban landscape during the past few years and this flagship mission has been successfully implemented in Chandigarh, along with other cities in India, by augmenting the capacities to deliver basic services of water supply to the citizens.While sharing this development, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said Chandigarh had been declared as Open Defection Free (ODF ++) and about 20,000 new water and sewer connections had been provided under AMRUT in Chandigarh.She said SBM-U2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 represented a landmark moment to redefine the urban landscape of the country by achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas and providing 100% coverage of water supply to all households.The Commissioner said it was a step towards making the city garbage-free through focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising principles of 3 R (Reduce, Re-use, Recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumps. Further making the city water secure by effecting water source conservation, rejuvenation of water bodies and wells, recycle/reuse of treated used water and rainwater harvesting by involving community at large is a step towards Aatma Nirbhar Bharat.A step towards making the city garbage-freeAnindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said it was a step towards making the city garbage-free through focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising principles of 3 R (reduce, reuse, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-signs-tripartite-pact-with-administration-centre-319070
02-10-2021||Amarjot Kaur||15 Chandigarh heritage items sold for Rs3.34 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1A total of 15 heritage items, mainly Chandigarh’s furniture designed by architects Pierre Jeanneret and Le Corbusier, were auctioned for Rs3.34 crore in Paris yesterday. Among these items, a pair of chairs, in solid teak and fabric, dating back to 1960, was sold for Rs78.22 lakh.Ajay Jagga, a member of the UT Administration’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, said it was “the costliest pair of Chandigarh chairs sold so far.”Expressing concern and demanding a probe into how the city’s furniture reached the auction house in Paris, Jagga had earlier (on September 28) penned a representation to political and diplomatic channels of India and France. He has again demanded investigation into the matter.He pointed that the Ministry of Home Affairs had banned the export of UT’s heritage furniture in an order dated February 22, 2011.Today, in a yet another letter to India’s Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy and French Minister of Culture Roselyne Bachelot, Jagga wrote: “There is an emergent need to get the matter examined from the law-enforcing agencies of Paris, as to how these items reached Paris. Whether laws of India and France were followed or not. There is a complete ban on the sale/disposal of such items in India as also on export. Whether the seller is in legal/lawful possession.”The letter has also been sent to the PMO and the HMO along with state ministers Arjun R Meghwal and Meenakshi Lekhi, Jawed Ashraf, Ambassador of India to France, and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-chandigarh-heritage-items-sold-for-rs3-34-crore-319069
02-10-2021||Zirakpur||Free entry to Chhatbir Zoo from October 3-8||The Chhatbir Zoo will remain closed on October 2 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti while the entry to the zoo will be free for all from October 3 to 8 on account of the Wildlife Week-2021 celebrations. The theme for the Wildlife Week this year is “Forests and Livelihoods: Sustaining People and Planet”.Wildlife awareness campaign, painting competition, quiz, online story writing, videography, online origami contest, cycle rides, running events and expert talks will also be organised during the week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-entry-to-chhatbir-zoo-from-october-3-8-319068
02-10-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: 20-year-old hit-&-run victim succumbs||A 20-year-old girl, who sustained injuries in a hit-and-run on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway recently, died during treatment at the GMCH-32. The deceased has been identified as Panchkula resident Balika.On a statement of the victim’s father Dil Bahadur, the police have registered a case against the unidentified driver and launched a search for him. In a statement to the police, the complainant stated that his daughter worked at a private factory in Zirakpur. He added that she was returning home from work when the accident took place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-20-year-old-hit-run-victim-succumbs-319030
02-10-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Imported liquor smuggling: Sector 36 resident kingpin of racket||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 1A Sector 36 resident and US citizen, Anterpreet Singh Sidhu, has been reportedly identified as the kingpin of the illicit liquor and beer smuggling racket busted jointly by the Punjab Excise Department and the Mohali police yesterday.Naresh Dubey, Joint Excise Commissioner, Punjab, said, “Sidhu is currently in India and will be nabbed soon. His house and office were raided, from where seizures have been made. Liquor and beer was likely being smuggled from Customs bonded warehouse in Noida. The complicity of warehouse officials has not been ruled out. We will conduct in-depth investigation.”The police said Sidhu was a businessman and also dealt in illicit liquor. The process of issuing a look-out notice for him had been initiated. “Certain quantity of the haul confiscated yesterday has exceeded the expiry date,” they disclosed.Excise officials said the seized brands of liquor and beer were available in India. The demand for Spanish and Romanian beer has shot up in India in the recent past.Also read: Foreign beer, liquor smuggling racket unearthed, 2 arrested in ZirakpurSources said the racket was operating for the past one year and the suspects were allegedly smuggling bottled-in-origin (BIO) brands and imported liquor to the godowns in Lalru and Khizrabad, evading excise duty and other levies. It has not been ascertained yet whether the liquor and beer was being smuggled for private parties or for hotels and restaurants.On Thursday, the police and the Excise Department had claimed to have busted an organised module of beer and liquor smuggling racket in the district. As many as 201 cartons of imported liquor and 1,400 cartons of beer were seized.Two suspects, Malerkotla resident Vishwajeet Singh Dhindsa and truck driver, Somu, were arrested.According to excise officials, the seized liquor and beer, including brands Senior Boke and Moller, are worth around Rs20 lakh.A case under Sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act and Sections 420, 468 and 120-B of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/imported-liquor-smuggling-sector-36-resident-kingpin-of-racket-319025
02-10-2021||Dera Bassi||61 dengue cases in 3 days at Saidpura in Dera Bassi||As many as 61 cases of dengue have been reported from the Saidpura area in Dera Bassi in the past three days. The samples were collected on September 29, 30 and October 1.“There are three laboratories in the district for ELISA test. There was some problem with the Dera Bassi laboratory due to which test reports could not come in time. Otherwise, test reports are given on daily basis,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali.The district registered 344 cases last month. Doctors said there had been 92 per cent rise in the reported dengue cases.Health officials said Mohali Urban, Phase 7, Phase 3B1, Balongi, Dera Bassi city and Saidpura were high risk areas.“There is an alarming rise in number of dengue cases. Kindly take all precautions at individual level. The district administration is doing its bit,” said the officials.Nine-year-old diesMeanwhile, there were unconfirmed reports of the death of a nine-year-old in the Balongi area due to dengue.The family belongs to UP and the patient was admitted to the PGI. The Civil Surgeon said: “There is no confirmation as yet. There is no patient registered with us with that name and age. We have checked it with the PGI. There may be some more clarity by tomorrow.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-dengue-cases-in-3-days-at-saidpura-in-dera-bassi-319024
02-10-2021||---||Mosquito-killer Gambusia fish released in Chandigarh's Nagar Van||Chandigarh, October 1The UT Fisheries Department today released the mosquito-killer Gambusia fish at Nagar Van near Sukhna Lake as a step towards preventing malaria and dengue in the city.The department has initiated steps to fight mosquito-borne disease such as malaria and dengue, which are common post-rainy season. In this season, mosquitoes breed rapidly, especially in stagnant water, causing the spread of diseases such as malaria and dengue.Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator, Forest, Manish Kumar Lohan, Director, Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and Dr Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, were present on the occasion. The Gambusia fish will also be released in other stagnant water points in the coming days by the department. Dr Qayum appreciated the efforts of the Animal Husbandry Department in playing an important role in coordination with the Forest Department for the conservation of the ecology of the Sukhna wetland and other water bodies in Chandigarh.In a day, eats 100 to 300 mosquito larvaeOnly female aedes aegypti mosquitoes can spread the dengue virus. The Gambusia adult fish eats 100 to 300 mosquito larvae per day. This fish is small and inedible, which makes it an excellent biological tool for mosquito control because it consumes the larvae before they have a chance to develop into adult mosquitoes.Lohan said the Gambusia released in the water bodies was being produced at the fish seed farm at Regulatory end of Sukhna Lake functioning under UT Fisheries Department. The department breeds this fish from April to September and then releases it from October onwards as per the requirement.He said in the northern region, the government fish seed farm in Chandigarh was the only farm which bred rare fish and supplied it to other departments such as Forest and Health, and to the public free of cost. This fish was released into stagnant water bodies to prevent mosquito breeding.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Kanwarjit Singh said the main aim was to control target mosquito species that could transmit viruses. He said only female aedes aegypti mosquitoes could spread the dengue virus. The Gambusia adult fish eats 100 to 300 mosquito larvae per day. This fish is small and inedible, which makes it an excellent biological tool for mosquito control because it consumes the larvae before they have a chance to develop into adult mosquitoes. He appealed to the public to approach the fish seed farm for collecting mosquito fish for releasing it at stagnant water points, fountains and ponds inside their houses free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mosquito-killer-gambusia-fish-released-in-chandigarhs-nagar-van-319023
02-10-2021||---||Illegal parking chokes Panchkula roads||Panchkula, October 1Illegal parking along roads and bylanes across the city has turned a nightmare for commuters and pedestrians.Though the Deputy Commissioner had recently called for strict action on the issue, the authorities concerned seem to be in no mood to act, resulting in violators having an upper hand.At the District Road Safety Committee meeting on September 20, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had directed the traffic police to act tough against owners of vehicles parked illegally on the roadside that affect the flow of traffic. The offenders should be strictly challaned so that motorists did not face inconvenience, he had said, adding that parking spaces should be regularised.Ambulances get stuckThere have been instances when the fire brigade and ambulances have failed to reach the spot or got delayed due to illegal parking on roads. — SK Nayar, president, Citizens Welfare AssnThe illegal parking not just affects commuters and the pedestrian movement but hampers emergency response.“There have been instances when the fire brigade and ambulances have failed to reach the spot or got delayed due to illegal parking on roads,” SK Nayar, president of the Citizens Welfare Association. Nayar also spoke of how parking issues could be addressed if houses had enough parking spaces for owners.“Most small houses do not have sufficient space for parking on their premises or outside, but own more than one car or motorcycle. Ultimately, owners have to park their vehicles on the roadside and they end up creating traffic congestion,” he said.The parking spaces of the Sector 8, 9 and 10 markets are a prime example.In these markets, commuters park their vehicles on the main road and footpaths despite sufficient parking space to avoid parking fee, which is Rs5 for a two-wheeler and Rs10 for a four-wheeler.Inspector Bajinder Singh, SHO, Traffic (City), said, “We monitor all stretches in the city. If any vehicle is found in a no-parking zone, we tow it and challan the owner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-parking-chokes-panchkula-roads-319022
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||New DHS assumes charge in Chandigarh||A 1991-batch Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) officer, Dr Suman Singh, today assumed the charge of the Director, Health Services, UT. Prior to her joining here, she was Deputy Director, Vigilance, Punjab.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Dr Suman said, “My focus will be on improving health services in the UT, so that every section of the society, especially economically weaker sections and old people, could avail the health facilities in a hassle-free manner,” she said.She said special stress would be laid on all issues related to Covid-19 management, besides ensuring vaccination to all residents in the UT.“To combat the possible Covid-19 third wave, the Government of India has already taken many steps and Chandigarh has mostly fulfilled all of these. Vaccination is the key to prevent spread and hospitalisation. Chandigarh has already achieved 100 per cent vaccination of first dose and will soon attain the target for both doses as well,” she added.While talking of lessons learnt from the second wave, Dr Suman said, “In the second wave, the whole country was caught on the wrong foot. We did not expect Covid-19 cases to rise so high. We are prepared well now, be it availability of oxygen, ICU beds or medicines.”Dr Suman, who graduated from the Government Medical College, Patiala, in 1989, was deputed in the city for two years from 1993 to 1995. —TNSPM to virtually open PSA plant at GMSHPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate a PSA oxygen plant at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 on October 7. The hospital has installed 500 litre per minute PSA plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-dhs-assumes-charge-in-chandigarh-319021
02-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh clocks 8% growth in GST collection in Sept this year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1With activities returning to near normal, the tax collection has also started picking up in the city. The gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected in the UT in September stood at Rs152 crore, 8 per cent higher than the revenue generated in the same month last year.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs152 crore in September, whereas the city had received a revenue of over Rs141 crore during the same period last year.In August, the GST collection stood at Rs144 crore, 4 per cent higher than the revenue of Rs139 crore received during the corresponding period last year.With the gross GST collection of Rs169 crore, the UT Administration had registered a robust growth of 23 per cent in July this year in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore generated in July last year. However, the Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of the GST collection during January, April, May and June, 2021. In March, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, 8 per cent more than the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, 14 per cent less than the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, Rs141 crore in November, Rs151.98 crore in October and Rs141.48 crore in September last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-clocks-8-growth-in-gst-collection-in-sept-this-year-319020
02-10-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP promises 20,000-litre free water, mohalla clinics||Chandigarh, October 1The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has promised 24-hour water supply, 20,000 litres of water free of cost and mohalla clinics in every sector where people will get free treatment and other facilities on the Delhi pattern if it is voted to power in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections to be held in December this year.Releasing the party’s first manifesto for the MC poll here, Jarnail Singh, Delhi MLA and city AAP in-charge, said on the lines of the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi, they had included all important facilities in their manifesto for Chandigarh, including 24-hour clean water supply, 20,000 litres of water sans cost, free Wi-Fi hotspots, no new taxes, withdrawal of increased taxes, installation of street lights at dark spots, CCTV cameras at different places to make the city safe and pothole-free roads.“Besides, mohalla clinics will be set up in every sector where people will get free treatment,” he said. Jarnail also promised doorstep delivery of government services on the pattern of Delhi and free parking facility for UT residents.He claimed that AAP would win all seats in the MC elections this time and the new Mayor would be from the party.Under an ambitious plan of organisation expansion, the MLA also started a membership drive. Jarnail Singh went door-to-door for the campaign. Senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan, co-in-charge of Chandigarh AAP Pradeep Chhabra, convener Prem Garg, president of the election campaign committee Chandramukhi Sharma, city AAP vice-president Vikram Dhawan, general secretary Vijay Pal Singh and treasurer PP Ghai were present on the occasion.Jarnail Singh said, “We have resolved to reach out to lakhs of people of the city by running a membership drive.”What else assured||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-promises-20-000-litre-free-water-mohalla-clinics-319019
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||50% of Punjab and Haryana High Court Benches to resume physical hearing from Monday||Nearly 18 months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to virtual mode of hearing cases following the Covid outbreak, on Thursday it inched closer to normal functioning with the Chief Justice making it clear that 50 per cent of the Benches would hear the cases “physically” from Monday.An order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry indicated that 19 Benches would “hold the court through physical hearing”. In all, 39 Benches, comprising 45 judges, are currently holding court through videoconferencing and physical mode. As of now, 12 Benches are hearing cases physically.The High Court had shifted to the virtual mode of hearing in March-end last year. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip High Court judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates and staff. The High Court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19. But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following a “massive surge” in cases, the working had to be restricted further from April 28. But all Benches resumed functioning through the virtual mode from July 28 with the reduction in the severity of the second wave.Amid apprehensions of a third wave, the High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, with two Division Benches and 10 single Benches designated for hearing of cases through the physical mode. The High Court at that time made it clear that four single Benches would take up writ petitions and civil matters, while six would take up criminal matters.Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar president GDS Dhillon said the advocates had since long been demanding the resumption of physical hearing of cases. — TNSShifted to virtual mode last yearThe HC had shifted to the virtual mode of hearing in March-end last year. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip High Court judges, judicial officers and staff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-benches-to-resume-physical-hearing-from-monday-318854
