03-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Society to pay 8-year rent for delaying flat possession||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 2In a significant judgment, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised Nirvana Co-Op House Building (First) Society Ltd, Plot No. 48, for not handing over the possession of a flat to a member, Asha Sharma, despite issuing no dues certificate (NDC). An office of the society was run from her flat.Holding the society guilty of indulging in unfair trade practices, the commission directed it to pay Rs1 lakh as compensation to the complainant for causing her mental agony and harassment as well as litigation expenses.The commission also directed the society to pay Rs10,000 per month for a period of eight years from the issuance of the NDC (2009) till the date of delivery of possession (2017) of the flat to the complainant.In the complaint filed before the commission, Asha said as a member of the society, she deposited Rs1,60,725 on January 31, 2008, to the management of the society as the principal cost of the land and lease money.The society issued no dues certificate (NDC) on June 24, 2009. She alleged that despite the receipt of all dues and the issuance of an NDC in 2009, the society demanded Rs1,20,712 on November 28, 2016.She said she deposited that amount also. She alleged that the society had not given the possession of the flat despite her repeated requests. She alleged that the society had run its office from her flat illegally from August 1, 2008, till January 1, 2011, without paying any rent or charges and delayed the delivery of possession of flat. She sent a legal notice to the society on July 5, 2018, but to no avail.Kamal K Sharma, counsel, filed the reply on behalf of the society and denied all allegations. He claimed that the complaint is barred by limitation. He argued that the dues were paid on December 31, 2009, whereas the full and final payment was made by the complainant on October 25, 2016, and on the same day, the possession of the flat was handed over to her, and the permission for mortgage was given.He argued that the complainant couldn’t claim any rent, as alleged, as the flat remains the property of the society till the possession is given to a member.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the Commission, comprising its President Rajan Dewan and member BM Sharma, said the society remained grossly deficient in its services and indulged in unfair trade practices by belatedly delivering the possession of the flat.What consumer panel observedThe District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, observed, “A buyer/complainant having paid her hard-earned money to have a house is not supposed to be kept on waiting for long, especially after making payment and issuance of no-dues certificate. Therefore, the deficiency in service as well as unfair trade practice resorted to by OPs (society) is clearly established, which not only caused financial loss to the complainants but also caused them immense harassment and mental agony.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/society-to-pay-8-year-rent-for-delaying-flat-possession-319491
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Suspect in theft at doc’s house held||The crime branch of the UT police has arrested the suspect in a case of theft at a doctor’s house in Sector 19.Rinku, who worked as a security guard at the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, used to stay at Dr Rajesh Rana’s house and had allegedly fled with Rs6 lakh and gold jewellery on September 25. He was arrested from Aurangabad, Bihar.The police have recovered Rs4 lakh from him and have taken him on remand to recover the remaining stolen cash and jewellery. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-in-theft-at-docs-house-held-319492
03-10-2021||Mohali||30-year-old man dies in hit-&-run||A 30-year-old man was killed on the spot when a rashly-driven truck hit the motorcycle he was riding pillion near the K-Area in Baltana late on Friday night.The deceased has been identified as Dharminder Singh, a resident of village Nagla Bagh in Budaun district of UP and presently living at Nabha Sahib village.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s friend Dharminder of Baltana, who was driving the bike, said the truck ran over his friend before speeding away. Since it was dark, he could not note down its registration number. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-year-old-man-dies-in-hit-run-319493
03-10-2021||---||Farmers lay siege to houses of Cong leaders in Mohali||Mohali, October 2On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers staged a dharna near the residences of two Congress leaders in Mohali as well as Dera Bassi today demanding the early procurement of paddy.The farmers staged a dharna near the residences of local MLA and former Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali and senior Congress leader of Dera Bassi Deepinder Singh Dhillon in Zirakpur.The police had made elaborate security arrangement by putting up barricades on the way to the residences of both leaders besides deputing a large number of policemen to stop the farmers from moving towards their residences. As the police did not allow the farmers to move towards the residences, they staged a sit-in near the barricades.Addressing the protesting farmers, Jaspal Singh, senior vice-president of Bharti Kisan Union (Lokhowal), said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had given a call for laying siege to the offices of the district commissioners, but due to holiday and weekly off, the SKM called for laying siege to the residences of the Congress MLAs and ministers. He said that the protest would continue till the procurement of paddy resumed.Jaspal said if the Central Government was not purchasing the paddy, then the state government should make arrangements for it.He said no one would be allowed to come out or enter the former minister’s residence.The farmers also staged a dharna outside the residence of Dhillon in Zirakpur. When the Congress leader was informed about the dharna, he came out and joined in the farmers’ protest. He justified the demand of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-lay-siege-to-houses-of-cong-leaders-in-mohali-319494
03-10-2021||---||Farmers lathicharged at Chandimandir toll plaza||Panchkula, October 2Farmers broke barricades with tractors and clashed with the police near the Chandimandir toll plaza today while they were marching towards Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s residence in Sector 17 to protest the postponing of paddy procurement, leaving many from both sides injured.The police resorted to lathicharge to push back the protesters who were going to lay a siege to Gupta’s residence.In a press note, the police, however, stated that they had to use “mild force” when the protesters tried to run over police personnel with tractors, in which a few policemen were injured.In “order to maintain peace”, around 40-50 protesters were taken into custody near the Chandimandir and Jaloli toll plazas as well as the BJP district headquarters in Sector 2.The detainees were later let off, said the police. They added that their investigation into the matter was under way.“Based on the videographic evidence obtained from the spot, appropriate action will be taken,” the DCP PRO said.To register a protest against the police, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni reached the toll barrier in the evening. In response to his video message earlier today, “enthusiastic farmers” in large numbers reached the toll plaza to support him. He had appealed to farmers of the nearby areas, including those from Chandigarh, to gather at the toll plaza in protest against the “brutal lathicharge” on farmers.He also tweeted: “It’s a misconception by the government that farmers will call off their movement in fear of lathis and putting them in jail. Our agitation will go on until our demands are met.”After the release of the detained farmers, Charuni called off the protest and urged the supporters to return home.Agitators tried to run over cops: PoliceIn a press note, the police stated that they had to use “mild force” when the protesters tried to run over police personnel with tractors, in which a few policemen were injured.Farmer leader seeks probe by rights panelCharuni demanded that the Human Rights Commission should look into the “goondaism” by the Panchkula police. According to him, at least seven farmers, including minors, sustained injuries in the lathicharge by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-lathicharged-at-chandimandir-toll-plaza-319495
03-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, Chandigarh’s Hospitality Dept switches to e-office module||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 2The Hospitality Department of the UT Administration has fully implemented the e-office module in all its offices.“Earlier, the e-office module was introduced in two branches and after a successful trial run, it has now been implemented in the entire department,” said Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Hospitality Department.All files to move online: SecyNow, all files of the department will move online. The e-system will reduce paper wastage and bring transparency. —Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Hospitality DepartmentUnder the project, all works of the UT Guest House 1 and 2 will now be done through e-office system. The e-office system will also make it easier to identify pending files.Under the e-office, all posts of the department, letters of the people and all other administrative orders will be converted into e-files as soon as these are received at the reception. All notings will be done on the e-file itself.The department has also ordered its branches to simultaneously complete the process for converting old files into e-files. Now, physical files will not be accepted in the department and all proposals will be made through e-file only. The CHB was the first department in the UT to switch to e-office module.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarhs-hospitality-dept-switches-to-e-office-module-319496
03-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC to shut secondary garbage sites, eyes 100% door-to-door collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 2The local Municipal Corporation will do away with all secondary garbage points and ensure 100 per cent ‘fool-proof’ door-to-door waste collection to implement the outcome of Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban (SBM-U) 2.0.The outcome means that there should be no garbage in the open anywhere in the city. Garbage should be inside the bins once taken away by door-to-door collectors. There should also be no spilling over of waste from bins.“For a garbage-free city, we will first have to close down all secondary waste dumping sites. We will take our about 70-80 per cent door-to-door waste collection to 100 per cent. We are already closing SSKs in a phased manner. We have already achieved the open defection-free (ODF) status and will now move towards the ODF+ tag,” said MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.The MC will also optimise the ongoing 24x7 water supply project and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system to provide clean drinking water to all urban households, which is the second outcome under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0.The second phase of the two missions were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi yesterday. The first phase of the two flagship projects of the central government were launched in 2014.“The first phase was originally about processes and the second phase is about outcomes,” Mitra said. On the AMRUT 2.0, the MC chief said, “For providing clean drinking water access to every urban household, the corporation will club this aspect with the ongoing 24x7 water project.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-to-shut-secondary-garbage-sites-eyes-100-door-to-door-collection-319497
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three cases in Chandigarh||The city on Saturday reported three cases of Covid-19 and no virus-related death. A total of six patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSDeath in Mohali for 3rd consecutive dayMohali: For the third consecutive day, the district saw a patient succumbing to Covid-19. The toll has reached 1,067. Meanwhile, seven more case surfaced in the district till Saturday evening, taking the total number of cases to 68,746 while five patients recovered from the virus. TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded no fresh Covid case for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Four more patients have got the better of the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-cases-in-chandigarh-319498
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||MC felicitates sanitation workers, waste collectors||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation honoured door-to-door waste collectors and sanitation workers on the occasion of two-day “Safai Mitra Amrut Samman Samaroh”, under the banner of the “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav” celebrations, that began at Tagore Theatre here today . Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was the chief guest during the inaugural programme, while Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will be the chief guest during the closing ceremony to be held tomorrow at 5 pm here. The Mayor said the corporation was honouring its 5,100 sanitation workers deployed in different fields. MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said in addition to the sanitation workers, staff deployed at toilet blocks throughout the city and sewermen of the public health circle were also honoured by organising area-level facilitation programmes. The Mayor and the Commissioner also honoured all teams for performing during the weeklong mega event of the “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav”, besides honouring its brand ambassador sanitation worker Kala Ram. A play was also staged by artistes of the Parmpara group under the theme, “Waste Segregation.” A live painting workshop was also organised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-felicitates-sanitation-workers-waste-collectors-319499
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Children should become animal rights advocates, says forest official||Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, Department of Forests and Wildlife, UT, inaugurated the Wildlife Week at Sukhna Lake by showing a green flag to a group of 100 schoolchildren dressed as birds and animals. The children walked alongside the lake carrying placards of animal rights and spreading the message of living in harmony with nature.Quoting Mahatma Gandhi’s message of ‘Be the Change’, Dalai said: “We’re growing up in a world with increasing habitat loss, deforestation and overexploitation, which is threatening earth’s rich biodiversity.” He said today’s ‘Wildlife Week’ message for young ones was that they should become animal rights advocates and also advocates for biodiversity conservation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/children-should-become-animal-rights-advocates-says-forest-official-319500
03-10-2021||---||Mohali sanitation staff honoured||Mohali, October 2Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu lauded the work done by sanitation workers in Mohali and honoured them with a letter of appreciation here today.The Mayor said on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday, he was honouring the sanitation workers, who do an important job of cleaning. He said Mahatma Gandhi always conveyed the message of living a simple and clean life.The Mayor also announced that he would also provide one suit each to the woman employee working in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sanitation-staff-honoured-319501
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||One-time settlement scheme sought||A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) called on Finance Secretary Vijay N Zade. The delegation members submitted a memorandum and a copy of the Punjab One-time Settlement (OTS) scheme with a request for early implementation of the scheme for disposal of old VAT assessment cases.Charanjiv Singh, president of the CBM, said city dealers were in great trouble due to huge tax demands of old VAT assessment cases because of non-supply of ‘C Forms’ by purchasing dealers of other states.Sanjeev Chadha, general secretary of the CBM, said this type of scheme had already been implemented in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and he also handed over a notification of the Himachal Pradesh Government for such scheme.Parshottam Mahajan, patron, CBM, said the Administration should give relief to the traders by disposing of old cases in an amnesty scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-time-settlement-scheme-sought-319502
03-10-2021||Termination of outsourced staff services||Chandigarh Health Secretary seeks explanation from DHS, MS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 2UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has sought explanation from the Director Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, and the Medical Superintendent (MS), GMSH-16, on outsourced employees hired during the second week of September and the reasons behind not been able to adjust the terminated employees in place of fresh hiring.The Health Secretary has been informed by sources that some outsourced employees were hired during the last week of September 2021 for the same categories on which 81 employees were fired on September 30.Garg said: “Provide the details of such outsourced employees, who have been hired in the second half of September (i.e. after September 15) and the reasons as to why some of the persons out of these 81 employees cannot be adjusted against that requirement.”As many as 81 employees engaged in Covid duties under various categories were terminated from Friday onwards. These employees were engaged as outsourced employees during Covid-19. Around 400 employees were engaged during Covid-19 for the period up to September 30.Considering that approval for engagement of certain outsourced staff was for a period up to September 30 only and since the GMSH-16 does not have sufficient funds to pay their salaries for further period, the outsourced agency was asked to discontinue with the services of 81 employees of different categories from October 1 onwards.Garg said: “There seems some resentment among the outsourced staff on this account. Though we acknowledge the good services rendered by them during the past few months, they also need to understand that their engagement through the outsourcing agency was for a short period only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-secretary-seeks-explanation-from-dhs-ms-319503
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bapu Dham man found hanging||Cleanliness drive, cycle rallyChandigarh: The Chandigarh Sports Department celebrated Gandhi Jayanti as “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. The department observed the day by organising events such as cycle rally and a cleanness drive under “Swachhta Abhiyan”. Dr Sunil Ryat, Joint Director, flagged off the cycle rally and took part in the “Swachhta Abhiyan” at the Sector 46 Sports Complex. — TNSGirl loses Rs 91K in job fraudChandigarh: The police have booked an unidentified person who duped a girl on the pretext of providing her with a job. In her complaint, a girl from Mani Majra had stated that the swindler duped her of Rs91,000. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNSChandigarh log 7-wicket winChandigarh: A fine unbeaten 110-run contribution by Harnoor Singh helped Chandigarh register a seven-wicket win over Maharashtra in the ongoing Vinoo Mankad Trophy (U-19) League at Jamia Millia Islamia Ground, New Delhi. After winning the toss, Maharashtra lads posted 198 runs. In reply, Harnoor posted an unbeaten Singh 110 off 90 balls to ensure an easy win for Chandigarh in 47 overs. TNSPunjab boys beat UttarakhandChandigarh: Punjab U-19 team registered a 25-run win over Uttarakhand in the league match for Vinoo Mankad Trophy at ECIL Ground, Hyderabad. Batting first, Punjab lads were bowled out for 191 runs in 47.4 overs. Chasing a low target, Uttarakhand team was bundled out for 166 runs in 44.4 overs. TNSPU student gets national awardChandigarh: Ritika Verma, Panjab University’s outgoing student of the Department of Anthropology, has been conferred with the National Service Scheme Award, 2019-20, by President Ram Nath Kovind in the presence of Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Thakur in New Delhi. She is the first student from the Panjab University campus to get this prestigious award. Ritika was selected for this award after she provided services related to various social issues and causes as a NSS volunteer attached to Panjab University. She, along with her team, organised activities for sensitising students on swachhta, menstrual hygiene management, solid waste management and water conservation. She contributed to plantation of saplings and cleanliness drives in the adopted village. TNSSwimming trials to be held todayChandigarh: The Adhoc Selection Committee, (Swimming), Chandigarh, will organise trials to select the local team for the upcoming 74th Senior, 37th Sub-Junior and 47th Junior National Swimming Championship to be organised at Bengaluru, Karnataka, from October 19. The trials will be held at the Sector 12 all-weather swimming pool on October 3 at 10 am. TNSMedical, dental check-up campMohali: A free medical & dental check-up camp was organised to mark the silver jubilee celebrations of Desh Bhagat Ayurvedic College & Hospital. A total of 239 patients availed of the services at the camp. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-man-found-hanging-319505
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Mahal is new Mohali SSP||The state government today shifted Mohali SSP Satinder Singh to Jalandhar (Rural) while posting Navjot Singh Mahal in his place. Also, DIG Inderbir Singh has been posted as DIG, Ferozepur range.Navjot is nephew of Congress minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh had removed him from the post of the Hoshiarpur SSP when Bajwa had fallen out with the CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navjot-singh-mahal-is-new-mohali-ssp-319350
