04-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||6 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported six new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of infections to 65,243.A positivity rate of 0.47 per cent was recorded today as 1,288 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases in the city is 38.Two patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll in the city remains 819.As many as 64,386 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-320083
04-10-2021||Mona||On World Architecture Day, celebs talk about the landmark they most admire in City Beautiful||The city of Chandigarh is planned to human scale. It puts us in touch with the infinite cosmos and nature. It provides us with places and buildings for all human activities by which the citizens can live a full and harmonious life. Here the radiance of nature and heart are within our reach.— Le CorbusierOn World Architecture Day we celebrate Chandigarh and its architectural gems, which make our city unique!Iconic landmarkChandigarh’s planning and greenery is charming. I grew up in the city. I spent many years at Punjab University and was always inspired by the architecture of Gandhi Bhawan. It is simplistic, modern and beautifully built around a water body with lush green lawns around the perimeter. It is indeed one of the iconic landmarks of City Beautiful.— Gunjan Utreja, ActorStunning structuresOne structure I love the most in Chandigarh is the Open Hand Monument, which I have often visited with my parents. They told me that it stands for unity. Sculptures made from urban and industrial waste make the Rock Garden my second favourite. Chandigarh is an example of stunning modern architecture and urban planning.— Ankit Arora, ActorTruly symbolicChandigarh, the dream city of India’s first Prime Minister, Pandit Nehru, and planned by the famous architect Le Corbusier, is known as one of the best experiments in modern architecture in the 20th century in India. It is symbolic of the newly independent India. I love Sukhna Lake; it is an integral part of Chandigarh life.— Siddharth Ohri, ActorNo room to criticiseI love my school St Stephens’s and DAV College the best. I love the vibe of Eiffel Tower at Leisure Valley. The skating rink of Sector 10 is special to me for that is where I trained for national and international events, and won medals. I hate the fact that Le Corbusier and his team have made the city so perfect that there’s no room to criticise!— Sahil Khattar, ActorGreat precisionI admire the Tower of Shadows, created by Le Corbusier, at The Capitol Complex. It makes me wonder about the imagination and precision of the creator. When I first saw it, not even a shred of sunlight reached me as I walked through it.— Sapna Sikarwar, Actress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-world-architecture-day-celebs-talk-about-the-landmark-they-most-admire-in-city-beautiful-319888
04-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Carry out maintenance work in Kansal area: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3Refusing to close its eyes to health, hygiene and safety concerns of Kansal area residents, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the authorities concerned to carry out necessary and basic repair, maintenance, improvement and development works in the area.National Institute of Hydrology reportThe direction came after the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu took into consideration a report by the Roorkee-based National Institute of Hydrology. Among other things, the report ruled out any adverse effect of construction activity on the flow of water from the Kansal village area to Sukhna Lake.The direction came after the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu took into consideration a report by the Roorkee-based National Institute of Hydrology. Among other things, the report ruled out any adverse effect of construction activity on the flow of water from the Kansal village area to the lake.The Bench made it clear that its order on the upkeep and repair would include roads, sewerage, drainage, water supply and electricity in the area. The directions came on an application filed by Kansal residents for directions to the state of Punjab and other respondents to allow repair, maintenance and improvement of basic amenities.Appearing before the Bench on their behalf, senior advocate Gurminder Singh with counsel Gurnoor Singh Sandhu contended that the High Court ordered the demolition of construction in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake nearly 19 months ago.The directions were being complied with in letter and spirit. It was being ensured that no one carried out any construction in the catchment area. As such, the entire process of maintenance and development had come to standstill, even through the directions had been stayed by the High Court on a review application. “In the meanwhile, residents of Kansal area were facing imminent difficulties and inconvenience due to deteriorating conditions of roads, electricity, sewerage, water supply and drainage…,” it was added.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, referred to a reply filed by the Nayagaon Municipal Council to the application before observing that development works to be carried out had been identified in Kansal village, but could not be executed owing to it being a catchment area.The Bench added that a perusal of the short reply filed by the National Institute of Hydrology laid specific stress on the Kansal area. It was clarified that construction in Kansal village was not a hindrance. In fact, the flow of water to the lake was not affected by it.It concluded: “Under natural conditions of drainage, there is no possibility of decrease in the flow towards the lake due to construction activities”.“Thus, as per the short reply, irrespective of the dispute whether Kansal village is correctly included in the demarcation of the catchment area as per the Survey of India map dated September 21, 2004, or not, there is no adverse affect of the construction activity on the flow of water from the Kansal village area to the lake,” the Bench observed.In its detailed order, the Bench added that the court could not shut its eyes to the health, hygiene and safety of residents of the Kansal area falling within the master plan/jurisdiction of the Nayagaon Municipal Council. It could not be neglected or compromised with, especially when the court had stayed the demolition of the constructions.“The indulgence sought by the applicants is regarding basic amenities which are necessary for a safe and healthy living for residents of such construction, raised within the master plan area, that too after taking necessary approvals and sanctions from the local authorities,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carry-out-maintenance-work-in-kansal-area-hc-319771
04-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Test positivity rate in Chandigarh falls to 8.7%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3The test positivity rate (TPR) of the UT has dipped to 8.7 per cent from 9.6 per cent recorded a month ago.On September 22, the test positivity rate of the city was recorded at 9 per cent. In the past one week, 0.2 per cent of the samples tested returned positive. For every 100 confirmed cases, 0.1 are currently infected, 99 have recovered from the virus and one has succumbed to the virus, as per the data released by the UT Health Department.For every one lakh people in Chandigarh, 63,041 samples have been tested and 5,533 out of every lakh people have tested positive for the virus.The city witnessed 119 cases in September, while there were 152 cases in August.Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said: “The ministry has alerted that the period between October 15 and November 15 will be crucial for the third wave. We have made all the necessary arrangements to handle the caseload if the third wave arrives in Chandigarh.”Around 15 Covid patients are admitted to the PGI at present, while two patients are recuperating at the GMCH-32 and GMSH-16. Chandigarh’s first-dose vaccination coverage has reached 107.37% and 54.64% have been administered the second dose as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/test-positivity-rate-in-chandigarh-falls-to-8-7-319772
04-10-2021||---||Chandimandir toll plaza violence: Farmers booked for unlawful assembly, rioting||Panchkula, October 3A day after farmers broke barricades in an attempt to march towards Haryana Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s residence, the police today booked unidentified protesters for rioting and unlawful assembly.Based on a complaint of Duty Magistrate and Kalka Tehsildar Vikram Singla, the police filed an FIR under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 336 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) at the Chandimandir police station.BKU (Charuni) district unit head Narinder Singh Nayagaon condemned the FIR against farmers. “It’s not the first time the police have filed a fake FIR against farmers.They (police) have been resorting to similar acts since the start of the farmers’ movement. We have every right to know who gave the orders to lathicharge farmers. The entire episode should be investigated,” said Narinder Singh.SHO, Chandimandir, Inspector Arvind Kumar said the investigation was on and nobody had been arrested so far. The farmers, following the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, had decided to stage a protest against the government’s decision to delay the procurement of paddy.The police made adequate security arrangements and put-up barricades near the Chandimandir toll barrier to stop the farmers from entering the city area.However, the protestors, mainly youngsters, broke the barricades with tractors and clashed with the police. Both farmers and police personnel sustained injuries in the incident.The police claimed that they had to use “mild force” after the protestors, who were riding tractors, tried to run over the police personnel.The police had also detained around 50 protesters at different sites, including the BJP’s district office in Sector 2.The police action prompted BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni to stage a dharna at the toll plaza, following which the police released all detainees and seized tractors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandimandir-toll-plaza-violence-farmers-booked-for-unlawful-assembly-rioting-319773
04-10-2021||City residents should be motivated to adopt three rules||Open House: What needs to be done to resolve waste processing issue?||Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhMC has failed in every aspectThere is no denying the fact that the Municipal Corporation has failed to solve the waste management issue of the City Beautiful in every aspect. Unless the capacity of the treatment plant is upgraded waste will continue to pile up at the dumping ground. The situation is now out of control as untreated waste spreads unbearable stink in the surrounding areas and has become a health hazard for residents. Under such circumstances every resident must try to reduce waste and convert it into compost. It will save environment. Total dependence on government agencies has turned only worsened the situation.SC Luthra, ChandigarhUT to become stinking city soonIt’s irresponsible on the part of the Municipal Corporation to not to upgrade machinery of the waste processing plant. Something concrete steps have to be taken at the earliest otherwise it will be not long enough for Chandigarh to turn into a stinking city. Erring officials should be taken to task. The process to upgrade plant machinery should be initiated as early as possible. If the civic body is unsuccessful in managing the waste processing plant, then its contract should be given to a suitable private company, which may solve the problem to some extent.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurManage waste at sourceWhy waste waste should be our mission. Everyone should follow the principal of 3Rs, which means reduce, reuse and recycle waste. Waste must be segregated waste at source like house, institutions, hotels etc. Dry waste should be collected separately and compressed by hydraulic means at resource management centres in all sectors to make tiles, flower pots, benches and other items of daily use. Biodegradable waste should be reused to make garden manure, which is ready in 50 to 60 days.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliAllocate work to seven firmsThe authorities concerned should never allot public works to a single person or a firm. The work should be allotted to seven small units so that there is competition, which means quality of work is maintained and performance is improved. For recycling 500 MT waste at least seven plants of 70 MT capacity are needed. The waste processing plants managed by different contractors can function at a spot so that the work doesn’t suffer.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaNeed for proper segregationProper segregation reduces waste going to landfills and dumping grounds. Dry waste can provide raw material to several industries. Kitchen waste can be turned into compost and used in gardens or as manure for plants. Workers of the civic body can be trained to segregate waste.Anita Tandon, KhararRun plant to its optimum capacityThe MC needs to upgrade machinery of its processing plant so that it can process the same quantity of waste that the city generates every day. Till then, the exiting plant should be run to its optimum capacity. The MC should take the decision to choose technology for upgrading or setting up of a new plant at the earliest.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhProvide required infrastructureThe problem of waste piling up at dumping ground has been hanging fire for the past few years. The MC took over from Jaypee Group to sort out the issue, but the problem escalated further. The MC must adopt proactive approach to solve the issue. With present capacity of the plant all waste generated in the city can’t be processed. The MC must fix responsibility of its personnel to look after waste processing and provide required infrastructure.Wg Cdr (DR) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliGenerate funds to upgrade machineryThe Municipal Corporation either needs to upgrade its plant machinery or purchase new one to process garbage generated in the UT or give the processing plant on contract to some agency. The MC is showing lax attitude towards the garbage processing issue on the pretext of fiscal crunch. The civic body has to generate funds to keep the garbage processing plant running. Frequent fire at the dumping ground in last one year has inconvenienced residents living in the vicinity of the dump due to respiratory problems. Garbage has to be disposed of properly to keep the environment clean.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMC should hire a contractor soonThe UT MC has failed to deliver on waste management. The civic body has to immediately hire a contractor, who has the capacity to install a bigger machinery to process the entire garbage generated in the city. The contractor must process waste on daily basis so that garbage does not pile up at the dumping ground. During rainy season, the dump generates stench, which creates health issues, including respiratory, among residents of nearby colonies, especially senior citizens. The UT Administration and the MC must solve garbage processing issue.MR Bhateja, NayagaonImprove waste managementIndore has done a remarkable job by removing 13 lakh tonnes of garbage within six months. An amount of Rs300 crore was spent to do the job. Currently, Chandigarh has to improve solid waste management, source segregation and carry out systemic reforms. The MC must work rigorously on this front. It’s a sad to see the present state of affairs in the UT, which is always known for its cleanliness and as the City Beautiful.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliStudy tours a waste of moneyThe MC has totally failed in processing garbage generated in the UT. The processing plant is working at 10 per cent of its capacity. Taxpayers money is wasted on tours for studying waste management. Waste management must be handed over to an expert company, which has the capacity to process 500 MT garbage generated in the UT as the civic body is not fit for the job.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhPromote small projectsThe MC should promote small waste management projects in the UT. This will help in processing waste at the micro level and generate some revenue. This will be a win-win situation for residents and the MC.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhManage waste wiselyBeauty of the city doesn’t mean wide roads or high rise buildings. Without clean surroundings everything is impractical. Ban on polythene bags, most hazardous waste, is only symbolic. Citizens should manage waste and try to reduce it at the point of generation. Many waste items can be used at home. Fruits and vegetable skin and used tea leaves can be converted into natural manure at home for kitchen gardening. The MC should earmark more than one dumping ground on the outskirts of the city. The contract for processing garbage should be given to different contractors on strict terms and conditions. The dumping site may be chosen towards foothills and not near approach roads to the city so that entry points have a spotless look.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliPrefer recycled materialThe UT Administration should have upgraded waste processing plant. There should be strict prohibition on the use of plastic polythene bags as these are non biodegradable. Recycled materials should be preferred and used by all residents of the UT. Everyone should follow the principle of reduce, reuse and recycle waste. Compositing technique can be adopted by all households. This will reduce waste, generate employment and contain land and environment pollution to some extent.Adish Sood, AmlohCivic body can seek help from CentreWhy has the Municipal Corporation not installed new machinery with higher processing capacity at the plant? This should have been done without any delay. If there is a financial crunch then the MC can stop all other projects and divert funds for upgrading waste processing plant. Also, the MC can seek one-time assistance from the Centre to start work on constructing/upgrading waste processing plant immediately.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhConvert waste into compostThough the Municipal Corporation has taken over waste processing plant from the Jaypee Group, yet it has to make all out efforts to clear garbage piles from the dumping ground. The corporation can create mini-dumping grounds by earmarking sites where biodegradable waste can be converted into compost. This will add to the revenue of the corporation, besides minimising garbage at the Dadu Majra dumping ground.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhReplace obsolete machinesPoor solid waste management in Chandigarh has affected its Swachhata ranking in over the years. The MC has of late taken various steps towards waste collection and processing. The amount of waste produced in the city is not commensurate with the processing output. This has led to a gradual piling up of waste in dumps. This is a serious health hazard for the people living in the vicinity of the dumping grounds. The only way out is that the MC should replace the old and obsolete machinery without any further delay so that the output of waste processing is enhanced. Another way out could be to create additional waste processing sites.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhShun slackening attitudeThe decision-making team of the MC should avoid slackening attitude towards this major problem faced by the residents. Though the garbage dump is located on the outskirts, the residents of the nearby sectors are forced to live in a filthy atmosphere. Experts’ advice, knowhow from the neighbouring states and true spirit can eradicate the problem.Subhash Chander Sharma, ChandigarhIncrease capacity of the plantIt is sad that our smart and beautiful city has proved to be a failure in the disposal of waste. The same should be diligently segregated into recyclable and non-recyclable waste at the time of collection from houses. The capacity of the existing plant be increased immediately. Incinerators be installed at the PGI, GMSH, Sector 16, and at the GMCH, Sector 32, so as to decrease the load on the plant. It is appreciable that the MC has strictly banned the use of one-time use plastic items.NPS Sohal, Chandigarh QUESTIONHow can Chandigarh enforce strict adherence to the Covid protocol during the coming festive season to prevent a third wave?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-resolve-waste-processing-issue-319776
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 new Covid cases in Chandigarh||For 4th day in a row, no case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid case for the fourth straight day on Sunday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,738. While 30,355 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, six cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent.No case, no fatality in Mohali distMohali: No Covid case was reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported, while one more patient was cured of the disease. Of the 68,746 positive cases reported so far, 67,645 patients have been cured. There are now 34 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-319778
04-10-2021||---||PUTA condemns Panjab University VC’s statement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has condemned the statement of the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor wherein he allegedly showed disregard to the cause of teachers, who have been sitting on a chain hunger strike for the early implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, stated a press commune. “PUTA strongly condemns the anti-teacher utterances and attitude of the Vice-Chancellor in no unclear terms and reiterates that we will not tolerate any efforts by any authority to lower the esteem of the association,” said PUTA representatives.In a statement, the university said: “Implementation of the 7th Pay Commission is pending for the want of notification by the Punjab Government. Therefore, teachers are protesting against the Punjab Government. But, the PUTA preferred the protest site on the PU campus as if the PU authorities have to issue the notification. On the contrary, the image of the PU is getting affected adversely, which in turn may affect the PU’s NIRF ranking as well as NAAC grading. Keeping it in view, the protest needs to be done at an appropriate place where the grievance lies and to be addressed, i.e., Secretariat of Government of Punjab and not the PU campus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-condemns-panjab-university-vcs-statement-319779
04-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||CFA flouts norms, holds futsal meet in open field||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3Flouting the norms, the Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) is organising a futsal tournament on an artificial turf in the open. Stephen FC winOn Sunday, Stephen FC defeated Eleven FC 12-0, while Liberty FC beat IFC-38 by five goals. Rajeshwar FC registered a 3-2 win over SFC 3-2.The tournament is being held on the artificial turf at a Sector 44-based school here. The CFA is organising the Chandigarh Club Futsal Championship for clubs.As per the guidelines of the All India Football Federation (AIFF), a futsal tournament must be played on a hard court, with a futsal ball, having goal size 3mx2m, limit to fouls (penalty after 5th foul) and other rules.The game is usually played in an indoor arena.While CFA president KP Singh was not available for a comment, experts suggested that the event should have been organised at an indoor stadium.“There are many indoor sports complexes under the UT which can be used to organise this event. The multi-purpose halls at some of these complexes could have been turned into temporary futsal arenas,” said a coach.“The arenas would have been provided free-of-cost to the association. All they had to do was to shift the goalposts, mark the playing arena and some other changes. Even in Delhi, the same event was organised at an indoor arena,” the coach added.The AIFF had introduced futsal in the ‘E Certificate Course’ for coaches, which is focused on the educating football coaches at grass-roots level.Futsal is also promoted in the Golden Baby Leagues – a project targeted at children between U-6 and U-12 category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cfa-flouts-norms-holds-futsal-meet-in-open-field-319780
04-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Southern societies to fight Chandigarh MC poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3Having lost all hopes from political parties, residents’ bodies of southern housing societies have decided to contest the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections to be held in December.In a consequential move, presidents and secretaries of housing societies spread across Sectors 48 to 51 under the aegis of Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS), in a meeting held today, decided to field independent candidates from two wards. These societies fall under these two wards. At present, BJP leaders, who live in other sectors, are councillors from these two wards.“It was the general impression among the gathering that the elected representatives of the area have miserably failed to protect the interests of society dwellers. The conduct of these politicians was criticised by one and all. It was a general consensus among the people that we are fed up with the political parties, which only look after their own interests. We have completely lost any faith in the parties or their representatives. Therefore, it was decided that the VOHS will field its own candidate from our wards in the MC elections,” said MN Shukla, Convener, VOHS.There are around 108-110 societies in these sectors. The VOHS had extended invitation to city BJP president Arun Sood and two area councillors for today’s meeting. However, the idea was dropped due to widespread resentment among people. “The trio was informed about it yesterday evening because we do not want assurances anymore. We want to see the work done now,” said Shukla.Their major issues include charging stamp duty for sub-lease deed/sub-conveyance deeds, non-issue of completion certificate even after two decades of societies’ existence, justified/excessive unearned increase, including unreasonable GST, excessive water tariff, waste collection rates, internal maintenance of common services by the UT Administration and conversion of leasehold flats into freehold.The VOHS has been raising these demands for the past couple of years, but to no avail. Members of these societies, who were protesting outside MP Kirron Kher’s residence in Sector 7 over these pending demands, were even detained by the police in September 2019.At present, BJP’s Davesh Moudgil and Heera Negi come from these wards.Councillor Moudgil, in whose ward Sector 48 falls, said: “I have brought this sector equal to the northern sectors in terms of development. Several works, including opening a model school, an 11-bed hospital, an open air theatre, a theme park, street food market and various internal developments, have been carried out here. In a democratic set-up, we cannot stop anyone from contesting elections. I have done whatever best I could.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/southern-societies-to-fight-chandigarh-mc-poll-319781
04-10-2021||---||Major Anuj Rajput remembered||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3A prayer meeting in remembrance of Major Anuj Rajput, who died in a helicopter crash near Udhampur last month, was held here today. It was attended by the late officer’s family members, relatives and well-wishers.The 27-year-old officer was remembered as a respectful, polite and amiable person who had a passion for flying. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, he had been commissioned into the Regiment of Artillery, from where he had moved to the Army Aviation Corps as a helicopter pilot.Anuj and Maj Rohit Kumar from Noida were on a training sortie when their Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in the Shiv Garh Dhar area near Patnitop reportedly due to bad weather. Both pilots had succumbed to their injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-anuj-rajput-remembered-319782
04-10-2021||---||Union Minister Bhupender Yadav’s visit to Chandigarh has commuters at the receiving end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3The visit of Bhupender Yadav, Union Minister for Labour and Employment, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, led to inconvenience to the common man. He visited Shram Bureau Bhawan in Sector 38 (West) for an event.The local police had barricaded roads near the bhawan. Commuters had to take detours to reach nearby places. “I had to go to my house in Sector 25, but was not allowed to go from the Sector 38 (West) side. I had to take a long route to reach my destination. Like me, several others faced hassles,” said Raju, a resident. The police had put up barricades and parked buses on the road to stop the entry of vehicles.BJP takes up city issues with Union MinisterChandigarh: City BJP president Arun Sood today met Union Labour and Employment Minister and party’s National General Secretary Bhupender Yadav and discussed the issues related to Chandigarh. The Union Minister was welcomed by the local BJP at Shram Bhawan, Sector 38. “We thanked the Union Minister for starting the facility of providing e-shram portal for workers and e-shram cards for the registration of unorganised labourers. This is a good scheme of the Central Government, which gives huge relief to the workers,” said State General Secretary Ramveer Bhatti. “Problems of villages on the periphery of Chandigarh, demand for regularisation of construction carried out from lal dora, problem of traders, issues related to small shopkeepers and street vendors were also discussed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/union-minister-bhupender-yadavs-visit-to-chandigarh-has-commuters-at-the-receiving-end-319783
04-10-2021||---||Time management important to succeed, Punjab CM Channi tells students||Mohali, October 3Time management is of utmost important for students to succeed in life. The students should keep their goals high and work hard to achieve these.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi stated this while addressing the 2nd day of the FAP National Awards – 2021, hosted by Chandigarh University, Gharuan.Channi said: “The government will issue concessional bus passes to students of private schools of Punjab. The government is also planning to post teachers near their hometown. The three-year condition for teachers to work in the border areas must be abolished so that they can focus on teaching and provide quality education to students”.Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said: “Honouring the teachers of private schools of 16 states of the country is a commendable initiative taken by the Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/time-management-important-to-succeed-punjab-cm-channi-tells-students-319784
04-10-2021||Mohali||Mohali DC visits Kurali grain market to oversee procurement||On the first day of the commencement of the procurement operations, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia today visited the New Grain Market, Kurali, to review the arrangements made for paddy procurement.Isha said the district administration was committed for ensuring smooth and hassle-free paddy procurement in the ongoing season to facilitate the farmers. The administration would lift every single grain of paddy during the ongoing marketing season. She said farmers would not face any sort of problem while selling their produce.Isha said all Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) and chiefs of all procurement agencies had been asked to personally supervise the procurement operations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dc-visits-kurali-grain-market-to-oversee-procurement-319785
04-10-2021||---||Segregation, management of garbage a challenge: Banwarilal Purohit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3“Segregation and management of garbage are still some of the challenges being faced by the city and I would like to solicit support and cooperation of each and every citizen so that we can achieve the task of 100 per cent garbage segregation at source,” said Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today.Play stagedA play was also staged by artistes of the Parmpara theatre group under the theme “Daastan-e-Kudedaan”, which depicted the real picture of segregation at source and awareness to segregate waste separately i.e. wet waste and dry waste in different dustbins for its scientific disposal.He was speaking on the occasion of felicitation of ‘safai mitras’ and frontline workers at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18, here, during the closing ceremony of the “Safai Mitra Amrut Samman Samaroh” organised by the Municipal Corporation.He said: “Today, we are here not only to honour safai karamcharis but we, along with society, are also obliged to ‘safai mitras’ and salute each one of you for cleaning, maintaining, operating, or emptying a sanitation technology at any step of the sanitation chain”.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said without the cooperation of safai karamcharis and ‘safai mitras’, the situation could have been bad if cleanliness activities had not been undertaken in full speed during the Covid.A play was also staged by artistes of the Parmpara theatre group under the theme “Daastan-e-Kudedaan”, which depicted the real picture of source segregation and awareness to segregate the waste separately i.e. wet waste and dry waste in different dustbins for its scientific disposal. UT Adviser Dharam Pal and MC Commissioner Anidita Mitra were also there.Earlier in the morning, the UT Administrator flagged off a cycle rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/segregation-management-of-garbage-a-challenge-banwarilal-purohit-319786
04-10-2021||Mohali||Private hospitals must refrain from confirming dengue cases: Civil Surgeon||Concerned over the reports that some hospitals were indulging in spreading dengue scare to earn more from patients suffering from viral fever, the Health Department today directed the private hospitals and labs to report any suspected or confirmed dengue case immediately so that remedial measures could be taken without any delay.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur asked private hospitals to cooperate with the district Health Department in fight against dengue and other vector-borne diseases.She said private hospitals could not confirm the dengue fever unless they possess the ELISA test facility. Simple card-based testing may lead to false results, she said.The hospitals need to send all the suspected samples to the Health Department for confirmation, she asserted.There are three labs for confirmation of dengue fever at government hospitals in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-hospitals-must-refrain-from-confirming-dengue-cases-civil-surgeon-319788
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mountain Bike  Cycling Championship: Vijay claims top spot in elite 30-km event||Vijay Prakash claimed top position (time trial) in the men’s elite 30-km event by clocking 01:12:35s on the opening day of the 20th Chandigarh State Mountain Bike Cycling Championship. Himanshu (01:28:52s) and Pranav Mohindra (01:31:10s) claimed second and third positions.In the women’s elite 10-km event, Roopali Beri (00:35:35s), Rupali (00:46:31s) and Aditi Malhotra (01:02:10s) won the top three honours.In the boys’ youth 10-km event, Arnav Jain (00:25:41s) claimed the top position, followed by Arman Dua (00:26:02s) and Anav Duggal Jain (00:42:21s). In the men’s junior 15-km event, Madhav Dutta (00:38:59s), Kartik Bishnoi (00:39:32s) and Rachan Raj Singh (00:50:26s), while in the women’s junior (10-km) category, Perry (00:41:11s) claimed the top spot.In the men’s sub-junior 10-km event, Jai Dogra (00:24:16s), Deepanshu (00:26:54s) and Jaspreet (00:31:14s) won the laurels.In the boys’ 15-km mass start, Arman Dua (00:41:35s) and Arnav Jain (00:42:00s) claimed the top two positions, while in the women’s junior 20-km event, Perry (01:24:56s) claimed the top position.In the men’s junior 30-km event, Madhav Dutta (01:24:38s), Kartik Bishnoi (01:24:59s) and Rachan Raj Singh (01:53:34s) register win. In the men’s sub-junior 20-km category, Jai Dogra (00:48:54s), Deepanshu (00:56:21s) and Himmat (01:01:02s) claimed the honours. Vijay (01:13:12s) won the men’s U-23 30-km event, followed by Himanshu (01:20:19s) and Tarunpreet (01:47:13s) at the second and third position.In the women’s elite 30-km event, Roopali Beri (01:49:12s) claimed the top position. In the men’s elite 40-km event, Pranav (01:48:42s), Dikshant (02:12:12s) and Tej Simar (02:18:59s) claimed top three positions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mountain-bike-cycling-championship-vijay-claims-top-spot-in-elite-30-km-event-319789
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pedestrian dies in hit-and-run||Tennis meet begins todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association will organise CLTA-AITA U-16 Championship Series (CS-3) from October 4 to 6. As many as 60 players have signed in for the main draw events. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana will take part in this tournament. TNSPratiti, Abhinav claim TT titlesChandigarh: Pratiti from Tender Heart School, Sector 33, and Abhinav from Sector 34 Caching Centre won titles in the girls’ and boys’ U-11 categories, respectively, on the opening day of the 34th Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy. Abhinav won the title by defeating Bhavin, while Pratiti overpowered Sherell in the girls’ final. Earlier in the girls’ semis, Sherell defeated Aanya and Pratiti blanked Bhaavni. In the boys’ U-11 semis, Abhinav ousted Krishang and Bhavin defeated Kairav. TNSOffice-bearers electedZirakpur: Radhika Goel was unanimously elected as the president of Highland Cooperative House Building Society, Baltana. Other office-bearers who were elected unanimously are Suruchi Suri, vice-president; Om Parkash Sharma, general secretary; Ashok Bhatia, treasurer; and Jeevan Passi, joint secretary. Executive members are Davinder Pal Sharma, Manjit Saini, Ramesh Kumar and Veena Thakur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-dies-in-hit-and-run-319790
