05-10-2021||Mohali||Scooterist hurt in road rage in Mohali||Autos to display driver’s nameChandigarh: For the safety of passengers, the UT Administration has again directed operators of auto-rickshaw plying in Chandigarh to display the name of the owner/driver, contact number along with the complete address on the left side of the auto at a specific place. They have been asked to ply the autos wearing the prescribed uniform (grey pant/shirt). A police verification report has to be carried in the auto with other relevant documents. Violators will be challaned. TNS2,496 throng Chhatbir ZooZirakpur: A total of 2,496 persons visited Chhatbir Zoo here on Monday during the ongoing the Wildlife Week celebrations. Field Director Naresh Mahajan interacted with visitors, including children, at the zoo. Saplings were also distributed among teachers and students. Chhatbir Zoo celebrated World Animal Day 2021 in a unique way. Awareness activities are being organised for school students at the interpretation centre here. Events such as essay writing, painting and quiz competitions were held. Around 227 students of 26 schools participated in the contests. A zoo keepers’ talk on elephants was also delivered. TNSCricket trials tomorrowPanchkula: The Panchkula District Cricket Association, affiliated with the Haryana Cricket Association, will conduct trials to select U-16 team at the JR Institute of Cricket Technology, Barwala, on October 6 at 9 am. The selected players will take part in the local inter-academy matches. Later, these players would take part in the Haryana inter-academy cricket tournament, said Sandeep Moudgil, Honorary Secretary. TNSCricket meet from Oct 8Chandigarh: The 4th Edition of the Rama Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament will be held in Chandigarh and Panchkula from October 8 to 12. According to Captain Sushil Kapoor, organising Secretary, teams of the Punjab Cricket Association, the UT Cricket Association, the J&K Cricket Association and the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association will take part in the tournament. The tournament will be played on a league-cum-knockout basis and all matches will be of 50 overs per inning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scooterist-hurt-in-road-rage-in-mohali-320324
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vishal, Vaani walk away with TT titles||Vishal of Tender Heart School, Sector 33, and Vaani of DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 8, won boys’ and girls’ U-13 titles, respectively, in the ongoing 34th Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy.Vaani won the title by defeating Teetiksha Goel (11-7, 11-8, 11-8) and Vishal overpowered Vihaan Dhalla (11-8, 11-7, 11-7) in the boys’ final.Earlier in semis, Teetiksha Goel defeated Ananya Yadav (11-8, 11-9, 11-8) and Vaani overpowered Arshia (11-9, 11-8, 11-8). In the boys’ semis, Vishal ousted Abhinav (11-8, 11-6, 11-5) and Dhalla beat Vadya (11-7, 9-11, 11-8, 11-9).In the boys’ U-15 final, Tender Heart School beat Bhavan Vidyalaya (3-1). Vishal won the first match by defeating Samkit Jain (11-8, 11-9, 11-8), Vardaan went down against Vaibhav (11-13, 11-6, 9-11, 4-11), Vishal and Vardaan won the doubles’ match by defeating Samkit and Vaibhav (11-7, 12-14, 5-11, 11-8, 11-5) and, in the last match, Vishal beat Vaibhav (11-8, 11-7, 11-7).In the girls’ U-15 final, Delhi Public School outplayed Tender Heart School. Cherrish logged a comeback (8-11, 11-6, 11-6, 11-9) win over Teetiksha Goel. Sherell defeated Arshia Bakshi (12-10, 12-10, 12-10). In the doubles’ match, Cherrish and Sherell lost to Teetiksha and Arshia (11-9, 5-11, 10-12, 9-11) and Cherrish defeated Arshia Bakshi (11-6, 12-10, 12-10). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vishal-vaani-walk-away-with-tt-titles-320323
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three nabbed for making extortion call to Chandigarh man||Three Bihar residents have been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for making an extortion call to a city resident and threatening him.Complainant Manish Tiwari, a resident of Sector 19, reported that on September 15, he received a call from an unknown number. The caller threatened him over phone.The complainant told the police that he had an ancestral land in East Champaran district of Bihar. He suspected that Ramsurat Patel of Bhaluwahiya village, Ramgarh tehsil, along with his associates, got the extortion call made with the motive of pressuring him to leave his ancestral land.A case was registered at the Sector 17 police station.During investigation, a team led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station nabbed the accused identified as Mohammad Aftab Khan (31), Ramsurat Patel (66) and Shambhu Prasad (42), all residents of East Champaran district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-nabbed-for-making-extortion-call-to-chandigarh-man-320322
05-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC poll: Dadu Majra residents to oppose outside candidate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4With the authorities concerned having failed to find a solution to the waste dumping ground, the Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee has decided that if any political party fields a candidate from outside the colony in ward number 26, then the local residents will boycott him.The committee, comprising Dadu Majra residents, has been raising the issue with UT Administration and the MC for a long time.“We organised a mohalla meeting of people living around the dumping ground last night. It was decided if any big political party puts up a candidate from outside the colony in ward number 26 here, then the people of the colony will boycott him,” said Dayal Krishan, chairman of the committee.“A number of women narrated how they are forced to live in unhygienic conditions due to the dumping ground. People are being misled in the name of removing the dumping ground. Now, we will not be taken in by their false promises anymore,” he added.“The municipal elections are going to be held in December. Till now, all councillors who were elected from ward number 26 were from outside. They do not feel our problem. What do we face when it rains or wind blows here? How can they resolve our issue?” he asked.Meanwhile, the corporation has failed to allot the work of upgrading garbage processing plant to any agency even one and a half years after taking over the plant from Jaypee Group. Of about 450 metric tonne of waste produced per day in the city, only about 70 metric tonne of waste is processed, the rest is thrown at the dumping ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-poll-dadu-majra-residents-to-oppose-outside-candidate-320321
05-10-2021||---||Affiliation of 17 IAF Squadron with Army’s Sikh Light Infantry signed||Ambala, October 4The historic affiliation of 17 Squadron of Indian Air Force with the Sikh Light Infantry of Indian Army was formally signed at a solemn ceremony at the Air Force Station, Ambala, today in the presence of Air Marshal Amit Dev, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command.The ceremony began with the inspection of the guard of honour by Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Manoj Mukund Naravane, who is also the Colonel Commandant of the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment, followed by an opening address by the AOC-in-C, WAC. Thereafter, the ‘Charter of Affiliation’ was signed by the COAS and the AOC-in-C, WAC.The affiliation of the Regiment with the Rafale Squadron of Western Air Command will assist in development of mutual understanding of joint ethos, capability, limitations and core competencies of both services through common understanding of military tactical doctrines and concepts in the contemporary conflict environment.COAS General Naravane highlighted that the idea behind the affiliation was aimed at greater understanding of each other’s operational ethos, building camaraderie and spirit-de-corps.The ceremony was also marked by an aerobatics display by the mighty Rafale aircraft and a display on ground by the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/affiliation-of-17-iaf-squadron-with-armys-sikh-light-infantry-signed-320320
05-10-2021||---||Farmers see deep conspiracy behind violence in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri||Mohali, October 4Farmers’ organisations staged a dharna outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in the district administrative complex here demanding action against those involved in the brutal killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh.Addressing the protesting farmers, Mehar Singh Theri, state vice-president, Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said the manner in which the son of a Union Minister allegedly killed the farmers by running them over and opening firing at them showed that was done under a deep conspiracy of the Uttar Pradesh and Union governments.Parminder Singh Sohana said they submitted a memorandum addressed to President of India Ram Nath Kovind stating that the whole country was outraged over the brutal killing of farmers in broad daylight in Lakhimpur Kheri. It is no coincidence that the same day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was publicly inciting his party workers to take sticks and resort to violence against farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-see-deep-conspiracy-behind-violence-in-ups-lakhimpur-kheri-320319
05-10-2021||---||Farmers raise slogans against Centre in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 4Farmers today staged a protest outside the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, on a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The protesters raised slogans against Narendra Modi-led Central Government and termed it “annadata’s killer”.The local unit of the Congress, led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, extended its support to farmers.Condemning the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Chander Mohan said: “The incident has ashamed democracy. It has reiterated how ruthless the BJP and its leaders can be against farmers.”He also demanded the resignation of the Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra allegedly ran over the protesting farmers.Chander Mohan made the remark after submitting a memorandum, addressed to the state Governor, to the Deputy Commissioner.Earlier in the day, the Congress workers burnt an effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at the Sector 17/18 roundabout for his controversial “pick up sticks” remark against farmers.“The BJP and its leaders were working overtime to destroy the social fabric of the country,” Chander Mohan added.On October 2, farmers and the police had entered into a direct confrontation near the Chandimandir toll plaza after the protesters tried to break barricades with tractors to march towards the Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta’s residence to protest the delay in procurement of paddy.Both farmers and the police personnel had sustained injuries in the clash. The police had also filed an FIR against unidentified farmers in connection with the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-raise-slogans-against-centre-in-panchkula-320318
05-10-2021||---||Chandigarh AAP unit pays tributes to farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest near Kiran Cinema, Sector 22, against the BJP and condemned the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh.Workers also paid tributes to the victim farmers by lighting candles. The workers, led by party’s convener Prem Garg, general secretary Vijay Pal Singh and former vice-president Yogesh Arora, raised slogans against the Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi government in UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-aap-unit-pays-tributes-to-farmers-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-320317
05-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Cong holds candlelight march||Chandigarh, October 4The Chandigarh Youth Congress today took out a candle march across Chandigarh against the violence during a farmers’ protest at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.Its chief, Manoj Lubana, said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence showed the insensitive face of the ruling BJP. He said the incident would prove the last nail in the BJP’s coffin.Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla warned BJP ministers and lawmakers against entering and organising programmes in Chandigarh as people were angry and anything could happen. Manish Bansal, who was also present during the march, alleged: “The incident at Lakhimpur Kheri is highly deplorable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-cong-holds-candlelight-march-320316
05-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farm activists protest outside Chandigarh DC office||Chandigarh, October 4As many as 200 people from City Beautiful staged a protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) violence.On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, members of various organisations, including the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, Pendu Sangharsh Committee and Lawyers for Humanity, and student unions like SFS, ASA and PSU (Lalkaar) staged a three-hour protest near the DC office, Sector 17.Signed by over 200 people, a memorandum was handed over to the ADC, who visited the protest site and collected the charter of demands, addressed to the Prime Minister, from the activists.The protesters also expressed dismay over Haryana CM’s speech which went viral yesterday.Prem Singh Bhangu, convener, legal cell, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said: “We have listed a total of four demands in our memorandum — the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, UP, Ajay Mishra Teni, be removed from the post and a probe ordered against him, an FIR be registered against Teni’s son under Section 302 of the IPC, a judicial inquiry be ordered into the incident by a High Court sitting judge and the Haryana CM be removed for his ‘violence-inciting speech’.”Amrit, a student of Panjab University, shared: “I couldn’t hold myself from coming here and protesting, especially after alleged killings in UP where even a 19-year-old wasn’t spared.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farm-activists-protest-outside-chandigarh-dc-office-320315
05-10-2021||---||Dengue claims 1 more life in Mohali, toll reaches five||Mohali, October 4One more person died of suspected dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to five in Mohali district.The deceased has been identified as Ramarti (30), a resident of Mataur village in the district. She breathed her last at Amar Hospital.As many as 91 suspected cases were reported from the district today. Forty-six of these were confirmed.4,957 challansA total of 4,957 challans have been issued to violators since March this year as mosquito larvae were found in their houses.District Epidemiologist Dr Vikas Nagra said five suspected dengue deaths - three in September and two in October - were under review. As many as 344 cases were reported in the month of September and 111 in October. A total of 168 suspected dengue cases have been reported from the district in the past five days.Concerned over the spread of dengue, the Health Department has constituted 13 teams to carry out survey in every household in the district. Of this, five teams have been constituted for the Balongi area alone.A total of 4,957 challans have been issued to violators as mosquito larvae were found in houses since March this year.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said special emphasis was being laid on survey, fogging and awareness campaigns in high-risk areas namely Phase 7, Balongi and Dera Bassi. She said teams of health workers were checking coolers, fridge trays, pots, empty tyres, boxes and other containers during the survey and challans were being issued to the violators.Dr Adarshpal asked people to be alert and vigilant against dengue and not to leave clean or dirty water anywhere in and around their homes. She also said when the Municipal Corporation teams reach and start fogging, doors and windows of houses should be kept open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-1-more-life-in-mohali-toll-reaches-five-320314
05-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Smart power meters: Chandigarh fixes March deadline for pilot project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The UT Administration has set a target to complete the pilot project of installation of smart electricity meters in the city by March 31 next year.The Union Home Secretary today reviewed the progress of the pilot project with UT Adviser Dharam Pal. The Adviser said they had set a deadline for completing the pilot project before the end of the current financial year.Dharam Pal said they had also planned to replace all electricity meters with smart ones in the entire city by the 2022-23 fiscal. The project was allotted to the government-owned Regional Electricity Corporation in 2018 and was to be completed by June 2020. However, nearly 50 per cent of the work could be completed so far. Under the pilot project, nearly 30,000 smart meters are to be installed in Sector 29, 31, 47 and 48, Faidan, Ram Darbar, Hallo Majra, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Daria villages and the Industrial Area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-power-meters-chandigarh-fixes-march-deadline-for-pilot-project-320313
05-10-2021||Mohali||Navjot Singh Mahal assumes charge as Mohali SSP||With a motive to make Mohali a crime-free district, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal today assumed the charge of his office at the District Administrative Complex.A PPS officer, Mahal was previously posted as the Commandant of 7th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar, and was also holding the additional charge of the AIG, Special Task Force, Jalandhar. He has also served as the SSP of Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar (Rural) and Khanna. He replaced Satinder Singh, who has been posted as the SSP, Jalandhar (Rural).Crime prevention and maintaining law and order will be his priority. Asked about any initiatives on his mind, Mahal said the presence of the force would be increased at all major points in the district to control illegal activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navjot-singh-mahal-assumes-charge-as-mohali-ssp-320312
05-10-2021||---||Navratri fest: e-token for entry to Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula, October 4Despite a significant fall in Covid cases, the Mata Mansa Devi temple administration has decided to continue with the e-token scheme for devotees to pay obeisance at the temple during the nine-day Navratri festival, starting on October 7.After the beginning of the pandemic, the scheme was put in place for smooth “darshan” with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as social distancing. The Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula-cum-chief administrator, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Vinay Pratap Singh, said, “Devotees have been advised to wear a mask and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in the temple complex.”“Darshan e-token can be obtained from the official website of the shrine, www.mansadevi.org.in. Fifty tokens will be issued for a time slot of 10 minutes each,” he said.Only 8 Covid cases in weekOnly eight Covid cases have been reported from the district in the past one week.‘Third wave on mind’In view of a possible third wave of Covid, the shrine board has decided to retain the e-token facility for entry to the Mansa Devi temple during the Navratri festival from October 7 to 14 to avoid crowding. — Vinay Pratap Singh, Chief Administrator||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navratri-fest-e-token-for-entry-to-mansa-devi-temple-320311
05-10-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI OPD patient count sees 50% jump in week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The PGI today saw a total of 7,971 registrations, an increase of 50 per cent from the 5,288 registrations recorded at the institute seven days ago. The daily walk-in registrations also increased to over 6,500 in the past one week.The institute had opened walk-in registrations for outpatient departments (OPDs) last Monday. On the first day, 3,942 patients had turned up for physical registration, while 1,345 patients got themselves registered through tele-consultation.Dr Naveen Pandey, incharge of the OPD administration, PGI, said, “There is a huge rush and the number of registrations has almost reached the pre-pandemic level. The situation will be reviewed soon in view of a possible third wave and the festival season.”The online registration for physical visit to all OPDs had increased to 50 for all departments and 100 for ophthalmology, hepatology and internal medicine. The registration for tele-consultation in the new OPD is being done from 8 am to 9 am. Registration of walk-in patients for physical visit to the new OPD is being done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters.Six cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Monday reported six cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSOne more Covid death in MohaliMohali: The district reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 1,068. Meanwhile, one new case surfaced till Monday evening, taking the tally to 68,747, while six patients were cured of the disease. The only case that surfaced in the district came from the Gharuan area whereas no case was reported from Mohali, Dera Bassi, Kharar, Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Kurali, Lalru and Banur. — TNSJust one case in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported just one Covid case on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,739. The toll remained at 377. While 30,357 people have recovered from the disease so far, five cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-opd-patient-count-sees-50-jump-in-week-320310
