06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to Punjab Governor’s house||Police used water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to the Punjab governor’s house here on Wednesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh.The police had put up barricades near the MLA hostel here to stop protesters from going towards the Punjab Raj Bhavan.When the AAP workers, led by party MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke, tried to break the barricades and march towards the governor’s residence, the Chandigarh Police used a water cannon to disperse them.Meanwhile, another group of AAP protesters and the party’s Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh were detained near the UT guest house.They sat on the road and raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. The police forcibly removed them from the protest site and took them to a nearby police station.Singh demanded the arrest of all those who were behind the killing of farmers.Four of the eight people who died in Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel.While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers’ protest against Maurya’s visit to Ajay Mishra’s native place.The UP Police have lodged a case against Ajay Mishra’s son but no arrest has been made so far. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lakhimpur-kheri-police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-aap-workers-trying-to-lay-siege-to-punjab-governors-house-320995
06-10-2021||Panchkula||‘Boycott’ of Dalits: Rights body visits Panchkula village||Situation after the boycott of the Dalit community in Bhund village of Panchkula district could have been prevented, had the administration taken necessary action.This preliminary fact has come before the fact-finding team of the National Confederation of Human Rights Orgnisations (NCHRO).Azeem Naved, general secretary of the organisation and a member of the fact-finding team, in a press release, said: “Primarily, the facts that have come to the fore before the team indicate that after the marriage between a girl belonging to the Gujjar community and a boy from the Dalit community, some people from the Gujjar caste of the village and former heads of Panchayat called for a boycott of Dalits. Had the administration wanted, the incident would not have taken such a form”.He said if on 8 September, when the complaint was lodged with the police, the local administration had acted properly, the case would have been prevented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boycott-of-dalits-rights-body-visits-panchkula-village-320577
06-10-2021||---||Shopkeeper booked for outraging girl’s modesty||Zirakpur, October 5A mobile shop owner has been booked on the charges of outraging modesty and criminal intimidation of a 17-year-old-girl last evening. The suspect has been identified Rajesh, alias Raju, a resident of Krishna Enclave, Dhakoli.On a complaint of the minor girl’s father, a case has been registered against the suspect at Zirakpur.According to the complainant, the girl went to a mobile shop in Dhakoli on Monday evening where the shop owner molested her and threatened her. The girl returned home and narrated the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeeper-booked-for-outraging-girls-modesty-320578
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vishal, Vani claim table tennis titles||Vishal of Tender Heart School, Sector 33, and Vani of DAV School, Sector 8, won the boys’ and girls’ U-15 titles, respectively, in the ongoing 34th Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy, today.Vishal won the boys’ title by registering a comeback (9-11, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9) win over Siddharth Aggarwal. Earlier, in the semi-finals, Vishal defeated Nilesh (11-8, 11-9, 11-8) and Aggarwal overpowered Samkit Jain (11-9, 11-8, 11-8. Vani bagged the girls’ title by defeating Teetiksha (11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-8). In semis, she defeated Cherrish (11-8, 11-5, 8-11, 11-8) and Teetiksha ousted Sherill (11-4, 11-9, 11-8).ResultsGirls’ U-15: Vani bt Prabhleen (11-8, 11-7, 13-11), Sherill bt Pratiti Goel (11-8, 9-11, 11-7, 11-13, 14-12), Cherrish bt Hasrat (11-9, 8-11, 11-7, 11-9), Teetiksha bt Tanisha (11-8, 10-12, 11-7, 8-11, 11-6).Boys’ U-15: Vishal bt Vaibhav (11-8, 11-7, 11-7), Nilesh bt Vihaan Dhalla (11-7, 7-11, 8-11, 11-8, 11-8), Siddarth Aggarwal bt Pritish Sood (11-7, 7-11, 11-6, 9-11, 11-9), Samkit Jain bt Vadya Chawla (7-11, 11-7, 14-16, 11-5, 11-9). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vishal-vani-claim-table-tennis-titles-320579
06-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Sandesh Jhingan back to training in Croatia||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Down with a calf muscle injury, soon after joining Croatian First Division (Prva HNL) club HNK Sibenik, 28-year-old Chandigarh lad and Indian defender Sandesh Jhingan is now back to training on the grounds of the Croatian club. “My recovery is going well and I have started light training. Still not match fit, but working hard to achieve it,” said Jhingan.Earlier in August, Jhingan become the first Indian footballer to be a part of the Croatian top-tier league, Prva HNL, after he completed a move from ATK Mohun Bagan to HNK Sibenik. An alumnus of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22, and a trainee of St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, Jhingan was to make his debut for the club against Rijeka FC. However, he was ruled out due to injury.The 28-year-old player, who was named the Indian Footballer of the Year last month, is already in Croatia. Jhingan first broke into prominence as a 21-year-old footballer in the inaugural edition of the Indian Super League in 2014 where he was adjudged the “Emerging Player of the League”, a feat that helped him earn a place in the India men’s team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sandesh-jhingan-back-to-training-in-croatia-320580
06-10-2021||---||CLTA-AITA Championship Series: Shreay Vir, Priyanshu Antil to clash for title||Chandigarh, October 5Top seed Shreay Vir will face sixth seed Priyanshu Antil in the boys’ U-16 final during the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament tomorrow.In the semi-final played today, Vir ousted Punjab’s Hardik Khanduja (9-4), while Antil overpowered fourth seed and Haryana’s Umang Singh Cogi (9-6).In the girls’ U-16 semi-final, Haryana’s Yana Gupta defeated Akshita Vashisht (9-2). Second seed Mehakpreet Kaur was playing (8-8) against Neha Gundlapalli as the latter conceded the match.Earlier, in the boys’ quarterfinals, Vir defeated Keshav Dangi (9-7). Khanduja ousted Arpit Garg (9-6), Cogi defeated Sumukh Marya (9-3) and Antil outplayed Vaibhav Saini (9-1).In the girls’ U-16 quarterfinals, Yana defeated Kritika Sharma (9-2), Akshita outplayed Dhriti Parashar (9-6), Neha Gundlapalli beat Saravnoor Kaur (9-8(0) and Mehakpreet outplayed Diza Juneja (9-5).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clta-aita-championship-series-shreay-vir-priyanshu-antil-to-clash-for-title-320581
06-10-2021||---||Wildlife Week Celebrations: 6,924 throng Chhatbir zoo||Zirakpur, October 5A total of 6,924 persons visited Chhatbir Zoo here on Tuesday. As part of the ongoing Wildlife Week Celebrations – 2021, a special reptile expert interactive show-cum-workshop was held on Tuesday. Visitors were informed about the scientific knowledge and myths regarding snakes and other reptiles.Field Director Naresh Mahajan said the show was done under the supervision of the animal management wing and the veterinary wing of the zoo. Naresh All necessary arrangements were followed during the show.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wildlife-week-celebrations-6-924-throng-chhatbir-zoo-320582
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jamwal takes over as ADG of BSF Western Command||Following his promotion, Narinder Singh Jamwal assumed charge as the Additional Director General (ADG) of the Border Security Force’s (BSF) Western Command, Chandigarh, today. Prior to this, he was serving as the Inspector-General at the BSF’s Jammu Frontier.The BSF’s Western Command is responsible for peacetime management of the border with Pakistan from Jammu and Kashmir in the north to Rann of Kutch in the south.Jamwal had joined the BSF in 1984 as an Assistant commandant (Direct Entry). He brings with him an enormous amount of experience of serving in counter-insurgency areas of north-eastern states as well as Jammu and Kashmir.He has held important assignments both in command and staff, including tenure in the BSF Headquarters in New Delhi, and attended several training courses in India and abroad.The officer also has been an instructor at the BSF’s Commando Training Centre in Tekanpur, which trains commandos for various Central Armed Police Forces and state police organisations. He also has had a stint with the National Security Guards, India’s counter terrorist special force. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jamwal-takes-over-as-adg-of-bsf-western-command-320583
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pawan Bansal flays Lakhimpur Kheri violence||The local unit of the Congress today staged a protest against the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Party workers staged a sit-in at Sector 35. Former Union Minister Pawan Bansal said, “In a democracy like this you cannot suppress anyone’s voice. If farmers were protesting the agricultural laws, then you cannot suppress their voice by running a vehicle over them.”Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should visit Lakhimpur Kheri and talk about justice for the deaths of innocent farmers. They should remove their erring minister from the Cabinet. The son of the Union Minister of State for Home should be arrested soon after this massacre.”Meanwhile, the Youth Congress protested silently outside Gandhi Bhawan in Sector 16 demanding the immediate release of INC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was detained while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-bansal-flays-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-320584
06-10-2021||---||Mohali forms flying squads to check ‘recycling of paddy’||Mohali, October 5The administration today constituted flying squads for Mohali district to thwart illegal practices of recycling and bogus milling of paddy/rice.Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said the Punjab Government, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, has decided to constitute these squads at the Market Committee level so that recycling and bogus milling menace could be checked. She said the teams comprise officials of the Civil, Mandi Board, Tax and Excise/GST Wing and the Police Department. These teams would conduct surprise visits at night throughout the district.Isha said these flying squads would submit a daily status report of their activities. Tehsildar Navpreet Singh would lead the squad of Lalru, which comprises of mandi supervisor Jagdeep Singh and Mohali GST Wing Inspector Amandeep Dutt. Naib Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh Dhillon would supervise the squad of Banur, which included Market Committee Secretary Inderjit Singh and Mohali GST Inspector Gurpreet Singh. Naib Tehsildar Kulvinder Singh, Tehsildar Jaswinder Singh and Naib Tehsildar Deepak Bhardwaj would lead the squad of Dera Bassi, Kharar and Kurali, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-forms-flying-squads-to-check-recycling-of-paddy-320585
06-10-2021||---||Make property freehold to jack up sagging business: Chandigarh traders||Chandigarh, October 5A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) today called on UT Home Secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav and discussed issues of the traders with him.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said property should be made freehold to jack up sagging trade of the city. He said no more vendor zones should be made effective in city markets, especially in first phase sectors, as these were already congested. Parking and footpaths should be kept free of vendors.Satpal Gupta, chairman, CBM, urged the Home Secretary to rationalise the collector rates in Sector 7, Madhya Marg, as it was more than the market price, and Sector 17-A & B, which was still underdeveloped as compared to the Plaza at the main City Centre, Sector 17-C, D & E.Sanjeev Chadha, general secretary, CBM, said Sector 17 should be kept as a no-vending zone and the green belt opposite the GPO should be developed as an amusement park with eatable stalls so that the area was upgraded. “This will help in boosting business in the adjoining commercial area,” he said.Yadav assured sympathetic consideration to the issues. He said there was a need to increase the tourism in the city by making new policies, which would improve business and employment opportunities in the city. He also talked about increasing footfall in the Sector 17 market by giving permission to small-time musicians or some other type of entertainment activities at the Plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-property-freehold-to-jack-up-sagging-business-chandigarh-traders-320586
06-10-2021||Panchkula||Malaria office building, mother & child care hospital to come up in Panchkula||Adding yet another chapter to the history of health services in Panchkula, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta performed bhoomi pujan of the malaria office building and the mother and child care hospital (MCH) on the premises of the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here, today.Addressing doctors, healthcare workers and paramedical staff, Gupta said with the setting up of the malaria office building and the mother and child care hospital at the Civil Hospital here, people from Panchkula, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab would be able to avail of better healthcare services.He said the malaria office did not have any permanent building for the past around 20 years and the work was being carried out from several places in Sector 6, 10 and 11. After the construction of this five-storeyed malaria office building at the Civil Hospital here, the entire staff would work under one roof and all latest facilities would be made available in this building for the detection and treatment of malaria.Gupta said the 11-storeyed mother and child care hospital, which would have 200-bed capacity, would be constructed at a cost of around Rs100 crore.Gupta said at present the Civil Hospital had a capacity of 300 beds. With the commissioning of this 200-bedded mother and child care hospital, the capacity would rise to 500. The Speaker also honoured healthcare workers and paramedical staff in recognition of their outstanding services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/malaria-office-building-mother-child-care-hospital-to-come-up-in-panchkula-320587
06-10-2021||---||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Chandigarh; Sector 40 shops closed, people inconvenienced||Chandigarh, October 5The police barricaded the main roads leading to Sector 40-D and forced around 10 shopkeepers to shut business for “security concerns” as RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat reportedly arrived at Sharda Sarvhitkari School in the sector today.The internal road leading to the school was completely blocked and the traffic was being diverted. While commuters were harrowed by the abrupt restrictions on their movement, shopkeepers in school’s vicinity resented the forceful shutting of their shops.Lalit Gujral of Gujral Departmental Store shared, “Suddenly the police came and started asking us to close down the shops. While shops in the main market are open, only 10 of those near the school have been shut. I don’t understand the logic behind this. Our business is suffering.”The owner of Kiran Medicose, Ajay Jindal, said, “This is absolutely not done. They came and said the shops will be closed from 6pm to 8pm. I’ve had to ask the customers to go back. What about people who need medicines? I’m losing my customers like this.”Suresh Malhotra of Mittu Crockery House said, “It’s absolutely unexpected. They could have told us in advance that the shops will be shut. In fact, people are not being allowed to park their cars here even. Such events should be held in Rally Ground. Why inconvenience the common man?”The police personnel at the barricades were impatient with the general public. Two women, accompanied with a little boy, on a scooter, who were residents of the sector, were also miffed by the rude behaviour of a policeman who asked them to turn back and not ask any questions.“I just politely asked the cop why the road had been blocked, but he was so rude to me. It’s unacceptable,” she said, refusing to be named.When contacted, SP (City) Ketan Bansal said, “This has been done keeping the security in view. The arrangements were done by the security branch of the Chandigarh Police.”Farm activist Sarvesh Yadav said, “I arrived with a couple of people late at the site, but there was heavy barricading. We couldn’t show any flags or stage even a symbolic protest, as per the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, because we didn’t come to know even where RSS chief Bhagwat got out from there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-in-chandigarh-sector-40-shops-closed-people-inconvenienced-320588
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at 2 houses in Chandigarh||Anita AAP women wing presidentChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Chandigarh, announced a new executive body of the women’s wing on Tuesday. The party has appointed Anita Sharma as president, Kanta Dameja as vice-president, Kamlesh Chaudhary as general secretary and Mamta Kainth as secretary. TNSPanjab varsity declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University announced results of MSc (chemistry) 4th semester, Master of Arts (economics) 4th semester, Bachelor of Physical Education (4-year course) second semester examination, and Bachelor of Physical Education (4-year course) 4th semester. TNSWebinar on calligraphyChandigarh: The University Institute of Fashion Technology & Vocational Development (UIFT & VD), Panjab University, Chandigarh, organised a webinar on ‘Calligraphy- A Journey in Itself’ on Tuesday. TNSWebinar held at nursing instituteMohali: On the occasion of World Heart Day, the Aryans Institute of Nursing, Rajpura, organised a webinar on theme “use heart to connect” to spread awareness about cardiovascular diseases. Dr Ankur Ahuja interacted with faculty members and students. Dr Anshu Kataria, Chairman, Aryans Group of Colleges, Rajpura, was honoured during an event, “FAP State Awards”, organised by the Federation of Private School Association of Punjab (FAP). TNSWorkshop on pickleballChandigarh: A one-day workshop was organised by the Amateur Pickleball Federation of India (APFI) at the Sports Ground, Panjab University, for the uplift of the sport in the region. As many as 30 players, including office-bearers of the Chandigarh Pickleball Association, participated in the workshop. Samarth Mishra, a member of the APFI’s Pickleball Development Board, apprised the office-bearers and players of the subject of the game, rules, upcoming competitions and other details. He said an open national would be organised in the first week of December in Mumbai. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burglars-strike-at-2-houses-in-chandigarh-320589
06-10-2021||---||Chandigarh resident gets Rs 12,400 bill for waste collection||Chandigarh, October 5A Khuda Ali Sher resident has received a door-to-door waste collection bill of Rs 12,400. Interestingly, the water charges were only Rs 456 as compared to the exorbitant waste collection amount.The resident, Nachhattar Singh, said he would now have to struggle to get this bimonthly bill issue resolved.City residents have been receiving unreasonable bills since the MC took over the waste collection system and levied charges in the water bills. Rather than setting its own house in order, the corporation has asked each household to approach it if they face any issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-gets-rs-12-400-bill-for-waste-collection-320590
06-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Husband facing serious cruelty charges doesn’t deserve anticipatory bail: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a husband facing serious allegations of subjecting his wife to both mental and physical cruelty does not deserve the extraordinary concession of anticipatory bail.The assertion by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul of the High Court came on a petition seeking the grant of anticipatory bail to the husband in an FIR registered on May 12 for subjecting a married woman to cruelty and another offence under Sections 324 and 498-A of the IPC at the Dera Bassi police station in Mohali district.Justice Kaul, during the course of the hearing, was told by the husband’s counsel that the FIR was lodged on account of temperamental differences and matrimonial dispute between the petitioner and his wife. The injuries sustained by the wife were on account of an attempt to suicide and not because of alleged merciless beatings given by the petitioner for getting inadequate dowry.Responding to the averments, the state counsel submitted that there were specific allegations levelled against the petitioner of subjecting his wife to both physical and mental harassment and demanding a “big” car as he had been given only a “small car” in dowry at the time of their marriage.Opposing the bail prayer, the state counsel further submitted that it was a matter of record that a complaint had been given to the women’s cell against the petitioner a month prior to the registration of the FIR, but a compromise was reached between the parties. It, however, proved to be shortlived as soon after the petitioner subjected his wife to merciless beatings following which she had to be hospitalised at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, from May 9 to May 18.The state counsel also submitted that the complainant — mother of the petitioner’s wife — shifted her to the hospital after she saw her daughter lying in an unconscious condition in her matrimonial home. He submitted that the injuries were sustained by the petitioner’s wife all over, including arms, feet and below the neck. It did not even obliquely suggest a case of attempted suicide.What the judge said“I have heard counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. Prima facie, there are serious allegations against the petitioner of subjecting his wife to both mental and physical cruelty, for which he does not deserve the extraordinary concession of anticipatory bail,” Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul asserted while dismissing the bail plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-facing-serious-cruelty-charges-doesnt-deserve-anticipatory-bail-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-320591
06-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit to review action on standing committees’ advice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will review the recommendations of the standing committees of the Administrator’s Advisory Council and the action taken at a meeting on Friday.An official said the member secretary would present the action-taken report on the major recommendations of the standing committee concerned during the meeting.In the introductory meet with members of the Advisory Council on September 2, the Administrator had assured that steps would be taken to streamline the working of the council and the action taken on the recommendations made in the reports of the committees.In the last Advisory Council meeting, chaired by former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, some members had demanded that the Administration should regularly submit action-taken reports on the recommendations of the standing committees.At least nine subject-specific standing committees had been formed in November 2019 to examine in detail the issues related to their subjects and make recommendations to the Advisory Council. The standing committees are headed by a chairperson and have four or five members. The committees were formed on environment, sports, urban infrastructure and planning, transportation, health, art, culture, tourism and heritage preservation, social welfare, education and law and order.The Advisory Council advises the Chandigarh Administration on development issues and policy matters related to the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-to-review-action-on-standing-committees-advice-320592
06-10-2021||---||Robber who posed as Haryana cop arrested by Chandigarh police||Chandigarh, October 5An imposter, who had allegedly robbed Rs15,000 and a mobile phone from a Maloya resident at gunpoint while posing as a Haryana policeman, has been arrested by the UT police. The police claim to have solved two cases of extortion with his arrest.The suspect, Sandeep, alias Khurmi, a resident of Sector 38 (West), along with a woman, both of whom posed as personnel from the Panchkula police, entered a house at Maloya on October 3 and told the complainant that a rape case had been registered against him in Panchkula.The suspects then demanded money on the pretext of removing the complainant’s name from the FIR.They threatened the complainant with a pistol and took his signature on blank papers. The main suspect, along with the woman, looted a mobile phone and a purse containing an ATM card and Rs15,000.A case was registered at the Maloya police station. The suspect was arrested and an automatic pistol, four live cartridges, a fake identify card of the Ministry of Defence, documents related to various departments, a police uniform, ATM cards and Rs7,740 were seized.Khurmi has a criminal pastThe police said Sandeep, alias Khurmi, had committed various heinous crimes in the tricity and the Punjab area, and had 12 cases registered against him.He was apprehended by the Panchkula police for snatching when he was a juvenile.In 2008-09, he, along with his accomplices, allegedly kidnapped a person from Mohali and threw him in a river in the Patiala area. A murder case was registered against him and his accomplices. He was sent to the Ropar jail and further to Juvenile Home, Ludhiana, since he was a minor from where he escaped along with his accomplices in 2010. In 2014, he was acquitted in the murder case. He was again arrested in an attempt-to-murder case in 2014 and sent to the Ropar jail. During a court hearing, he again escaped from police custody. Thereafter, he was arrested in a snatching case by the UT police in 2014.In 2016, he escaped from the Ambala jail with the help of Lawrence Bishnoi group members and came to Chandigarh.After 15-20 days, the Panchkula police arrested him and sent him to the Burail jail where he tried to kill himself. An attempt-to-suicide case was registered against him.A case of extortion was registered against him in Haryana and he was shifted to the Ambala jail. In 2018, he was released on bail and returned. Due to failure to appear for a court hearing, he was declared a PO. He surrendered in the court and was sent to the Burail jail where he met gangster Monty Shah, Kali and Akash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robber-who-posed-as-haryana-cop-arrested-by-chandigarh-police-320593
06-10-2021||---||2 teenagers succumb to dengue in Mohali||Mohali, October 5Two children succumbed to dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the toll due to the vector-borne disease to six in the district.The two victims, a 14-year-old and a 16-year-old, belonged to Lalru in Dera Bassi subdivision of the district. According to the Health Department, four patients have died of the disease in the past five days and 141 confirmed cases of dengue have surfaced in the district so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 147 cases of suspected dengue were reported on Tuesday and the patients were admitted to various hospitals in the district. The reports of 35 of them came positive for dengue.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the situation was alarming and the department had already started anti-dengue drives across the district to check the spread of the deadly disease. She said the district had seen six suspected dengue deaths, two in September and four in October. One of the fatalities reported in September had been ruled out to be a case of dengue, she added.The Civil Surgeon said 13 teams had surveyed 1,47,339 houses and other places in the district since March and found mosquito larvae in 2,560 houses. Challans had been issued to violators. She said health teams had been conducting inspections, undertaking a spray exercise and holding awareness campaigns for the prevention of dengue since March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-teenagers-succumb-to-dengue-in-mohali-320594
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One death, four cases in Chandigarh||67-yr-old woman dies in PanchkulaPanchkula: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district, taking the toll to 378. A 67-year-old woman of the MDC, Sector 4, who was suffering from brain tumour and hypertension, died due to Covid. Meanwhile, no fresh case surfaced on Tuesday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,739 in the district. A total of 2,244 persons were vaccinated against Covid-19 at one private and 22 government vaccination centres across the district on Tuesday and 1,686 of them had got their second dose. — TNSTwo test positive in Mohali districtMohali: Two new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 68,749. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district till Tuesday evening while two patients defeated the virus. Among the new cases, one each came from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli. No new case was reported from Mohali, Kharar, Boothgarh, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan and Banur. There are 28 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-four-cases-in-chandigarh-320595
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Chandigarh, to pool oxygen cylinders in case of 3rd wave||Private hospitals will pool D-type oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators to tackle patient surge in the case of a third Covid wave. However, the installation work of oxygen plants at private hospitals has not been started yet due to space constraints.Health Secretary Yash Pal Garg said, “We are trying for installation of PSA plants and extra cylinders to take care of the oxygen requirement for up to three days. We had suggested to the hospitals to pool D-type oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators as it is difficult for them to buy own share of oxygen. Pooling will be a good option for private hospitals and cylinders can be shifted from one hospital to another.”The private hospitals have been asked by the UT Health Department to create a back-up plan to reduce dependency on oxygen cylinders. The hospitals have been asked to procure sufficient number of oxygen concentrators of 10-litre capacity.Dr RS Bedi of Bedi Hospital, Sector 33, and former IMA chief said, “The oxygen scarcity in the second wave was managed with the cooperation of the Administration with the private sector. While preparing for a third wave, private hospitals have volunteered to pool oxygen concentrators, besides having oxygen plants at hospitals with over 50 beds.”According to the UT instructions, each private hospital should have enough empty cylinders to tackle any delay in refilling for up to 48 or 72 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-hospitals-in-chandigarh-to-pool-oxygen-cylinders-in-case-of-3rd-wave-320596
06-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Months on, Chandigarh residents yet to get community centre fee refund||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Several city residents have still not got the refund of the fee they had deposited for booking a community centre, which they had to cancel later in view of the Covid restrictions on the number of guests.The bookings were made by people around May and June and they had to cancel these due to a cap on the number of guests imposed by the UT Administration in view of Covid-19. While some have got the refund after repeatedly following up their case, others are still waiting for it.A Sector 50 resident, Sharad Gautam, who had booked a community centre in his sector for a day in May and applied for a refund of Rs15,000 in June, has not got his money back till now. “I have visited the MC office several times. They only say I will get the refund soon, but it has not come yet. Recently, when I visited their office to enquire about the refund, I was told my signatures were required on some document. I am awaiting the refund for about four months now,” lamented Gautam.Another applicant rued, “They give no time frame to clear our dues. What kind of smart city is this? Their claims of digitising almost every service and doing work in a time-bound manner are seemingly not true. They are not going to pay us interest for the period of delay in refunding the booking fee. They only make people visit their office again and again.”When Chandigarh Tribune contacted the officer concerned, he claimed that they had sent all refund-related applications to the accounts department. Accounts officials, on the other hand, claimed that they had cleared the payment. In fact, both departments failed to provide proper information regarding the total applicants and the refund amount.People had booked community centres for marriages or holding other events in advance and were caught in a catch-22 situation when the UT Administration put a cap on the number of visitors in May. Many of them had to cancel the bookings and were to get a refund of 25 to 50 per cent of the booking charges.Last year, when curbs were imposed on community centres in view of the first wave of Covid, the civic body had refunded the entire booking amount for April and May. About Rs80 lakh was returned to 493 applicants. In 2020 too, there was a delay and no fixed time was given to the public as to when they would get the refund.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “I will check the records and get the refund amount released. However, we have made changes in the process following which the refund shall be automatic and no separate application will be required to claim it. The changes will be implemented soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/months-on-chandigarh-residents-yet-to-get-community-centre-fee-refund-320597
