07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for dowry death||Ram Darbar man held for theftChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a man who was caught red-handed while stealing iron from a plot. The suspect, identified as Ravi, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, was caught stealing iron from Ramesh Steel industries, Industrial Area, Phase I. A case has been registered. TNSSector 80 gets open air gymMohali: Former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday inaugurated an open air gym in Sector 80 here. He also reviewed the ongoing work of paver blocks, being undertaken at a cost of Rs16 lakh. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were present on the occasion. The former minister said the biggest problem being faced by the people of this area was that their water bills were nearly five times more than those of residents of other areas in Mohali. He said by resolving the issue, the Congress government had provided a lot of relief to the people. TNSTrickster targets SUV driverChandigarh: A trickster managed to steal a purse containing Rs30,000, an iPhone and other valuables after befooling the driver of a Fortuner parked in Sector 9. The complainant, Devi Singh, stated that a person knocked the SUV’s windowpane and pointed towards money lying on the ground. The driver got down to pick the money when the trickster escaped with a purse lying in the SUV. A case has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSThieves strike at Badheri clinicChandigarh: Thieves made off with Rs60,000, gold and silver ornaments from the cash drawer at a clinic in Badheri, Sector 41. While the incident took place on September 17, a case has now been registered. TNSPM to inaugurate O2 plant at GMSHChandigarh: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the PM-CARES PSA medical oxygen plant at GMSH, Sector 16, here, at 10:45 am on Thursday. UT Administrator and Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit will also be present at the event. A medical oxygen plant will also be inaugurated at the PGI . Till now, 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under the PM-CARES across the country, out of which more than 1,100 have been commissioned, the PMO stated. TNSLubana president of AAP youth wingChandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Delhi and Chandigarh in-charge Jarnail Singh announced the new office-bearers of the youth wing. Jassi Lubana has been appointed as the president of the youth wing, Virendra Singh Veeru has been appointed as the vice-president and Rajesh Sahil as the general secretary. Jarnail said AAP would win all seats in the upcoming MC elections. TNSYear after murder, case registeredChandigarh: Over a year after a 22-year-old youth died under mysterious circumstances in Sector 22 here, the UT police have registered a murder case. The victim, Vishal Rana, had reportedly died after falling from the third floor of his friend Anmol’s house in June last year. The victim’s father, Naresh Kumar, a warder at the Burail jail, had suspected foul play in his son’s death and had approached the court. The police said on the orders of the court, they registered a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC. TNS41-run win for Rose ZoneChandigarh: Rose Zone defeated Terrace Zone by 41 runs in the inaugural match of the UTCA U-25 Domestic Tournament. Batting first, Rose Zone scored 275/8 in 50 overs. In reply, Terrace Zone scored 234/8. In other matches, Plaza Zone defeated Rock Zone by 28 runs and Sukhna Zone defeated Leisure Zone by four wickets. — TNSSarthak enters tennis semisMohali: Top seed Sarthak Gandhi defeated Harmanjit Singh to enter the semi-finals of the Roots-AITA CS (7) U-18 National Ranking Championship. In other quarterfinals, Shantanu Sri Kumar outplayed Uday Batra, Upnishad Bharadwaj ousted Agrim Sharma and second seed Aditya Chauhan thrashed Aryan Aggarwal. In the girls’ U-18 category, top seed Riya Kaushik defeated Sidhak Kaur, Gursimrat Kaur outplayed Ayushi Prajapat, Isheeta Midha defeated Ananya Dogra and Rasha Dhaliwal stunned second seed Anusha Verma. In the boys’ U-18 doubles semi-finals, Gandhi and Chauhan defeated Anivesh and Upnishad, while Samerpreet and Batra logged a comeback win over Harmanjit and Sukhwinder. — TNSYana, Shreay bag tennis titlesChandigarh: Top seed and Haryana’s Yana Gupta comeback from a set down to win the girls’ U-16 title on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament on Wednesday. Yana defeated second seed and Punjab’s Mehakpreet Kaur. In the boys’ U-16 final, top seed Shreay Vir outplayed sixth seed Haryana’s Priyanshu Antil in straight sets. — TNSSwimmer Aarav wins 8 goldMohali: Swimmer Aarav Sharma, a student of Manav Mangal Smart School, Phase 10, brought laurels by bagging 10 gold medals in the 44th Punjab State Junior Swimming Championship. Sharma is training under coach Johny Bhatia at the GMADA Sports Complex, Phase 9. Sharma won medals in the 200m backstroke, 100m butterfly, 4x200m freestyle relay, 50m freestyle, 4x100m freestyle relay, 200m individual medley, 50m butterfly and 4x100mtrs medley relay. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-dowry-death-321238
07-10-2021||Amit Bathla||Dengue spreads its tentacles in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 6With 15 more confirmed dengue cases, the tally reached 107 in the district today.“The spike in dengue cases this year is mainly due to prolonged monsoon. Citizen participation can only lead to effective containment of the disease. I urge people that they should not let water stagnate in and around their homes,” said CMO Dr Mukta Kumar, adding that government facilities had not reported any fatality so far.The Health Department has sought help from residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to tackle the menace. It said community engagement was must to curb the spread of dengue.However, residents seem not to be happy with the administration due to its “passive attitude” towards the prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases.They say precaution is everyone’s responsibility, but enforcing preventive measures is the job of the authorities concerned.Bharat Hiteshi, chairman, House Owners’ Welfare Association, Sector 10, said they had demanded that fogging should be increased to contain the spread of the vector-borne disease, but their request fell on deaf ears.“Around 25 dengue cases have been reported from our sector. I wrote to the authorities concerned, including the Deputy Commissioner, to carry out door-to-door fogging to contain the spread of the disease in my locality, but to no avail. I even requested them to cover at least the houses of patients and their neighbours, but nothing has been done so far,” he said.Though 107 cases have been reported from the district so far, RWAs claim numbers are very much unrealistic, with a lot of people visiting private hospitals for treatment.“They (officials) say we are exaggerating the actual number, but I am ready to give them the house number of every dengue patient in our locality,” he said.Responding to the claim, Dr Kumar said: “We coordinate with private hospitals to ensure no case go unreported. After intimation from private hospitals, we reconfirm the infection(s) and add it to the overall tally.”MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh couldn’t be contacted on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-spreads-its-tentacles-in-panchkula-321218
07-10-2021||---||Kharga Corps cyclists pay homage to martyrs||Chandigarh, October 6A cycling expedition launched by the Ambala-based Kharga Corps to commemorate the Swarnim Vijay Varsh and celebrate Kharga Corps’ golden jubilee was flagged in at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, today.The expedition, comprising 25 cyclists from the Deep Strikers Division of the Corps, covered a distance of 702 km from Dera Baba Nanak War Memorial in Punjab to the Capital after starting off on October 3.The team members paid homage to martyrs at nine war memorials en route as well as interacted with veterans and war widows in areas through which they traversed. A wreath was also laid at the memorials on behalf of the Corps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharga-corps-cyclists-pay-homage-to-martyrs-321219
07-10-2021||Mohali||Alarm bells in Mohali district, 103 fresh dengue cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alarm-bells-in-mohali-district-103-fresh-dengue-cases-321220
07-10-2021||Mohali||Mohali civic body collects Rs 15.90 cr as property tax||The Municipal Corporation here has collected a revenue of Rs15.90 crore in the form of property tax till September 30, 2021, which is Rs1.35 crore more than the amount collected during the corresponding period last year.Last year, the civic body had collected Rs14.55 crore with over 20,628 people depositing their property tax till September 30, while this year, 13,301 persons submitted their property tax.It may also be recalled that till September 30, a rebate of 10 per cent was given to the property tax payers.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said this time additional teams had been deployed for the submission of property tax and a survey of the Mohali city had also been conducted, which resulted in higher property tax collection from lesser people.Officials said the target for this year’s budget was to collect Rs28 crore from property tax.Sidhu thanked the residents and said the revenue generated under property tax was being spent on the development of Mohali.He appealed to all the residents to submit their property tax to so that there would be no shortage of funds for the overall development of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-collects-rs-15-90-cr-as-property-tax-321221
07-10-2021||---||Haryana SI recruitment: Candidates want re-examination for all||Panchkula, October 6Around 200 candidates who appeared for the sub-inspector (SI) recruitment examination staged a protest outside the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) building in Sector 2 here today.The protesters sought re-examination for all the candidates and not only for those who had appeared for the test at the three selected centres in Gurugram and Rewari for the “distribution of wrong question papers”. The exam was conducted on September 26.The HSSC is conducting the exam again for those candidates who had taken the test at Government Senior Secondary School, Jharsa, Gurugram; Manav Rachan International School, Sector 46, Gurugram; and Saini Senior Secondary School, near Civil Hospital, Rewari.The re-examination is scheduled for October 13 in Panchkula.“The HSSC should conduct a retest for all. Not just for selective people. The commission should maintain a level playing field,” said Raunak, one of the protesters.The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala had recently alleged a scam in the sub-inspector recruitment exam. However, the HSSC chairman refuted all such allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-si-recruitment-candidates-want-re-examination-for-all-321222
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress protests against Election Commission, Administration||The city unit of the Congress today held a protest dharna against the State Election Commission, UT Chandigarh, in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Sector 17 here.HS Lucky, general secretary and chief spokesperson for the party’s city unit, said an all-party meeting must be called and a draw should be held for the reservation of women and SC seats for the upcoming Municipal Corporation poll.The protesters also demanded that schedule for the MC elections should be announced immediately for providing a fair and level playing field to all the participants.“It appears to us and the residents that the commission and the Chandigarh Administration are biased in their approach. They are not acting neutral,” said Subhash Chawla, president of the Congress’ city unit.The protesters raised slogans and carried placards in support of their demands and later handed over a memorandum to the SDM, Central, TS Saini. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-protests-against-election-commission-administration-321223
07-10-2021||---||Delegation of housing societies meets Chandigarh Adviser||Chandigarh, October 6A delegation of the Voice of Housing Societies of Southern Sectors met the UT Adviser over their pending demands, here today. The group had two days ago declared to contest the MC elections.During the meeting, the delegation discussed issues concerning completion certificate, unearned increase and conversion from leasehold to freehold, stamp duty, etc. with the Adviser, who assured them of an early resolution.MN Shukla, convener of the housing societies, said the Adviser marked the representation to the Finance Secretary, who gave them time for a meeting on October 26. In the meanwhile, the staff under the Finance Secretary will contact them and discuss various issues, said Shukla.The Adviser also assured of a joint meeting if the issues are not resolved at the secretary level, Shukla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delegation-of-housing-societies-meets-chandigarh-adviser-321224
07-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two sentenced to 4-year RI in NDPS case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6A local court has sentenced two persons - Pawan and Raman - to four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) and directed them to pay a fine of Rs40,000 each after convicting them for the offences committed under Section 21(b) of the NDPS Act.The court also convicted them under Section 25 (1B) (a) of the Arms Act and Section 473 of the IPC and sentenced them to three-year RI in each of the above offences.Pawan has also been convicted for the offence under Section 467 of the IPC and sentenced to three-year RI.The court said all sentences would run concurrently. However, the detention already suffered by the convicts during the investigation and trial of this case be set off against the substantive sentences.The accused were arrested by the police on February 14, 2017 in Chandigarh. Non-commercial quantity of 171 grams of heroin without any permit or licence and a loaded pistol was recovered from them. The accused denied charges and claimed that the police falsely implicated them in this case by planting the contraband, pistols and cartridges. The accused also denied having forged any document, but the prosecution proved the charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-sentenced-to-4-year-ri-in-ndps-case-321225
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU professor gets ISSP Honor Award||Professor Emeritus Jitendra Mohan, Department of Psychology, Panjab University, is the first Asian to receive the prestigious Honor Award of International Society of Sport Psychology. Professor Mohan was awarded during the virtual 15th World Congress of Sports Psychology held at Taipei from September 30 to October 4.The ISSP is the oldest and largest global society of sport psychology. This award is presented every four years in recognition of significant contributions to national and international sport psychology through leadership, research, and/or other professional service. Since its inception, the award has been given to only 15 people.Professor Mohan has served two terms as a member of Managing Council of ISSP from 1989-93 and 1993-97.Professor Mohan played a pivotal role in establishing Sports Psychology in India. He is the founder president of Sports Psychology Association of India, founded in 1985. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-professor-gets-issp-honor-award-321226
07-10-2021||---||Senior UK diplomat molested by biker in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 6A senior diplomat of the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh, was allegedly molested by a motorcycle-borne miscreant in Sector 10 this morning.In her complaint to the police, the official, a UK resident, said she left her house in Sector 9 on foot at 6.34 am and was heading to the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) complex in Sector 10.She reported that as soon as she turned left on the road towards the CLTA from the Hotel Mountview roundabout, a motorcyclist came from the rear side and hit her on the back.Probe underwayWe can confirm that an official complaint has been registered and a police investigation is underway. We are grateful for the assistance provided by the Chandigarh Police. — Spokesperson, British Deputy High Commission, ChandigarhThe complainant raised the alarm and ran behind the suspect, but he managed to speed away from the spot. She then went to the CLTA and narrated the incident to her coach.The police were informed following which an investigating officer visited the diplomat’s house to record her statement.The police have registered a case at the Sector 3 police station. The police said the footage of closed circuit television cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-uk-diplomat-molested-by-biker-in-chandigarh-321227
07-10-2021||Panchkula||Navratri fest begins today; three e-token counters set up at Mansa Devi temple||Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has set up three counters at the Mansa Devi temple for e-token booking for darshan during the Navratri festival, which begins tomorrow.The counters – installed at the Navratri mela bus stand, the HSVP shopping complex near the library and the main gate of the temple – will remain operational between 6 am and 10 pm during the nine-day festival.CM chairs shrine board meetingIt is necessary for devotees to obtain an e-token to pay obeisance at the temple. People can also get an e-token on their own from the official website of the shrine, www.mansadevi.org.in.The Haryana Roadways will operate 20 special buses from Zirakpur, the Panchkula bus stand and the Sector 17 and Sector 43 ISBTs in Chandigarh to ferry devotees to the temple.e-rickshaws and CNG autos will also ply from Singh Dwar and the Mani Majra bus stand to ferry the elderly and the differently abled. Police personnel will be deployed in and around the temple to maintain law and order.Fifteen nakas have been set up and around 650 police personnel will be on duty, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navratri-fest-begins-today-three-e-token-counters-set-up-at-mansa-devi-temple-321228
07-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser on panel for Secy posts at Centre||Chandigarh, October 6The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the empanelment of UT Adviser Dharam Pal for holding the Secretary-level posts at the Centre.An alumnus of the Punjab Engineering College, Dharam Pal, a 1988-batch IAS officer of the AGMUT cadre, had joined the Chandigarh Administration as the Adviser to the UT Administrator on June 23 this year. He replaced Manoj Parida, who was transferred to Delhi on June 17, six months before the completion of his three-year tenure. Before his present assignment, Dharam Pal was an Additional Secretary in the Department of Fertilisers under the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, New Delhi.Stating that he has no intention to go back to the Centre, the Adviser said his priority was to complete the various long-pending projects in the UT. It would be an act of criminality if I left the projects midway, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-on-panel-for-secy-posts-at-centre-321229
07-10-2021||---||CHB gets Rs 15.47 cr in online transactions since January 2020||Chandigarh, October 6The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received an amount of Rs98.86 lakh through 1,383 online transactions in September.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the board had introduced the facility of online payment for all kind of dues in October 2019 and now the allottees were not required to visit the office and could pay their dues online by visiting the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in.During September, an amount of Rs98.86 lakh was collected through 1,383 online transactions, he said, adding Rs15.47 crore had been received through 16,437 online transactions between January 2020 and September 2021.To encourage online payments, the CHB had decided to give a monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions every month. A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for August was held today. It has been observed that among the winners, one deposited the lowest amount of Rs1,600 only and 10 winners include four allottees of small flats and six allottees of residential units, the CEO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-gets-rs-15-47-cr-in-online-transactions-since-january-2020-321231
07-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Slum-free Chandigarh by early 2022 on Admn mind||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6The UT Administration plans to make the city slum-free by early 2022.After a delay of several years, the Administration is all set to get the dwellers evicted from the last slum of the city, Colony No. 4, after the winter early next year.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and the Deputy Commissioner had been directed to rehabilitate all slum dwellers found eligible after the biometric survey conducted in the city some time ago. However, all slum dwellers who did not meet the eligibility criteria would be asked to go and they would be given three to four months to make their arrangements, he said.Nearly 25,000 slum dwellers have been staying in Colony No. 4. The Administration had already allotted flats at Maloya to a majority of the slum dwellers of the colony.The colony is the second biggest after Colony No. 5, which was razed in 2013. There were over 7,000 dwelling units in Colony No. 5 while Colony No. 4 has around 5,000.In the past 10 years, the Administration has constructed around 25,000 flats in different sectors of the city for rehabilitation of slum dwellers. The rehabilitation scheme was launched to make the city slum-free.Sources said eligible residents of the colony had been allotted flats under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006 in the Rehabilitation Colony, Maloya. In a survey conducted in 2006, only 2,400 families from the colony were found eligible for rehabilitation.Later, the Administration had decided to conduct a fresh biometric survey of slum dwellers, who were found ineligible or were left out during the 2006 survey.In keeping with the Administration’s plan of making Chandigarh free of slums, the CHB had recently rehabilitated slum dwellers from tin-shed colonies in Sector 52 and Sector 56. The Estate Office has managed to get around 200 acres from encroachers after razing Colony No. 5, Mazdoor Colony, Kuldeep Colony, Pandit Colony, Nehru Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Kajheri Colony and Madrasi Colony.Purohit briefed about challenges faced by ChandigarhUT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday reviewed the Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP)-2031 during a meeting with senior officials of the Administration. Officials of different departments gave a presentation on the CMP to the Administrator. UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the Administrator was updated on the Master Plan and informed about its salient features and the challenges they were facing in planning the comprehensive development of the city. The Adviser said the Administrator was also informed about the issues being faced in the development of 23 villages merged with the Municipal Corporation, along with other problems being faced by the Administration, including high prices of land in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slum-free-chandigarh-by-early-2022-on-admn-mind-321234
07-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC Chief Justice carries out surprise check at Ambala Sessions Division||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Sending across a stern message of total intolerance towards relaxed attitude in judicial functioning at the level of the subordinate courts, the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court today carried out a surprise check at the Ambala Sessions Division.The Chief Justice, Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, was accompanied by High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry and Registrar-Vigilance Vikram Aggarwal during the visit. It was, perhaps, the first such surprise visit by Chief Justice Jha to check whether the courts were functioning properly, especially with the resumption of physical hearing following a decline in Covid cases.Available information suggests that nothing was found to be amiss, but the visit did send across a message to the subordinate judiciary that the High Court was monitoring its functioning.It is believed that the Chief Justice and the two Registrars reached the courts in Ambala in the post-lunch session. They inspected the courtrooms and went around the court complex. While some Judges were still holding courts, some others had wound up the work for the day.Chief Justice Jha also interacted with the Sessions Judge of the Ambala Sessions Division.The courts had shifted to the virtual mode of hearing from physical platform following the Covid outbreak in March last year. The court to a large extent resumed in-person hearing after the second wave subsided, taking up cases through videoconferencing where physical hearing was not desired or not feasible.The check was also aimed at restoring a sense of confidence in the litigants that the courts had left behind the slow-motion syndrome brought about by snags during hearings via videoconferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-chief-justice-carries-out-surprise-check-at-ambala-sessions-division-321235
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Five new Covid cases in Chandigarh||The city on Wednesday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours.— TNS2 found infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,741.The toll remained at 378. While 30,357 people have recovered from the disease so far, six cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNSNo fresh case in Mohali districtMohali: Two persons recovered from Covid-19 in the district in the past 24 hours, while there was no new case. Of the 68,749 positive cases reported so far, 67,655 patients have recovered. The active case count in the district is 26. The toll stands at 1,068. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-321236
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Widow of man whose first wife died childless entitled to 100% pension: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that a widow was entitled to 100 per cent pension of her retiree husband, whose first wife died issueless. Justice Fateh Deep Singh also ruled that the conduct of the state of Punjab and other respondents in issuing orders on recovering of money from her pension was highly illegal and erroneous.The petitioner, Radha Rani, had moved the High Court after she was held entitled to 50 per cent of the family pension even after the death of her retiree husband’s first wife Manjeet Rani. The plea taken was they were supposed to give pension commensurate with the petitioner’s share. It was claimed that the petitioner was required to return the excess amount as she had been paid 100 per cent of the family pension instead of 50 per cent.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that it was fairly conceded by the two sides that there was no surviving child out of the first marriage with Manjeet Rani. The retiree had three children, all above 60 now, out of the second marriage with Radha Rani.The moot point revolved around the fact that Madan Lal, on his death in September 2012, had left behind only one widow— petitioner Radha Rani as his first wife Manjeet Rani had pre-deceased on December 31, 2008. “Since at the relevant time consequent upon the death of the retired employee, the petitioner happens to be the sole legal heir being the widow entitled to this family pension, she is definitely entitled to get her full family pension as admissible to the dependants of a deceased,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh ruled.Before parting with the order, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that the claim that the petitioner was entitled to 50 per cent of the family pension was a wholly misplaced and erroneous view as there was only one widow left behind by the “deceased retiree”. His earlier wife had pre-deceased him and children born out of the second marriage were turning senior citizens. As such, they were not entitled to a share in the family pension as they were not dependants under the pension scheme. — TNSThe caseThe petitioner, Radha Rani, had moved the High Court after she was held entitled to 50 per cent of the family pension even after the death of her retiree husband’s first wife Manjeet Rani. The plea taken was they were supposed to give pension commensurate with the petitioner’s share. It was claimed that the petitioner was required to return the excess amount as she had been paid 100 per cent of the family pension instead of 50 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/widow-of-man-whose-first-wife-died-childless-entitled-to-100-pension-hc-321237
