09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh recorded four Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a news bulletin from the union territory’s administration said.The UT now has 42 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.22 per cent over the last week.The bulletin said 1,832 samples were collected over the last 24 hours. Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 820.Meanwhile, the UT reported five recoveries in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-322393
09-10-2021||---||PGI makes changes in registration timings with effect from Monday||Chandigarh, October 9With respite in Covid patients, the PGI has scaled up its elective services, including outpatient services.The PGI has been scaling up its elective services, including outpatient services, in line with the lull in Covid patients.A meeting was held by the PGI director with senior faculty members and administrative officials on Saturday to review the functioning of OPDs.Consequent to this, the following changes in registration timings have been decided at the PGI with effect from October 11:Registration for physical OPD - 8 am to 10 am.Registration for tele-consultation – 10.30 am to 11.15 am.The above changes have been introduced taking in view the increasing number of patients visiting the various OPDs so as to decrease the waiting time for patients and streamline the flow of patients.Online registration for physical as well as tele-consultation will continue as before.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-makes-changes-in-registration-timings-with-effect-from-monday-322336
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||PO nabbed by Chandigarh police||Man robbed at knifepointChandigarh: A Dhanas resident was robbed at knifepoint by four unknown miscreants. According to the police, the complainant, Raghu, reported that miscreants robbed him of Rs6,500 and some documents near the Sector 25/38 light point. A case has been registered. TNSRs2,000, mobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Three motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched Rs2,000 and a mobile phone from Vishal, a resident of Sector 38. The incident was reported from near a private school in Sector 38. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSAcademy opened at Chhat villageChandigarh: SSB Sure Shot Academy here was inaugurated by Major-Gen VPS Bhakuni (retd). It will impart training to students and youth to crack SSB selection process to become officers in the Indian Armed Forces. The academy has its campus at Mount Carmel School, Chhat village, near Zirakpur. TNSSec 39 house burgledChandigarh: Thieves struck at a house in Sector 39 in the city. The complainant, Purshottam, reported that unknown person stole Rs20,000, gold jewellery and a watch from his house. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/po-nabbed-by-chandigarh-police-322280
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Viraj Madappa lifts golf trophy||Viraj Madappa held his nerve on a high-scoring day to lift the trophy at the Rs70-lakh PGTI MP Cup 2021 in Delhi Golf Club (DGC). The Kolkata golfer thus bagged his second professional title and his first win in three years.The 23-year-old Madappa (71-67-66-70) carded a two-under 70 on the final day to end up with a tournament tally of 14-under 274. Viraj picked up a cheque for Rs11,31,550 which pushed him up from ninth to third place in the PGTI Order of Merit.Bengaluru golfer Khalin Joshi (69-66-69-71) slipped on the last six holes to sign a card of one-under 71 and finish the runner-up at 13-under 275. Delhi’s Rashid Khan (67-73-68-69) was one of the top three contenders till the 14th hole as he was in the joint lead. However, he dropped three shots over the last four holes to end the week in third place at 11-under 277.Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (69) finished fourth at nine-under 279. Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh continued to lead the PGTI Order of Merit after he ended the week in tied 20th place at one-under 287. SSP Chawrasia finished tied 31st at two-over 290. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/viraj-madappa-lifts-golf-trophy-322266
09-10-2021||Mohali||2 held with 4kg opium||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-4kg-opium-322260
09-10-2021||---||24X7 check on smuggling of paddy from other states in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, October 8To check the inflow of smuggled paddy in the district from other states, Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik has formed surveillance teams comprising officials of the Food and Civil Supplies and other departments. These surveillance teams are working round-the-clock and monitoring paddy arrival at procurement centres in the district.Assistant Commissioner (General) Ashok Kumar said these teams were also keeping close watch on the sale of paddy in all the 32 procurement centres of the district to ensure that only genuine farmers crop was sold and the record of commission agents was verified regularly. These teams ensured that paddy from out of the state was not sold in the district, he added.At the same time teams had been directed that no farmer or commission agent was unnecessarily harassed as per the directions of the state government, he said.The district administration had made elaborate arrangements at all procurement centres to ensure the smooth procurement of paddy, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24x7-check-on-smuggling-of-paddy-from-other-states-in-fatehgarh-sahib-322257
09-10-2021||---||Wild grass irks residents of Sector 49-D||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8Residents of Sector 49-D have complained of an open ground, which is full of wild grass, to the authorities concerned, but to no avail.Residents lamented that snakes were often seen crawling in the ground. Even miscreants like those taking drugs hid here, they added. Their complaints to the authorities concerned had fallen on deaf ears, they said.Gurcharan Gill, a local resident, said, “Residents are troubled due to this jungle type area. What kind of smart city is this? This has become a place where chain snatchers and drug addicts hide. When we complain, workers only do formality by cutting grass in some part of the ground. My one complaint is pending for the last few days.”Ashwani Moudgil, president, Rose Petals Society, said, “The issue must be resolved immediately. Even electricity cables are dangling on trees in haphazard manner and can lead to mishap. Senior officials should visit this place and do the needful.”Recently, when Moudgil was walking near this area he stepped on grass, which had a snake underneath it. “Luckily, the snake went away as I stepped on the grass and did not attack me. But, this has become a common problem here,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wild-grass-irks-residents-of-sector-49-d-322256
09-10-2021||---||Wildlife Week celebrations see a footfall of 10,000 at Chhatbir zoo||Mohali, October 8Chhatbir zoo is one of the most happening places in the tricity these days with thousands of visitors, specially kids and youngsters, thronging the place for the last one week. More than 10,000 visitors have visited the zoo in the past one week.The Wildlife Week-2021 celebrations have added a dash of novelty to the place with various interactive events being organised daily. The theme for the Wildlife Week this year is “Forests and livelihoods: Sustaining people and planet”.The zoo authorities have made the entry free for all visitors. The reptile show held recently left visitors awestruck with the way experts handled python, monitor lizards and cobra for morphological identification.Nikhil Sanger, honorary wildlife warden of Punjab, apprised visitors about various facts and ways to rescue reptiles.Naresh Mahajan, Field Director, Chhatbir Zoo, said the activity was conducted to sensitise visitors about reptiles and their behaviour.Also, a Zoo Keepers’ talk on elephants was organised at the front of the Elephant Complex. Parinay Agarwal, a Class IV student of a private school in Zirakpur, said, “This is the second time I am visiting the zoo with my parents. I really enjoyed seeing birds and animals so closely. Most of the time we see them on TV, but watching them in real life is thrilling.”The wildlife awareness campaign, painting competition, quiz, online story writing and origami contest, videography, cycle rides, running events and expert talks will also be organised during the week.Dinosaur Park, Nocturnal House, reptile enclosure and walk-in-aviaries are also drawing huge crowds.The zoo authorities also distributed plants among teachers and students during the ongoing campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wildlife-week-celebrations-see-a-footfall-of-10-000-at-chhatbir-zoo-322255
09-10-2021||---||DRT Bar Assn, Chandigarh, stays off work, seeks regular presiding officers||Chandigarh, October 8Members of the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) Bar Association, Chandigarh, have decided not to attend the work of the tribunal in protest against the failure of the government to appoint regular presiding officers for all three Benches of the tribunal.President of the association KPS Dhillon said it had taken the decision after it failed to get any response from the government and various authorities despite sending representations to them. In a representation sent to the Minister of Finance, Government of India, the association has said there is no regular presiding officer for the past nearly two years in DRT - I, II and III in Chandigarh.The Ministry of Finance has given the additional charge of the three Benches to the presiding officers of Bengaluru and Jaipur till September 30, 2021, when they fell vacant but no further order regarding the extension of additional charge has been issued so far.Because of this, all posts of presiding officers in Chandigarh are lying vacant since October 1, 2021. Dhillon said the litigants were facing problems to get justice on account of actions of banks/ financial institutions and the recovery process of banks is also stalled as no proceedings are being carried out due to unavailability of presiding officers at the DRT in Chandigarh.Dhillon said the members of the association did not attend the work for the past two days. Their decision not to attend the work will remain in force till the government takes a decision on their demands. Dhillon also said there was no proper space to hold the courts of the presiding officers, recovery officers and registrars in Chandigarh, and all courts were being held in small cabins which are just like rooms of some small office. There is no proper ventilation in the courtrooms and there is no adequate space for lawyers as well as litigants to sit in the so-called court rooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drt-bar-assn-chandigarh-stays-off-work-seeks-regular-presiding-officers-322254
09-10-2021||---||Man sentenced to 10-yr RI  in NDPS Act case, fined Rs 1L||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A local court has sentenced a person to 10-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on him after convicting him in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act case.Vikas Garg was arrested on October 10, 2017, near the road separating Sector 61 and 52 in Chandigarh during checking at 9.40 pm. He was carrying a polythene bag which contained 10 injections of Buprenorphine.According to the prosecution, the accused could not produce any licence or permit for keeping the injections in his possession. Charges in the case were framed on June 5, 2018.The counsel for the accused denied all charges and argued that the recovery was effected from a public place but the investigating officer failed to produce any independent witness. The defence counsel also argued that there were discrepancies in the statements of the prosecution witnesses.On the other hand, the prosecution examined the witnesses and placed records and reports to prove its case.After hearing the arguments, Jagdeep Sood, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, said the prosecution had been able to prove its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The accused is held guilty for the offence under Section 22 of the Act and is convicted. Keeping in view of the fact that the quantity of injections of Buprenorphine recovered from the convict, which falls in commercial quantity, the convict is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment under 22 (c) of the NDPS Act for a period of 10 years.In default of the payment of fine, the convict will undergo RI for another six months.The period of detention already undergone by the convict during the investigation and trial is ordered to be set off from the substantive sentence imposed upon him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-sentenced-to-10-yr-ri-in-ndps-act-case-fined-rs-1l-322253
09-10-2021||---||Awareness rally on leprosy in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 8In a bid to raise awareness about leprosy eradication, the Mohali Health Department conducted an awareness rally, which began from the district hospital here today.The rally was flagged off by Dr Bhavneet Bharti, principal of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences. Students of a nursing college participated in the rally. They carried placards bearing slogans breaking the stigma associated with leprosy and information that leprosy was not a hereditary disease. While flagging off the rally, Dr Bharti said leprosy was not a contagious disease and was totally curable.“The purpose of this rally is to send a message to the people that leprosy patients are a vital part of our society and they should not be discriminated against in any way. These people need love, compassion and touch of society as they too have a right to live just as healthy people do,” said Dr Bharti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/awareness-rally-on-leprosy-in-mohali-322251
09-10-2021||---||25-year-old held under POCSO Act denied bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A local court here has denied bail to a man held on charges under the POCSO Act.The police had arrested the 25-year-old, father of two, following a complaint by a mother, who alleged that the accused had lured her minor daughter into marrying him three years ago.A case was registered against the man, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, at the IT Park police station under Sections 363, 366, 376 (2) (n) and 376 (3) of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, on April 4, this year.The mother claimed that she recently came to know that her daughter was residing with the accused in UP.With the intervention of the Child Helpline, she was able to trace her daughter and came to know that her daughter was now a mother to two children. She alleged that the accused had forcibly developed physical relations with her daughter.The counsel for the accused though claimed that the man was falsely implicated in the case. He said prosecutrix was examined and she had specifically stated that she had accompanied the accused of her own will and she was never subjected to rape by the accused.The counsel said the accused and the prosecutrix had solemnised marriage and two children were born out of their wedlock. He also claimed that the girl left the house at the age of majority.After hearing both the sides, Judge Swati Sehgal, fast track special court, Chandigarh, in her order stated that “merely that victim has not supported the case of prosecution, will not exonerate the petitioner from the charges framed against him”.“The factum of age of victim is a matter of evidence and cannot be adjudicated at this stage. Keeping in view the nature and gravity of offences along with peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, the bail application moved by petitioner – accused, is dismissed,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-year-old-held-under-pocso-act-denied-bail-322249
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||MHC residents meet Chandigarh MC chief, hand over memorandum||Members of the Residents Welfare Association Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Sector 13 (Mani Majra), today met the Municipal Corporation Commissioner and handed her a memorandum of their demands.The association also took up the issue of safe drinking water with the Commissioner.“An alarming health situation has been created by muddy water supply in MHC, Sector 13. The root cause appears to be 30-year old underground water distribution pipes which have outlived their life. This causes frequent leakages,” said RWA president Col Gursewak Singh (retd).He also pointed out the “deplorable sanitation conditions” in the area. Colonel Singh attributed the poor sanitation conditions to the “understaffing of safai karamcharis” and lack of supervision.He further said the height of the boundary wall of the complex also needed to be raised by three feet by fixing iron railings to stop trespassing. Waterlogging issue should also be resolved, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mhc-residents-meet-chandigarh-mc-chief-hand-over-memorandum-322248
09-10-2021||---||Mohali MC starts work on NIPER Bridge-Bawa White House road||Mohali, October 8The Municipal Corporation here today started the work on the road from the NIPER Bridge to Bawa White House.The road was dug by the civic body for laying of sewerage.The MC also started repair works on the dilapidated roads in Sector 76 to 80.After inaugurating the works, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the road up to City Park, Sector 68, would be opened to the public after a day or two.He said the aim was to complete the road up to Kumbhra Chowk and open it to the public within next 10 days, for which instructions have been issued to the officials and the contractor.Sidhu said the works were delayed due to rains.Regarding repair works in Sector 76 to 80, he said the area came under the purview of the Municipal Corporation some time back and works worth crores of rupees had already been started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-starts-work-on-niper-bridge-bawa-white-house-road-322247
09-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC poll 2 months away, AAP’s ‘Super 30’ lies defunct||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8With just two months left for the MC elections, ‘AAP Super 30’, which was formed a year ago, continues to lie defunct.While the dejected Congress leaders are making a beeline to join the Chandigarh unit of the Aam Aadmi Party, its own people seem to have literally abandoned the party.Members of the ‘Super 30’, who come from different walks of life, said in the past five months, not even a single meeting of the pioneer group was held. The advisory board was to function under the name of this forum.At the time of the formation of the group, AAP convener Prem Garg had declared that the group would meet before every General House meeting of the Municipal Corporation.In the meetings, actual agenda of the House meeting was to be deliberated upon and expert views were to be forwarded to the councillors and MC officials. But nothing of this sort happened.“For the past five months, not even a single ‘AAP Super 30’ meeting was held. It is primarily a think tank, but ideas are not being taken and implemented. AAP’s focus now seems to be only on inducting the leftovers from the Congress,” said Amit Sharma, management consultant and one of the ‘Super 30’ members.“The people, who have been aligned with the AAP for a long time feel there is an identity crisis. Who are we? Who are the original workers? What we want? All top leaders are from other parties. AAP’s own leaders are being sidelined,” he said.Another ‘Super 30’ member Pallav Mukherjee said: “When the AAP won in Delhi, everybody thought they will win everywhere. Now you are taking in people rejected from other parties, there is no idea what is to be done ahead. Nothing has ever happened on ‘Super 30’. Everybody is disgruntled.”Yet another member and horticulturist Rahul Mahajan said: “Super 30 did not work. Its members were not from the AAP, but a group of people from different walks of life, who wanted to give ideas and highlight issues in public. We need to revive the group.”Garg said the group would work effectively and old and new guard in the party would have a balance in the future.Meanwhile, many in the party believe that the AAP has lost its identity and it has been hijacked by the leaders from other parties, predominately the Congress.A few like Raman Mann, however, believe that those who are coming to the AAP from other parties are talented but were not respected there. “They have joined the AAP and will be an asset to the party,” said Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-poll-2-months-away-aaps-super-30-lies-defunct-322245
09-10-2021||---||Country’s first high-resolution bone scanner installed at PGI, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 8Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, inaugurated the country’s first high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) scanner for patient care at the endocrinology wing of Nehru Hospital extension block at the PGI here today.Complementing the Department of Endocrinology on this milestone accomplishment, Prof Jagat Ram said: “HR-pQCT being non-invasive, giving very less radiation and quick results compared to bone biopsy, which is invasive, painful and time taking, will open new avenue not only in patient management, but in clinical and basic research.”Earlier, while detailing about the multi-pronged usage of the unique scanner, Prof Sanjay Bhadada, Head, Department of Endocrinology, said: “HR-pQCT is useful for the early diagnosis of many bone disorders like osteoporosis, primary hyperparathyroidism, steroid induced bone damage, bone disease in diabetes, celiac disease, transplant bone disease, bone disease associated with malignancy, bone disease in thyroid and pituitary disorders and other rare metabolic bone diseases.”“Early diagnosis of bone diseases can help in preventing future fractures. Furthermore, HR-pQCT can be used to monitor improvement in bone health following initiation of treatment which can be picked up as early as 3 months. Besides, HR-pQCT will help us to conduct advanced research in the field of bone disorders,” he said.“The HR-pQCT is a high-end CT scanner that provides minute details about bone quality, bone mass, and also provides architectural details comparable to bone biopsy,” said Prof Bhadada.“The bones that are usually scanned using the HR-pQCT are forearm and leg bone. An HR-pQCT scan entails a radiation exposure of only 5?Sv (micro Sievert), which is much less than a standard chest X-ray and almost one-third of the prevailing background radiation,” Prof Bhadada informed while enumerating the salient features of the high-end scanner.Peripheral quantitative computed tomography||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/countrys-first-high-resolution-bone-scanner-installed-at-pgi-chandigarh-322241
09-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Finance company fined for taking foreclosure charges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a finance company to refund Rs 65,796 that was charged as foreclosure amount to a consumer.The Commission also directed the firm to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 for causing harassment and litigation cost.Ravinder Singh Barara, a resident of Ambala, approached the Commission with a complaint that he took a loan of Rs 24,14,478 from India Infoline Finance Limited. The rate of interest was fixed at 10 per cent with monthly instalment of Rs25,946. The loan period was fixed from August 5, 2016 to July 5, 2031.Barara said he approached the firm to clear all outstanding dues on July 2, 2019. However, the company asked him to deposit Rs65,796.41 as foreclosure charges through a letter dated June 4, 2019. He asked the company not to take foreclosure charges, but to no avail. Eventually, he had to deposit the entire amount under compelling circumstances.The company, however, denied all charges. It claimed that a loan agreement was executed between the complainant, co-borrowers and the company. The agreement contained a clause with regard to pre-payment charges in case of foreclosure of loan by the borrower.The company said the foreclosure charges/pre-payment penalty on the untimely closure of the loan was correctly charged from the complainant and his co-borrowers.After hearing the arguments, the Commission, comprising president Justice Raj Shekhar Attri and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh K Arya, said the Reserve Bank of India issued a notification on August 2, 2019. As per the notification, NBFCs shall not take foreclosure charges/pre-payment penalties on any floating rate term loan sanctioned for purposes other than business to individual borrowers with or without co-obligant(s).The Commission said the action of the opposite party (company) in taking foreclosure charges/pre-payment amount from the complainant was contrary to the RBI circular of foreclosure charges. Being an NBFC, they were liable to reimburse/payback the foreclosure charges collected illegally from the complainant.In view of this, the Commission directed the company to refund Rs65,796 to the consumer along with interest @ 9 per cent. The Commission also directed the company to pay Rs50,000 as compensation and litigation cost within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finance-company-fined-for-taking-foreclosure-charges-322237
09-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Lockdown spelt closure for 13 unrecognised schools in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A survey conducted under the District Education Officer and four principals has revealed that 13 schools, out of 91 unrecognised schools in the city closed down during the lockdown. Now, a fresh survey will be conducted by the Education Department to ascertain the current status of unrecognised schools.There are more than 20,000 students enrolled at 91 unrecognised schools of Chandigarh. A majority of these schools are located in peripheral areas of the city such as Mauli Jagran, Maloya, Hallo Majra, Dadu Majra and Dhanas.Last year, the department had chalked out a plan under which over 3,340 students from 37 unrecognised schools could be adjusted to full capacity in government schools of the city, while 15,899 students from 54 unrecognised schools would have been left out.Committee formedThe department has now constituted a joint team to assess how these unrecognised schools can be recognised keeping in view the existing building bylaws and the provision of Right to Education (RTE) Act. Most of these schools are either playway or up to class V. An inter-departmental committee has been constituted and it will submit its report in the coming days.The department has now constituted a joint team to assess how these unrecognised schools can be recognised keeping in view the existing building bylaws and the provision of Right to Education (RTE) Act. Most of these schools are either playway or up to class 5th. Due to the closure of the schools during the lockdown, visits could not be made earlier. An inter-departmental committee has been constituted and it will submit its report in the coming days. The issue related to unrecognised schools was discussed at a meeting of the Advisory Council.The Education Department had previously “named and shamed” 91 unrecognised schools, along with their addresses, in the public domain. An inspection of these schools carried out by the department had revealed that they lacked fire safety measures, proper ventilation, playground, etc.As per the preliminary reports of the inspections, 24 unrecognised schools were being shortlisted for recognition, while the others lack safety measures.The issue of unrecognised schools in Chandigarh has been lingering on since 2015 when local MP Kirron Kher first highlighted the issue in Parliament. The department has conducted four or five inspections but never arrived at a solution. While the department will again carry fresh rounds of inspections, the fate of nearly 20,000 students hangs in the balance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-spelt-closure-for-13-unrecognised-schools-in-chandigarh-322232
09-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||No pick-&-choose in discounts, MD tells CITCO staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8Taking exception to Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) officials arbitrarily offering discounts on a case-to-case basis on hotels, Yashpal Garg, Managing Director, CITCO, has stated that the discounts should be based on an objective criteria instead of a pick-and-choose method.“An objective criteria based on the need of the business may be worked out and after getting it approved, it should be displayed at the hotels and widely publicised for better business prospects,” he said.Up to 35 per cent discount at hotelsWith the festival season round the corner, CITCO has decided to extend discounts up to 35 per cent on all room categories at Hotel Mountview, Hotel Shivalikview and Hotel Parkview from October 11 to 31 in a bid to boost business and attract new customers.He said during a discussion with the CGM, GM and the DGM yesterday, it was informed that a discount of up to 25 per cent was being extended at the level of the GM/DGM of the hotel, up to 35 per cent at the level of the CGM and more than 35 per cent at the level of the MD on a case-to-case basis.He observed that in every case, discounts up to 15 to 20 per cent were being allowed to almost all walk-in customers by the front desk staff. “Though almost all walk-in customers are allowed discounts by the front desk after bargaining, we are hesitant to extend such discount to all customers without bargaining,” he said.“Some of us don’t even know the basic business strategy where the breakeven point is decided on the basis of variable cost, not the total cost. Those who don’t understand this basic business mechanism are not doing justice to their job and contributing to the losses of CITCO, he said, adding that the GM/DGM managing a better occupancy by extending liberal discounts were more efficient than those having lesser occupancy because of a conservative approach in extending discounts.“CITCO being a commercial organisation, there is need for having flexibility in its functioning and offering discounts/incentives to increase its business prospects,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-pick-choose-in-discounts-md-tells-citco-staff-322231
09-10-2021||Mohali||52 new dengue cases in Mohali||A total of 52 new confirmed cases of dengue surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 648 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a total of 259 cases of suspected dengue had surfaced in the district and 52 of these tested positive for the disease. However, there was neither any death nor hospitalisation due to dengue. In eight days, 277 confirmed cases of dengue have surfaced in the district while 344 cases had surfaced in the month of September. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/52-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-322230
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees five new cases of Covid-19||Two test positive for virus in MohaliMohali: Two new cases of Covid surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,751 in the district. No new fatality was reported till Friday evening while seven patients were cured of the disease. A case each was reported from Kharar and Mohali. So far, 67,663 patients have recovered while there are 20 active cases with 1,068 deaths in the district. — TNSTwo fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,744. The toll, however, remained at 378. While 30,358 patients have recovered from the disease so far, eight cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-five-new-cases-of-covid-19-322229
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Leftover fancy numbers’ auction from Oct 19-21||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will re-auction leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series from October 19 to 21. The registration for participation in the e-auction will start on October 12 at 10 am and will continue till 5 pm on October 18.The e-auction will be held for the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of series CH01-CF, CH01-CE, CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.Owners of vehicles purchased on a Chandigarh address only will be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The owner of the vehicle can register himself/herself on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy, the link of the same is available on the UT Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.inThe details of fee for registration for participating in the e-auction, the list of the reserve price for each special number, the details of leftover registration number of previous series and the terms and conditions for the e-auction are available on the UT Transport Department website. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-leftover-fancy-numbers-auction-from-oct-19-21-322228
09-10-2021||---||Despite prolonged monsoon, Chandigarh sees 29% deficit rainfall||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A prolonged monsoon finally withdrew from the city today.According to the Meteorological Department, monsoon has withdrawn from the city late by 13 days. The normal date of withdrawal is September 25.Last year, monsoon withdrew on September 30 with a cumulative rainfall of 791.1mm, which was 7 per cent less than normal. This year, the southwest monsoon covered the city on June 13.This year, the UT received 600.2 mm of rainfall against the normal 846.5 mm. The city saw 29 per cent deficit rainfall. The month of June witnessed 119.4 mm of rainfall, which was 8 per cent less than normal, July 148.1mm (-48 per cent), August 160.2 mm (-44 per cent) and September 172.5 mm (+19 per cent).The UT this year received the least rainfall since 2017. The maximum rainfall in the city was recorded at 993.3 mm in 2018. The city received the lowest 354.5 mm of rainfall in 2014, which was -58 per cent less than the normal rainfall, which was 844.2 mm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-prolonged-monsoon-chandigarh-sees-29-deficit-rainfall-322227
09-10-2021||---||Cook molested UK diplomat in Chandigarh, arrested||Chandigarh, October 8A 21-year-old youth, a cook at a hotel in Mani Majra, has been arrested for allegedly molesting a senior diplomat of the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh. The suspect is a repeat offender who has been found to be involved in another molestation incident reported by a girl cyclist earlier this year.The suspect has been identified as Vishwas, a resident of Nayagaon and cook at Rebel Foods, NAC, Mani Majra. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area led the police to the suspect.‘Grateful to police’“We are grateful to the Chandigarh Police for their professionalism, courtesy and efficiency,” said a spokesperson for the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh.Used to eye women out on walkThe police said the suspect, while going to work early in the morning, used to drive through inner market roads of Sector 8, 9 and 10, and Sukhna lake. “He used to look for women out on walk alone and molest them at isolated places,” said a police official.The police said the suspect had stopped a cyclist and molested her in June. The incident was reported to the police following which a case was registered at the Sector 26 police station. The police said the suspect, while going to work early in the morning, used to drive through inner market roads of Sector 8, 9 and 10 and Sukhna Lake. “He used to look for women out on walk alone and molest them at isolated places,” said a police official.Police sources said the interrogation of the suspect revealed that he had also molested other women in southern sectors in the city. However, the incidents had gone unreported.On October 6, the diplomat, a UK resident, had left home in Sector 9 on foot and was heading to the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) complex in Sector 10.As soon as she turned left on the road towards the CLTA from the Hotel Mountview roundabout, a motorcyclist came from the rear side and hit her on the back. The complainant tried to chase the miscreant, but he managed to speed away from the spot. She then went to the CLTA complex and narrated the incident to her coach. The police were informed following which a case under Section 354 and 354-A of the IPC was registered at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cook-molested-uk-diplomat-in-chandigarh-arrested-322226
09-10-2021||---||Common police control room for tricity on cards||Chandigarh, October 8Aimed at reducing crime with coordinated efforts, the UT Administration has worked out modalities for starting a common police control room for the tricity.During a review meeting of the Administrator’s Advisory Council here today, members of the Standing Committee on Law and Order said the neighbouring states had been approached regarding the setting up of a common police control room for Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, and the modalities had been worked out.The review meeting was chaired by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit.The Administrator said the council meeting had provided an opportunity to brainstorm and undertake suitable reforms for the development of the city. He asked officials and members to ensure that all agenda items raised at the council meeting were viewed seriously and action taken in a time-bound manner.He said innovation must be encouraged for providing better opportunities in every field such as education, health, skill development and urban planning. He laid emphasis on improving service delivery at all levels, especially the grassroots level. Members of the nine standing committees of the Advisory Council — Education, Health, Urban Infrastructure, Social Welfare, Law and Order, Sports, Transportation, Culture and Environment gave presentations about the action taken under various subjects contributing to the development of the city.Some of the key recommendations made by the committee were making Chandigarh a model destination for urban sports under which facilities for skateboarding and basketball have been created at the Football Stadium and sports climbing facilities have been created at the Lake Complex.The members also told the council that a draft sports policy had been prepared and circulated for feedback and suggestions.The agenda for conversion of properties in the Industrial Area, Phase I and Phase II, from leasehold to freehold was also discussed and it was stated that the matter had already been taken up with the Centre.A child protection officer has been nominated at every police station under the recommendation of creating a one-stop centre comprising counsellors and drug experts for children committing crime.The Standing Committee on Transport listed action taken in various aspects such as making city roads free from animal-propelled rickshaws, regulation of auto-rickshaws and plying of battery-operated vehicles.The Standing Committee on Environment highlighted the action taken for improving air quality, reducing air pollution, protection of choes, tertiary-treated water, waste management and disposal of carcasses in the city.The Administrator welcomed the constructive discussion and suggestions made by the council and assured that these suggestions would be seriously considered in the course of decision-making. He will review the action taken by the standing committees after three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/common-police-control-room-for-tricity-on-cards-322225
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man held for molesting woman diplomat||Police here arrested a 21-year-old man on Friday for allegedly molesting a woman diplomat posted at the British Deputy High Commission here.The 60-year-old diplomat was molested by the man when she was walking towards the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association grounds in Sector 10 from her house in Sector 9 here around 6.30 am on Wednesday.The accused who was on a motorcycle had approached from behind and hit her on her back inappropriately, police said.A police team arrested the accused near the Housing Board Light Point here on the identification of the complainant.Later, during the investigation, it came to light that the accused had also committed similar crimes and a case has already been registered against him at the Sector 26 police station.Police said the accused was identified as Vishwan, who hails from Nayagaon in Punjab.  He works as a cook at Mani Majra here.Police had scanned the footage from close circuit television cameras installed in the area to trace the accused.About the modus operandi of the accused, police said while going to his duty from Nayagaon to Mani Majra in the morning, the accused used to go through many inner sector market areas here and target women morning walkers by touching them inappropriately before fleeing on his bike.In her complaint, the diplomat said she raised an alarm and even ran after him, but the man sped away, police had said earlier.After receiving the complaint, the Chandigarh Police registered a case under Section 354-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of the Indian Penal Code. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-held-for-molesting-woman-diplomat-321936
