10-10-2021||---||Ladakh martyr Dixant Thapa’s bust installed at his college in Mohali||Chandigarh, October 10A bust of late Major Dixant Thapa was unveiled in his memory at the CGC College of Engineering, Mohali, of which he was an alumnus.The officer had made the supreme sacrifice on August 30, 2020, during Operation Snow Leopard in Eastern Ladakh. He had been responsible for swift induction of Infantry Combat Vehicles (ICW) in an operational area at night, when he noticed an ICV in precarious position. He rushed to save the lives of the crew members and in process lost his own life.The occasion was marked by paying homage to the martyr with a ceremonial guard of honour and laying of a wreath by the Commanding Officer of 6th Battalion, the Mechanised Infantry Regiment (1st Garhwal Riffles) as well as Deepak Kumar, father of Maj Thapa and Dr Rajdeep Singh, Principal of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ladakh-martyr-dixant-thapas-bust-installed-at-his-college%C2%A0in-mohali-322733
10-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to crack down on polluting vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9In yet another step towards reducing pollution in the city, the Administration will launch a crackdown on polluting vehicles entering the UT.Air quality improves at Transport ChowkTo further improve air quality in the city, an air purifier was commissioned at Transport Chowk last month on a pilot basis. An official of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee said the air quality around the Transport Chowk had improved considerably after the installation of the purifier. It was found that air pollution at and around the chowk came down up to 80 per cent, but they were expecting that on an average, air pollution would reduce from 60-70 per cent in the area.The Environment Standing Committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council has suggested that the police must intercept polluting buses entering the city from other states and inform the State Transport Authority about the same.In the Action Taken Report submitted during a review of the Advisory Council, the Administration has stated that two joint teams of the Traffic Police and the Transport Department would be constituted to carry out a special drive against the polluting vehicles entering the city. Strict action would be taken against such vehicles. So far, the authorities have issued a total 185 pollution challans and 529 notices to the violators from January 1 to September 30 this year.Three real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations have been installed by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee at Sector 25, 22 and 53.To further reduce air pollution, from the first lot of 40 electric buses, 19 will be received by November 15 and 20 more will be received by December 30.As many as 80 electric buses have been sanctioned under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME) India Scheme, Phase-II, for the UT. A bus has reached here for trial run.The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and these are expected to be received next year, stated the Action Taken Report. The Transport Department has planned to replace all its 358 diesel buses in the city with electric buses by 2027-28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-crack-down-on-polluting-vehicles-322541
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||PGI scales up elective services||With respite in Covid-19 cases, the PGI has scaled up its elective services, including outpatient services.A meeting was held by the Director with senior faculty members and administrative officials today to review the functioning of the OPDs.New registration timingsIt has been decided to change the registration timings at the PGI with effect from October 11. Registration for physical OPD will be from 8 am to 10 am and for tele-consultation from 10.30 am to 11.15 am.These changes have been introduced taking in view the increasing number of patients. The online registration for physical as well as tele-consultation will continue as before.The number of walk-in registration has been increased to 6,500, which is quite close to the pre-pandemic level when of 10,000 patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-scales-up-elective-services-322542
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||242-run victory for Mohali lads||Mohali lads registered a 242-run win over Moga in the Punjab State Inter-District Men’s U-25 One-Day Tournament.After winning the toss, Mohali skipper Ramandeep Singh elected to bat. The side posted 343/6 in 50 overs. In reply, Moga was bundled out for 101 runs in 30.5 overs.In another match, Patiala ousted Bathinda by eight wickets. Batting first, Bathinda innings folded at 97 runs in 33.4 overs. In reply, Patiala achieved the target in 14.4 overs.In other matches, Kapurthala faced an eight-wicket defeat against Gurdaspur, Fazilka recorded a 113-run win over Ferozepur, Ludhiana defeated Ropar by eight wickets. Hoshiarpur outplayed Nawanshahr by four wickets, Sangrur defeated Barnala by 138 runs and Amritsar beat Muktsar Sahib by 227 runs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/242-run-victory-for-mohali-lads-322548
10-10-2021||Amit Bathla||Private hospital disputes dept’s claim of no dengue death in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 9Although the Health Department has announced that no dengue death took place in the district this year, data accessed by Chandigarh Tribune from private hospitals has debunked the claim. Two more succumb, Mohali toll 8Zirakpur: An 83-year-old woman of Sector 70, Mohali, and a 62-year-old man from Baltana died of dengue while 176 new cases were reported from the district on Saturday. Both patients were admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. The total confirmed cases of dengue have touched the 824 mark. Eight persons have died of dengue in the past over a month in the district. TNSAlchemist Hospital, a private facility in Sector 21, has seen eight dengue deaths so far and three of the patients who died of the disease were from Panchkula.Kamlesh Singla (74), a resident of Sector 10, was one of them. She was admitted to the hospital on September 8 and subsequently died on September 11. In her death summary report, the immediate cause of death is mentioned as “dengue haemorrhagic shock syndrome”.A senior official of the hospital claimed, “We immediately intimate the Health Department about the admission of suspected patients so that no case goes unreported.”As per the protocol, every hospital or clinic is required to send information about the suspected dengue cases to the Health Department, which subsequently reconfirms infection (s) before revising the overall tally.Another private facility, Paras Hospital near Nada Sahib Gurdwara, refused to share the data, citing “directions from the CMO for non-disclosure”.Meanwhile, the Health Department has sought help from several resident welfare associations (RWAs) to contain the infection by preventing breeding of mosquitoes.The dengue case tally in the district is already over 100, with senior health officials terming prolonged monsoon as the reason for a spike in cases this year. Resident bodies claimed that the actual number of dengue cases could be higher as most patients approached private hospitals for treatment.A functionary of the Sector 10 RWA recently told Chandigarh Tribune that around 25 cases were reported from their locality, but the Health Department termed their claim as “exaggerated”.When contacted for her comment on dengue mortalities in the district, Dr Mukta Kumar, CMO, Panchkula, said no such report had come to their knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-hospital-disputes-depts-claim-of-no-dengue-death-in-panchkula-322549
10-10-2021||---||Chandigarh AAP holds public meeting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9The city unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organised a public meeting at the booth market in Sector 32-D here on Saturday. On the occasion, a slogan, “BJP saaf, iss baar AAP” was raised. Referring to party convener Arvind Kejriwal’s 11 guarantees, city AAP co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra said after winning the MC elections, AAP will fulfil all promises made in its manifesto, including 20,000 litre of free water to every household.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-aap-holds-public-meeting-322550
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||World Mental Health Day||Webinar on blood donation heldChandigarh: On the occasion of National Voluntary Blood Donation Day, Red Ribbon Club of the Government College of Education, Sector 20, organised a webinar on the topic “Rakt Daan Maha Daan”. TNSOrientation programmeChandigarh: The Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, organised an orientation programme for the newly admitted students of PG Diploma in Guidance & Counselling and Child Guidance & Family Counselling (2021-22). TNSInduction ceremonyChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University organised its induction-cum-orientation programme for new students. The objective of the programme was to acquaint the students with the academic and training facilities. The programme was inaugurated by Chancellor Dr Zora Singh. TNSMore seats sanctionedChandigarh: The Pharmacy Council of India, New Delhi, sanctioned 100 more BPharmacy seats to Aryans Pharmacy College, Rajpura. Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, has also given its affiliation for 100 more seats of BPharmacy. TNSprof Delivers Expert talkChandigarh: The Department of Mathematics, Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College (GGDSD), Sector 32, organised an expert talk-cum-webinar. Dr Vikas Bist, Associate Professor from the Department of Mathematics, Panjab University, delivered an expert talk on “A glimpse into approximation using Taylor series”. TNSPhilosopher’s Day celebratedChandigarh: The Department of Philosophy and Department of Sanskrit, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, Chandigarh, organised “Indian Philosopher’s Day” on ‘Indian Ethics’. It was sponsored by the Indian Council of Philosophical Research, New Delhi. Indian Philosopher’s Day is celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of Adi Shankaracharya. TNSPhotography competitionChandigarh: The Department of Psychology, Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, organised a photography competition. The objective of the competition was to discover the joy of photography and recognise its importance as an alternative therapy for improving mental health and well-being. TNSLegal services camp organisedChandigarh: As per the guidelines of the National Legal Services Authority, a legal services camp is being organised by the District Legal Services Authority at the Sri Sukhmani College of Law, Dera Bassi. The camp will be conducted under the supervision of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dera Bassi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/world-mental-health-day-322552
