11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol hits a ton in Chandigarh||The price of petrol has gone past the Rs 100 mark in the city, hitting the common man hard, especially in the ongoing festive season.In the city, the price of petrol ranges between Rs100.20 and Rs100.34 per litre, while the diesel costs Rs92.51 to Rs92.69 per litre at filling stations of different companies. With the increase in petrol prices, the cost of high-performance fuels such as Speed and Power has reached Rs104.14 per litre.“The hike in this festive season is a double blow. Vehicles are used more in the festive season and subsequently, the consumption of fuel increases too. The fuel price hike will force people to think twice before going out in a vehicle,” said Anil, a local resident.“Even if the crude oil prices are on a high in the international market, the government should cut down the taxes imposed in India. There has to be a limit on taxing people. At this speed, the fuel price would cross Rs150 next year. It is already affecting people from all strata of society, be it working class or businessmen,” said Aman Aggarwal, another resident.The fuel price hike will increase carriage charges too. “Commercial transporters, including taxis, goods vehicles and others, will now revise their charges, which are expected to be increased by Rs4 to Rs6 per km. This will further affect people. The UT Administration should slash the local cess/taxes in order to give some respite to the residents,” added Anoopama Pardhan.Suptupa Iyer, another resident, said, “Earlier, people used to buy diesel vehicles mainly due to the low cost of fuel. Now, there’s not much difference between the prices of petrol and diesel. Most commercial transporters use diesel vehicles and the day diesel touches the Rs100 mark, it would have a big impact on commodities needed by the common man.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/petrol-hits-a-ton-in-chandigarh-322932
11-10-2021||---||Blast in LPG cylinder, four jhuggis gutted at Gursagar Colony in Maloya||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10Four jhuggis were reduced to ashes in a fire at Gursagar Colony in Maloya today. There was also a blast in an LPG cylinder.According to firemen, they got a call regarding the incident at 11.30 am following which they pressed four fire engines into service. The fire engines had a tough time entering the colony as the road leading to the colony was narrow. This delayed the firefighting operation. However, the firefighters still managed to save the adjoining jhuggis from catching fire. No one was inside the jhuggis when the incident occurred. All dwellers had rushed out when the first jhuggi caught fire. “The fire broke out after a cylinder leaked. Later, it blast due to which four jhuggis were gutted,” said a senior fire officer. Area councillor Rajesh Kalia and local residents also rushed to the spot to provide help. “It was very scary. Luckily, no loss of life was reported,” said Kalia.Meanwhile, residents, who lost their jhuggis, were inconsolable. They said, “We lost everything in the fire. How will we manage now?”A schoolboy said, “I was studying inside when I saw smoke inside my house. I rushed outside. Within minutes, I saw four jhuggis catching fire.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blast-in-lpg-cylinder-four-jhuggis-gutted-at-gursagar-colony-in-maloya-322933
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 2 new Covid cases||3 test +ve in MohaliMohali: Three new cases of Covid-19 — one each from Gharuan, Kharar and Mohali — were reported from the district on Sunday. One patient was reportedly cured of the disease in the past 24 hours.The district tally stands at 68,756 while 67,671 patients have got the better of the disease. There are now 17 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 1,068. TNSNo new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No new Covid case was reported from the district on Sunday, keeping the tally at 30,744. With no new death, the toll remained at 378. While 30,358 people have recovered so far, eight cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-new-covid-cases-322935
11-10-2021||Naina Mishra||No evening OPDs at dispensaries, GMSH-16 for now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10Due to manpower crunch, evening outpatient departments (OPDs) at the dispensaries in the city would not start for now, the UT Health Department informed the Advisory Council Committee on a recommendation of the double timings of dispensaries.During a meeting held on Friday, the committee had recommended that evening OPDs be started at the dispensaries. Evening OPDs at the GMSH-16, which were operational before the Covid-19 outbreak, should also be started at an appropriate time. Earlier, evening OPDs at the GMSH-16 used to operate from 5 pm to 8 pm. UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “We may not be able to start evening OPDs at the GMSH-16 till the possibility of the third wave of Covid is ruled out. Regarding evening OPD at dispensaries, manpower crunch due to Covid-19 does not allow us to provide the facility at this moment.”The committee had recommended that the civil dispensary at Maloya needed to be upgraded to a civil hospital. Presently, two health and wellness centres (HWCs) are functional at Maloya. The HWC at Jhanj Ghar was started in April this year and is being considered for its conversion into a hospital.As per a decision of the UT Administration, a new multi-storeyed maternal and child wing was to come up after dismantling the present MCH building at the GMSH-16. The committee was informed that the plan of relocation of the MCH at the GMSH-16 to the Civil Hospital in Sector 22 was stalled due to the pandemic. Besides, a dedicated labour room for Covid positive expectant mothers was started and is functional.Face recognition attendanceThe committee recommended that biometric attendance be started at all health care facilities. Biometric attendance was introduced but had to be suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee was informed that now face recognition attendance system will be introduced shortly.Jan Aushadhi outletsThe committee had recommended opening of Jan Aushadhi outlets at the GMSH-16 and at the civil hospitals in Sector 22, 45 and Mani Majra. The Indian Red Cross Society had handed over the store sites at the civil hospitals in Sector 22, 45, Mani Majra and the GMSH-16 to the Health Department. The department has started the process of tendering the sites for the GMSH-16 and the civil hospitals at Mani Majra, Sector 22 and 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-evening-opds-at-dispensaries-gmsh-16-for-now-322936
11-10-2021||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi: Woman delivers in auto-rickshaw||A local woman gave birth to a baby boy in an auto after the vehicle was stuck at a railway crossing on the Issapur road here today. The woman and the newborn were rushed to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital where the condition of the duo was stated to be stable. Mahmudpur resident Kamna and husband Shunty hired an auto around 7.45 am to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital after the expectant mother experienced labour pain. But the auto had to halt for 15 minutes at the railway crossing on the Issapur road. The woman delivered their first child in the auto and was later taken to the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-woman-delivers-in-auto-rickshaw-322937
11-10-2021||All should be vaccinated||Open House: How can Admn ensure strict adherence to Covid norms?||The old three ways of frequently washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining social distance should be strictly adhered to. Vaccination should be made compulsory for all. Entry to government offices, colleges, hospitals, banks etc. should be allowed to only those who have been vaccinated. More care should be taken at Mansa Devi and other temples. Dussehra and Diwali celebrations should be kept a low-key affair.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhProtocol for market associationsThough the Administration had issued the Covid-19 protocol for market associations and other organisers a month ago, it needs to be implemented strictly. Under the protocols, proper ventilation, social distancing and sanitisation of the premises have to be ensured. Make sure everyone undergoes thermal screening and wears a mask.Vineet Gandhi, Mani MajraBe strict with people breaking protocolThe Chandigarh Administration should be strict with people who break the Covid protocol. Residents should have learnt a lesson after losing their near and dear ones to Covid. If they still flout the norms, then they obviously need to be strictly dealt with.Opinder Kaur Sekhon ChandigarhPublic must be made aware of the threatTo ensure a strict observance of the Covid protocol, many steps must be taken. First, the public must be made aware of the seriousness of the threat of third wave. Second, those violating the Covid guidelines should be firmly dealt with and punished. Only a strong and timely action can prevent another wave of Covid.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhFollow covid-19 norms religiouslyWith the UT authorities easing the Covid-19 norms, a tendency has developed among people to lower their guard. The need of the hour is we must follow the norms - "2 gaj ki duri", frequent washing of hands and wearing mask in public. We must make a habit to follow these norms in letter and in spirit. The Administration must educate people on the peril of not following the norms during the coming festive season.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSelf-restraint isthe only optionA majority of residents of the city are fairly literate and well informed of the reasons for a sudden spurt in Covid cases. Due to the lurking fear of third wave in October or November, they will do well to show restraint and self-discipline by not forming large crowds during Dussehra, Gurparb and Diwali and rather celebrate them at their respective homes. The Administration need not enforce any additional curbs as the existing protocol is good enough to prevent another wave.SC Luthra, ChandigarhIssue fresh advisoryAs the public as well as officials have become lax, a fresh set of guidelines be issued followed by imposition of fine for not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Even hospitals staff and shopkeepers are not following the Covid protocol. Timely action by the Administration will go a long way in controlling coronavirus. The advisory should be valid till December 31.KC Rana, ChandigarhTake Steps to preventanother covid waveIt is imperative that suitable steps are taken up by the Administration to ensure the Covid-appropriate behaviour by people making a beeline for the marketplaces and temples during the Navratri celebrations. The marketassociations should take a lead by deputing volunteers to educate visitors and restrict the entry of a large number of people in tight spaces The entry to sanctum sanctorum in temples should be permitted to people following the Covid norms. The Administration is expected to take steps for limiting gatherings during the festive season.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaAdmn should start awareness driveRestrictions and guidelines have no meaning at all if not followed properly. There is no substitute to health and celebrations of festivals are a symbol of happiness and wellbeing. The Administration should not wait and start a special awareness campaign. Residents should realise the fact and avoid unnecessary movement. All eligible persons should get vaccinated at the earliest.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliBe responsible citizensWe as responsible citizens must follow the guidelines laid down by the government. Shopkeepers should not allow more than a specified number of customers in their shops and that too maintaining a distance of six feet wherever possible. The festive season is for fun and frolic, but at the same time we should not forget that the danger of the pandemic still looms large.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurSelf-discipline a mustWe have had experienced tough times when the Covid protocol were not followed and have seen how everybody suffered in the lockdown. The government has done its part by creating awareness in the past one and a half years. Now, it's our turn to behave accordingly so that there is no third wave.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaSpare the rod andspoil the childIt is evident most people don't have any self-discipline. During the coming festive season, the Administration needs to go strict. Corona volunteers, tagged as corona monitors, may be appointed during the festive season to keep a check on violators. Most people understand only the language of stick and penalty.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaPeople's well-beingis foremostIt is a matter of happiness that Chandigarh is witnessing minimum Covid-19 cases. Awareness of public worked well. As the festive season has started, residents have to be very careful as Covid has not yet vanished. Do not venture out unnecessarily. Always wear quality masks, keep social distance and sanitise hands. Festive seasons will come and go but everyone's well-being is foremost.MR Bhateja, NayagaonEnsure Police vigil in crowded areasTo prevent a third wave, a strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol is necessary. There is a need for a round-the-clock vigil by cops in the places witnessing crowds such as markets, vegetable "mandis", malls, parks and fairs. People not wearing a mask or wearing it below the nose must be penalised. There should a hefty fine for not maintaining social distance.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhAvoid mass gatheringThere is a need for a continued focus on prompt and effective containment measures to prevent any potential rise in the number of cases during the festive season. Mass gathering should be avoided in areas identified as containment zones. The CTU buses must be sanitised properly to prevent the spread of the virus. There should be meetings between the police and the civil authorities to cut on the arrangements for the festive season.Anita K Tandon, KhararAdmn should not allow too many stallsWe have already suffered a lot. As the festive season has started, we must wear a mask, wash hands, keep distance and avoid going crowded places. The government should take measures to check crowds. The authorities concerned shouldn't allow too many stalls during Diwali and other occasions. Residents should watch Dassehra live on TV whilesitting home.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhGet strict with publicThe Administration should issue strict guidelines regarding Covid-19. The police must be deployed to issue challans for not wearing masks. Special arrangements must be made at tourist places to ensure the adherence to the protocol. There should be strict checking for masks and hand sanitisation in educational institutions.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDecrease the number of functionsThis festive season we must decrease the number of functions such as staging Ram Lila at fewer places and appeal to citizens not to gather in large numbers at for Durga puja etc. Organisers should ensure sanitisers are available at these sites, people wear masks and maintaining distance. A good number of police personal should be deployed there to ensure the adherence to the protocol.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhCarry out extensive challaningTo prevent the third wave, the Administration should allow only the fully vaccinated people to enter malls. Large gatherings should be discouraged. Extensive challaning of people not wearing masks, specially in the sector markets, should be done. The closing timings for shops should be advanced by at least by an hour.Savita Kuthiala, chandigarhIncrease shopping sites to check crowdsAs the cases of covid-19 are decreasing in the tricity, people have started ignoring the protocol. The police staff hardly wear masks in the public. Also, one can see that the protocol is hardly adhered to at political rallies and farmers' protests. The Administration should increase the number of sites for festival shopping to keep a check on crowding.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhNo strict enforcement of the guidelinesThe fear of Covid-19 has gradually waned among the public. We see hundreds of people thronging temples, amusement parks, hospitals and markets without adhering to the Covid protocol such as wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and using sanitiser. There is no strict enforcement of the guidelines by the police as they themselves are seen flouting these norms in the city. In order to prevent the third wave, the Administration should start enforcing the Covid guidelines strictly. The vaccination drive should be stepped up.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, CHANDIGARH QUESTIONWith a spurt in dengue cases this season, how can the Chandigarh Administration keep a check on the breeding of mosquitoes in vulnerable areas to prevent the spread of the disease?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-how-can-admn-ensure-strict-adherence-to-covid-norms-322938
11-10-2021||---||In 4 days, 886 jabbed at Mansa Devi camp||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 10A total of 886 people have been administered the Covid vaccine during a special vaccination camp at the Mansa Devi temple in the first four days of the Navratri festival that began on Thursday.As many as 152 people were vaccinated on the first day of the Navratri fest, while 171 persons were administered the vaccine on the next day i.e. Friday. As many as 284 persons were inoculated on Saturday and 279 were administered the Covid vaccine today.A large number of devotees from the region and far-off places come to pay obeisance at the temple during the Navratri fair. Through the special vaccination camp, the Health Department aims at inoculating those who are yet to be covered under the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-4-days-886-jabbed-at-mansa-devi-camp-322939
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 1L donated at Singhu border||A group of people from the Pendu Sangharsh Committee, Chandigarh, led by Baba Gurdial Singh, president Daljit Singh Palsora, Lachhman Singh, Sharanjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Inderjit Singh Grewal, left for the Singhu border today. Joginder Singh Burail, vice-president of the committee, said this group included members from 22 villages of Chandigarh. The group of around 55 members also donated Rs1 lakh, collected from villagers, at the border.“As per the decision of the committee, as long as the struggle continues on the Delhi border, we will continue to deliver goods and money as and when required from time to time,” said members of the committee.They said the members would continue to join the dharna, if required. The committee also appealed to people of UT villages and its urban areas to extend all possible help to keep the morcha in the forefront.The committee urged the Chandigarh village units to conduct programmes in their respective villages on a call of the United Front during the bhog of the martyred farmers and journalists at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12.The villagers will pray for the peace of the martyred farmers and light candles in the houses to pay homage to them. A candle light march will also be taken out in their respective villages for the three martyred farmers at 6 pm on October 12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-1l-donated-at-singhu-border-322940
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey meet: Roundglass Punjab academy enter semis||Roundglass Punjab Hockey Club Academy have stormed into the semifinals of the inaugural Hockey India Sub-Junior Men Academy National Championship being played at Bhopal.The other semifinalists include SGPC Hockey Academy, Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre and Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy.Rounglass Punjab Hockey Club Academy registered a 4-1 win over SAI-Academy.Prabhjot Singh (10th), Harmanjit Singh (20th), Gursewak Singh (44th) and Harpreet Singh (56th) scored a goal each for Rounglass Punjab. Captain Kunal Yadav (58th) was the lone scorer for SAI- Academy.SGPC Hockey Academy held their nerves to beat Raja Karan Hockey Academy script 4-3 on penalties after the two sides were locked 1-1 at the end of the regulation time.Gursewak Singh (48th) led SGPC Hockey Academy’s fight back after Raj Karan Academy took the lead in the 10th minute.Odisha Naval Centre steamrolled Vadipatti Raja Hockey Academy 10-0.Premdayal Giri (3th, 16th) and Yumkham Bidyananda Singh (30th, 42th) scored a brace each for Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre.In the last quarterfinal, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy prevailed 2-1 over Olympian Vivek Singh Hockey Academy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-meet-roundglass-punjab-academy-enter-semis-322941
11-10-2021||---||Ladakh martyr’s bust installed at alma mater||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10A bust of the late Major Dixant Thapa was unveiled in his memory at the CGC College of Engineering, Mohali. He was an alumnus of this college.The officer had made the supreme sacrifice on August 30, 2020, during the Operation Snow Leopard in Eastern Ladakh. He had been responsible for swift induction of Infantry Combat Vehicles (ICW) in an operational area at night, when he noticed an ICV in precarious position. He rushed to save the lives of crew members and in process he lost his own life.The occasion was marked by paying homage to the martyr with a ceremonial guard of honour and laying a wreath by the Commanding Officer of the 6th Battalion, the Mechanised Infantry Regiment (1st Garhwal Riffles) as well as Deepak Kumar, father of Maj Thapa, and Dr Rajdeep Singh, principal of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ladakh-martyrs-bust-installed-at-alma-mater-322942
11-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder told to refund Rs45 lakh to consumer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to refund Rs45,00,000 to a consumer who paid money for the project launched allegedly without approvals.The commission also directed the builder to pay Rs1 lakh as compensation to the complainant for causing mental agony and harassment.In a complaint filed before the commission, Murti Devi, a Haryana resident, said she booked a food court unit having a tentative area of 580 sq ft in a project on March 12, 2020 launched by M/s Gupta Builder and Promoters (P) Limited, Sector 34, Chandigarh.The agreement was executed between them and the total price was fixed at Rs47,32,000. The woman claimed that she paid Rs45,00,000. When the developer failed to obtain the RERA registration certificate within the stipulated time of nine months, she sought the refund of the money.The builder failed to pay any heed to her request. She alleged that the builder and its agents/officials misrepresented and misled her by extending false assurances and false promises with regard to the booking of the food court.The commission sent a notice of the complaint to the builder, seeking their version of the case. However, nobody appeared on behalf of the builder. Therefore, they were proceeded ex-parte on June 15, 2021.The commission, comprising president Rajan Dewan and member Surjeet Kaur, after hearing the arguments said the act of the builder for not honouring their promise for handing over the possession of the unit in promised time period, collection of money without required sanctions/permissions and not honouring the terms and conditions of their own agreement was illegal and arbitrary, which certainly caused physical and mental harassment to the complainant and proved their indulgence in unfair trade practice.The commission said the opposite parties (builder) did not appear to contest the claim of the complainant and preferred to proceed against ex-parte. This act of the opposite party drew an adverse inference against them.The commission said in view of this, the builder was directed to refund Rs45,00,000 to the complainant along with 9 per cent interest per annum from the date of deposits till realisation, pay Rs1 lakh as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and 35,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-told-to-refund-rs45-lakh-to-consumer-322943
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at house in Sector 42||A theft has been reported from a house in Sector 42. According to the police, complainant Ravinder Kumar Soni reported that gold and silver jewellery items worth several lakhs and a camera were reported from his house between September 30 and October 8. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-house-in-sector-42-322944
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day SBI loan utsav||Annual Christian conventionChandigarh: The three-day annual Christian convention of Christ Church, Sector 18, concluded here. The third day of the convention began with devotion. Various songs and music programmes were also organised. Holy scriptures were contemplated on a wide variety of topics from the Bible to several chapters. The church choir captivated everyone by offering Christian songs. TNSArnav, Neha claim TT titlesChandigarh: Arnav of Gurukul Global School and Neha of Manav Mangal High School claimed three titles each on the concluding day of the 34th Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy. In the men’s singles, Arnav defeated Rishabh. Earlier in the semi-finals, Rishabh overpowered Vishal and Arnav ousted Sahil Sharma. Neha, meanwhile, won the women’s singles title by defeating Pelf. Earlier, she defeated Kalyani and Pelf outplayed Pareen. In the boys’ U-17 final, Arnav defeated Samarth. Neha won the U-17 title by defeating Pelf. In boys’ U-19 title clash, Arnav outplayed Samarth. Neha defeated Pelf in the girl’s U-19 final. TNSGopal, Vaidhavi carrom champsChandigarh: Gopal Kakkar outplayed Mayank Gupta to win the boys’ junior title in the ongoing 30th Chandigarh State Carrom Tournament at St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, here on Sunday. Akshit claimed the third position by defeating Kavish. Earlier in the semi-finals, Gupta defeated Akshit and Kakkar overpowered Kavish. Meanwhile, in the girls’ junior title clash, Vaidhavi Mamgain ousted Sangini Mamgain. Ayesha notched up the third place by defeating Gungun Kakkar. In semis, Sangini defeated Gungun and Vaidhavi ousted Ayesha. In men’s singles semis, Mohammed Hassan outplayed Mohammed Talib and Sanjay Negi ousted Himanshu Shekhar. In women’s quarterfinals, Sanya Chadha defeated Vaidhavi and Nidhi Gupta outplayed Sangini Mamgain. TNS80 take part in cyclothonChandigarh: The Rotaract Club of SD College organised a cyclothon to spread awareness about healthy lifestyle here on Sunday. Over 80 persons participated in the event. College principal Ajay Sharma and Rotaract Club in-charge Ruchi Sharma flagged off the cyclothon. City-based psychologist Anmol Singh bagged the first position, while students Shaurya Sharma and Anmol Kumar bagged second and third positions, respectively. TNSResidents’ body holds meetChandigarh: A meeting of the Chandigarh Housing Board Residents Welfare Federation was held at the Sector 42 Community Centre here on Sunday. The members discussed issues related to GPA transfer, cancellation notices and other problems being faced by residents living in CHB dwelling units. It was decided that a committee would be formed to discuss in length the issues and suggest solutions. “It was decided to form a 20-member committee, which shall study and suggest solutions for permanent redressal,” said chairman Rajat Malhotra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-day-sbi-loan-utsav-322945
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 4 test +ve in Chandigarh||2 cases in MohaliMohali: Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Saturday. There was no new death while seven patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Boothgarh and Mohali. The district tally now stands at 68,753 with 67,670 recoveries. The active cases in the district are 15 and the toll 1,068. —TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no new case as well as death on Saturday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,744. The toll also remained at 378. While 30,358 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, eight cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-4-test-ve-in-chandigarh-322543
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest two women for theft of CCTV camera batteries||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-arrest-two-women-for-theft-of-cctv-camera-batteries-322544
11-10-2021||---||Stone laid for development projects in 13 Chandigarh villages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today laid the foundation stone for various development projects scheduled to be carried out in 13 UT villages.Basic infrastructural facilities will be upgraded and strengthened at a cost of Rs102.21 crore. Existing conventional streetlights are also required to be replaced with LED lights and various dark spots need to be lit up on a priority. —  Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor The inaugural event was held at Behlana village here. Upgrade of infrastructure such as sewerage, storm, water supply lines, streets/roads, lights and various buildings will be carried out by the civic body at a cost of around Rs102.21 crore in a phased manner.Works will be carried out at Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Ali Sher, Dhanas and Sarangpur.Addressing residents and representatives of the village development committees of all 13 villages, the Governor said: “I can understand that the pace of development works was hampered to some extent due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but the intention to do the work remained intact among the officers. With the execution of these sewerage and water supply schemes, approximately 1.30 lakh people will be benefited.”MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said the corporation had prepared a detailed developmental plan to upgrade the infrastructure in these villages and the works were being started from today. These would be completed well before the stipulated time frame.MP Kirron Kher, who addressed the public virtually, said: “Renovation work of dharamshalas, sampark centres, anganwadi centres, health centres, cremation grounds, panchayat ghars and community centres will also be taken up in these villages.”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the basic infrastructural facilities would be upgraded and strengthened at a cost of Rs102.21 crore. Existing conventional streetlights were also required to be replaced with LED lights and various dark spots needed to be lit up on a priority.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the residents in villages were facing problems of contaminated water, overflowing sewerage, broken roads/streets, poor condition of footpaths, etc. Now, they would get rid of all these problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-laid-for-development-projects-in-13-chandigarh-villages-322545
11-10-2021||---||Parking lots in govt schools in Chandigarh for festive season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9Senior Superintendent of Police, Security and Traffic, Manisha Choudhary has issued to the Chandigarh Beopar Mandala a list of designated parking lots in various government schools of the city in view of the festive season. These are as follows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-lots-in-govt-schools-in-chandigarh-for-festive-season-322546
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||40 farm activists detained in Chandigarh, let off later||Around 40 farm activists of various organisations were deterred from staging a “peaceful protest” at an event of the Municipal Corporation in Behlana here today. They were detained and let off later.The protesters, in several videos doing the rounds on social media, claim that they were beaten, bundled up in police vehicles and taken to the Sector 31 police station as they arrived at the traffic light point near the venue of the event for laying the foundation stone of developmental projects in 13 villages, which was to be attended by Governor of Punjab and Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, Adviser Dharampal and Mayor Ravikant Sharma.A member of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta (BKU Charuni, Chandigarh faction), Kirpal Singh, has alleged that the Mauli Jagran SHO, Rohit Kumar, had assaulted, threatened and abused him before taking him to Sector 31.While getting his medical examination done from the GMCH 32, he shared, “I had first arrived at the gurdwara near the venue of the event, but the villagers said the protesters had been gathering at the light point. When I went there and waved a black flag, Rohit Kumar, SHO of Mauli Jagran, grabbed me by the throat and while beating me, took me to the police vehicle. He hurled expletives as he hit me in my stomach, right below the ribs.”He added, “He kept hitting me for about five minutes in the police vehicle and when I asked him to beat me on my back, not the stomach, he stopped and reminded me of the Lakhimpur violence — ‘you know what happened to your kinds in Lakhimpur, don’t you,’ he kept threatening me.”Rohit Kumar has denied these allegations. He said, “I did not hit anyone. I was a farmer too, before joining service. We were just sending all protesters to the Sector 31 police station.” SSP Kuldeep Chahal said, “Nothing like that. We have to maintain law and order situation.”As the members of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta (BKU Charuni), BKU (Tikait) and the Pendu Sangharsh Committee arrived at the traffic light point of the village, a few metres from the venue, they were bundled up in a police vehicle and sent to Sector 31 Police Station, reads a communication of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee.“We were arriving at the traffic light point of Behlana in groups of two and three people, but the police were not allowing us to stand there and protest peacefully, leave alone letting us go to the venue,” said Sarvesh Yadav of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta.The protest against the three farm laws was being staged in accordance with a countrywide call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for peacefully agitating against all BJP events. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-farm-activists-detained-in-chandigarh-let-off-later-322547
11-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Rs 300-cr money laundering case: 6 summoned for Nov 29 hearing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9Finding a prima facie case, Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Court, Chandigarh, has summoned six accused namely Tina Yashdeep Mehra, Ishatpreet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Chhabra, Sunil Kataria, Radhika Kirpal and Rohit Manigi in the alleged money laundering case worth nearly Rs300 crore.In its order, the court said: “In view of the oral and documentary evidence on record of the complainant, which has been collected during the course of investigation, a prima facie case is made out against all accused for proceeding against them for commission of offence under Section 3 punishable under Section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Let summons against all accused be accordingly issued for November 29, 2021.”The Directorate of Enforcement has filed the complaint under Section 45 read with Section 44 of the PMLA, 2002 for the commission of offence under Section 3 read with Section 70 and punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA 2002 against the accused.The CBI, Delhi had registered an FIR on August 8, 2016 under Section 120B read with Section 420 of the IPC and Section 13 (2) read with Section 13(1) (d) of PC Act, 1988, against seven persons, including former officers of Indian Overseas Bank, Chandigarh, and directors of some companies.After the completion of investigation, a final report was filed by the CBI, New Delhi, before the Court of Special Judge for CBI, Chandigarh, on December 30, 2019, and the court has also framed charges against 11 persons and companies on February 3, 2021.Enquiries were initiated under the PMLA against the accused persons after recording brief facts of the scheduled offence in the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) on September 19, 2016.The court, in the order, says the investigation conducted by the Directorate of Enforcement in this matter has revealed that the main accused, Ashu Mehra, former assistant manager of Indian Overseas Bank, Chandigarh, had fraudulently issued 14 letters of undertaking (LOUs) through SWIFT messages while working with Indian Overseas Bank and the same had resulted in creation of liability to the tune of Rs299 crore on the bank and it is yet to be paid by Indian Overseas Bank to Punjab National Bank, Dubai, and Bank of Baroda, Bahamas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-300-cr-money-laundering-case-6-summoned-for-nov-29-hearing-322551
