12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes complete ban on use of firecrackers||Keeping in mind the NGT orders, the Chandigarh Administration has decided to impose a complete ban on sale or use of firecrackers of any kind, throughout the Union Territory of Chandigarh.After extensive consultation with health, environment experts and other stakeholders it has been decided that the toxic air rising out of the crackers is likely to affect the health, therefore residents must avoid bursting crackers this festive season.The decision has been taken keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 situation, said an order of National Green Tribunal and Disaster Management Act.Any violation of the orders will invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other provisions as applicable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-complete-ban-on-use-of-firecrackers-323642
12-10-2021||Vijay Mohan||Chandigarh girl performs Surya Namaskar on Europe’s highest peak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12A 25-year-old student of the Panjab University, Chandigarh, has created a record of sorts by performing the Surya Namaskar on Mount Elbrus, the highest peak in Europe and Russia while undertaking a mountaineering expedition.Ramanjot Kaur, who is pursuing her masters in physical education at the university, had scaled the Elbrus on October 2, along with a companion from Sangrur in Punjab. She returned back to India this week.Surya Namaskar or sun salutation, well known to practitioners of yoga, is a sequence of 12 powerful poses connected by jumping or body stretching movements. Besides being a great cardiovascular workout, Surya Namaskar is also known to have an immensely positive impact on the body and mind.“I had wanted this expedition to be different. There have been a few Indians who have scaled the Elbrus before and I felt like bringing in some new aspect. The yoga pose at that altitude and weather with protective clothing was an altogether different experience,” Ramanjot said.Mountaineers generally just spend just a few minutes at the top for taking pictures. Ramanjot and her companion, along with two guides, spent about an hour at the summit. “For the extended time our guides charged us extra as it is not safe at the top due to the strong winds and extremely low temperature,” she said.A day before, five persons from another expedition to Elbrus had lost their lives after they were caught in a snow storm. “As a precautionary measure, we had taken two guides with us for support in case anything went amiss,” Ramanjot said.A dormant volcano that rises 18,510 feet above sea level, Mount Elbrus is the highest and most prominent peak in Russia and Europe. It is situated in the western part of the Caucasus Mountains in south-western Russia.After acclimatisation and moving up the slopes in phases, Ramanjot started her final ascent at 4.30 in the morning and reached the summit at 7 am. “The temperature was minus 36 degree Celsius but the weather was unusually clear and the view was amazing. The terrain was all snow bound, glaciated and rocky,” she said.A marathon runner and martial arts player, Ramanjot had climbed Mt Kilimanjaro in Africa in 24 hours under the slogan for women empowerment on April 24, 2019. After completing the basic and advanced mountaineering courses, she had scaled several other prominent peaks. She is now preparing for an expedition to Mt Everest, the highest mountain, and also aims at conquering the highest peak in all seven continents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-girl-performs-surya-namaskar-on-europes-highest-peak-323628
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 hurl stones at PCR vehicle in Chandigarh, held||Women duped of jewellery, cashChandigarh: Three tricksters befooled three women and took away jewellery and cash from them. Complainant Meena, a resident of Mauli Jagran, stated that she along with her two relatives had gone for a walk on October 10. She said on reaching near Vikas Nagar petrol pump, three boys tricked them and took away a pair of gold earring, gold lockets and Rs450 cash from them. A case of cheating has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station and investigation has been initiated, said the police. TNSNetball meet from Oct 19Chandigarh: The Netball Sports Promotion Association, Chandigarh, will organise the Chandigarh Sub-Junior, Junior and Senior State Championship at Ishwar Singh Dev Samaj Senior Secondary School, Sector 21, from October 19 to 21. Players born on or after April 4, 2006 will be eligible to take part in the sub-junior event and those born on or after April 1, 2003 will be eligible to play in the junior event. There will be no age bar for senior category in this championship. TNSFootball trials on Oct 14, 15Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Football Association will organise trials to select a local probable squad to prepare for the upcoming Senior National Football Championship for Santosh Trophy (North Zone), which will start from November 21. The trials will be held at the Sector 46 Sports Complex on October 14 and 15 from 10 am to 4 pm. Players born on or after January 1, 2002 will be eligible to take part in the trial. Players registered with the Chandigarh Football Association could participate in the trials, said an official. All players appearing for the trials have to be fully vaccinated and have to submit their certificate. TNSLWCC beat NCC, lift cricket titleChandigarh: Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Namaste Chandigarh Complex (NCC), Dera Bassi, by 19 runs in the final match of ‘No Tension-Have fun’ Cricket Cup. Batting first, LWCC posted 118 runs with the help of Harvinder (69), Takshit Chopra (21) and Dr Luthra (17). Amit Gandhi claimed three wickets, while Rizul and Gulshan claimed two wickets each. Narendra and Kamal also bagged one wicket each. In reply, NCC could score 99 runs in 16.2 overs. Vicky Joshi (26), Kamal (17), Amit (16) and Gulshan (11) were the main contributors to the chase. Pankaj claimed three wickets, while Harvinder Nain and Shubham took two each for the bowling side. Luthra and Ankush also bagged one wicket each. TNSYouth killed in hit-and-runMohali: A 20-year-old youth of Kurali died while two others were seriously injured when a car driver hit their motorcycle from behind on the Chandigarh-Kurali highway near Prabh Asra in Padiala village. The deceased has been identified as Narinder Kumar and the injured as Bunty and Vishal who have been admitted to the PGI. A case has been registered at the Kurali City police station. TNS'Loan Utsav' concludesChandigarh: State Bank of India, Regional Office, accorded in principle approval to loans amounting to Rs25 crore during "Loan Utsav" at the circus ground, Sector 17, which concluded on Monday. Chief General Manager, Chandigarh circle, Anukool Bhatnagar shared that the event elicited huge interest from the public. TNS'Run for Rights' organisedChandigarh: More than 50 schools participated in "Run for Rights" organised by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights to celebrate International Day of Girl Child. As many 300 girls participated in the event. The run started from the Sector 42 lake to the Sector 42 Sports Complex. The run was flagged off by Olympic shooter Anjum Moudgil. The participants were led by Mannat, Child Right Ambassador. TNSSharanjeet electedChandigarh: Sharanjeet Singh, president of the Budo Kai Do Mixed Martial Arts Federation of India, has been elected Asia president of the World Karate Confederation (WKC). The elections were held in Romania. Sharanjeet has been the president of the Budo Kai Do Mixed Martial Arts Federation of India for the past four years. TNSBook on short storiesChandigarh: Former IAS officer and motivational speaker Vivek Atray has released a book, "Paanch Ke Sikkey Tatha Anya Kahaniyan", which was written by Shailja Kaushal. Shailja narrates the psychology of human emotions, be it the memories of childhood, the struggles of the LGBT community or the employment in the country. She is at present serving as the Information and Public Relation Officer with the Haryana Government. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-hurl-stones-at-pcr-vehicle-in-chandigarh-held-323418
12-10-2021||---||Hassan, Nidhi carrom champs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Mohammed Hassan and Nidhi Gupta claimed carrom titles in the men’s and women’s category, respectively, on the concluding of the 30th Chandigarh State Carrom Tournament, at St Stephen’s School, Sector 45.Hassan overpowered Sanjay Negi (25-00, 25-17) to claim the title. Mohammed Talib claimed the third position by defeating Himanshu Shekhar (25-06, 25-01). In the women’s singles final, Nidhi overpowered Tuba Sehar (24-02, 12-24, 25-17). Sanya Chadha thrashed Maryam Khan (18-10, 20-07) to claim the third position. Earlier in the semi-finals, Tuba defeated Maryam Khan (25-10, 20-19) and Nidhi blanked Sanya (19-18, 25-12, 25-10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hassan-nidhi-carrom-champs-323417
12-10-2021||---||Cricket Tourney: Punjab, Himachal Pradesh eves to clash for title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) eves defeated UTCA by nine wickets in their last league match of the Rama Atray Memorial One-Day Limited Overs Cricket Tournament for Women.After winning the toss, UTCA skipper Amanjot Kaur opted to bat. The side posted 136 runs before getting all out in 49 overs.In reply, Punjab opened with Priyanka Malik and Ridhima Aggarwal. Priyanka made an early exit as she was caught by Amanjot off Kumari Shibi for five. Thereafter, Ridhima and Parveen Khan made a 104-run partnership for the second wicket. Ridhima retired hurt after scoring 55 off 87 balls. Parveen left soon after with a bout of cramps for 43 off 92 balls. Kanika contributed unbeaten 12 and Neetu Singh posted unbeaten 16 to ensure an easy win.In another match, Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) outplayed Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) by 10 wickets. JKCA scored 73 in 42.3 overs. In reply, HPCA rode on Kashish Verma and Chitra Singh’s 74-run partnership to help the team win by 10 wickets.The final match will be played between Punjab and Himachal at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium on October 12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-tourney-punjab-himachal-pradesh-eves-to-clash-for-title-323416
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two teams from Punjab to play semifinals today||RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Club Academy will face Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre in the opening semifinal match of the 1st Hockey India Sub-Junior Men Academy National Championship in Bhopal tomorrow.In the second semifinal, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy will compete with SGPC Hockey Academy tomorrow. Two of the current top goal-scoring teams of the tournament, Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre (43 goals) and RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Club Academy (29 goals), will square off against each other.Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance coach Lakshmi Narayana Pitti expressed that their opponent RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Club Academy had a similar style of play, and it would be a challenging task to beat them in the semi-final.“I think RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Club Academy have a similar style of play, and are almost the same team, equally confident, and it will be a challenging task for us to beat them. I am expecting a good game of hockey tomorrow from both teams. Boys have put up a solid performance so far, and I think it’s a great platform for them,” said Lakshmi Narayana Pitti.RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Club Academy coach Balwinder Singh, while speaking about his team’s performance in the tournament, said: “The players selected in the team are new and are playing their first-ever tournament. I never tell my boys that how weak or strong your opponent will be, I tell them to focus on ourselves, our game, our structure because it’s about the mindset at the end, which will determine whether you will win or lose. It’s a great opportunity to showcase their talent on a national platform.”SGPC Hockey Academy coach Prem Singh stated that the team was confident after showing character in quarterfinals win via shootout.“I can’t deny the fact that they did mistakes in the quarterfinal, but it was great to see them bouncing back and winning the match. We are prepared for the semifinal,” said Prem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-teams-from-punjab-to-play-semifinals-today-323414
12-10-2021||---||Two Chandigarh boxers selected for men’s national camp||Chandigarh, October 11Two local boxers, Kuldeep and Sagar, both students of GGD SD College, Sector 32, have been selected by the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) for the elite men’s national camp. The 14-day camp is taking place at the SAI NS NIS in Patiala from October 10 to 23.Both pugilists, who come from a humble background, have won laurels in various national championships. However, it’s for the first time that they have been called to an elite camp. Kuldeep’s father works as a labourer and mother works at a store in Chandigarh. Sagar’s father is a small-time farmer and mother a housewife.With the participation of 52 boxers across 13 weight categories, the camp will see four boxers in each category. Alongside the reigning national champions, who will be representing India at the upcoming 2021 World Championships, silver medal winners will also take part in the camp. The remaining two names, in each category, have been selected on the basis of boxers’ performances in the trials which took place after the 5th Elite National Championships last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-boxers-selected-for-mens-national-camp-323407
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Global Education Summit begins at Chandigarh University||As many as 50 academic leaders of 50 international universities from 26 countries participated in the inaugural ceremony of Global Education Summit at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.The new Education Policy is working on making India a "Vishwa Guru" once again in the global world, said Dr Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Minister of State for External Affairs and Education. The summit is being organised on the theme “Social Innovation for Sustainable Development through Global Academic Partnerships.” Prof Patrizio Bianchi, Minister of Public Education, Italy; AS Kiran Kumar, former Chairman of ISRO; Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/global-education-summit-begins-at-chandigarh-university-323402
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Senator of Panjab University writes to Education Minister||In a recent development, two departments of Panjab University, University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), and University of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICT), have done away with additional seats designated for single girl child, students of rural and border areas.Former senator Subhash Sharma has written to Education Minister Darmendra Pradhan against Panjab University’s decision of denying additional seats to single girl child, including rural and border areas students, in two departments“The arbitrary decision of Punjab University to deny quota to single girl child, rural areas and border areas for 2021- 2022 is totally unacceptable and unfair,” said Dr Sharma.The Senate had given approval for these seats after deliberating that children from remote and border areas should get a chance to get education. The decision was taken in 2015-2016,” said Dr Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-senator-of-panjab-university-writes-to-education-minister-323397
12-10-2021||---||Phone snatched in Mohali market||Mohali, October 11Two bike-borne youths snatched a mobile phone from Subhash, a resident of Madanpura, near the Phase 8 market on Sunday. The victim was on his bike and talking on the phone when two youths snatched his phone, pushed him and fled the spot. The Phase-1 police have registered a case. There was no registration plate on the bike.Theft incidentsFour theft incidents were reported from Mohali on Sunday night. A resident of Sector 67, Simranjit Singh, reported that unidentified persons stole his Jeep parked near his house on Sunday night. Vikramjit Singh of Phase-1 reported that miscreants stole his car parked near his house on Sunday night. Manpreet Singh of Phase-11 reported that his bike parked near his house was stolen on Sunday night. The police have registered a theft case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phone-snatched-in-mohali-market-323392
12-10-2021||---||Award for Chhatbir zoo educationist||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 11Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav today urged zoos to become financially independent and consider CSR and public-private partnerships, and focus on local birds and animals as priority species for conservation.He was speaking at a national conference for zoo directors and veterinarians organised by the Central Zoo Authority and hosted by Sardar Patel Zoological Park, Kevadia, Gujarat, where Prani Mitra Awards were also given in various categories.This years’ winners include Harpal Singh, Educationist, the Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park Chatbir (Outstanding Educationist/ Biologist Award), and Dr Vibhu Prakash Mathur, Director Vulture Conservation Breeding Centre, Pinjore (Outstanding Director).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/award-for-chhatbir-zoo-educationist-323391
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Dean Dr Sanjay Kaushik resigns||In an unexpected move, Dr Sanjay Kaushik resigned as Dean, College Development Council (Additional Charge), Panjab University, today.“The three-year tenure as DCDC has been a satisfying experience. I worked with all honesty and integrity. I offer my sincere regards and thanks to all officials with whom I have worked (as DCDC) especially the current and former DUI, Registrar, COE and other. I offer my gratitude to the principals, faculty and non-teaching staff of all affiliated and constituent colleges of Panjab University for showing faith and confidence in me,” stated Kaushik in his resignation. He, however, refused to give any particular reason for taking this step. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-dean-dr-sanjay-kaushik-resigns-323390
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri killings: Chandigarh Youth Cong holds ‘maun vrat’||Protesting against the inaction of the BJP government at the Centre and the UP government in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Chandigarh Youth Congress today observed “maun vrat” in front of the Punjab Governor’s House.“The protest was to mirror the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on the incident. The two have not commented directly or indirectly so far,” said Youth Congress president Manoj Lubana.City party president Subhash Chawla said: “Even after seven days of the massacre with farmers in Lakhimpur, the Union Minister of State for Home is yet to be sacked.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lakhimpur-kheri-killings-chandigarh-youth-cong-holds-maun-vrat-323386
12-10-2021||---||Diarrhoea outbreak in Dera Bassi area||Dera Bassi, October 11Following the outbreak of diarrhoea in the Kooranwala area, a total of 265 persons visited OPDs. Six of them were running fever and 32 were diagnosed with diarrhoea.Eight patients were referred to the local Civil Hospital due to dehydration. Five water samples were collected from the affected colonies, the report of which is yet to be received.A team from the Civil Surgeon’s office in Mohali took two stool samples and four blood samples and sent them to the district laboratory. Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa and Senior Medical Officer of Block Dera Bassi Sangeeta Jain visited the area.Most houses have underground tanks for storing drinking water which were found to be lacking in sanitation. Bawa asked the owners of the colonies to cut off the water supply and provide clean water from outside.A medical camp was organised and a survey of the colonies was also conducted. Teams, led by sanitary inspector Rajinder Singh, conducted a door-to-door survey during which 400 houses were visited, 350 packets of ORS and 1,500 chlorine tablets were distributed.Underground tanksMost houses have underground tanks for storing drinking water which were found to be lacking in sanitation. Bawa asked the owners of the colonies to cut off the water supply and provide clean water from outside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diarrhoea-outbreak-in-dera-bassi-area-323385
12-10-2021||---||Arrest warrants against Selvel directors recalled||Chandigarh, October 11The CBI Court has ordered recalling of arrest warrants issued against the directors of M/s Selvel Media Services Limited, Jimmy K Subawalla and Bishwadeep Dutt.Subawalla and Dutt had on October 7 filed an application before the court for recalling the non-bailable warrants issued against them.“Keeping in view their presence (in court) today and the fact that earlier also these accused had been regularly appearing in the court, their application is allowed and warrants of arrest issued against them are ordered to be recalled,” read an order issued by Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI Court.The CBI Court had issued the non-bailable warrant against Subawalla and Dutt on October 6 after they failed to appear before the court.The CBI had registered a case against the accused in 2014 for allegedly causing loss to the Municipal Corporation.The case was registered against the then superintendent engineer and officials of the company entrusted with the responsibility to maintain public toilets.Meanwhile, the court heard the arguments on the application moved by the then superintendent engineer for discharge under Section 227 of the CrPC.The court adjourned the case for October 21, for remaining arguments on the application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arrest-warrants-against-selvel-directors-recalled-323384
12-10-2021||---||Don’t support forum on Chandigarh MC poll decision: FOSWAC, CRAWFED||Chandigarh, October 11While Vinod Vashisht-led City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) claims the support of CRAWFED and FOSWAC on the decision of fighting the MC poll in December by RWAs, the heads of the two organisations have objected to it.They have said they do not support what was decided at a meeting convened by Vashisht. They attended the meeting at a personal level and did not represent their organisations. In its official WhatsApp group, CRAWFED members slammed the CFORWO for trying to “take publicity” by using their name.“Though I had wished him (Vashisht) all the best for his meeting, we were not part of the meeting. We are a non-political organisation. No one from our organisation is going to contest the poll. If anyone do so, he/she will first step down from the post,” said Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFED.Chairman of FOSWAC Baljinder Singh Bittu added, “We have nothing to do with the meeting. We are not anyway attached to that forum.”However, Vashisht claimed, “Both were supportive of his idea of holding the meeting under a common platform. Since the two could not come due to personal engagements, their representatives had come. Other RWAs heads had also taken part in the meeting.”The CFORWO, at a meeting of various bodies yesterday, declared that it would field 11 candidates from various RWAs in the upcoming civic body elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-support-forum-on-chandigarh-mc-poll-decision-foswac-crawfed-323383
12-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Another deadline for Chandigarh's Sports Policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The recently concluded UT Administrator’s Advisory Council meeting witnessed yet another deadline for the completion of the UT’s Sports Policy.As per the reports, the UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit has asked the UT officials to complete the policy by December 31 — a third deadline since the formation of this advisory council.During a meeting on February 21, it was announced that the sports policy would be ready by May 30. “...In the meeting, there was a detailed discussion. Director, Sports, Tejdeep Singh Saini said apart from Haryana and Punjab, the policy of Delhi has been reviewed and the services of sports experts of Panjab University have also been taken. It will be ready by the end of May,” stated a note.Previously, on July 24, 2020, a statement was made public. “The UT administration is in process of drafting a Sports Policy, hence open suggestions should be taken from the residents, eminent sports personalities, associations, schools etc by giving an advertisement in newspapers, and the policy should be made within a particular time frame of not more than three months.”However, residents are still waiting for this advertisement to be published in newspapers.On the same day, it was announced that the council members, in order to get a good policy, would visit former Indian Sprinter Milkha Singh and take his ideas too. However, no details of this meeting were made public and there is no record if this meeting took place or not. The legend died in June, this year. His wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, a former international volleyball player, who was also former Joint Director and Director of the department, also died the same month. Meanwhile, in the same meeting (July 24,2020), it was announced that the blueprint of the policy would be discussed on August 24, 2020.During a meeting on November 29, 2019, the then UT Administrator had approved “Formulation of sports policy of the Sports Department and members desired submission of the draft of the same in the next meeting”.Draft policy submittedin 2016A draft of the policy was reported to be submitted for the final approval in March-April 2016. The policy, after due consideration, was pending to be added to the constitution of the UT Sports Council. The department currently follows the Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993.Who’s making suggestionsAs per the rules of the Home Department, the advisory council is to help and advise the UT Administration. The term of the council is of two terms and currently it’s on a six-month extension. The current panel has only one international player – Olympic Gold medallist Abhinav Bindra — who hardly attended any of the meetings. As per the rules, members of the council should be residing in Chandigarh. Will it benefit local players?The UT claims to have its own cash award policy. However, international players are still waiting to get awards. “Will the players get a job quota or direct job in UT offices? Will the players get inducted in the sports department? Will it encourage departments to have their own sports teams? If this policy would help local coaches’ to get pending promotions,” asks a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-deadline-for-chandigarhs-sports-policy-323377
12-10-2021||---||Dengue larvae found at Mohali houses, six challaned||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 11A total of 13 anti-dengue teams of the district Health Department have been conducting door-to-door surveys, checking and awareness activities since March this year.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra visited Phase 10, 11 and Fatehullapur village today and inspected the drive.Larvae were found at five houses in Phase 10, one in Phase 11 and five in Fatehullapur. A total of six challans were issued to the violators, while stern warning was issued to first-time offenders. As many as 17 cases of dengue have been reported from Dera Bassi alone in the past two days.“People should be fully vigilant and alert against dengue till November 30. Dengue testing and treatment is free at government hospitals. For any information, people can contact the Health Department’s helpline at 104,” the Civil Surgeon said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-larvae-found-at-mohali-houses-six-challaned-323376
12-10-2021||---||F Bar firing incident: Chandigarh court frames charges against all six accused||Chandigarh, October 11A local court has framed charges against all six accused in the alleged firing incident that took place three years ago during the birthday celebrations of BJP leader Sehdev Salaria at F Bar and Restaurant here.The charges have been framed against Rinku, Rohit Bhardwaj, Chetan Munjal, Arjun Thakur and Rajesh Paswan for the offences under Section 307, 506, 34 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.The court also framed charges against Gunkaran Singh, owner of F Bar and Restaurant, for offences under Section 201 of the IPC (destruction of evidence) and Section 188 (violating DM’s order), dismissing his application for the discharge from the case.The police had registered an FIR against the accused on November 20, 2018 for the offences under Sections 147, 148, 149, 188, 201, 307 and 506 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station, Chandigarh, on a complaint of Deepak Kundu.Kundu told the police that he, along with his friends Yogeshwar, Pankaj, Jaideep and other companions, went to the bar to attend the birthday party of Sehdev Salaria. When the party was going on, Arjun, Chetan Munjal, Rinku, Rimmy and Rajesh Paswan also reached there. About 12:05 am, an altercation took place between Pankaj and Arjun, following which Arjun, Chetan Munjal, Rinku, Rimmy and Rajesh Paswan attacked him and his friends Yogeshwar and Pankaj.Two of the accused took out pistols and opened fire at Yogeshwar, Pankaj and Jaideep with an intention to kill them. Arjun hit Pankaj on his head with a bottle. Yogeshwar and Jaideep sustained gunshot injuries. Pankaj also suffered injuries on his head.The injured persons were taken to a hospital. The assailants fled from the spot threatening to kill Kundu and his friends. An FIR was registered on the basis of the statement of the injured persons.Three cartridges were recovered from the spot. The accused were later arrested. The police also claimed that the pistols were recovered from the accused on the basis of their disclosure statements. After the completion of the investigation, a challan was presented on February 26, 2019.Restaurant owner Gunkaran Singh filed a discharge application claiming he was not named in the complaint and was also not present at the spot.His counsel Terminder Singh said the accused had directed his employees not to touch anything, which was placed on record.Additional public prosecutor Ashok Rohila, while arguing the case for the prosecution, opposed the discharge application of the accused. The court has fixed December 1, 2021 as the next date of hearing in the case for the prosecution evidence.Timeline||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/f-bar-firing-incident-chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-all-six-accused-323375
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||No power shortage in Chandigarh||Amid reports of coal shortage, the power supply in the city remained normal during the day. Chief Engineer CB Ojha said there was no power crisis in the UT and they were drawing power as per their requirement.He, however, clarified that power cuts being imposed in the city were to carry out routine maintenance works.As most of the city’s electricity is drawn from hydro-electricity plants, the Administration sees no major crisis even in the wake of short supply of coal. On October 10, the peak demand was 226 MW and minimum demand was 166 MW. On October 9, the peak demand was 247 MW.Ojha said the supply was more than adequate to meet the demand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-power-shortage-in-chandigarh-323374
12-10-2021||Mohali||Six booked for vandalising foundation stones laid by Balbir Singh Sidhu||The police have booked six persons for vandalising and stealing foundation stones meant for developmental works inaugurated by former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu at Tangori and Badhi villages. The suspects have been identified as Meena, Bhupinder Kaur and Sahib Kaur of Tangori and Jarnail Singh of Badhi.Two more suspects are yet to be identified. The police have registered a case at the Sohana police station following a complaint by the BDPO, Kharar. The police said foundation stones were vandalised at night and had to be replaced in the morning as Sidhu had to inaugurate the works. The foundation stone of a community centre was stolen after inauguration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-booked-for-vandalising-foundation-stones-laid-by-balbir-singh-sidhu-323373
12-10-2021||Ambala||21-year-old stabbed to death in Ambala, two booked||A 21-year-old youth was allegedly stabbed to death over a petty dispute in Ambala City today.The victim has been identified as Manav, alias Ujjwal, a resident of Prem Nagar, the police said. The Ambala police have booked two boys in connection with the murder, which got recorded in a CCTV camera of a department store.As per information, around noon, when the victim was returning from a departmental store, the suspects stabbed him multiple times and then managed to flee from the spot.Manav was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. However, he succumbed to his injuries while on way to Chandigarh. The eyewitnesses claimed that the suspects were wearing school uniforms.Manav’s maternal uncle, Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, in his complaint to the police stated that his niece was a student of Class X at a government school. In August, on her birthday, one of her classmates (a boy) made some indecent remarks. She informed her brother (Manav) about the same following which he had cautioned the boy.Today, when Manav visited a store near Vita milk booth in Prem Nagar, the boy stabbed him multiple times in his stomach. He was accompanied by another boy and after the incident, they fled away, Kumar told the police.SHO, Baldev Nagar police station, Balbir Singh said: “A case has been registered against two boys on the basis of the names given by the victim’s kin. Both the boys study in a school and are currently absconding. Efforts are being made to nab them. The real reason behind the murder will be clear after their arrest.”DSP, Ambala Cantonment, Ram Kumar, who also visited the spot, said: “The CCTV footage is being examined and the matter is under investigation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-year-old-stabbed-to-death-in-ambala-two-booked-323372
12-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: Four more Estate Office services all set to go online from today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11For faster delivery of services, the UT Estate Office has made four more services available online.In the first phase, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had launched the website and five online services of Estate Office on September 28, while in the second phase, four more services were made available to the residents.Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar said, “We are going as per schedule. Residents can avail these four services at a click of the mouse from tomorrow.”He, however, said the remaining services of the Estate Office would also be made available online from October 20-21. Meanwhile, the DC today handed over the transfer certificates to the applicants, who had applied online for the transfer of property, sales deed, etc. Their applications were processed by the office as per the new online system.Appreciating the process adopted by the Estate Office, city resident Anil Khattar said he had applied for transfer of industrial property online on October 5 and the certificate was handed over to him today.Khattar said he was surprised to get a call from the Estate Office that his certificate was ready and he could collect it anytime. He said such initiatives would help the UT become a true Smart City.Expressing similar views, Sant Lal, a retired headmaster, said he had applied for transfer of property on October 6 and he was astonished to get the certificate within five days. “The online services launched by the Estate Office will bring in transparency, weed out corruption,” he said.Services launched during 2nd phaseThe Estate Office has started ownership/lease rights on the basis of interstate death; ownership/lease rights on the basis of unregistered will; transfer of ownership/lease rights on the basis of registered will and permission to mortgage (leasehold property); and ownership/lease rights on the basis of interstate death/unregistered bill/registered bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-four-more-estate-office-services-all-set-to-go-online-from-today-323370
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one case of Covid||3 new cases surface in Mohali districtMohali: Three new Covid-19 cases, one each from Dhakoli, Lalru and Mohali (urban), were reported from the district on Monday. One person recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Of the 68,759 positive cases reported so far, 67,672 patients have been cured. There are now 19 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 1,068. — TNSNo death, no new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No fresh Covid case was reported from the district on Monday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,744. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 378. While 30,360 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, six cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-case-of-covid-323369
12-10-2021||Naina Mishra||In 10 days, 123 cases of dengue surface in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11In the first 10 days of October, Chandigarh has reported 123 cases of dengue infection as compared to 89 cases registered during the entire month last year. Twenty-three dengue cases were recorded just today.There has also been a 299 per cent rise in the challans issued for violating dengue guidelines from 2020. As many as 423 challans were issued this year for allowing breeding of mosquitoes. Last year, only 106 challans were issued against these violations.A maximum 6,989 notices were issued to city residents, which is 30 per cent more than the last year.The government buildings and offices received 319 show-cause notices, which is an increase of 29 per cent as compared to 2020.The UT Malaria Wing has visited 5,59,149 houses and checked 8,32,222 containers, of which 3,248 containers were found positive for mosquito larvae. Refrigerator back tray, tyres, overhead tanks, coolers were also found positive for dengue larvae. Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said: “We have been surveying houses in Chandigarh to check the breeding of mosquitoes. The Health Department is strict against those violating the norms. We have undertaken fogging to prevent breeding and dengue infection. Residents are urged to take adequate precautions.”Demand for plateletsDue to rise in dengue cases, the demand for platelets has increased in the city as several patients are reporting to hospitals with a decreased platelet count.Prof Ratti Ram from Transfusion Medicine, PGI, said: “There has been an increase in platelet demand by 25-30 per cent. Though there is no shortage right now, we request blood donors to come forward in good numbers.”1 death, 118 new cases in MohaliMohali: One person died of dengue while 118 suspected cases were reported from the district on Monday. As many as 55 cases were confirmed. With this, the case tally has touched the 879-mark. Eight persons have died of suspected dengue till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-10-days-123-cases-of-dengue-surface-in-chandigarh-323368
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to take call on sale and bursting of crackers today||The UT Administration will take a decision on whether to ban the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali at a meeting tomorrow.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the decision on the issue would be taken tomorrow after taking advice from medical and environment experts in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19.Last year, the UT Administration had imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city during Diwali.Meanwhile, a delegation of the Cracker Dealers Association today approached the Deputy Commissioner (DC) to clear the air on the matter.“In the absence of clear directions, the trade of crackers has been going through the worst phase for the past two years,” said association president Davinder Kumar Gupta and general secretary Chirag Aggarwal in a statement issued here today. Last year, while the UT had banned crackers, the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were selling and bursting crackers without any hindrance by the local government, they said, adding that the association had approached the DC several times to take a decision well in time so that the traders did not suffer.In 2020, the Administration had earned nearly Rs10 lakh from nearly 1,650 traders for the issuance of cracker licences, which were later withdrawn. They urged the Administration to carry forward the licence fee for 2021.“We have put forth our demand before the Administration that if neighbouring states have not banned crackers, these should not be banned in Chandigarh also,” they said.They said the association was planning to stage a dharna in front of the DC office if no decision was taken by the Administration in the coming week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-take-call-on-sale-and-bursting-of-crackers-today-323367
12-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dasehra celebrations to remain low key in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Dasehra celebrations in the city are likely to remain subdued this year as several committees have decided not to burn the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad in absence of the permission from the UT Administration.With just four days to go for the festival, the UT Administration is yet to grant permission to various committees involved in organising the event. Dasehra will be celebrated across the country on October 15.Tejinder Chauhan from Ramleela Club, Barara, in Ambala, who had erected the world’s tallest Ravana effigy at Dhanas in 2019, is yet to get a go ahead from the Administration. “Only four days are left for the event. We have not got anything in written till now. We have been called to the DC office tomorrow… it is impossible to make all the arrangements in uncertainty. I am thus building a 100-ft Ravana effigy at Barara this time,” said Chauhan. Chauhan could not organise the event last year due to Covid-19. Like Chauhan, Navyug Ramlila Committee, Sector 7, will also not burn the effigies this time.“It takes at least a month or two to build the effigies. We got the permission very late. Due to the Administration’s delaying tactics, we will not be able to hold the religious event which is very dear to us. They must respect our sentiments,” lamented Pardeep Kumar, director, Navyug Ramlila Committee.Sector 46 Dasehra Committee, which organises one of the Dasehra events in the city, is also in a fix.“We have told the makers in Moga to build the effigies, but only four days are left and we are yet to get the permission,” said Jatinder Bhatia, chief patron of the committee. “If we do not get the permission from the Administration, we will ask the makers to stop the work and give them some money,” said Bhatia. These decisions need to be taken in advance so that there is no wastage of time and resources. They should also value our feelings,” he added.Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, chief patron of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramlila Mahasabha, however, said: “About 30 committees had applied for the permission to burn the effigies. All have got the permission.”Covid effigyFour demon effigies, including that of Covid-19, will be burnt during the Dasehra celebrations at the Parade Ground in Sector 17. “Apart from the 71 ft Ravana and 60 ft Kumbhakarna and Meghnad effigies, we will also burn a 10 ft effigy of Covid-19 to give a message that we have to kill the coronavirus,” said Sunil Kumar Sharma, senior assistant director of the Ramlila at Parade Ground, Sector 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dasehra-celebrations-to-remain-low-key-in-chandigarh-323366
12-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Weekly vaccination lowest since June 1 in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The weekly chart of doses administered in Chandigarh has shown that the pace of vaccination has slowed down in the city.A total of 33,579 doses were administered to city residents in the week between October 2 and October 8, the lowest since the doses administered in the first week of June (23,211 doses). However, health experts do not see the trend as worrisome.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “There is already 100 per cent vaccination coverage for the first dose. Now, from the first dose to second dose, there is a gap of 84 days. The beneficiary will come on the 85th day for the second dose. We are going as per the pace required for the second dose. Our vaccination pace is better than the rest of the country. We have covered a large chunk of our population. It will definitely help us counter a possible third wave.”Till now, 9,14,704 beneficiaries have taken their first jab in Chandigarh, which translates into a vaccination coverage of 108.51 per cent. Around 58.11 per cent of beneficiaries have taken both doses in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekly-vaccination-lowest-since-june-1-in-chandigarh-323365
12-10-2021||---||Days after Rs 39 lakh went missing from his vehicle, cash van driver jumps to death before train in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 11The driver of a cash van from which Rs 39 lakh had reportedly gone missing on October 8 today allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train on a railway track opposite Sector 47. The victim’s family alleged that he was being harassed by the police for the past three days following which he took the extreme step.The driver of the van of the CMS company, Surinder Pal Singh (46), a gunman and two other employees had left Sector 47 with Rs1.20 crore on October 8 to load the cash in ATMs across the tricity. The staff loaded cash at ATMs in Sector 34, 35, 37 and 38 (West).On reaching an ATM kiosk in Nayagaon, they realised that a trunk containing Rs39 lakh was missing following which they informed their senior officials.The matter was reported to the police following which all four employees were called for questioning at the Sector 31 police station, where they claimed that they were innocent.Surinder’s brother-in-law Diwan Singh alleged that Surinder was being called for questioning daily and was being harassed by the police. “He was questioned for hours every day, leading to stress,” Diwan said. On Sunday, a case was registered under Section 380 of the IPC against unknown persons at the Sector 31 police station on a complaint of Bhupinder Singh, custodian at the CMS company.Surinder, a resident of Sector 47, left home in the night and when he did not return, his family started searching for him. “Since Surinder was in stress, his family went looking for him at the nearby railway track and found that he had committed suicide,” Diwan said. Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO of the Sector 31 police station, refuted the allegations of harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/days-after-rs-39-lakh-went-missing-from-his-vehicle-cash-van-driver-jumps-to-death-before-train-in-chandigarh-323364
