13-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports no new case of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported no new case of Covid-19 as the total number of infections remained 65,285.The average number of positive cases in the last seven days has been three.The death toll in the city remains 820.The total number of active cases is 37.A total of two patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 64,428 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-no-new-case-of-covid-19-324125
13-10-2021||---||Villagers of Chandigarh protest hefty garbage collection charges||Chandigarh, October 12Councillor Hardeep Singh, along with villagers, protested outside the Municipal Corporation office over the issue of hefty waste collection charges.The villagers said they had been getting unreasonable bills of waste collection. They raised slogans outside the building showing their bills.“We are getting bills worth Rs1000-Rs2000 and even more than that just for door-to-door waste collection. Ealier, we used to pay Rs100,” said a resident.The councillor later met MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra who assured him of doing the needful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-of-chandigarh-protest-hefty-garbage-collection-charges-323748
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal girls beat Punjab, lift Rama Atray trophy||Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) defeated Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) by eight wickets to claim the 4th Rama Atray Memorial Trophy here today.Put in to bat, PCA women were bowled out for 153 runs in 44.5 overs.Preeti was the wrecker-in-chief for HPCA claiming 6/27.For Punjab, skipper Parveen made a dogged 56, while Neetu contributed 36 runs to the total. In reply, Himachal romped home in 38.1 overs with Chitra Singh hitting a patient 48. Shivani Singh made 47 off 26 balls.Sunita (2/30) took both the wickets to fall in the Himachal innings. Kashish Verma of HPCA was adjudged the best batter, while Preeti was declared the best bowler. PCA’s Kanika was named the best all-rounder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-girls-beat-punjab-lift-rama-atray-trophy-323747
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Odisha Naval Centre enter hockey final||Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre registered a 5-2 win over Roundglass Punjab Hockey Club Academy to enter the final of the inaugural Hockey India Sub Junior Men Academy National Championship in Bhopal today.Ricky Tonjam (14th, 47th) and Aryan Xess (30th, 33rd) scored a brace each for Odisha Naval Centre, while Premdayal Giri (52nd) hit home once. Gursewak Singh (36th) and Lovenoor Singh (58th) scored a goal each for the Punjab based outfit.In the second semifinal, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy humbled SGPC Hockey Academy 3-1.Saddam Ahmad (12th), Zameer Mohammad (26th) and captain Ali Ahmad (49th) scored a goal each for Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy, while Joban Singh (21st) was the lone scorer for SGPC Hockey Academy.Roundglass Punjab Hockey Club Academy will now face SGPC Hockey Academy in the third-place playoff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odisha-naval-centre-enter-hockey-final-323749
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Orientation programme held for BEd, MEd pupils at Chitkara College||Chitkara College of Education organised a special orientation programme-cum-expert workshop for the newly inducted of BEd and MEd students today.Dr Mallika Sarabhai, a renowned Indian classical dancer, actor and activist, and Vikramjit Singh Rooprai, an author, educator and historian, interacted with the students.The duo encouraged students to use performing arts as a classroom pedagogy-restructuring tool, through highly enriching and engaging sessions on “Edutainment Katha” and “The Art of Storytelling in Teaching”.Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro Chancellor, Chitkara University, appreciated the dedication among students for learning new things. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/orientation-programme-held-for-bed-med-pupils-at-chitkara-college-323750
13-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University hostels to be opened to full capacity: Chandigarh Adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12The Adviser to UT Administrator has directed the UT Education Department to issue orders for allowing double occupancy in Panjab University hostels.During his visit to the campus today, Adviser Dharam Pal interacted with students and officials. He also visited various departments and said the orders of allowing two students in one hostel room would be issued soon. “The Education Department has been directed to issues orders for allowing sharing of hostel rooms on the double occupancy pattern. However, both residents should be fully vaccinated. Orders in this regard will be issued soon,” said Pal.He visited the Sector 25-based campus. Panjab University has already opened the campus for offline classes in a phased manner. However, the authorities have allowed only one hosteler to reside in one room considering the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-hostels-to-be-opened-to-full-capacity-chandigarh-adviser-323751
13-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||It takes former Chief Justice’s daughter four years to prove her real name||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12It took four years of legal battle for Ravleen Mongia, daughter of former Chief Justice of the Gauhati High Court and former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court RS Mongia to get her name corrected in the bank account of her late father. While allowing her appeal, Rajeev K Beri, Additional District Judge, Chandigarh, set aside the order of the trial court and declared that the plaintiff Ravleen Mongia is the same person who has been mentioned as Raveen Monia in the bank account of late Justice RS Mongia and further that she is the daughter of the account holder. Hence she is entitled to receive the proceeds of the bank account as per the rules.Ravleen had filed the appeal against the judgment and decree dated March 13, 2019, passed by Civil Judge (Junior Division), Chandigarh. The trial court had dismissed her civil suit filed against Kotak Mahindra Bank, Mani Majra. She had filed the suit saying that her father RS Mongia, who retired as the Chief Justice was maintaining an account with the bank in which he had shown her as his nominee. He expired on August 21, 2017.After his death she approached the bank to obtain the proceeds of the account being the nominee. She said that the bank disclosed to her that apparently due to an inadvertent mistake her name was wrongly mentioned as Raveen Mongia and her relationship with the account holder was mentioned as wife.. Due to this reason the proceeds of the account were not released to her by bank despite her repeated requests. She said that she, her sister and mother are the only surviving legal heirs of the account holder and they had no objection.The defendant admitted that Justice RS Mongia was holding the account and therein nominee also was appointed by the account holder who as per record was Raveen Mongia and not Ravleen Mongia and further that she was mentioned as wife and not as daughter of the account holder. Remaining version of plaint was denied and dismissal of suit was prayed for and other defendants preferred not to appear and were proceeded against ex parte. The lower court dismissed the suit of the plaintiff vide impugned judgment and decree dated March 13, 2019.Feeling aggrieved by this judgment and decree the plaintiff has preferred the appeal. After hearing of the arguments Rajeev K Beri, Additional District Judge, Chandigarh says that the evidence of plaintiff was discarded by the lower court without appreciating the factual and legal position.The documents by plaintiff remained unassailed. Her address apparently is the same as that of RS Mongia. None of these averments is disputed by defendant’s mother and sister. Yet the unchallenged deposition of plaintiff and her documents, were not given due weightage by the lower court thereby committing grave error.“The inadvertent mistake in the name of plaintiff and her mentioning as wife instead of daughter of the account holder in the bank record was not an irreversible mistake. There is no other claimant of the involved amount. There is no other family member of RS Mongia with the name Raveen Mongia. Defendant no.2 is his wife. None of these circumstances was considered by the Lower Court,” says the court while allowing her appeal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/it-takes-former-chief-justices-daughter-four-years-to-prove-her-real-name-323752
13-10-2021||---||Mohali Municipal Corporation steps up fogging||Mohali, October 12To contain the spread of vector-borne diseases, including dengue, the Municipal Corporation (MC) today intensified fogging in all wards of the city.Municipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said they had divided the city into four zones to ensure fogging in every nook and corner of the city. Zone 1 one would be looked after by a team supervised by Chief Sanitary Inspector Harwant Singh while the other teams, led by Chief Sanitary Inspectors Rajinderpal Singh, Sarabjeet Singh and Sham Lal would be accountable of fogging in their respective zones.Besides, two shoulder-mounted machines are being used for fogging in parks, villages and settlements where big machines cannot move. These are also being used for fogging the houses of active dengue patients and their neighborhood.Garg said they had decided to carry out fogging during the evening as the Aedes Aegypti mosquito became active during that time. The MC had launched a special drive to create awareness among people by distributing pamphlets and other related material door to door.Meanwhile, Mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu instructed MC officials to identify high-risk areas and give special attention to these. He also directed the officials to conduct a survey to check dengue larvae in residential and commercial parts of the city. In Zirakpur, 10 teams have been formed.Fogging machines found non-functionalDera Bassi: Four fogging machines of the BDPO office and three of the Health Department were found non-functional recently. Officials said the machines were old and were in disuse since long. However, fogging is being done by the MC office now. Dera Bassi BDPO Preneet Kaur Sidhu said: “Four machines were in disuse. A mechanic from Malerkotla will try to fix them in the next two-three days. Several cases of dengue are being reported from the Humayunpur area in Dera Bassi.” As many as 25 confirmed cases of dengue have been reported from Zirakpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-steps-up-fogging-323753
13-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Mechanised Sweeping: Despite expiry of contract, company to continue work||Tribune News ServicesChandigarh, October 12Despite its five-year mechanised road-sweeping contract expiring next month, Lion Services Limited will continue to work, courtesy officials of the Municipal Corporation.On May 31, the MC House had approved that sanitation contract for southern sectors given to Lion Services should not be renewed and fresh tenders should be floated to get a better deal for the civic body. However, the corporation failed to float the tenders. Now, the tenders could not be floated anytime soon as the election model code of conduct for the MC polls will come into force early November.Civic body to incur huge lossThe assets, three Dulevo 5000 road sweeping machines, along with other fittings, would have become the property of the corporation after the expiry of the contract. However, it will be unnecessary delayed. The delay in the re-tendering process will cause a huge financial loss to the civic body. The wilful delay in the re-tendering process may amount to giving undue favour to any person or firm by causing loss to the MC. Shakti Prakash Devshali, BJP CouncillorThe corporation pays about Rs5 crore per month for the machined sweeping of roads in the southern sectors.The BJP councillor, Shakti Prakash Devshali, has sought a probe from the MC Commissioner into the “deliberate delay in the process of re-tendering for GIS-based mechanical and manual sweeping of selected roads.” Lions Services Ltd has a separate manual contract (for some other sectors) which will expire in January.Devshali added, “Apart from this, the accountability of the officers concerned should be fixed and appropriate action taken in the interest of the corporation.”When contacted, Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “I cannot say why the tender could not be floated in June as I was not (posted) here that time. Now, we are revising the tender document and will be floating it as soon as possible.”Source said it is about three-month tendering process and the present company is expected to get extension till the time, the new one is hired. It means the tender will be floated after the elections i.e. in January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mechanised-sweeping-despite-expiry-of-contract-company-to-continue-work-323754
13-10-2021||Dera Bassi||In Dera Bassi, 68 diarrhoea cases||2 arrested with pistol, cartridgesChandigarh: Two youths have been arrested with a country-made pistol and two live cartridges. The police had laid a naka near the community centre at EWS Colony, Dhanas, on Monday night when they stopped a car for checking. On suspicion, the police conducted a search and found a pistol along with cartridges. The two suspects, Deepak, alias Botal (26), a resident of Sector 25, and Sanjeev Kumar, alias Bhura (23), a resident of Sector 38 (West), were arrested and a case under the Arms Act registered against them at the Sarangpur police station. The police said both suspects had a criminal past. TNSTwo nailed with 4 stolen bikesZirakpur: The police nabbed two suspects and recovered four stolen motorcycles near Baltana on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Vishnu Kant, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, Chandigarh, and Prince, a resident of Mahadev Colony, Kaithal. The duo was operating in the Zirakpur-Pachkula area for a long time. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. A thorough interrogation of the suspect was conducted and four motorcycles were recovered from different places at different times after obtaining a two-day police remand from the court. The two suspects are being further questioned. Suspect Prince has already been charged with two cases of murder and illegal possession of firearms and was released on bail. TNSFamily attacked in Maloya areaChandigarh: More than 12 assailants entered a house in area under the Maloya police station and attacked the family on Sunday. According to the police, a woman alleged that Karan, Anil Pardhan, Langra, Golu, Vijay, Guddu, Abhay, Gautam, Anil, Vikas, Shabhu and others entered her house and attacked her family with swords, stick etc. Vikas and Anil Kumar, both residents of Dadu Majra Community (DMC), have been arrested. TNSRotaract Club opens libraryChandigarh: The Rotaract Club, Shivalik Rangers, has opened a library at Nari Niketan in Sector 26 here. Books on literature, spirituality and moral values are available in the library. Club's founders Anamika and Vinayak Mohan said the club regularly undertook social and professional development projects, and remained committed to educational avenues in the city. TNSDodgeball team finishes thirdChandigarh: The city girls claimed third position in the recently concluded 14th Senior National Dodgeball Championship held at Shahi Sports College of Physical Education, Samrala. Chandigarh eves beat Maharashtra 11-10 9-12 15-14 to claim the bronze medal. A total of 28 teams had participated in the event. TNSCity karatekas triumphChandigarh: City karatekas won a rich haul of medals in the North Zone Karate Championship held at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Simran Kaur, Kanishka, Vidhi Raghav, Khyati Raghav and Sanjana won a gold medal each in the girls' competition. Sneha and Anjali returned home with bronze medals. In the boys' category, Harsh and Sachin won a bronze medal each. TNSVirtual Global Edu SummitChandigarh: Second day of Virtual Global Education Summit, being organised by Chandigarh University, witnessed a discussion on the importance of digital technology. Prof Sushila Chang, Vice Chancellor, The University of Fiji, delivered her inaugural address on the topic, "New age Universities, Road map for Meeting Global Challenges:, said: "Digital technology makes the course materials and academics more accessible for the students." TNSFootball meetChandigarh: The Chandigarh State Senior (Men) Football Championship for Chandigarh Police Shaheed Memorial Trophy - 2021 will be played from October 25-30 at the Sector 26 Police Lines football ground. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-dera-bassi-68-diarrhoea-cases-323755
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No death, five fresh cases in Chandigarh||Two cases in MohaliMohali: Two new cases of Covid-19 — one each from Gharuan and Kharar — were reported from the district on Tuesday. As many as six patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24hours. The district tally now stands at 68,761, of which 67,678 patients have recovered. There are 15 active cases and the toll stands at 1,068. TNSJust 1 case in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported just one fresh case of coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 30,745. The toll, however, remained at 378. While 30,360 patients have already recovered from the infectious disease, seven cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-no-death-five-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-323756
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Property sale: Chandigarh Housing Board extends last date to submit e-bids||The CHB has extended the last date to submit e-bids for the sale of commercial as well as residential property by a week.After reducing the reserve price of leasehold commercial units by 20 per cent and residential units by 10 per cent, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 units — 132 commercial and 31 residential units on a leasehold basis and 28 freehold residential units.Earlier, the e-bids were to be submitted up to 10 am on October 12. “Due to administrative reasons, the closing date and time for submission of e-bids has been extended from October 12 to October 19 up to 10 am. The e-bids will be opened on October 19 from 10.15 am onwards,” said the Chief Accounts Officer, CHB. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-sale-chandigarh-housing-board-extends-last-date-to-submit-e-bids-323757
13-10-2021||Ambala||Day after murder in Ambala, two arrested||The police have apprehended a juvenile and another suspect in connection with the murder of a 21-year-old who was stabbed to death over a petty dispute in Ambala City on Monday.The victim had been identified as Manav, alias Ujjwal, a resident of Prem Nagar. The Ambala murder was captured on the CCTV camera of a department store.A joint team of CIA-1 and the Baldev Nagar police was constituted to nab the suspects. The juvenile has been sent to the Borstal home, Karnal, while the second suspect, identified as Aditya, will be produced before a court tomorrow.Baldev Nagar SHO Balbir Singh said: “The juvenile, who had stabbed Manav, has been apprehended while the involvement of second boy in this case is being verified. The boy has disclosed that Manav had thrashed him and he was holding a grudge against the victim. The weapon used in the crime has been recovered.”The deceased’s uncle, Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, in his complaint to the police had stated that his niece was a student of Class X at a government school. In August, on her birthday, one of her classmates (a boy) made some indecent remarks. She informed her brother (Manav) about the same following which he had cautioned the boy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-murder-in-ambala-two-arrested-323758
13-10-2021||---||Parking pangs the norm at Panchkula Judicial Court Complex||Panchkula, October 12The unavailability of adequate parking space at the Judicial Court Complex in Sector 1 is a long-pending issue.It had triggered a protest and suspension of work by lawyers in December 2020, but the issue remains unsolved.‘Create multi-level parking for lawyers’At times, we spend 10-15 minutes just to get our vehicles out of the parking lot. We have written to the authorities to cover a nearby drain to accommodate a multi-level parking for lawyers as their number is increasing by the year. Satish Kadian, president, DBA, P’kulaSatish Kadian, president of the District Bar Association, Panchkula, said, “The court premises witnesses a heavy footfall everyday and the space is not enough for parking of vehicles. The present space can only facilitate 250-300 vehicles, including two-wheelers. Moreover, it’s unpaved too. Lawyers (around 2,000 registered at present), litigants, police, mediapersons other visitors are forced to park their vehicles in a cramped area.”“It leads to quarrels and chaos almost every day. At times, we spend 10-15 minutes just to get our vehicles out of the parking lot. We have written to the authorities to cover a nearby drain to accommodate a multi-level parking for lawyers as their number is increasing by the year,” he said.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who had promised redressal of the issue during the campaigning for the 2019 Assembly elections, said they were ready to issue a tender for the construction of a parking space once “certain issues that were creating hurdles” were cleared.“First of all, we need clearance from the court. Secondly, there is a lot of confusion about jurisdictional authority of the location. Once it is clear whether the Municipal Corporation or the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) owns the site, we will move ahead with the construction of the parking facility,” he said.He said the parking space, whenever made, would be open for all, not just lawyers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-pangs-the-norm-at-panchkula-judicial-court-complex-323759
13-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee warns packaged food manufacturers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Aimed at saving the environment from further degradation, the UT authorities will initiate action against the manufacturers of packaged food products if they fail to dispose of the waste generated by their products.The UT Administration has imposed a ban on single-use plastic in the city. However, as the manufacturers could not find an alternative to three plastic products — plastic refill pouch having quantity less than 500 ml, straws attached with tetra packs and multi-layered packaging used for food or snacks packing — the UT Administration shifted these products to the list of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) as the quality of food would deteriorate in other products.Under the EPR, the disposal of these plastic products is the responsibility of the manufacturer and it makes it mandatory for companies to collect back their plastic waste and recycle it.“Small manufacturers have to pay local bodies to recycle the amount of plastic they produce. Whereas, medium and large manufacturers have to hire producer responsibility organisations (PROs) to recycle their plastic,” said Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).“To get rid of multi-layered plastic waste, three PROs have been registered and one more organisation has applied for it. Verification of the documents of the fourth PRO is under process,” he said. “Every food product manufacturer has to tie up with a PRO for the collection and disposal of plastic waste on their behalf,” he said, adding that if any firm failed to hire a PRO for the collection of waste, action would be initiated against it and its products could be banned from entering the city.He said data would also be collected from the PROs to match it with the plastic waste generated by the manufacturers on a regular basis.In September 2019, the UT Administration had imposed a ban on single-use plastic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pollution-control-committee-warns-packaged-food-manufacturers-323760
13-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration mulls ‘Shagun’ scheme for girl’s marriage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12The UT Social Welfare Department is mulling over introducing ‘Shagun’ – a scheme for providing financial aid for marriage of daughters.The formulation of a scheme for women for marriage of their daughters on the pattern of Aashirwaad Scheme of the Government of Punjab was recommended by the Advisory Council Committee recently.The Aashirwaad Scheme was examined by the department. Accordingly, a new scheme, Shagun, is being formulated by the department.Navjot Kaur, Director, Social Welfare Department, said, “It is in a preliminary stage. We are currently studying the Punjab scheme. The matter is under process.”The Punjab Government had launched the Aashirwad Scheme to provide Rs51,000 as financial assistance for the marriage of girl child. The scheme is also applicable to Muslims girls aged 18 years or above, along with girls belonging to Scheduled Castes, Christian, Backward Class and economically weaker section families and daughters of widows of any caste. Under the scheme, Scheduled Caste widows/divorcees are also entitled to the benefit at the time of their re-marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulls-shagun-scheme-for-girls-marriage-323761
13-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to issue coupons for Dasehra, Diwali stalls||Chandigarh, October 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) will issue coupons to shopkeepers, vendors and individuals interested in setting up temporary stalls for Dasehra and Diwali.Permission for three or seven days will be granted from October 25 to 28 in the office hall adjoining the booking branch, MC, Sector 17, and the Mani Majra sub-office from 10 am to 4 pm daily. Applicants will have to bring along Aadhaar card, voter ID, driving licence/passport, etc.The permission for Sector 17 and 22 will be for three days only, except for Plaza and Sector 22-C and D. The permission for a period from Dasehra to Diwali (for 20 days) will be given on October 13 and 14, except for Sector 17 and 22. Coupons will be issued on the first come, first served basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-issue-coupons-for-dasehra-diwali-stalls-323762
13-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court quashes FIR in multiple passport case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12In a significant judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed an FIR in a case of multiple passports after making it clear that the registration of a case for cheating, forgery and other offences was illegal once the matter fell within the ambit of the Passports Act.The petitioner’s case was that the matter, at best, would fall under Section 12 of the Passports Act, 1967. According to it, the petitioner could be made liable for offences punishable with a sentence that may extend to a maximum of two years, or with a fine up to Rs5,000, or both. The counsel added that once the case fell within the ambit of the Passports Act, 1967, which was a special Act, the registration of an FIR under provisions of the IPC was illegal and against the law.Justice Vikas Bahl said: “The argument of the counsel for the petitioner to the effect that the Passports Act, 1967, is a special Act, thus, registration of the FIR under Sections 420, 465, 468 and 471 of the IPC is illegal, is also weighty”.The matter was brought to Justice Bahl’s notice after the petitioner moved the High Court seeking the quashing of the FIR registered on August 13, 2011, for cheating and other offences. Directions were also sought for quashing all subsequent proceedings.The counsel submitted that the FIR was registered a decade ago on the allegation that the petitioner had a passport, dated August 12, 1998. Yet, he obtained a second passport, dated December 16, 1999, without disclosing about the previous passport.It was further submitted that the petitioner had already deposited a fine of Rs5,000 as provided under the Passports Act. Besides, a cancellation report was submitted on September 12, 2011. The then Passport Granting Officer, upon notice, stated that he had no objection if the present FIR was cancelled. Yet, re-investigation was ordered without giving any reason as to why the Chief Judicial Magistrate concerned did not agree with the cancellation report and on what aspect of the matter the re-investigation was required to be carried out.Justice Bahl asserted that the counsel for a respondent submitted that Rs5,000 fine had already been paid. As such, they had no objection in case the FIR and all subsequent proceedings were quashed. It was also stated by the petitioner’s counsel that almost 10 years had passed by since the FIR was registration and both the passports had expired. As such, no useful purpose would be served if the matter was left hanging fire. “Keeping in view the facts and circumstances, as well as the law in this regard, this petition is allowed and the FIR and all subsequent proceedings arising there from are hereby quashed,” Justice Bahl concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-quashes-fir-in-multiple-passport-case-323763
13-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration bans cracker sale, use this festive season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Ahead of the festival season, the UT Administration has imposed a complete ban on the sale or use of crackers of any kind throughout the city.The decision was arrived at after extensive consultation with health and environment experts and other stakeholders. The toxic air rising out of crackers was likely to affect public health. Therefore, residents must avoid bursting crackers this festive season, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.‘Covid on mind’The direction is issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of the spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers. Dharam Pal, UT AdviserThe decision was taken in view of an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The direction is issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of the spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers,” said Dharam Pal in the order issued under the Disaster Management Act.The UT Adviser said the order would come into force with immediate effect and remain so until further orders.Any violation of the order will invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other provisions as applicable.The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal criticised the decision of the Administration to impose a complete ban on the sale and purchase of crackers and fireworks and appealed to follow a policy on the pattern of nearby states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.“Diwali is the most important Indian festival and celebrated worldwide by all communities. Without firecrackers, this festival seems incomplete,” said Diwakar Sahoonja, spokesperson for the mandal.The mandal demanded protection of the trade of crackers, which was a source of livelihood for many small and medium traders doing this business for generations, he added.Appreciating the decision, Ajay Jagga, member, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Chandigarh, in a letter to UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit, stated that the Supreme Court had a few days ago observed that one cannot celebrate at the cost of the life of others. Last year, the NGT had delivered a historic order and a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers was imposed in view of Covid-19 and other factors.Dealers want decision reviewedUrging the UT Administration to review its decision, Chirag Aggarwal, general secretary, Cracker Dealers’ Association, said they were going through the worst phase for the past two years. Last year, nearly 1,635 traders had deposited nearly Rs9.50 lakh with the Administration for the issuance of cracker licences, which was still pending with it, he added. He said they were likely to suffer a loss of nearly Rs5 crore, which was paid as an advance to manufacturers of firecrackers by members of the association. Further action would be taken in a meeting of the association on Wednesday.Dasehra effigies sans crackersThe UT Administration has clarified that effigies can be burnt on Dasehra, but without crackers. The Administration has already given permission to various Dasehra committees to organise Ramlila.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-bans-cracker-sale-use-this-festive-season-323764
