14-10-2021||---||Cricket: Rose Zone log victory||Chandigarh, October 13Hardik’s unbeaten 78 runs helped Rose Zone to log a four-wicket win over Plaza Zone in the ongoing UTCA U-25 Domestic Tournament today.Batting first, Plaza Zone posted 227/9 in the allotted overs. Aman (61), Yuvraj Chaudhary (54) and Arjun Azad (50) contributed a majority of the runs. Karthik (5/46) was the pick of the bowlers. In reply, Rose Zone scored 228 runs with the help of Hardik’s innings and Surendra Singh’s unbeaten contribution of 53 runs.20-run victory for Terrace ZoneIn another match, Terrace Zone defeated Leisure Zone by 20 runs. Batting first, Terrace Zone was all out for 281 runs. Ishan Goyal came up with a brilliant 124 runs, while Ayush Sikka added 103 runs to the total. Shivang Saini (6/44) claimed a six-wicket haul for the bowling side.In reply, Leisure Zone scored 261/9 in 50 overs. Yuvraj Rai (70) and Arslan Khan (69) contributed to the total. Abhishek Saini took 5/47 for the bowling side.Nine-wkt win for Sukhna ZoneSukhna Zone registered a comprehensive nine-wicket win over Rock Zone. Batting first, Rock Zone was all out for 125 runs in 37 overs. Vishwajit Dhanda added 48 runs to the total. In reply, Saksham Gupta (58) and Monarch Goyal (49) achieved the target in 26 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-rose-zone-log-victory-324335
14-10-2021||Panchkula||Use electricity wisely: Citizens’ Welfare Association||Amid the coal crisis across the country, the Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), the apex body of all residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in Panchkula, has urged locals to wisely use electricity to bring down their overall consumption.SK Nayar, president, CWA, said, “As everyone must be aware of the power crisis, reported by the media, I request all of you to turn off fans, lights, coolers, ACs and other electrical appliances at the time of leaving the room or office. By saving energy, one can contribute to the state and country,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/use-electricity-wisely-citizens-welfare-association-324302
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University, Vice Chancellor approves UICET, UIET admissions||Recommendations of the committee, constituted under the chairmanship of Prof SK Tomar, Dean, Research, by Prof Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, PU, regarding the quota for single girl child, rural & border area reserved seats, in the UIET and UICET, has been approved by the VC.The committee observed the recommendation of the Joint Admission Committee (JAC) regarding large number of applications received for admissions on the additional seats in various categories. The seats matrix and reservation/additional seats approved by the governing body of PU in the past for various courses have to be followed with regard to admissions for 2021-22.The deviation/change in such provisions cannot be implemented without the prior approval of the Syndicate/Senate.At least seven days’ time will be given to candidates to apply afresh in these categories and candidates, who have already applied, may be allowed to change their categories accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-vice-chancellor-approves-uicet-uiet-admissions-324301
14-10-2021||---||Temporary licences for cracker sale in Mohali district||Mohali, October 13The district administration today invited applications to allot temporary licences for the sale of crackers on Diwali/Gurpurb from residents in the district. Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said the draw would be held on October 26 and those interested could apply for a temporary licence to sell firecrackers from October 18 to October 20 at the Sewa Kendra, Room No. 121. Ground Floor, District Administrative Complex, Mohali.Applicants can download the application form from the link “Temporary Licences for Sale of Firecrackers” on the Punjab Government website, https://punjab.gov.in/forms. She said only residents of the district could apply for the licence with a minimum of two proofs of domicile. Applications received after the last date would not be considered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/temporary-licences-for-cracker-sale-in-mohali-district-324300
14-10-2021||---||Junior Golf Championship concludes||Chandigarh, October 13Sudiksha Gulati won the girls’ (7-8 years) title on the concluding day of the 6th TTBGS Junior Golf Championship today while Jasgurdeep Singh and Ezra Cavo claimed first two positions, respectively, in the boys’ (7-8 years) category.In the boys’ (9-10 years) category, Gurshan Singh Dhillon claimed the title while Kairav Singh finished second. Neil Jolly won boys’ (11-12 years) title while Rannvijay Singh Gill finished at second position. In the girls’ (11-12 years) event, Guntash Kaur Sandhu and Rajeeta won top two positions, respectively. Gurnavjit Singh Bhatia won the boys’ (13-14 years) event and Kuldeep Singh Dhesi finished second. Mannat Brar won the girls’ event, followed by Heenaz at second.Paramraj Singh Sandhu and Abhimanyu Dhara claimed first two positions, respectively, in the boys’ (15-17 years) event. Sakshi Mehta claimed first position and Mehar Nijjer finished at second spot.Upraj Singh Mehdiratta and Nihaal Cheema claimed first two positions, respectively, in the boys’ (6 years and below) category.Paramraj Singh Sandhu, meanwhile, won boys’ (Best Gross-Combined (A&B)) section. Gurshan Singh Dhillon (C&D), Jasgurdeep Singh (E&F), Mannat Brar (A&B), Guntash Kaur (C&D) and Sudiksha (E&F) claimed Best Gross Combined titles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/junior-golf-championship-concludes-324299
14-10-2021||---||Himachal girls beat Punjab to lift Rama Atray trophy||Chandigarh, October 13HPCA defeated Punajb Cricket Association (PCA ) by eight wickets to claim the 4th Rama Atray Memorial One Day Cricket Tournament Trophy at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium today.After winning the toss, HPCA skipper put the PCA eves to bat. The side posted 153 runs before getting all-out in 44.5 overs. Priyank Malik was the first to go after being caught by Kashish off Ansari for 10. Thereafter Ridhima Aggarwal was run out by Ansari for 8.Kanika soon followed the suit as her wicket was claimed by Preeti for 7. Punjab was reduced to 38/3 in 14 overs. Thereafter, Neetu Singh and skipper Parveen Khan added 64 runs for the fourth wicket before Neetu was bowled by Sushmita Negi for 36. Parveen and Neelam Bisht added 39 runs for the fifth wicket before Neelam was caught by Yamuna off Preeti for 23.Preeti, meanwhile, was reintroduced to the attack and she removed skipper Parveen (56 off 93 balls with 9 boundaries), Harpreet Dhillon (2) and Sunita Rani (0) to halt the Punjab innings. She claimed 6/ 27 to hog the limelight.In reply, Himachal opened with Kashish Verma and Chitra Singh and the duo put on 89 runs in 29.2 overs for the first wicket. Chitra fell prey to Sunita for 48 off 95 balls inclusive of eight boundaries. Thereafter, Shivani Singh, in company of Kashish, added 63 runs for the second wicket. Shivani was castled by Sunita for 47 off 26 balls inclusive of 11 boundaries. Sunita (2/30) was the most successful bowler for Punjab.Himachal scored 154/2 in 38.1 overs to record an eight-wicket win over Punjab. The side bagged the coveted trophy along with a cash prize of Rs 40,000 and Punjab got the runners-up trophy and a cash prize of Rs 20,000.Kashish Verma of HPCA was declared as the best batter of the tournament while Preeti of HPCA, who claimed a 10-wicket haul in the tournament, was declared the best bowler. Kanika of PCA was declared the best all-rounder of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-girls-beat-punjab-to-lift-rama-atray-trophy-324298
14-10-2021||---||Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour: Amandeep Drall takes lead on Day 1||Chandigarh, October 13Amandeep Drall lived up to her top billing with a flawless 4-under 68 that put her on top of the leader board at the end of the first round of the 10th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour, at the Chandigarh Golf Club.The Kapurthala golfer leads the combined Hero Order of Merit for 2020-21 despite missing out on the last few legs of the Tour because of being busy with events in Europe. After day one, she was one shot ahead of the highly rated amateur Avani Prashanth (69), who had four birdies against one bogey.Both Amandeep and Avani had a bogey-free 3-under 33 each on the back nine at the Chandigarh Golf Club. They also had a birdie each on the front nine, but Avani also dropped a shot on the ninth, while Amandeep stayed error-free.Avani was the winner of the third leg and runner-up in the seventh leg in 2021. Amandeep is yet to taste a win in 2021, though she had two in 2020. She was runner-up to Avani in the third leg, so she has a score to settle with the youngster. Seher Atwal and Jahanvi Bakshi also carded under par rounds of 1-under 71 each to be tied-third. Seher and Jahanvi had contrasting rounds producing similar scores. Seher had two birdies on front nine, while Jahanvi had two bogeys. However on the back nine, Seher had two birdies against three bogeys, while Jahanvi had three birdies and no bogeys.Vani Kapoor, with three birdies between ninth and 13th against three bogeys, two of them in the last three holes, shot 72. Amateur Puneet K Bajwa, who landed the day’s only eagle, also had a 72. Gaurika Bishnoi started with a birdie on second but her form deserted her thereafter. She had four bogeys in a space of five holes between fifth and ninth and on the back nine she had two each of birdies and bogeys. Pranavi Urs, Rhea Saravanan and Hitaashee Bakshi were also Tied-seventh with Gaurika at 3-over 75.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hero-womens-pro-golf-tour-amandeep-drall-takes-lead-on-day-1-324297
14-10-2021||---||Look into under-age marriage, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells Panchkula Commissioner of Police||Chandigarh, October 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Panchkula Commissioner of Police to look into the solemnisation of marriage of an under-aged boy against the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The Commissioner has also been directed to examine the role of the priest, who solemnised the marriage.Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill asserted the girl was of marriageable age, being 19. But the boy, 20, could not be said to be of marriageable age as he was less than 21. The marriage, the Bench observed, was stated to have been solemnised on October 2 at ‘Pracheen Shiv Mandir, near Kaushaliya river bridge, at Pinjore in Panchkula district.“Since the temple is stated to be situated in Panchkula district (Haryana), it is directed that the Commissioner of Police, Panchkula, shall examine the matter particularly as regards the solemnisation of marriage of the petitioners despite the fact that the boy was not of marriageable age, which is, in fact, against the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006…. In case, it is found that the marriage has been performed in violation of any provisions, then necessary steps as may be warranted be taken thereupon,” Justice Gill asserted.Taking note of their apprehensions regarding safety, Justice Gill at the same time directed the Senior Superintendent of Police concerned to get their representation examined regarding the alleged threat perception. “In case, it is found that there is genuine threat to lives and liberty of the petitioners, then necessary steps be taken so as to ensure that they are not harmed in any manner”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/look-into-under-age-marriage-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-panchkula-commissioner-of-police-324296
14-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Car, furniture of DDA officials to be attached||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, October 13Taking non-compliance of the order seriously, State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT of Chandigarh, has issued directions to the District Magistrate, New Delhi, to attach the official cars of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the furniture/articles lying in their offices.The commission further ordered to put the cars and office articles to auction to recover the decreetal amount of Rs 1,08,47,305.47 as arrears of land revenue. Besides, the commission also directed that the presence of Harish Kumar, Director, and Brij Mohan Gupta, Deputy Director, be secured through bailable warrants of arrest in the sum of Rs50,000 each with one surety each in the like amount for the next date of hearing.The commission has issued the order on the execution of a petition filed by a consumer, Bhupinder Nagpal, under Section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, for the enforcement of the order passed by the commission in May 2021.Holding the DDA guilty of deficiency of service, the commission directed the authority to refund Rs 60,94,941 to Nagpal along with 12 per cent interest. It also directed the DDA to pay a compensation of Rs1.50 lakh for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs33,000 for the cost of litigation.Nagpal, a resident of Sector 35, Chandigarh, approached the commission after he found that the DDA failed to provide him the flat with all facilities as promised. Nagpal said he applied for the allotment of the flat in the DDA Housing Scheme 2014 and was allotted an MIG flat in Narela. He deposited Rs59,94,941 on July 1, 2015, but was shocked to know that the flat was offered in an inhabitable condition.The commission has given two-month time for the DDA to refund the amount, but it failed to comply with the order.JusticeRaj Shekhar Attri, president, Padma Pandey and Rajesh Kumar Arya, both members of the commission, in the order say the decree holder is suffering for the past three years but the judgment debtors have failed to comply with the order and pay the decreetal amount to the decree holders. Though appeal is pending before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi, the counsel for the judgment debtors conceded that no stay order has been passed.“After going through the record and in view of law laid down by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi, in the cases of Rajnish Kumar Rohatgi, a prima facie case is made out to summon the judgment debtors to face trial for the offence punishable under Section 27 of Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Accordingly, we are of the view that this execution application be treated as a complaint and it be tried as a summons case.“Let the presence of Harish Kumar, Director, and Brij Mohan Gupta, Deputy Director, Delhi Development Authority, be secured through bailable warrants of arrest in the sum of Rs50,000 each with one surety each in the like amount for the next date of hearing, so that substance of accusation under the provisions of Section 251 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, can be stated to them and they can be prosecuted under the provisions of Section 27 of Consumer Protection Act, 1986.”Why complainant felt cheated by DDANagpal, a resident of Sector 35, Chandigarh, approached the commission after he found that the DDA failed to provide him the flat with all facilities as promised. Nagpal said he applied for the allotment of the flat in the DDA Housing Scheme-2014 and was allotted an MIG flat in Narela. He deposited Rs59,94,941 on July 1, 2015, but was shocked to know that the flat was offered in an inhabitable condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-furniture-of-dda-officials-to-be-attached-324295
14-10-2021||Naina Mishra||5 private hospitals in Chandigarh to set up oxygen plants||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Five private hospitals in the city have consented to install Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants after the UT Health Secretary directed the private hospitals to gear up for the possible third wave of Covid.Considering the threat of third wave, the UT Administration is gearing up for a caseload even higher than the second wave. Dharam Pal, Adviser to UT Administrator, who is monitoring the preparedness for the possible third wave of Covid-19, has directed to ensure proper co-ordination with the private hospitals as well.A meeting was held on September 10 with the private hospitals and instructions were issued for oxygen supply and other related issues. Today, another review meeting was convened by the UT Health Secretary to review the preparations of private hospitals.As per the report, Eden Hospital has placed an order for installation of PSA Oxygen Plant which is expected to be made functional by the end of October 2021. Land Mark Hospital is in the advance stage of negotiation with the manufacturer/supplier and will submit the final plan by October 31.Healing Hospital and Mukat Hospital are in the advance stage of negotiation with the manufacturer/supplier and will also submit the final plan by October 31. Shri Dhanwantry Hospital is in the advance stage of finalising the purchase of 250 LPM PSA plant.Chaitanya Hospital has placed an order for 999-litre liquid oxygen tank which may be installed in next few days, while Santokh Hospital is finalising arrangements for the same.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The progress and efforts of the private hospitals have been found to be quite reassuring and the status will now be again reviewed after about one month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-private-hospitals-in-chandigarh-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-324294
14-10-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh ‘best’ in urban mental well-being||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-best-in-urban-mental-well-being-324290
14-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||2 years on, UTCA yet to set up umpires’ panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Almost two years have passed since the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, got the BCCI affiliation, it is yet to conduct seminars/courses for training and preparing a group of local umpires.At present, the association outsources hiring of umpires through an approved panellist, but from another state.Sources claimed that the UTCA had no separate umpires’ panel so far and matches were being allotted without following protocols.“The umpires for all UTCA matches are provided by an outsourced vendor. For two years, the association has not conducted any seminar or course officially. There’s no written objection submitted in this regard with the association. However, yes it’s a valid point to raise,” said an UTCA official.The sources also claimed that the matches were being supervised by umpires affiliated to the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA).“The UTCA could have conducted at least one seminar or some course to get some good local umpires. It could have been conducted online or BCCI officials could have been approached for that. Even the existing lot of umpires could have been asked to attend such seminars. Like players, a dedicated panel of umpires can be made and a MoU can be signed with other states for using their (umpires) services in order to get fair results and to give exposure to our umpires,” suggested a senior functionary of the association. Meanwhile, UTCA officials remained unavailable to comment on the issue.New operations head?After the resignation of the UTCA’s operations manager, all eyes are now on the new appointment. Sources said someone from the former Ranji Trophy players, who were recently inducted in the UTCA, might be appointed to the post, considering the need for a professional in running cricket operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-years-on-utca-yet-to-set-up-umpires-panel-324288
14-10-2021||---||Campaign begins to make people aware of building bylaws||Chandigarh, October 13The Property Consultants Association has started an awareness campaign to make people aware of the building bylaws and also launched a Facebook page in the name “Know Reality of Chandigarh”.“For some time, people who dream of buying a plot are thinking that there is a ban on construction in the city and also believe that illegal construction takes place in the city, but in fact the situation is entirely different. Chandigarh Building Rules are being strictly followed and no one is violating the rules,” said Kamal Gupta, president of the association.Association general secretary Jatinder Singh said the illusion was being spread that the burden of population would increase in the next 10 years.He said in the Master Plan 2031, the population of the city had been estimated to reach 1.6 million in the next 10 years. Even if all private plots from Sectors 1 to 47 in the city are made triple story and people start living on each floor, the population of these sectors could not exceed 3 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaign-begins-to-make-people-aware-of-building-bylaws-324285
14-10-2021||---||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim points out works done for social welfare||Panchkula, October 13Convicted of murdering a follower, dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, in an eight-page document submitted before the special CBI court in Panchkula during the arguments on quantum of sentence yesterday, pointed out the works he had done for social welfare while seeking leniency in punishment.Ram Rahim claimed he had six crore followers. Out of these, “around 60-70 lakh were such who were almost on deathbed and destroyed by intoxication, but he could save their lives by giving them guru mantra.”He mentioned “donation of 2,053 eyes by the eye bank established at the dera’s hospital, donation of 5,40,763 units of blood to the poor and those in need, plantation of 4.61 crore saplings, adopting orphan boys and girls, construction of 2,500 houses for orphans, windows and needy families, adoption of prostitutes, treatment of thousands of voiceless creatures, and uplift of socially backward and cleanliness drive in various parts of the word”.In his statement, the dera chief also highlighted sending out assistance and relief material during the Kargil war, 1999 cyclone in Orissa, 2001 earthquake in Gujarat, 2004 cyclone in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, drought in Barmer and 2015 Nepal earthquake.Further, he sought mercy on the basis of poor health, calling himself a patient of diabetes and hypertension.The special CBI court in Panchkula had yesterday deferred the quantum of sentence against Ram Rahim and four other convicts to October 18 in the murder case of sect follower Ranjit Singh.The prosecution (CBI) has already concluded its argument, seeking death penalty for Ram Rahim as “he is a convict in previous two cases”.The defence counsels will conclude their counter arguments on the next day of hearing following which the court is expected to pronounce quantum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-points-out-works-done-for-social-welfare-324284
14-10-2021||---||Specialised ‘Baithak’ corner for elderly comes up at Sector-17 Plaza, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 13UT Adviser Dharam Pal today inaugurated “Plaza Baithak”, a specialised corner for senior citizens, at the Sector 17 Plaza here in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar. The corner was developed by the Chandigarh branch of Indian Red Cross Society.This was a much-needed project. A dedicated place was required in the city where elderly people from diverse backgrounds could meet and interact comfortably. The idea behind setting up this special corner at the Plaza was to make the elderly feel important and give them a special place to relax for a while. There is a makeshift seating arrangement for around 20-25 people, along with a provision for daily newspapers, magazines and some indoor games such as chess and carrom. Some physiotherapy modalities too are being provided for safe and effective physical activity.The timings will be between 11 am and 7 pm. This is the space where senior citizens can spend some quality time with their peer group and socialise in an eco-friendly environment. They can sit, read and enjoy in the Plaza. This project may create awareness among the youth of the City Beautiful about responsibilities towards elders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/specialised-baithak-corner-for-elderly-comes-up-at-sector-17-plaza-chandigarh-324283
14-10-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Ban on registries in 2 housing societies||After the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) found violations in housing societies - Maya Garden-1 and 2 and Stellar - in Zirakpur, the tehsil office has stopped the registries of these two societies. Kulwinder Singh, acting Naib Tehsildar, said: “The PPCB wrote to us regarding various environmental violations and sought to stop the registries in these two projects two months ago.” A notice in this regard has been displayed at the tehsil office, officials said. Maya Garden representative Satish Jindal did not respond to repeated phone calls. — TNSBaltana shopkeepers gherao MC officialsZirakpur: The enforcement wing of the Zirakpur Municipal Council on Wednesday faced stiff resistance from shopkeepers in Baltana when the officials began an anti-encroachment drive near the Kalgidhar Enclave area. The protesting shopkeepers in the furniture market gheraoed the MC vehicle and stopped the traffic for some time. Police force had to be called in to bail out MC officials. The MC vehicle was taken to the police station following which the shopkeepers reached the police station. Later, the confiscated goods and the vehicle were shifted to the MC office.Zirakpur Executive Officer Girish Verma said, “MC officials were stopped while doing the duty. Police had to be called in. Fine will be levied on shopkeepers who encroach on the road and other areas.”The shopkeepers alleged that MC officials harass businessmen during the festival season and do not give receipts of the fine charged. Police officials said no written complaint has been given in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-ban-on-registries-in-2-housing-societies-324282
14-10-2021||---||Punjab RERA files criminal complaint against GBP group, three directors||Chandigarh, October 13A local court has issued notices to Gupta Builders and Promoters Private Limited (GBP) and its directors Satish Kumar Gupta, Pradeep Kumar Gupta and Raman Kumar Gupta on a criminal complaint filed by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab. The notices have been issued for November 22, 2021.The RERA has filed the criminal complaint under Section 80 read with 59 (1) and (2) of the RERA Act for continue violation of Section 3 of Act.This is the first-ever complaint filed by the RERA Punjab against any builder for the violation of Section 3 of the RERA Act - 2016.In the complaint filed through advocate Siddharth Pandit, the Punjab RERA alleged that the group violated the Act repeatedly despite a penalty imposed on the builder. As per the complaint, the RERA imposed a penalty of Rs1.50 crore on the builder in May 2019 for launching residential projects in New Chandigarh Smart City/GBP Smart City at Togan village, Mohali, without necessary RERA approval.This was the highest-ever penalty imposed by the RERA on any developer for the violation of statutory provisions.Pandit told the court that Section 3 of the Act makes it mandatory for promoters a prior registration of real estate project with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority and imposes a bar upon promoters to advertise, market, book, sell or offer for sale, or invite persons to purchase in any manner any plot, apartment or building.Pandit said when it came to the notice of the authority that the builder was violating the RERA provisions, a detailed inquiry was conducted. It was found that the project was launched without registration with the RERA and a penalty of Rs1.50 crore was imposed on the builder on May 6, 2019. Later, the builder paid only Rs40 lakh. It did not deposit the remaining amount till date.In the complaint, the authority said despite being penalised, the group continued to sell units to the investors. With the complaint, the RERA has also attached some of the agreements executed after the penalty with the buyers.Pandit argued that this is the continuous violation of Section 3 of the RERA Act.He said: “If any promoter does not comply with the orders, decisions or directions issued under sub-section (1) or continues to violate the provisions of Section 3, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to three years or with fine which may extend up to a further 10 per cent of the estimated cost of the real estate project, or with both”.Pandit prayed the court that in view of this, the directors might be summoned, prosecuted and punished in accordance with provisions under Section 80 read with Sections 59(1), 59(2) for violation of Section 3 of the Real Estate (Regulations and Development) Act, 2016. The group is already in the thick of controversy after the project is left in midway and the investors are filing cases every day in courts and before the police”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-rera-files-criminal-complaint-against-gbp-group-three-directors-324281
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Accused flees from custody in Chandigarh||Five diarrhoea cases surfaceMohali: Five cases of diarrhoea were reported from Gaily Colony in the Kuranwala area of Dera Bassi on Wednesday. Sixty patients visited a medical camp and 124 houses were surveyed for diarrhoea-like symptoms. As many as 100 chlorine tablets and 50 ORS packets were distributed in the area. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “After the disease was notified, information was gathered from patients and food history was reviewed to identify common exposure.” TNSRoad closed for recarpetingChandigarh: One side of the road separating Sector 34 and 44 will remain closed to the public for four days due to road recarpeting work. According to the MC, it will start recarpeting work on a V-3 road. The public has been requested to take alternative routes from October 14 to 17. TNSYouth held with 60-gm heroinChandigarh: The police arrested Ajay, alias Akshay (22), a resident of Amritsar, and recovered 60 grams of heroin from his possession near the Sports Complex, Sector 50, Chandigarh, on October 12. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. The suspect was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand. TNSScooter stolen from houseChandigarh: A Kishangarh resident, Gurmail Dass, reported that an unknown person stole his scooter parked near his house between August 29 and October 12. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the IT Park police station. TNSCase of dowry harassmentChandigarh: A city resident alleged that her husband and other residents of Maharashtra harassed her to bring more dowry. A case under Section 406 and 498-A of the IPC has been registered at the women’s police station. TNSBiofuels exhibitionChandigarh: As part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations, HPCL, on behalf of Oil and Gas Industry, organised a biofuels exhibition at the CII Headquarters, Sector 31. The event was inaugurated by BK Mohanty, Chief General Manager, Indian Oil Corporation Limited. The exhibition focused on technological advancement made in the areas of bio-energy along with new projects being undertaken under the aegis of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas in the field of biofuels. TNS110 donate bloodPatiala: Over 110 persons donated blood at a camp organised by Punjabi University’s department of NSS here today. The camp was organised by university VC Arvind. NSS coordinator Mamta Sharma said 150 persons approached the office for donating blood. During screeing, over 40 persons were found not eligible as they had recently been jabbed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-flees-from-custody-in-chandigarh-324280
14-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Not allowing teams to inspect dengue larvae on premises to invite penalty, people warned in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has warned city residents of heavy fine and penalty under the Epidemics Disease Act in case health teams are not allowed to enter the premises for inspection of dengue larvae.Official orders of Garg read: “It may be presumed that entry to the premises is not being allowed to avoid the applicable fine/penalty and hence fine may be imposed straight way. It is clarified in clear terms that such reluctance of allowing inspection will not be allowed because it may contribute in outbreak of vector-borne diseases in the city.”Garg said: “It has been observed that some of the owners or occupants of the premises are objecting or misbehaving with the staff of the Health Department at the time of inspections. In some cases, security staff posted at the entry gates of the premises is not allowing the teams to enter the premises for inspections. The residents are requested to extend their full support to the visiting staff and contribute in their efforts of controlling the spread of vector-borne disease.”“To address the security related concern, the protocol of frisking may be completed while allowing the entry to the premises and a representative may remain with the staff during the entire process of inspection/spraying. Even the Punjab Raj Bhawan, Haryana Raj Bhawan, UT Secretariat, residence of UT Adviser and residence of the DGP have been inspected,” said Garg.Under the Epidemics Disease Act, 1897, the health staff has been authorised to inspect the premises. In case of not allowing inspections, actions under the Epidemics Disease Act-1897 may be initiated and it can also be termed as an offence under the IPC for obstructing a government servant from discharging the duty.The UT Health Department is taking measures, including awareness and education programmes at different locations in the city, fogging and spray at public/private places in coordination with the Municipal Corporation, checking and inspection of vulnerable places, issuing notices and challans to private and government premises.On Wednesday, Chandigarh saw 40 cases of dengue. Over 250 dengue cases have been reported from the city till now.Appeal to residentsAll residents are requested to take all precautions and don’t allow water to stagnate on their premises. They may contact at the helpline number 7626002036 for issues related to malaria/dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-allowing-teams-to-inspect-dengue-larvae-on-premises-to-invite-penalty-people-warned-in-chandigarh-324251
14-10-2021||---||Dengue: Six Dera Bassi villages hit hard||Dera Bassi, October 13The administration has identified six villages — Tasimbali, Humayunpur, Jharmari, Fatehpur Jattan, Kooranwala and Amlala — which have been hit hard by dengue. Health and sanitation committees have been activated in these villages.Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Preneet Kaur said, “Health and sanitation committees have been set up in these villages and made functional. All houses in the six villages were surveyed in collaboration with teams of the Health Department during which dengue larvae were found in 80 houses at Tasimbali village, 25 houses in Humayunpur, 34 houses in Jharmari, 62 houses in Fatehpur Jattan, 38 houses in Kuranwala and 57 houses in Amlala. Fogging has also been done in these villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-six-dera-bassi-villages-hit-hard-324250
14-10-2021||---||Dengue: Tally continues to mount in Mohali||Mohali, October 13As many as 135 confirmed cases and 248 suspected cases of dengue were reported from the district today. With this, the case tally has touched 1,111.This month alone, 344 cases of dengue have been reported from the district. Nine suspected dengue deaths have been reported so far. Three cases of chikungunya, one each from Gulabgarh, Shakti Nagar and Dera Bassi, have been reported from the Dera Bassi area recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-tally-continues-to-mount-in-mohali-324249
14-10-2021||---||No let-up in dengue cases in Panchkula district||Panchkula, October 13With 31 fresh cases, the official dengue tally breached the 200 mark and settled at 229 in the district on Wednesday.The district, which saw only five dengue cases till the end of August, has witnessed a massive surge in the cases since the past month.Though the district health authorities claimed to have been taking all measures to prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases, there seems to be no let-up in dengue cases.Official death toll zeroThe Sector 10 RWA claimed another dengue death in its locality after the Chandigarh Tribune published a news report, “Private hospital disputes dept’s claim of no dengue death in Panchkula”.However, the Health Department has not yet updated its dengue toll for unknown reasons, keeping it to zero.According to officials at Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, the hospital has so far witnessed eight fatalities due to dengue and three of the patients who died of the disease were from Panchkula.Terming citizen participation paramount, the Health Department is also engaging RWAs of various localities to contain the infection by preventing breeding of mosquitoes.Panchkula CMO Dr Mukta Kumar couldn’t be contacted for her remarks on the issue.According to the dengue bulletin, out of a total of 2,610 dengue serology samples taken so far, 229 persons have tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-in-panchkula-district-324248
14-10-2021||---||Nominations for Chandigarh Municipal Corporation poll in late November||Chandigarh, October 13The filing of nominations for the MC poll will start in late November and the elections will be held in December.The State Election Commission, UT, convened a meeting of all returning officers and assistant returning officers today to discuss various issues relating to the poll. The meeting was chaired by SK Srivastava, State Election Commissioner.Election to 35 wards of the MC will be conducted by nine ROs. Each RO will be assisted by two AROs. Besides, two ROs and four AROs have been kept in reserve. The draw of lots for reserved wards will be held next week.The State Election Commissioner exhorted everyone to work sincerely to ensure transparent, free and fair elections. He laid emphasis on strict adherence to the Covid protocol and use of IT during the election such as disseminating poll-related information on mobile app.The Secretary, Election Commission, gave details of the poll procedure and a brief outline of the tentative poll schedule such as nominations to be file in late November and the poll to be held in December. A timeline for finalising polling stations has been released so that the poll can be concluded before December 31 when the term of the present corporation ends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nominations-for-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-poll-in-late-november-324247
14-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration completes digital mapping of city||Chandigarh, October 13The UT Administration has completed the mapping of Chandigarh on the basis of the Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) technology.“This technology will help in generating three-dimensional information and high accuracy map of any area,” said Nitika Pawar, Director, Information Technology, during a presentation at the launch of a state-level “Gati Shakti Project - National Master Plan” here today.Nitika said the project would prove beneficial in various aspects such as mapping of road networks, traffic management, spatial representation of diseases, study of disease pattern, urban mapping, tourist inflow mapping, site suitability analysis for schools/education centres and identifying fastest route to the place of crime. A complete map with information would be ready by October-end, she said.Meanwhile, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, gave a presentation on the Integrated Command and Control Centre, which will act as a nerve centre of the city, connecting all important parts of the citizen service delivery system. The centre will integrate basic utilities like water, electricity, sewage, solid waste management, street light management, emergency services such as disaster management and 112 call centre. It will also be integrated with the public bike-sharing project, parking facilities and CTU buses for effective management of traffic and transportation across the city.During a presentation on Intelligent Transport System, Pradhuman Singh, Director, Transport, highlighted a that a state-of-the-art Command Control Centre was built to monitor the city bus operations in real time at the ISBT, Sector 43. Smart cards will be used by city commuters for e-ticketing as well as concessional travel.UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit attended the live streaming of the Prime Minister’s inaugural address during the launch of Gati Shakti in the presence of UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Purohit congratulated the Prime Minister for taking transformative steps towards the development of Modern India. He said, “Under his guidance, I am certain we will be able to enhance our country’s global competitiveness.”Benefits of projectIt will prove beneficial in mapping of road networks, traffic management, ‘spatial representation of diseases’, study of disease pattern, urban mapping, tourist inflow mapping, site suitability analysis for schools/education centres and identifying fastest route to the place of crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-completes-digital-mapping-of-city-324246
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees no case||Four more found +ve in MohaliMohali: Four new Covid-19 cases surfaced in the district on Wednesday. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali and one each from Gharuan and Banur. Of the 68,765 positive cases reported so far, 67,678 patients have recovered. There are now 19 active cases. The toll stands at 1,068. TNSNo fresh case in Panchkula distPanchkula: No fresh Covid case was reported from the district on Wednesday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,745. The toll remained at 378. While 30,360 people have recovered from the disease so far, seven cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-no-case-324245
14-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dengue on rise, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has just one fogging machine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13While vector-borne diseases are on the rise, the local Municipal Corporation has only one low-capacity fogging machine.It has put a question mark on the preparedness of the city in the fight against dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Waking up from deep slumber, the corporation has now decided to order six machines, but it will be able to use these only in the next monsoon season.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “We have only one fogging machine, which is also of low capacity. We need at least five more machines. I have directed the officials concerned to buy these as soon as possible. The UT Health Department has its own fogging machines. We will tie up with it.”Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted last year that the malaria wing of the Health Department had only two vehicle-mounted fogging machines, one of these machines was not working while the other was being used to its minimal capacity. Of the seven-eight hand-held fogging machines, which are used inside houses, three were not working.Dr Upendrajeet Singh Gill, Assistant Director (Malaria), did not respond to calls and messages in this regard. Dr Suman, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have sufficient number of hand-held as well as vehicle-mounted fogging machines. We are holding public awareness camps daily, carrying out checks and even running jingles on the radio.”However, residents feel otherwise. The chiarman of FOSWAC, an umbrella body of RWAs, Baljinder Singh Bittu, said, “No fogging is taking place in the city. Dengue cases are rising and the authorities are hiding the actual figures. Patients are rushing to private hospitals. They should strictly undertake a fogging drive and make people aware. Even waste dump points have increased and the grass near drains is not being removed.”Dr Anish Garg, chief spokesperson, CRAWFED, another umbrella body of RWAs, said, “Fogging is being done only in VIP sectors. It is shocking that the authorities do not have a proper plan regarding it. They must hit the ground instead of making false claims.”At least 20-25 dengue cases are being reported daily. In the first 10 days of October, as many as 123 cases of dengue were reported as compared to 89 during the entire month last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-on-rise-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-has-just-one-fogging-machine-324244
14-10-2021||---||Chandigarh schools to reopen for all classes from October 18||Chandigarh, October 13The UT Administration will open schools for all classes from October 18. Orders in this regard were issued today by the District Education Officer to the school heads.The official orders read: “All heads of institutions will ensure compliance with instructions and SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the UT Administration from time to time. Vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff will also be ensured.”What The orders stateAll heads of institutions will ensure compliance with instructions and SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the UT Administration from time to time. Vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff will also be ensured. — AdmnWearing of mask, sanitisation of the campus, proper social distancing and other precautions have to be ensured. Students will attend classes with the consent of parents and classes will be held in schools both in the offline and online mode.Schools had reopened for Class IX onwards in July. Classes VII and VIII were restarted in August and Classes V and VI were reopened in September.Private schools are hopeful that parents will now send their children to school.ABS Sidhu, Director, Saupins School, said, “It is good news and we hope parents gain confidence in sending their children to school.”Atul Khanna, Director, Strawberry Fields School, said, “This is a welcome decision taken with a great deal of responsibility, thought and planning. As we rise to the occasion to adapt to a new normal, we are not letting our guard down. Covid protocols are now a given. Our focus is on helping students get back to their routines in a physical-mental-emotional-social state that is conducive to joyful learning. Our educators are going to be even more vigilant to identify any post-traumatic symptoms or signs of ill adjustment. We all need to combine relief with caution.”Parents’ consentWearing of mask, sanitisation of the campus, proper social distancing and other precautions have to be ensured. Students will attend classes with the consent of parents and classes will be held in schools both in the offline and online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-to-reopen-for-all-classes-from-october-18-324243
14-10-2021||---||Chandigarh schools to reopen for all classes from October 18||Chandigarh, October 13All schools in Chandigarh will be reopened for all classes from October 18.Stating this, the UT Administration on Wednesday said all the heads of institutions will ensure compliance of instructions and SOPs issued by the authorities from time to time.Vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff is also to be ensured.Wearing of mask, sanitisation of campus, proper social distancing and other precautions are to be ensured, the District Education Officer said, adding students will attend classes with the consent of the parents.It added that classes will be held in schools both in offline/online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-to-reopen-for-all-classes-from-october-18-324095
