15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man’s body found in Sector 30-B of Chandigarh||Parking mess: Rs40k fine imposedChandigarh: A parking contractor was fined Rs40,000 for haphazard parking in Sector 22 and 17. According to information, a Municipal Corporation team during an inspection found haphazard parking in these sectors, following which a fine of Rs20,000 each was imposed on the contractor for the violations. Even as contractors claim to have introduced smart features, the situation on ground tells a different story. The Sector 22 mobile market parking space and other parking lots in Sector 17 remain clogged and vehicles are parked in non-designated spaces. TNSSmart bike stolen, 1 heldChandigarh: Tuntun Kumar (21), a native of Saharsa, stole a smart bike from near Sindhi Sweets, Sector 37, here. He was apprehended by a night patrolling party at the Sector 36/37 light point here on October 13. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSYouth missing since Oct 11Chandigarh: A Sector 25 resident reported that his nephew, aged around 16 years, has been missing from his residence since October 11. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSScooter stolen from parkingChandigarh: A Kharar resident reported that an unknown person stole his scooter from the staff parking of the GMCH-32 on October 5. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at Sector 34 police station. TNSAmandeep, vani share leadChandigarh: Panchkula golfer Amandeep Drall shared the lead with Delhi's Vani Kapoor and amateur Avani Prashant on the second day of the Hero Women's Pro Golf Tour at the Chandigarh Golf Club here on Thursday. Vani scored a flawless round 70 to take her two-day total to 142, while Amandeep, who led the field in the first round, shot a 74. Jahanvi Bakshi was lying two shots adrift of the leaders in sole fourth place. Hitaashee Bakshi and Puneet Bajwa were tied-5th at 148. TNSRose Zone emerge champsChandigarh: Rose Zone beat Leisure Zone by one wicket to register their fifth successive win in the UTCA U-25 Tournament and emerge as champions. Batting first, Leisure Zone made 175/6 in 20 overs. Himanshu Khanna (78) did the bulk of scoring for the side. In reply, Rose Zone rode on some useful contributions from Manav Malik (51) and Anshul Jhirwal (44) to reach home with one wicket to spare. Namit Gupta took four wickets for Leisure Zone. In other matches, Sukhna Zone defeated Plaza Zone by four wickets, while Rock Zone registered an eight-wicket win over Terrace Zone. TNSCRPF team flagged offChandigarh: The water sports team of the CRPF was flagged off today from the Headquarters North-West Sector (NWS), Chandigarh, for participating in the 21st All India Police Games Water Sports Championship - 2021. The 50-member team, including nine women, will compete in several disciplines and categories. The event is being organised by the Border Security Force at Wazirabad Water Sports Club from November 22-26. Flagging-off the team, Inspector General, NWS, Mool Chand Panwar said sports activities were an integral part of all uniformed forces and were an important aspect of maintaining the physical and mental wellbeing of personnel. TNSGolf contest on October 22Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Golf Association (CGA) will organise the 'Longest Golf Ball Drive' competition for tricity men and women at the CGA Golf Range, Sector 6, on October 22. The competition will be held in the U-15 age group and above. Winners and runners-up will be awarded, said the organisers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mans-body-found-in-sector-30-b-of-chandigarh-324856
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop Baldev Kumar felicitated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-baldev-kumar-felicitated-324855
15-10-2021||---||RG Punjab to compete in national academy hockey c’ship||Chandigarh, October 14RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy will compete in the inaugural edition of the Hockey India Junior Men Academy National Championship, starting from October 18 in Bhopal.An 18-member squad will represent the RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy at the competition.The championship will feature 28 teams from different parts of the country, divided into eight pools.RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy has been drawn in Pool D alongside Ghumanhera Riser's Academy and Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy Jarkhar, Ludhiana.The squadAmritpal Singh, Jarmanpreet Singh, Jugraj Singh, Arshdeep Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Gursharan Preet Singh, Amarpal Singh, Ravinder Singh (Captain), Jaspal Singh, Rajbeer Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Lalpreet Singh, Savraj Singh, Navjot Singh, Vanshdeep Singh, Jashanpreet Singh, Rajat Sharma and Gurjot Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rg-punjab-to-compete-in-national-academy-hockey-cship-324854
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat Singh tells coaches to spend time on ground||Sports activities should be practically seen on ground and not reflect in paperwork only, Punjab Sports and Youth Services Minister Pargat Singh told the sports officials and coaches here today.He also ordered immediate distribution of sports equipment and kits to the players."Strict action will be taken against sports officer of the district if sports equipment are found in stores of any sports office," the minister said during a meeting with the coaches here.He also asked the Youth Services Department to revive the defunct youth clubs in villages.The coaches of the Sports Department, officials of the Youth Services Department and physical education teachers were persuaded to work in tandem to connect the youth of the state with the playgrounds.Pargat Singh also directed that coaches should be deployed wherever required and no centre should be closed.Arrangements should be made to ensure participation of youth in sports with specialised training for the players and super specialised training for the top class athletes, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pargat-singh-tells-coaches-to-spend-time-on-ground-324853
15-10-2021||---||Abhinav Bindra named Chandigarh’s Swachh Survekshan brand ambassador||Chandigarh, October 14Olympian Abhinav Bindra has been made the brand ambassador of the Swachh Survekshan 2022 for Chandigarh.The 2008 Beijing Olympics gold medallist shooter has given his consent for active engagement in promotional activities on various social media, said the Municipal Corporation.He has also agreed on interaction and involvement with citizens for behavioral changes regarding source segregation, home composting, cleanliness/sanitation in the city, positive feedbacks on CT/PTs and Swachhata App, the civic body added.In addition, through his network, citizens may be appealed to post positive changes/stories on social media about the city using a hashtag — #Swachhsurvekshan2022chandigarh — and tagging the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhinav-bindra-named-chandigarhs-swachh-survekshan-brand-ambassador-324852
15-10-2021||Mohali||Flat gutted in Peermuchalla||A fire broke out in a flat in Imperial Residency, Peermuchalla area of Zirakpur on Thursday evening. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident.The fire broke out in a flat on the fourth floor at 6.30 pm, when the owner of the flat went to the market after keeping the flame of an earthen lamp burning at the his house. Furniture and other articles were gutted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flat-gutted-in-peermuchalla-324851
15-10-2021||---||Kartarpur resident held for murder||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 14The police arrested a Kartarpur resident, Mangat Singh, alias Manga, on the charge of murdering a scrap shop owner at Majra village here on October 8.The shop owner, Jai Prakash Prasad, who was brutally assaulted, succumbed to his injuries at the PGI on the same day.Monu Kumar, a resident of East Champaran, presently residing at a junk shop in Sahora village, said on October 8 his acquaintance informed him that his uncle Jai Prakash Prasad, who runs a scrap shop at Majra village in Siswan, Kurali road, had been brutally assaulted by unidentified persons. A person, Pradyuman, took him to the PGI where he died.A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Mullanpur police station on October 9.The police arrested the suspect, Mangat Singh, alias Manga, who admitted that he committed the act in a bid to take away a mobile phone from Jai Prakash and other valuables from his shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kartarpur-resident-held-for-murder-324850
15-10-2021||---||Two juveniles among 4 held for snatching chain in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The police have arrested four suspects - two youths and two juveniles – for snatching a chain from a person in Mani Majra late last night.The suspects have been identified as Sushil (19) and Aditya Kumar (21), both residents of Mani Majra, and two juveniles aged 17 years each.Complainant Vicky Kumar (21), a resident of Mani Majra, stated that he was returning home after watching Ramleela last midnight. Four motorcycle-borne persons came from behind and started beating him. They later snatched his silver chain.The complainant noted down the partial number of the motorcycle. The police arrested the suspects in just six hours and recovered the chain and the bike used in the crime.The youths have been sent to judicial custody, while the juveniles have been apprehended and sent to the Juvenile Home in Sector 25. A case under Sections 379-A, 34 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-juveniles-among-4-held-for-snatching-chain-in-chandigarh-324849
15-10-2021||---||Lodge fraud plaints against travel agents with bureau||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 14To further tighten the noose around travel agents cheating or duping innocent people on the pretext of sending them abroad, people can lodge their complaints with the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE).Divulging details, Meenakshi Goyal, Deputy Director, Employment Generation and Enterprises Bureau, said the DBEE had been designated as a nodal agency to deal with complaints and ensure speedy action against erring travel agents.She said the DBEE had been made the nodal agency by the state government through the Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act - 2012 and the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act - 2014 to register fraud complaints related to foreign travel, foreign studies and employment.Goyal said a victim could submit a written complaint with the DBEE office, Room Number 455, District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, Mohali, on any working day along with his/her identity card from 9 am to 5 pm. If any travel agent working without licence, expired licence or any unregistered agent comes to the notice, an FIR would be registered against the accused.Moreover, FIR copies, along with the information of travel agents, would be uploaded on the website of the district administration. She said Harpreet Singh Sidhu, Employment Generation, Skill Development Officer and Training Officer, Mohali, has been appointed as the Nodal Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lodge-fraud-plaints-against-travel-agents-with-bureau-324848
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court frames charges against accused||A local court has framed charges against an accused, Arun, who was arrested allegedly with 20 injections of liposomal amphotericin, which is used to treat black fungus.The charges have been framed against the accused for the offences under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.The police arrested the accused on June 4, 2021, from Sector 18 here after registering an FIR against him under Section 420 of the IPC, Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act at the Sector 19 police station.The FIR was registered on the complaint of a Sub-Inspector, who said he received a tip-off that the accused was planning to meet some customers for selling the injections at higher rates without any licence in Sector 18, Chandigarh.After getting information, a police team reached near the Tagore Theatre in Sector 18. They found a person holding a packet in his hands. During his search, 20 injections of liposomal amphotericin were recovered from his possession. The police said the injections were found in two packets, which were covered with ice. The accused allegedly failed to produce any valid licence for injections.The police submitted a challan against the accused. The court, while framing the charges, fixed November 11 as the next hearing for the prosecution evidence.The counsel for the accused claimed that the accused had been falsely implicated in the case as he had valid slips for the procurement of medicines issued by the Punjab health authorities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-accused-324847
15-10-2021||Mohali||DC reviews progress of cancer hospital in New Chandigarh||Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia visited Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Medicity, New Chandigarh, to review its progress here today.The ultra-modern cancer tertiary care facility is expected to be made operational by this year-end. She directed all departments concerned to extend all requisite assistance for the early opening of this prestigious project. On her visit to the construction site, she was apprised that the much-awaited centre was in the advanced stage of completion.Reviewing the progress of the healthcare project, the Deputy Commissioner said the 300-bed state-of-the-art hospital would act as a tertiary care centre for the entire northern region, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.“The hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, x-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day care ward, pathology and lab facilities, minor OT, besides initiating OPD services such as surgical oncology, medical oncology, radiation oncology, palliative care preventive oncology,” she said, adding that these facilities would be available for public soon.Isha Kalia said the state government was fully committed for providing the best possible healthcare facilities to its citizens and the Chief Minister had desired to make this medical facility available to the people at the earliest.She said the project, a unit of Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, under the Department of Atomic Energy, was being set up with a sanctioned cost of Rs663.74 crore in the built-up area of 40,545 square meters for which 50 acres of land had been provided free of cost by the Punjab Government.She said the cancer care centre would be equipped with high-end diagnostic and treatment facilities such as two linear accelerator, brachytherapy, PECT CT, bone marrow transplant (BMT), CT simulator, MR simulator, interventional radiology and surgical facilities, besides day-care centre, ICU and recovery units. The hospital would be fully IT based with electronic medical records facility, she said, adding that it would also be interlinked with all Tata Memorial Centres located across the country. This would help the patients of this region to get online super-specialty consultation for managing various cancer ailments under the disease management groups (DMGs).On completion, the project will not only make healthcare facilities accessible to the region, but also help in promoting medical tourism as the state government was developing Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali as hubs for medical tourism through various initiatives. Notably, the Medicity, which comprises sites for multi-specialty and super-specialty hospitals, medical research institutes and housing facilities for doctors and other staff, in New Chandigarh, was spread over 250 acres in the immediate vicinity of Chandigarh PGIMER. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-reviews-progress-of-cancer-hospital-in-new-chandigarh-324846
15-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh’s 3rd garbage transfer station to start functioning by year-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14City’s third material recovery facility (MRF)-cum-garbage transfer station in Sector 25 (West) will be ready by year-end. Following this, all existing sehaj safai kendras (SSKs) will be closed and door-to-door garbage will be directly transported to the three waste recovery facilities.The Municipal Corporation has already started shutting sehaj safai kendras in a phased manner. Till now, 37 kendras have been closed, while the remaining will be closed by the end of this year.“This station will be built and all SSKs will be closed by December 31,” confirmed a senior MC official.In December last year, the MC started replacing rehris with two-bin vehicles. Carts are still plying at some places.Two MRF garbage transfer stations have already been inaugurated in the Industrial Area, Phase I and Phase II. Several SSKs falling under the stations have been closed and MC’s two-bin waste vehicles are directly shifting the garbage from houses and commercial spaces to these stations.The SSKs are often seen overflowing with waste and residents living in the neighbourhood have been raising the issue. The new system is aimed at curbing the practice of throwing waste in the open.With the MRF facility, the segregation system of dry and wet waste will be strengthened. These facility stations aim at reducing the time and cost involved in collection and transfer of waste too, besides generating income by recovering the reusable and recyclable waste.The MRF stations would also be equipped with parking and vehicle washing facilities. These will be monitored through 20 CCTV cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-3rd-garbage-transfer-station-to-start-functioning-by-year-end-324845
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue Department’s modern record room inaugurated in Chandigarh||Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today inaugurated the modern record room of the Revenue Department in 30 Bays Building here.The revenue record of the entire city is already digitised and integrated with the sub-registrar office of Chandigarh, which was launched by the then UT Administrator on April 9, 2021.This modern record room is a step forward to create state-of-the-art services of the Revenue Department. It would directly benefit the citizens as they would get all revenue related services centrally at this office. It would also help in pushing the rank of Ease of Doing Business of UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revenue-departments-modern-record-room-inaugurated-in-chandigarh-324844
15-10-2021||---||Dengue claims one more life in Mohali||Mohali, October 14One more person died of dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 10 in Mohali district.Meanwhile, 99 fresh cases were reported from the district today taking the tally to 1,161.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said most of the cases were being reported from Mohali urban, Kurali urban, Kharar urban and Dera Bassi urban.Dr Adarshpal said 13 health teams had surveyed 1.7 lakh houses and other places in the district since March and slapped a fine on over 3,000 violators. Teams of the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation carried out a door-to-door survey in various parts of Mohali. Around 20 challans were issued today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-one-more-life-in-mohali-324843
15-10-2021||---||Woman excise inspector booked for Rs20-lakh fraud||Mohali, October 14The police have booked a woman excise inspector for defrauding a resident of Chunni Khurd in Fatehgarh Sahib district of Rs20 lakh on the pretext of selling land.Complainant Jagjit Singh, in his complaint to the Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police, said he purchased one acre and 4 biswa land at Khapur village in Kharar from excise inspector Santosh Rani for Rs80 lakh.As per an agreement, he paid Rs20 lakh to Santosh Rani as advance and the land was to be registered in his name later. While he was going to Kharar from Mohali one day, he saw flats being constructed on the said land.The complainant said after investigation he came to know that Santosh Rani sold the said land to another person for Rs41.60 lakh. He took up the matter with Santosh and demanded his money back. Initially Santosh agreed to return the money, but later she refused to do so.When Santosh Rani came to know about the case registered against her, she held a meeting with the complainant but nothing came out of the meeting.After receiving the complaint, the SSP forwarded it to a DSP-rank officer for investigation. On the report of the DSP and views of the District Attorney Legal, a case was registered against excise inspector Santosh Rani. Sources said the police had also served a notice on Santosh Rani regarding the registration of the case.A case under Section 406 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against Santosh Rani at the Phase 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-excise-inspector-booked-for-rs20-lakh-fraud-324842
15-10-2021||---||Vice-Chairman of Chandigarh CII passes away||Chandigarh, October 14Deepak Kansal, Vice-Chairman of the Chandigarh CII and CMD of XEAM Venture Pvt Ltd, has passed away. He was 50.Kansal was admitted to a hospital recently after he complained of dengue symptoms. His condition worsened due to a fall in his platelet count during the treatment after which he died.Kansal is survived by his parents, wife, a son and a daughter.With over 25 years of experience as the Chairman and Managing Director of XEAM Ventures, a multi-crore conglomerate flagship company, Kansal had expertise in human resource management services and IT-enabled services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vice-chairman-of-chandigarh-cii-passes-away-324765
15-10-2021||---||Two injured in road accident||Chandigarh, October 14A Sector 68 resident alleged that a car driver sped away after hitting a scooter driven by her friend on the road dividing Sector 44 and 45 here on October 13. The complainant, who was riding pillion, and her friend suffered injuries in the mishap. They were admitted to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. A case under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-injured-in-road-accident-324764
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bank accounts of  300 women opened||Bank accounts of several girls and women of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) are being opened, along with provision of free accidental insurance, by the Himachal BJP Cell of Chandigarh, with support of the Bharat Vikas Parishad at Sanatan Dharam Mandir in Dhanas.PC Dogra, district president of the cell, said the accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana are being opened at the Bank of Maharashtra. “We have filled 1,500 forms, and 300 applicants’ accounts have been opened. They are getting ATM card and Rs 2 to 5 lakh free accidental insurance from the cell,” said Vijay Sharma, vice president. Funds under any government scheme will be deposited in their accounts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-accounts-of-300-women-opened-324763
15-10-2021||Panchkula||Drive to make villagers aware of legal services||A consultation programme was held today, wherein Chief Judicial Magistrates-cum-Secretaries, District Legal Service Authorities participated. The event was organised by the Haryana State Legal Services Authority at the administrative building of the HALSA, Panchkula, as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ campaign launched by the National Legal Services Authority, New Delhi, from October 2 to November 14.The inaugural session of the consultation programme was presided over by Justice Rajan Gupta, Judge, Punjab & Haryana High Court.The aim of the HALSA was to review activities under the campaign. Strategies were discussed to cover the villages at least thrice during the campaign as per the NALSA’s guidelines.The Haryana State Legal Services Authority also launched an animated clip on gender equality and a radio jingle on mediation, which would be run in all legal awareness camps, schools, colleges and other social media platforms to reach out to a large population. Justice Rajan Gupta said the work of legal services authorities was not only confined to provide legal aid, but also to create awareness among people about the concept of legal services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-to-make-villagers-aware-of-legal-services-324762
15-10-2021||Amarjot Kaur||After 21 years, woman gets reminder to return library books||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14On October 9, Harjot Kaur, a Gurugram-based homemaker, received a WhatsApp message from her neighbours in Chandigarh, containing an image of a letter from the Divisional Library (South), Sector 34, which had her swinging between shock and surprise.The letter, titled ‘Return of books’, was a reminder to Harjot for returning three books. They were due to be returned 21 years ago, on November 21, 2000.The library’s reminder was dated September 28, 2021 and listed the names of three Hindi language books, ‘Ashk’, ‘Upendranath’, ‘Parda Uthao’ and ‘Parda Girao’, which Harjot did not remember issuing. “I used to issue English language books. I was maybe in Class IX or X when I visited the library frequently. I have no memory of issuing these books,” she said.She said this was the first time she recieved a reminder from the library. “It’s been 21 years and this is the first time I received such a letter. I left Chandigarh and settled in Gurugram with my husband, some eight years ago,” she said.Parveen Kumar, librarian in charge, said, “We send reminders on mails, calls and even SMS, apart from sending letters. This is a regular process. We have about 55,000 members. This must have been a long-due reminder from the time when the library wasn’t digitised. Also, for two years, because of Covid, the library was closed, causing the delay.”Meanwhile, Harjot was fretting over the fine money. She said she did not know how much fine would have been imposed on her, considering it had been 21 years. “I’m a little worried and surprised too,” she said.The much-needed respite came from Dr Parveen, who said, “We charge Re 1 per day, after due date and the maximum limit of fine is Rs 100.” However, that still leaves Harjot in a quandary, especially about the books, which she says she never issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-21-years-woman-gets-reminder-to-return-library-books-324761
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses one fresh case of Covid||7 cases surface in Mohali distMohali: Seven fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,772. No fresh death due to the virus was reported. Among the new cases, one was reported from Boothgarh, two from Kharar and four from Mohali (urban). —TNSJust one Covid case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported just one fresh coronavirus case on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,746. The toll remained at 378. While 30,361 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, seven cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-one-fresh-case-of-covid-324760
15-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh school reopening: Private schools begin process to take parents’ nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14A day after the UT Education Department issued orders for opening schools for all classes, private schools have started the process of taking consent from the parents. The consent is being taken for two things, if parents are willing to send their children to school and if they need transportation facilities.After receiving the consent from parents, the school management will assess the number of students willing to come to school. It has also been decided to follow the administration’s instructions and continue with a blended mode of teaching (both offline and online), which the schools are already doing for senior classes. “We have started taking consent from the parents. I think, within two days, the situation will be clear on how many parents are willing to send their children to school. For junior classes, the response (for sending children) is expected to be good. Meanwhile, till further orders, we will take classes in both offline and online mode,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association (ISA).On October 7, The Tribune had reported the opening of schools for all classes as the ISA officials discussed the current situation with the UT Adviser Dharam Pal. Meanwhile, many parents continue to raise questions over the decision. “The administration could have waited for children’s vaccination before making any decision. The UT Administration should carry special drives to assess the Covid management quality at local schools,” said Anujm, a parent. UT decision to reopen schools questionedThe UT Administration could have at least waited for children’s vaccination before making any decision in this regard. The Administration should carry out special drives to assess Covid management at local schools. — Anujm, a parent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-reopening-private-schools-begin-process-to-take-parents-nod-324758
15-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Administration, Panjab University to share sports infra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The UT Administration is likely to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Panjab University for sharing usage of sports infrastructure, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. During his recent visit to the campus, the Adviser and Panjab University authorities verbally agreed to sign the MoU.“An MoU can be signed with PU for sharing their sports infrastructure and using their land for introducing various health services on their campuses (Sector 14 and Sector 25). Discussions took place between officials, and things can be worked out in that manner,” said Pal.Sources said the Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, and the UT Sports Department, besides using fields for conducting championships, may introduce coaching-camps for all players, exchange of coaches and other services. “The Panjab University officials will prepare a draft and will submit it for consideration to the UT Administration. The infrastructure can be developed and other services can be exchanged,” said PU officials.Meanwhile, the UT Sports Department is already managing many sports complexes, which were initially made for the UT Education Department. “The administration should streamline induction of coaches and purchasing of equipment before taking over assignments. This MoU will help them settle trainees of state-run academies, who usually allege poor treatment by the administration once they pass out from there. They can be retained in colleges affiliated with PU,” said an official.To ink MoUUT Adviser Dharam Pal said an MoU would be signed with Panjab University for sharing their sports infrastructure and using their land for introducing health services on their campuses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-panjab-university-to-share-sports-infra-324756
15-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Health Secretary flags faults at health centre||Chandigarh, October 14UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has issued a letter to the medical officer at the Health and Wellness Centre (HWC), Kaimbwala, to “ensure the staff is punctual”. He conducted a surprise inspection of the centre on Thursday.Garg also took stock of the vaccination drive at the centre. The health officials told the Health Secretary that the daily vaccination figure at the centre had come down from an average 200 per day to 25-30.The Health Secretaryflagged various shortcomings at the HCW, including overall cleanliness, bad shape of the infrastructure (including toilets) and use of the official parking area by private persons.He asked the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, to look into the matter on priority. Chief Engineer, UT Administration, has also been asked to take immediate action for repair and upgradation of the building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-secretary-flags-faults-at-health-centre-324755
15-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||It will be difficult for doctors to work if they face threats: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that it will be difficult for doctors to function in the country if they constantly faced a threat of being beaten up or harassed by relatives of patients. This was because they daily had to deal with situations involving a patients’ life and death.“This court must state that although there will be a feeling of sympathy towards persons whose family member has passed away, the said persons, including the petitioners, must respect the doctors who always try their best to save the lives of patients and, thus, such persons should not breach the law in case some untoward incident happens,” Justice Vikas Bahl of the High Court asserted.The assertion by Justice Bahl came on a petition seeking the quashing of an FIR registered in June last year for rioting, causing hurt and criminal intimidation under Sections 147, 149, 323 and 506 of the IPC.Referring to the FIR registered in the matter, Justice Bahl observed that its perusal showed that the present case was registered on a Civil Surgeon’s complaint alleging that relatives of a woman patient, who died, started making phone calls and calling other persons. After reaching the hospital, they started “creating turmoil and disturbance” and threatened to murder the doctor.When doctors of the Indian Medical Association arrived, the persons threatened them to go outside. The doctors were thrashed and important papers snatched from their hands.Dismissing the plea, Justice Bahl asserted: “The argument that it has not been specifically stated as to who had given the injuries to whom, is misconceived inasmuch as the complainant and other doctors could not have possibly known the name of the persons who were the relatives of the patient. At any rate, the FIR cannot be considered to be an ‘encyclopaedia’ giving out each and every fact”.Justice Bahl added that it came to surface from the cancellation report filed in the matter that fist blows were given to a doctor and papers snatched from another as per CCTV camera recordings.In any case, the facts would come to the fore after the investigation was completed and the challan presented. Further, no authority of law was cited by the counsel for the petitioners to show that an FIR could be quashed on account of delay of two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/it-will-be-difficult-for-doctors-to-work-if-they-face-threats-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-324754
15-10-2021||---||UT Adviser pays surprise visit to CTU workshop||Chandigarh, October 14UT Adviser Dharam Pal visited the Inter-State Bus Terminal-43 today with Nitin Yadav, Secretary, Transport, and Pradhuman Singh, Director, Transport.During the visit, he took a round of the Depot No. 4 of the CTU and inspected the bus maintenance activities and washing plants. After this, he also visited the Covid vaccination camp being organised by the Health Department at the ISBT.Subsequently, he visited the Command Control Centre of Intelligent Transport System and took a detailed briefing with respect to various ITS modules. The officials told him that CCTV cameras were installed in the buses to remotely monitor if the staff and passengers wore masks.Dharam Pal instructed the CTU officers to ensure strict compliance with wearing of masks in the buses, taking cognisance of a possible third wave of the pandemic.The Adviser also reviewed the progress of the Air Force Heritage Centre and visited the Government Press Building, Sector 18. He directed the Chief Architect and Chief Engineer to examine the layout plan submitted by the Indian Air Force officials and expedite the work to ensure it is set up within four to five months.He also stressed on examining the proposal to set up a press museum as well as a heritage furniture museum and fast track the work. He directed the officials to dispose of the unwanted materials and equipments at the earliest.Inspects transport control system||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-adviser-pays-surprise-visit-to-ctu-workshop-324753
15-10-2021||Panchkula||7 booked for boy’s death in Raipur Rani||The police have booked seven persons for the death of a 16-year-old boy from Raipur Rani after the victim’s mother accused them of “murdering” her son.Demanding the registration of an FIR, the victim’s family and villagers blocked the Naraingarh highway today. They ended the protest only after getting an assurance from the police.A case was subsequently registered against the suspects — Bala Devi, Mamta, Dimple, Dharampal, Sandeep Kumar, Rajan and Ankit Chaudhary — under Sections 120-B (criminal intimidation) and 304 (death by negligence) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station.The complainant, Priyanka, told the police that the suspects assaulted her son Gaurav after stopping him near the village around 7 pm on October 13.“My son somehow managed to escape from there but subsequently lost consciousness after covering some distance and fell on the ground.A few villagers took him to a hospital in Naraingarh where doctors declared him brought dead,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant.“The (suspects) threatened my son that earlier they had filed a case against his father and now his mother and sister would be implicated in a false case under the SC/ST Act,” she alleged, adding that the intimidation contributed to his death.Inspector Bachchu Singh, in-charge of the Raipur Rani police station and IO in the case, said, “We have registered an FIR under Section 304 (death by negligence) and not 302 (murder) as prescribed in the law. According to the complainants, the boy did not die when beaten up but ran away and fell. The postmortem was conducted today and samples have been sent for investigation. The body has been handed over to the family.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-booked-for-boys-death-in-raipur-rani-324751
15-10-2021||Zirakpur||Attendant as doctor, private hospital sealed in Zirakpur||A team of the district administration and the Health and the Police departments today conducted a surprise check at Swastik Hospital, Gazipur Road, Zirakpur, and sealed the hospital till further orders after major irregularities were found. The administration has recommended an FIR against the management of the hospital and sought necessary action from the Mohali Civil Surgeon.Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Dera Bassi, Kuldeep Bawa said illegal activities were being run on the pretext of treatment. A team comprising a medical officer, Dr Mehtab, the MC Inspector, Zirakpur, Rishab, ASI Barinder Singh and the SDM was formed. The team found illegal practices there, including an attendant, Ajinderpal Singh, acting as a qualified doctor without any documents of a qualified doctor. He only had the paper of a trainee pharmacist, which expired on July 31, 2020.Bawa said Ajinderpal disclosed that Dr Pragati was running the affairs of the hospital, whose duty started in the evening but her documents did not establish that she was a qualified doctor except that she was an Ayurvedic doctor. The team also found bogus stamps from the hospital in which Dr Pragati was termed an MD. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attendant-as-doctor-private-hospital-sealed-in-zirakpur-324749
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Now, register for GMSH-16 OPDs at Sampark centres in Chandigarh||In view of the huge rush for OPD registration at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, the Chandigarh Administration has decided to make the registration process available at all the Sampark centres on payment of nominal charges.Earlier, the facility of OPD registration for GMSH-16 had been started at the Sampark Centre in Sector 15 from September 10 on pilot basis. Now, it has been decided that from Monday, the facility will be made available at 10 Sampark Centers across the city from 8 am to 11 am on payment of Rs10.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said: “Efforts are also being made to provide OPD registration facility for GMCH-32 and the PGI at the Sampark Centers but it may take time.”To encourage online registration for OPDs, a separate counter has been provided at the GMSH-16 for issuance of bar-coded OPD card. After online registration, patients may get the OPD card from the special counter without any hassle.The existing system of walk-in registration at the GMSH-16 will also remain available. —TNSCentres where you can Register in citySector 10, 15, 40 and 43Industrial Area, Phase IDhanas | Mauli Jagran | Bapu Dham | Mani Majra | Maloya||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-register-for-gmsh-16-opds-at-sampark-centres-in-chandigarh-324748
15-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Ravana won’t make a noise this Dasehra in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14For the first time in the city, effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad will be burnt without crackers on Dasehra, that too only at 10-15 sites.Due to the late permission given by the UT Administration to the organisers and the subsequent ban on the sale and use of crackers announced two days ago, most of the organisers have stayed away from organising the event tomorrow.Unlike neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula, where there is no such ban, Dasehra celebrations, which signify the victory of good over evil, will just be a formality in the city.The effigies of the demons will be burnt at various places, including Sectors 17, 28, 34 and 46.“Every year, Dasehra events are held at 48 sites. But this year, effigies will be burnt at only 10-15 places. The administration should have told us in advance. A huge amount of money has gone waste. We are in a fix about the use of crackers and will see in the morning what to do,” said Gulshan Kumar, president, Azad Dramatic Ramilla and Dasehra Committee, Sector 20.The committee has been organising the event at the Sector 34 ground in front of gurdwara for the past many years.“The Administration should have allowed crackers during Dasehra. It is a matter of just one day. The decision has hurt our sentiments. Is the NGT ban only for Chandigarh?” Kumar asked.At Sector 34, however, some of the tallest effigies – Ravana (65ft), Kumbhakarna and Meghnad (60ft each) – will be set on fire this year. Meanwhile, some people have been forced to hold a symbolic Dasehra due to the ban and MC’s late decision.“We had planned 75ft, 65ft and 60ft effigies. However, after the cracker ban, we are only putting up a 25ft Ravana effigy. We will hold a customary shobha yatra carrying Ravana effigy in Sector 46 so that people avoid coming to ground in view of Covid norms. Burning of effigies will be telecast live on YouTube and some local TV channels,” said Jatinder Bhatia, chief patron of the Sector 46 Dasehra committee.Sood creates confusionEven as there is a ban on crackers, city unit head of the BJP and MC councillor Arun Sood created unnecessary confusion by asking people to use crackers during Dasehra celebrations. Sood issued a press release claiming that he had met UT Adviser Dharam Pal and various police officers and informed them that the NGT ban was restricted to Diwali only. Sood told people to use crackers and promised he would take care of everything. However, a senior UT official told Chandigarh Tribune that no relaxation had been given.College student Altaf Raja, who along with 15-20 boys, makes Ravana effigies, said: “We had made the Ravana effigy with crackers. But after the ban, we had removed the crackers. Now, after listening to what Sood has said, we have put the crackers back on the effigy. We don’t know what to do tomorrow,” he said.UT police issue traffic advisory Chandigarh: In view of heavy traffic during the Dasehra celebrations at the Parade Ground, Sector 17, the police have urged people to park their vehicles in the parking area of Sector 22 market, adjacent to Blood Disease Hospital, Sector 23-B, Sector 17 football ground parking, rear and front side of Neelam Cinema in Sector 17 and the parking area adjoining Sector 17 bus stand. The traffic shall be diverted from the ISBT-17 chowk, on Udyog Path, from 5.30 pm to 6.30 pm, the police said, adding that vehicles coming from 17/18 light point, Aroma light point, Sector 18/19/20/21 chowk and cricket stadium chowk will be diverted. Only buses will be allowed to ply on this stretch, they added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ravana-wont-make-a-noise-this-dasehra-in-chandigarh-324747
