16-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Two new Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Saturday reported two new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of infections to 65,299.The death toll in the city remained 820.As many as 1533 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent was recorded.Four patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The number of active cases is 28 while 64,451 people have recovered till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-325467
16-10-2021||---||Light rain or thundershowers likely at isolated places in Punjab and Haryana in the next 24 hours||Chandigarh, October 16Light rain or thundershower activity is likely at isolated places in Punjab and Haryana during the next 24 hours.Thereafter, rain is likely to increase in intensity and spread over both states, including Chandigarh, on October 17 and 18 with light to moderate rain/thundershowers at a few places and heavy rain at isolated places over northern and eastern parts of Punjab.Whereas light to moderate rain/thundershower activity is likely at many places over Haryana and Chandigarh with heavy to very heavy rain over northern and eastern parts.The spell is likely to be accompanied by thunderstorm, lightning and squall (40-50kmph) at isolated places over both states, including Chandigarh.Keeping in view the ongoing harvesting of crops in the region it is suggested the necessary arrangements should be made for safe storage of the harvested crops, the IMD said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/light-rain-or-thundershowers-likely-at-isolated-places-in-punjab-and-haryana-in-the-next-24-hours-325434
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jaipur Open-2021: Khalin Joshi wins title, Harendra tied-third||Khalin Joshi’s final round of 3-under 67 proved good enough for him to turn the tables on the nearest rival and fellow, Bengalurean M Dharma, and emerge victorious at the Jaipur Open 2021 being played at the par-70 Rambagh Golf Club (RGC).Joshi (61-66-64-67), who made a dramatic three-putt from four feet on the last hole to end the tournament with a bogey, won by one shot as he totalled 22-under 258 for the week.Khalin’s fifth career title ended his three-year long victory drought. The 29-year-old bagged a winning cheque foe Rs6,46,600 to move up from fifth to third in the PGTI Order of Merit. He made six birdies and three bogeys on the last day.Dharma (62-62-65-70), the overnight leader by two shots, slipped to second place with an even-par 70 on the last day as he struggled to hole putts. He ended the week with a total of 21-under 259.Sunit Chowrasia (64) of Kolkata and Harendra Gupta (65) of Chandigarh took tied-3rd place at 20-under 260. Chowrasia’s round featured seven birdies and a bogey while Gupta had an eagle, four birdies and a bogey.Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu produced the best round of the tournament, a 10-under 60, to claim tied seventh place at 18-under 262. Yuvraj sank an eagle on the 18th from five feet and also made nine birdies and a bogey during his round. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaipur-open-2021-khalin-joshi-wins-title-harendra-tied-third-325069
16-10-2021||---||Speed up development work: Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, October 15Former Punjab minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today reviewed the development issues of Mohali and surrounding villages with the Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia and other officials.Presiding over a meeting held at the District Administrative Complex here, Sidhu said the Punjab Government was committed to the overall and planned development of the state. He said several projects worth crores had been started in Mohali and the district was becoming the backbone of Punjab’s economy. He was personally monitoring all development projects on a regular basis. He emphasised that development works should be expedited.Sidhu asked the officials that all elected representatives should be taken into confidence while implementing the welfare schemes of the government and while carrying out development projects. The development projects related to the Municipal Corporation, Rural Development and Panchayats were also discussed.During the meeting, the MLA and Deputy Commissioner discussed in detail the strategy for carrying out the overall development of Mohali. He said all welfare schemes of the Punjab Government would be implemented in Mohali on a priority basis and all eligible beneficiaries covered under these schemes. All officials assured that all development projects would be carried out in a transparent manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speed-up-development-work-mohali-mla-balbir-singh-sidhu-325070
16-10-2021||---||Pro Golf Tour: Amandeep Drall wins by three shots over amateur Avani Prashanth||Chandigarh, October 15Panchkula golfer Amandeep Drall drilled eight birdies against one bogey for a 7-under 65 to win the 10th leg of the Women’s Pro Golf Tour by three shots at the Chandigarh Golf Club.Amateur Avani Prashanth, who shared the overnight lead with Amandeep after two rounds, was left three shots behind despite a 4-under 68. She finished in second place. Vani Kapoor tripped to 1-over 73 and was fourth while Jahanvi Bakshi (68) was third.Amandeep, for whom this was her first title in 2021, finished with a superb 9-under 207, Avani 6-under 210 and Jahanvi was 4-under 212. Vani Kapoor also had an under-par total of 1-under 215.Amandeep (28) who gained tremendously by competing in Europe over the past few months had started the week with 4-under 68 before slipping on the second day with 74.In the final round, she fell back by two shots after the first hole as she bogeyed the first and playing partner and overnight co-leader Avani had a birdie on the same hole.Soon after Amandeep found her form as she birdied second, fourth, sixth and seventh to turn in 3-under 33. Avani dropped a shot on fourth where Amandeep had a birdie for a two-shot swing. That helped Amandeep go ahead by one. Like Amandeep, Avani also birdied the sixth and seventh but was still one behind at the turn.On the back nine, Amandeep drove off on her own with three birdies in a row from 11th to 13th. Both birdied the 16th but with two holes left and three shots clear, Amandeep made no mistake and Avani was unable to find any more birdies.Jahanvi Bakshi could have given Avani a run for second place but suffered a double bogey on the Par-3 14th, and even three birdies in the last three holes for a 68 gave her only the third place.The win also cemented Amandeep’s place on top of the Hero Order of Merit, which she was already leading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pro-golf-tour-amandeep-drall-wins-by-three-shots-over-amateur-avani-prashanth-325071
16-10-2021||Vijay Mohan||Panjab University student does yoga on highest peak of Europe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15A 25-year-old student of Panjab University, Chandigarh, has created a record of sorts by performing “surya namaskar” on Mount Elbrus, the highest peak in Europe and Russia, while undertaking a mountaineering expedition.Ramanjot Kaur, who is pursuing her masters in physical education at the university, scaled the Elbrus on October 2, along with a companion from Sangrur in Punjab. She returned to India this week.“Surya namaskar” or sun salutation, well known to practitioners of yoga, is a sequence of 12 powerful poses connected by jumping or body stretching movements. Besides being a great cardiovascular workout, it is also known to have an immensely positive impact on the body and mind.“I had wanted this expedition to be different. There have been a few Indians who have scaled the Elbrus before and I felt like bringing in some new aspect. The yoga pose at that altitude and weather with protective clothing was an altogether different experience,” said Ramanjot.Mountaineers generally spend just a few minutes at the top for taking pictures. Ramanjot and her companion, along with two guides, spent about an hour at the summit. “For the extended time our guides charged us extra as it is not safe at the top due to the strong winds and extremely low temperature,” she said.“As a precautionary measure, we had taken two guides with us for support in case anything went amiss,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-student-does-yoga-on-highest-peak-of-europe-325072
16-10-2021||---||Naraingarh youth held with pistol, 5 cartridges||Chandigarh, October 15The police arrested a Naraingarh resident, Vainket Garg (24), a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi and Kala Rana gang, and recovered a country-made pistol and five live cartridges from him near the Kishangarh Chowk here yesterday.He was earlier arrested in attempt to murder and Arms Act cases.The police said there was an apprehension that he might commit a major crime in the city during the festival season. A police party laid a naka on the Panchkula-Chandigarh border at the IT Park and started checking vehicles.The suspect, who was coming from the Panchkula side in a car around 9.30 pm, tried to return after seeing the naka. However, the police apprehended him.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the IT Park police station.He was earlier arrested in five cases in Naraingarh, two in Ambala, three in Yamunanagar and one in Chandigarh. The suspect was produced in a court, which sent him to police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naraingarh-youth-held-with-pistol-5-cartridges-325073
16-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder told to refund Rs 50L, pay relief  to consumer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed a builder to refund Rs 50,10,000 to a consumer for not handing over a villa in the fixed time.The Commission also directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs1,35,000 to the consumer for causing mental agony and harassment and cost of litigation.Navpreet Kaur Boparai, a resident of Mohali, approached the Commission alleging that the builder failed to deliver the possession of the villa in a project launched under the name of “Court Yard”, TDI City, Sector 110-111, Mohali, Punjab, in the promised time.Navpreet alleged that she signed a buyer’s agreement in year 2012 with the builder for the purchase of the villa. In the agreement, the builder promised to deliver the villa within a period of 24 months i.e. latest by February 14, 2014.She said after paying a substantial amount, the possession of the unit was not offered in the promised date. She contacted the builder several times, but to no avail. She alleged that the project was launched without obtaining necessary permissions and sanctions from the competent authorities.The builder denied all allegations and said out of the total sale consideration of Rs59,28,400, the complainant paid only Rs50,10,000. As a result, the construction of the unit could not be completed.After hearing the arguments, the commission, comprising president Justice Raj Shekhar Attri, and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh K. Arya, held the builder guilty of deficiency in service and directed to refund Rs50,10,000 to the complainant with 12 per cent interest.It directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs1,35,000 for causing mental agony and harassment, deficiency in service and adoption of unfair trade practice and cost of litigation.The Commission also said it was well settled law that non-delivery of possession of plots/units in a developed project in the promised date was a material violation on part of a builder. In those circumstances, the purchaser was well within his/her right to seek refund of the amount paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-told-to-refund-rs-50l-pay-relief-to-consumer-325074
16-10-2021||---||Panchkula gets Defence Services Officers’ Institute||Panchkula, October 15Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, inaugurated the newly established Defence Services Officers’ Institute (DSOI) in Sector 26, here, today.The institute is dedicated to Col Hoshiar Singh, who was decorated with the Param Vir Chakra, the highest award for gallantry in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. He belonged to Haryana.The broad theme for the inaugural function was the 1971 war victory, 2021 being the golden jubilee year.The institute will provide club facilities to a large number of officers of the defence services settled in the tricity. These include fine dining, party halls and banquet lawns.The institute’s bar has been named as “Bunker” to commemorate the feat of Col (then Major) Hoshiar Singh in the Battle of Jarpal, where he personally manned a MMG bunker, repulsing repeated counter attacks of Pakistan’s 35 Frontier Force (Pakistan Army). The enemy withdrew leaving behind 89 dead, including their Commanding Officer Lt Col Md Akram Raja, a short distance from the bunker.The restaurant has been named as “Bulge” after the geographical feature at the site of the battle and riverside view similar to that of the Basanter river had been created. The lobbies at the first and second floor are dedicated to war heroes and memorabilia of 1971 with due significance to operation.To celebrate the achievements of the Indian Navy, the party hall is named “Sagarika” and a memorabilia of Operation Trident, the attack on Karachi harbour, will find its place there. The room décor includes lighthouses and is located next to Western Coast, the terrace bar.The second party hall is dedicated to the Indian Air Force and named “Antriksh”. IAF’s achievements during the war, including those of IAF’s sole PVC recipient Flying Officer Nirmaljeet Singh Sekhon, will be on display.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-gets-defence-services-officers-institute-325075
16-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress protests against Centre||Chandigarh, October 15Members of the Chandigarh Congress today held a demonstration against the Central government in Sector 29 here on the issue of corporatisation of Ordnance Factory.Congress workers, under the leadership of city Congress president Subhash Chawla, Opposition leader Devinder Singh Babla, general secretary and chief spokesperson Harmohinder Singh Lucky, gathered in Sector 29.When the protesters marched ahead raising slogans, the police arrested them at the barricades and took them to the Sector 26 police station in buses.After getting information, former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal reached the spot and encouraged the protesters.Earlier, while addressing the protesters, Subhash Chawla said: “It is sad that the BJP is privatising all government institutions.”Babla said: “Today, the Prime Minister has corporatised 200-year-old Ordnance Factory (Cable Factory) in which 74,000 employees are working.”In 2014, when the BJP was contesting the elections, the Prime Minister had said that he would not allow any government organisation to be privatised, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-protests-against-centre-325076
16-10-2021||---||Ex-MP Prem Singh Chandumajra among 72 Akali Dal leaders get notices||Chandigarh, October 15A local court has issued notices to 72 Akali Dal leaders, including former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, for allegedly violating the orders of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh.The court issued the notices after the police submitted a challan in the case registered against all leaders for the offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.The police registered the case on the complaint of UT police constable Ram Diya on August 8, 2020. In his complaint, the constable alleged that 72 Akali leaders assembled near the Golf Turn road in Sector 26 for marching towards the Governor’s House. He said the leaders were warned not to assemble in view of the order issued by the District Magistrate, Chandigarh.He said senior police officials also advised leaders that gathering of more than five people was not allowed in the city, except the Rally Ground, Sector 25, as per the orders of the District Magistrate issued under Section 144 of the CrPC. Ignoring the orders, Akali Dal workers and leaders, under the leadership of Chandumajra, started moving towards the Governor’s House.They were also suggested to move to the Rally Ground in Sector 25 for the protest, but they refused to listen and sat on the road raising slogans against the government.The police later took all leaders to the Sector 3 police station for violating the DM’s orders. After the completion of investigation, the police filed a challan against the accused.After finding a prima facie case, a notice was issued to the accused. Besides Chandumajra, other leaders, who have been put on the notice, included Capt Ramandeep Singh, Harinder Singh Chandumajra, Balwinder Singh, Jaspal Singh Bassi and Parvinder Singh. The protest march was organised by the SAD against the Punjab government over the hooch tragedy that claimed several lives in Punjab last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-mp-prem-singh-chandumajra-among-72-akali-dal-leaders-get-notices-325077
16-10-2021||Dera Bassi||61-year-old Woman jumps to death in Dera Bassi||5 boxes of illicit liquor seizedMohali: A car driver escaped from a joint naka of the Excise Department and the police in Phase 1 here. Five boxes of illicit liquor meant for sale in Chandigarh only were recovered from the vehicle. The police have seized the car. A case under the Excise Act and rash driving was registered at the Phase 1 police station. TNSPoliceman honouredChandigarh: Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali and Mandal 10 president Satbir Singh Thakur Bodybuilder and Chandigarh Police felicitated Inspector Baldev Kumar, who recently won a bronze medal in the “World Bodybuilding and Physique Sports Championship”. “He has made us proud with his hard work and dedication,” said Devshali. “If you are firm on your thoughts, you can achieve the desired goal. He exhorted the youth to actively participate in sports and physical competitions,” said Kumar. TNSMobike stolen from houseChandigarh: Mukhtar Singh, a resident of Sector 20, reported that an unknown person stole his motorcycle parked near his house on the night of October 7. A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. — TNSBike taken away in Sec 26Chandigarh: Irshad, a resident of Mani Majra, alleged that a person, Lakhan, snatched his motorcycle near the BDC light point in Sector 26 here on Thursday. A case under Section 379-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. — TNSBid to hit escort vehicleChandigarh: SI Balbir Singh reported that a car driversped away after attempting to hit a government vehicle near the road separating Sector 41 and 42 on Thursday. A case under section 279 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector-36 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-year-old-woman-jumps-to-death-in-dera-bassi-325078
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 2 cases, no fatality in Chandigarh||Three contract virus in MohaliMohali: Three fresh cases of Covid were reported during the past 24 hours, taking the total tally to 68,775 in the district. No death was reported from the district till Friday evening while three patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Mohali, Dhakoli and Dera Bassi. There are 26 active cases. — TNS3 test +ve in P’kulaPanchkula: Three fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,749. Those infected with the virus are a 71-year-old man from Sector 4, a 56-year-old woman from Sector 15 and a 72-year-old woman from Sector 6. No fresh death was reported. There are now seven active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-2-cases-no-fatality-in-chandigarh-325079
16-10-2021||Panchkula||17 fresh dengue cases in Panchkula||Seventeen fresh cases of dengue were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of dengue cases to 271. No death due to dengue was reported from across the district. In Panchkula, 271 cases of dengue have been reported so far. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mukta Kumar, said 68 patients had been admitted to private hospitals, while 129 patients were admitted to the General Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-fresh-dengue-cases-in-panchkula-325080
16-10-2021||---||54 fresh cases of dengue in Mohali take count to 1,264||Mohali, October 15As many as 54 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case count to 1,264.No death due to dengue was reported from across the district, said health officials.In Mohali, a total of 1,264 dengue cases have been reported in the past two months. While 344 cases and two deaths were reported in September, 920 cases surfaced till October 15.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “We have an alarming situation at our hands for which anti-dengue drives have already been started. We need cooperation from residents. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our primary aim is to check the spread of vector-borne diseases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/54-fresh-cases-of-dengue-in-mohali-take-count-to-1-264-325081
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chaitanya Aggarwal tricity topper in JEE (Advanced), bags AIR 8||City boy Chaitanya Aggarwal has topped the tricity by bagging all-India rank (AIR) 8 in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) 2021. He scored 324 out of 360 in the exam. Sharing his success mantra, Chaitanya said, “Consistency is the key to success. Whatever you study, revise it at regular intervals. If you focus well, your study hours won’t really matter. Have faith in your teachers and their guidance, and always ensure that your knowledge is conceptually sound.” He said, “I gave weekly tests on a regular basis during the lockdown, which helped me do self-analysis and improve my performance.”Chaitanya is a state topper in the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) examination and has won scholarship under the Kishore Vaigyanika Protsahan Yojana (KVPY), Regional Mathematical Olympiad and the Indian National Chemistry Olympiad.Another Chandigarh boy Guramrit Singh bagged AIR 26. He is also a KVPY and NTSE scholar. Guramrit’s father Gur Darshan Singh is a businessman and mother Preeti is homemaker. Coming from a business family, he wants to make it to the IIT, Bombay, to fulfil his aspiration of becoming a computer science engineer. Panchkula boy Khushang secured AIR 30 with a score of 307 out of 360 in the JEE (Advanced). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chaitanya-aggarwal-tricity-topper-in-jee-advanced-bags-air-8-325082
16-10-2021||Mohali||Fervour marks Dasehra festivities in Mohali||Dasehra was celebrated with fervour in the district today. No untoward incident was reported during the celebrations, which took place at only 14 places instead of 30 in the district. At the Dasehra ground in Phase 8, 15-foot-tall effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarana and Meghnad, along with an effigy of Covid-19, were erected. The festival was celebrated in a simple way. In Phase 1, Dasehra was celebrated at two places - Ranbaxy Park and the old DC office.Some housing societies had also installed small effigies of the demons, which were set on fire without using crackers in Mohali.In Kharar, Dasehra was celebrated near the sarovar, in Dera Bassi, at the Ramlila ground and in Lalru, it was celebrated at the Army ground. With the celebrations in full swing, the traffic police had a tough time in managing the traffic. Chaos and traffic snarls were a common sight in several areas of Mohali.Long queues of vehicles were seen on the road separating Phase VII and VIII, at Sector 70, Kumbhra Chowk, the Phase VII traffic light point, near the DC office in Phase I and on the Phase IX road. The worst affected were roads in areas where the effigies of demons were burnt as motorists stopped to witness the show. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fervour-marks-dasehra-festivities-in-mohali-325083
16-10-2021||Panchkula||Dasehra celebrated with gaiety in Panchkula||Dasehra was celebrated with gaiety in various parts of the city today. A grand procession was taken out by Shri Adarsh Ramlila Dramatic Club in the afternoon. Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal was the chief guest at the Dasehra celebrations held in Sector 5. Shri Adarsh Ramlila Dramatic Club chairman Munshi Ram Arora and other office-bearers of the club welcomed the Mayor.While the Dasehra celebrations were on in full swing across the city, the police had a tough time in managing the traffic as traffic snarls were a common sight in several areas in the city. Long queues of vehicles were seen on the road separating Sector 8 and 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dasehra-celebrated-with-gaiety-in-panchkula-325084
16-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Effigies, cracker ban go up in flames in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Buoyed by the statement of a local BJP leader, many Ramlila committees did not care two hoots about the cracker ban during the Dasehra celebrations in the city today.Despite a ban imposed by the UT Administration on bursting of firecrackers in the city on October 12, effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarana and Meghnadh were burnt with firecrackers at several places, including Sector 34, Sector 28, Maloya, Dhanas and Mauli Jagran, in the city.Keeping in mind the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and a possible third wave of Covid-19, the UT Administration had imposed a ban on the sale and use of crackers of any kind throughout the city.In an order issued under the Disaster Management Act, UT Adviser Dharam Pal had said: “These directions are issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of the spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by busting of crackers.” The decision was taken after extensive consultation with health and environment experts and other stakeholders as toxic air rising out of the crackers was likely to affect the health of people. Therefore, residents must avoid bursting crackers this festive season, the Adviser had stated. Any violation of the orders was to invite penal action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other provisions as applicable.However, city BJP president Arun Sood yesterday asked people to use crackers during the Dasehra celebrations. Sood issued a press note claiming that he had met UT Adviser Dharam Pal and various police officers and informed them that the NGT ban was restricted to Diwali only.A member of a Ramlila committee said the UT Administration had imposed the ban on crackers just two days before the Dasehra festival. It took more than a fortnight to make an effigy and by the time the ban was imposed, the effigies had already been prepared and it was too late to impose the ban, he added.A senior official said members of several Ramlila committees had defied the ban and action would be initiated against them as per the law. Moreover, the Covid protocol also went for a toss during the events, as hardly anyone maintained social distancing during the burning of the effigies.However, effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad were burnt without crackers at several other places such as Sector 17, 40 and 46. Due to the late permission given by the UT Administration to the organisers and the subsequent ban on the sale and use of crackers, most organisers stayed away from organising the event and it was held at 10-15 places only in the city. Earlier, the Dasehra events used to be held at nearly 48 places.on Friday. Tribune photos: Pradeep Tewari, Ravi Kumar and VickyHospital staff burn Covid effigyThe staff of a private hospital in the city celebrated Dasehra as a symbolic fight against the “Covid evil” by setting up an effigy of Covid on fire. The staff, doctors and local residents, led by Major DP Singh (retd), president of the Senior Citizens Association, Sector 38, used arrows resembling vaccination syringes to put fire to the effigy and to send a message about the importance of vaccination to curtail the deadly virus. The hospital director said during the first and second waves of Covid, doctors, police, health and frontline staff worked jointly like Lord Ram’s army to defeat “Ravana-like Covid evil”. Major Singh said vaccination was the real “Brahmastra” against Covid.Shopkeeper booked for selling crackersRupesh Kumar, SDM (South), ordered the sealing of Garg General Store, Attawa, and an FIR was registered for allegedly violating the orders of the State Disaster Management Authority regarding a ban on the sale of crackers in Chandigarh.Cracker banRamlila panel members bookedChandigarh: Members of the Ramlila organising committees in Sector 34 and Mani Majra were booked under the Disaster Management Act after complaints of bursting of crackers during the Dasehra ceremony were received by the SHOs of the areas concerned. The effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkarana and Meghnada were burnt at 24 different venues in the city. The ban on crackers went up in smoke as effigies with crackers were burnt. Eyewitnesses said there were heated arguments between the organising committee members and the police over enforcing the ban at some venues. Eyewitnesses said crackers were burst in Sector 56, 28 and 34, Mani Majra and Ram Darbar. Despite an advisory and alternative parking arrangements made by the traffic police, long queues of vehicles and traffic jams were witnessed at most of the venues as the police arrangements apparently fell short. TNSAQI remains highDespite the ban on bursting of firecrackers in the UT, the air quality index in the city remained high in comparison to the neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula where no such ban was imposed. The AQI in the city was recorded at 138, whereas it was 124 in Panchkula and 110 in Mohali.AQIChandigarh Panchkula Mohali138              124             110||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/effigies-cracker-ban-go-up-in-flames-in-chandigarh-325085
