17-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 fall prey to online fraud in Chandigarh||Three cases of online fraud were reported from the city in the past 24 hours.In one of the incidents, Narinder Singh, a resident of Sector 23, reported that unknown persons called him on his mobile phone. The suspects duped him of Rs20,12,000 on the pretext of providing maturity amount of insurance policies by posing themselves as IRDA employees. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station.In another case, Saurabh, a resident of Sector 40, reported that an unknown person duped him on the pretext of selling a car on a website. A case under Sections 419, 420, 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.In yet another case, Ravi Bhushan Kansal, a resident of Sector-38A, reported that her daughter posted an advertisement on a website to selling old furniture. A person, Manoj Kumar, contacted him to buy the furniture.He fraudulently transferred Rs18,000 from the complainant’s Google Pay account. A case under Sections 419, 420, 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fall-prey-to-online-fraud-in-chandigarh-325596
17-10-2021||---||Shooting range to be upgraded in Chandigarh: Adviser Dharam Pal||Chandigarh, October 16The Patiala Ki Rao Shooting Range needed more attention in terms of raising world-class infrastructure, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal during his maiden visit to the facility in Sector 25 here.“It is a really good centre. However, there is a need for adding more facilities, including digital targets, updated equipment and others. I have asked officials to add such international-standard equipment. The UT Sports Department will help, if required. We will be upgrading the range in the coming months,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.The Patiala Ki Rao Shooting Range was completed in 2013. However, the range is not fully automatic yet. This is the reason the city has not hosted a national competition so far. The facility was earlier under the UT Sports Department, but was later taken over by the Chandigarh Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooting-range-to-be-upgraded-in-chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-325597
17-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fire incident at PG: Witness to be examined through videoconferencing from Canada||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16A local court will examine a witness in a one-and-a-half-year-old fire incident that took place in a PG accommodation here, through videoconferencing from Canada.The court has issued directions to the District Attorney to coordinate with the Home Secretary, Chandigarh, to get a remote point coordinator appointed in the Indian Embassy, Vancouver, in Canada and procure the presence of prosecution witness Jasmine Kaur on the Embassy premises during the working hour of this court to examine her though a designated videoconferencing software provided by the High Court.Prosecution witness Jasmine Kaur is an eyewitness to the fire incident that took place on in a PG accommodation in Sector 32-D here on February 22 last year.The fire broke out on the first floor of the house. Three girls - Muskan Mehta, Riya and Pakshi Grover, all aged between 19 and 21 years, lost their lives in the mishap. As many as 17 girls were present in the house at the time of the incident.The police registered a case against the accused under Sections 304, 336, 188 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The police have already filed a chargesheet in the case against the accused.The court has also appointed Additional Public Prosecutor Ashok Rohilla as a coordinator at the court point for the videoconferencing.The court issued fresh directions after the investigating officer told the court that when contacted on phone, Jasmine intimated that the Indian Embassy in Vancouver is at a distance of 200 miles from her residence. She stated that she had neither been contacted by Indian Embassy officials nor intimated the date and time of her presence on the Embassy premises in order to be examined as a witness in this case.The Additional Public Prosecutor and the Investigating Officer had stated that they had not been able to contact the Indian Embassy concerned in Vancouver. In view of this, Jagdeep Sood, Additional Sessions Judge, issued fresh directions to the District Attorney, Chandigarh, to take up the matter at the appropriate level in order to get prosecution witness Jasmine Kaur examined on October 22 through videoconferencing.Vishal Garg Narwana, counsel for accused Gourav Aneja, told the court that he had no objection if the prosecution witness was being examined through videoconferencingfrom Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-incident-at-pg-witness-to-be-examined-through-videoconferencing-from-canada-325598
17-10-2021||---||Farm activists burn effigies of PM, UP CM||Chandigarh, October 16The Dasehra celebrations in the city were extended by a day as farm activists burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra and corporate bigwigs like Ambani and Adani today.Farm activists from villages and the city came together to raise their voice against the three farm laws and the recent Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The effigies were burnt at various locations in the city, including Matka Chowk, Sector 45 and 46 traffic lights, Sector 36 and 37 traffic lights and Khuda Ali Sher.“We didn’t want to burn the effigies of ministers and corporate leaders on the day of Dasehra so as to avoid hurting anyone’s religious sentiments. As per the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, we are burning the effigies to register a protest. It’s also a symbol of protest against the Lakhimpur incident. We want Mishra to resign,” said Satnam Singh Tanda, member of Kisan Ekta, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-burn-effigies-of-pm-up-cm-325599
17-10-2021||---||Bihar resident held on charge of woman’s murder||Mohali, October 16The police have arrested a Bihar native, Nitish Kumar, for allegedly murdering a woman, Sanjana Devi (35), who was staying in a rented accommodation in Badhmajra. One more suspect, Pankaj Sharma, cousin of Nitish, is absconding.The deceased has been identified as Sanjana Devi, wife of Subodh Sharma, a native of Bihar. She had been missing from her home since February. The police recovered her body wrapped in a plastic bag on the Kharar-Ropar highway near Gosal village on August 21.Passersby noticed foul smell emanating from a plastic bag, following which they informed the police. After getting information, the police reached the spot.Pankaj Sharma and Nitish Kumar strangled the woman to death after giving her intoxicants. They wrapped the body in a plastic bag and dumped it in a ditch near Gosal village, said the police.Before Sanjana went missing, she was in touch with Pankaj, a resident of Gosai village in Madhepura district of Bihar.The police said Sanjana came to Mohali with Pankaj. She stayed with Pankaj and his cousin Nitish in Phase I here till August 15. Later, she, along with her children, started living in a rented accommodation in Badhmajra.A case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC was registered at the Sadar Kurali police station on August 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bihar-resident-held-on-charge-of-womans-murder-325600
17-10-2021||---||Former employee among 5 held for looting shop owner||Zirakpur, October 16The police claimed to have solved a loot case with the arrest of five members of a gang here. They also recovered a gold bracelet, a gold chain, a cutter and an SUV used in the crime from the suspects.A former employee of a garments and cosmetics shop hatched a conspiracy with her husband and brother and looted her employer in Zirakpur on September 28, the police said. The recoveriesThe suspects have been identified as Dhudike residents Navneet Kaur, alias Monica, her husband Gurpreet Singh, brother Manveer Singh, a resident of Ludhiana, and Kotkapura residents Manpreet Singh and Manjinder Singh.The police said Navneet used to work at Ashu Cosmetics and Garments shop. She left the job around a month ago. She, along with her husband Gurpreet Singh and brother Manveer Singh, hatched a conspiracy to loot the shop owner, Manpreet Singh.Four unidentified persons entered the shop on the pretext of buying a t-shirt on September 28. They pointed a sharp object at him and snatched a gold chain and a bracelet from the shop owner. When Manpreet resisted, they hit him on his left hand. The suspects took away the DVR and fled from the spot in an SUV parked nearby.The police later nabbed the suspects from different locations. A case under Sections 379-B, 323 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station on September 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-employee-among-5-held-for-looting-shop-owner-325601
17-10-2021||---||Surge in Dengue cases: Separate 50-bed ward set up at Mohali hospital||Mohali, October 16In view of the increasing number of dengue cases, a separate 50-bed ward has been set up in District Hospital in Mohali.Kumar Rahul, Director, National Health Mission, Punjab, and Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, stated this after visiting different wards and interacting with patients in the hospital today.Divulging details, Kumar Rahul said a special 50-bed ward had been set up on the fourth floor of the hospital for the confirmed and suspected dengue patients. The patients would be given treatment free of cost. In addition, the number of beds with mosquito nets had been increased to 30.Dr Adarshpal said in view of the increasing number of dengue patients in the emergency ward, the hospital authorities had been directed to deploy more doctors and nurses.She said any shortcoming in the management of the hospital would not be tolerated and better and quality health care facilities would be provided to the patients.Kumar Rahul and Dr Adarshpal Kaur appealed to people to take all necessary precautions to save themselves from dengue fever and not allow stagnation of water in and around their homes.SMO Dr Vijay Bhagat, Dr HS Cheema and other officers were also present on the occasion.‘Take all necessary precautions’Kumar Rahul, Director, National Health Mission, Punjab, and Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, appealed to people to take all necessary precautions to save themselves from dengue fever and not allow stagnation of water in and around their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surge-in-dengue-cases-separate-50-bed-ward-set-up-at-mohali-hospital-325602
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three stabbed at Mauli Jagran||Chain snatchers strike twiceChandigarh: Two snatching incidents were reported from the city in the past 24 hours. In the first case, two unidentified bike-borne youths snatched a gold chain from a Zirakpur resident near Ayappa Temple, Sector 47. The victim stated that the two youths came from behind while she was about to sit in her car and snatched her gold chain. A case under Section 379-A and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. In the other case, a Sector 50 resident reported that two unknown bike-borne youths snatched her gold chain near Banker Enclave Gate, Sector 50-D. A case has been registered. TNSFour arrested with 20-kg ganjaChandigarh: The police arrested four persons, including two women, and recovered 20-kg ganja from their possession near the cremation ground in Mani Majra on Friday. The suspects have been identified as Dharam (35), a native of Mahua, Bihar, and currently residing in Parwanoo, and Rajesh Chaudhary (35), a native of Betiah. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSTwo held for murder bidChandigarh: Aman and Anil, residents of Sector 56, were arrested in an attempt-to-murder case. The duo attacked a Sector 25 resident, Sunil, with sticks and swords near his house on October 14. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the PGI. A case under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 307 of the IPC has been registered. TNSCell phones, cash stolenChandigarh: Kali Parsad, a native of Basti, UP, reported that an unknown person stole his two mobile phones and a bag containing clothes from a house in Sector 15-D here on the night of October 14. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. In another case, Sunil Kumar, a resident of Sector 7, alleged that a domestic help, Deepak Bhandari, stole Rs30,000 from his sister’s house on Friday. A case under Section 381 of the IPC has been registered. TNSWoman dies in road mishapZirakpur: A migrant woman died after being hit by a truck at the McDonald light point here on the Ambala-Chandigarh national highway on Thursday. The accident took place when the woman was crossing the road on foot with her husband. The deceased has been identified as Bindo Devi (47), a resident of Roselyn Square, Aero City. The police have registered a case against the truck driver, who fled from the spot after the mishap.TNSAccident: Car driver bookedChandigarh: Parveen Singh, a resident of Sector 22, alleged that a car driver sped away after hitting his son near a park in Sector 22-A here on October 13. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to a hospital. A case under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSAshiana Public School, GMSSS-Khuda Lahora shineChandigarh: Ashiana Public School claimed the sub-junior category title, while Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Khuda Lahora, won the junior category final in the ongoing State Shooting Ball Championship for Girls. In the girls’ sub-junior final, Ashiana Public School defeated the team from Khuda Lahora Club (2-1). Khuda Lahora team won the boys’ sub-junior final by defeating Ashiana Public School 2-0. In the junior boys’ final, Success Club beat Rakshak Self-Defence Club (2-1). In the girls’ junior final, the Khuda Lahora squad ousted Ashiana Public School (2-0). TNSTennis tourney begins tomorrowMohali: Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur, will organise the ITF Seniors World Ranking Tennis Championship, under the aegis of the Mohali Lawn Tennis Association (MLTA), from October 18 to 22. Events in men’s/women’s singles and doubles categories for 35+, 45+, 55+ and 65+ age groups will be conducted. Players from the tricity can register themselves at the tournament venue on October 17. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-stabbed-at-mauli-jagran-325603
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bike taxi passenger dies in accident in Chandigarh||A pillion rider of a bike taxi died after being hit by a truck near the Railway light point here on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Dev, a resident of Mani Majra.Rakesh Kumar of Sector 29, who was driving the bike taxi, told the police that a truck hit his bike and Dev was injured in the accident. He was admitted to the GMSH-16 and later referred to the PGI where he died during the treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bike-taxi-passenger-dies-in-accident-in-chandigarh-325604
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Parking contractor to pay Rs 20K fine in Chandigarh||A contractor has been issued a Rs 20,000 challan for haphazard parking in Sector 17.Two days ago, a Rs40,000 challan each was issued for the same violation in Sector 17 and 22. The two contractors have been repeatedly fined for various violations by the MC in the past one month.“We have a special inspection team which visits parking lots and if any violation is detected, we take action. Besides, we also take note of violations through the public or the media,” said an MC official. Meanwhile, of a total of 89 parking lots, the agencies concerned have not taken possession of eight of them to date. “The sites are not feasible as they are small and open from all sides. Thus, vehicles can enter from any side,” said one of the contractors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-contractor-to-pay-rs-20k-fine-in-chandigarh-325605
17-10-2021||---||Rain likely on next two days in tricity||Chandigarh, October 16Rain is likely in the tricity on Sunday and Monday.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the rain spell is likely to be accompanied by thunderstorm, lightning and squall (40-50 kmph) at isolated places. It will bring down daytime temperature.“Keeping in view the ongoing harvesting of crops in the region, it is suggested necessary arrangements should be made for a safe storage of the produce,” said a Met update.Meanwhile, Saturday saw the hottest October day in a decade. Today’s maximum temperature was 36.4°C, which is four degrees above normal and the highest in the month of October since 2010 when the same temperature was reported. On October 12, 36.5°C maximum temperature was witnessed, the highest in the past 13 years. The all-time highest maximum temperature record of this month is 37.2°C recorded in 1992.Due to rain likely tomorrow, the maximum temperature is predicted to fall to around 27°C. For the next few days, daytime temperature is likely to remain on the lower side.The minimum temperature, which was 20.6°C (three degrees above normal) today, is not expected to see much change. It is likely to be around 20-21°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-on-next-two-days-in-tricity-325606
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Two more contract virus in Chandigarh||13 days on, no new case in MohaliMohali: After 13 days, no new case of Covid was reported from the district in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, no death due to the virus took place till Saturday evening. So far, the district has seen 68,775 cases with 67,681 recoveries. There are 26 active cases and the Covid toll stands at 1,068. — TNSNo new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No fresh case of Covid surfaced during the past 24 hours, keeping the total number of cases at 30,749 in the district. There was no casualty either. So far, 30,365 patients have been cured of the disease in the district while 378 have succumbed to the virus. There are six active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-more-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-325607
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police register 9 FIRs for cracker ban violation on Dasehra||Stuffing effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarana and Meghnadh with firecrackers during the Dashera celebrations have landed the management of various Ramlila committees of the city in trouble after cases were registered against them for flouting the cracker ban and violating the orders of the District Magistrate, UT.Ban imposed on Oct 12As many as nine cases have been registered against individuals, the management of Ramlila committees under Sections 188 and 34 of the IPC at various police stations in the city. Most of the Ramlila committee members took the plea that the ban order of the UT Administration came too late as the effigies had been erected by then and it was not possible to dismantle the structures. A few claimed that it was not possible to burn the effigy without the use of firecrackers.A case has been registered against unknown persons for bursting firecrackers at the Circus Ground, Sector 17. Sector 28 resident Manu Bassin and Dasehra committee members burst crackers at Dasehra Ground in Sector 28-B. Two-three unknown persons burst crackers at the Dasehra Ground near EWS Flats, Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.Similarly, Sector 27 resident Naseem has been booked for bursting crackers at Ramlila Ground in Sector 27-D. Two unknown persons were booked for flouting the cracker ban at the Ramlila Ground in Sector 29.Madan Lal Acharya, president, Azaad Dramatic Club, Mani Majra, and Navdeep Kaushik, general secretary, and other members of the club, who burst firecrackers at a ground near the Housing Board light point, Mani Majra, have been booked too.A case has been registered against Dharam Rakshak Kala Manch Society, Shri Ramlila and Dasehra Ayojak Committee, NIC, Mani Majra, after firecrackers were burst at the Dasehra Ground near Subhash Nagar in Mani Majra. The Azad Dramatic Club, Sector 20, burst firecrackers at the Dasehra Ground in Sector 34 and the Youth Welfare Club, Dasehra Committee, Maloya, flouted the DM order at the Dasehra Ground in Maloya. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-register-9-firs-for-cracker-ban-violation-on-dasehra-325608
17-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Ban on single-use plastic: Chandigarh to launch crackdown during festival season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has geared up to launch a crackdown on shopkeepers selling or using single-use plastic during the festival season.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, said, “Ahead of the festival season, we will issue an advisory on Monday to all sweets shops in the city against using the banned single-use plastic. We will also give the shopkeepers a handout with colourful photographs of the banned items.” He added that strict action would be initiated against any shopkeeper found flouting the norms. He said the committee would start taking action only after creating awareness.Dalai said the possibility of using single use-plastic increased during the festival season. He said there were around 56 major sweets shops in the city. During the festival season, they would launch a campaign to make the owners of small shops and stalls aware about the banned single-use plastic, he added.In September 2019, the UT Administration had imposed a ban on single-use plastic items, including cutlery, thermocol or styrofoam cutlery, containers, sealed drinking water glasses, single-use razors, single-use pens, thermocol for decoration purpose and plastic material for decoration purpose such as wrapping sheets, frills, garland, confetti, plastic ribbons, etc.In its directions, the National Green Tribunal had stated that any person found using, storing, purchasing, dealing with or distributing plastic bags, plastic plates or plastic glasses and such allied items would be liable to pay an environmental compensation at the rate of Rs5,000 per event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-single-use-plastic-chandigarh-to-launch-crackdown-during-festival-season-325609
17-10-2021||Panchkula||Dengue: 26 more stung in Panchkula||Fresh 26 cases of dengue have surfaced during the past 24 hours taking the number of positive cases to 297 in Panchkula district.At present, 105 people are under treatment at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, and 134 at private hospitals.Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar said they had stepped up sampling to identify patients in time. Today, 233 samples were taken, of which 104 were found positive. Of these, 26 people are residents of Panchkula and 57 from other districts. Twentyone people could not be traced.Officials, MC pass the buck over foggingResidents alleged that when they approached health officials for fogging, the latter said it was the responsibility of the MC to get fogging done if there was no case in their area. The MC officials, on the other hand, put the onus on the Health Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-26-more-stung-in-panchkula-325610
17-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Spike in dengue cases in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16Seeing a spike, the number of dengue cases in the city has crossed the 300 mark.On Saturday, 32 city residents were found infected taking the cumulative number of cases this year to 365. The number of cases reported in October stands at 281. The number of cases recorded on Saturday was roughly double the average number of daily cases (17.5) reported in the 16 days of this month.While the reported cases in 2018 were 301, in 2019 and 2020 only 286 and 262 cases were reported respectively. Seeing the current trend of cases, the number of cases is expected to double this year.The authorities have claimed that strict measures are being taken on the ground with respect to issuance and challan and measures such as fogging are being conducted. The rising number of cases, however, depicts a different reality.Even though a record number of cases are being recorded, only four sectors were covered for fogging with vehicle-mounted machines suggesting that more efforts are required on this front.Even though official data suggests that there has been a 309% rise in the number of challans issued for not adhering to the anti-dengue guidelines, the rise in the number of cases suggests that improvements are required in the way the authorities deal with this issue and bring in more effective measures for containment of this disease.147 more test positive in MohaliMohali: A record number of fresh 147 confirmed cases of dengue have surfaced here during the past 24 hours, taking the number of cases to 1,411 in the district in the past two months. However, no death due to dengue was reported from across the district, said health officials. The number of deaths due to dengue remains at 12. Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said, “We have an alarming situation at our hands for which anti-dengue drives have already been started. But we need full cooperation of the residents. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our primary aim is to check the spread of the vector-borne diseases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spike-in-dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-325611
