18-10-2021||---||Lt Gen Devendra Sharma appointed Chief of Staff, Western Command||Chandigarh, October 18Lieutenant General Devendra Sharma has been appointed the Chief of Staff (COS), Western Command, Chandimandir.On assuming his duties on Monday, he laid a wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial to pay homage to the martyrs.He takes over from Lt Gen Manjinder Singh, who has been posted as the General Officer Commanding, 16 Corps at Nagrota.General Sharma is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy. In a career spanning over three decades, he has held varied and significant appointments, including command of an armoured regiment, an armoured brigade and an infantry division, all in the Western sector.He has also served as a member of the prestigious Indian Military Training team in Bhutan and as the Chief Military Personnel Officer with the United Nations’ Mission in West Africa. He is a recipient of the Sena Medal for Gallantry and the United Nations Force Commander’s Commendation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-gen-devendra-sharma-appointed-chief-of-staff-western-command-326196
18-10-2021||---||3 University students die as car rams into truck at Rajpura||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Three youngsters were killed and one was severely injured when their car collided with a truck this morning. The accident took place on the Rajpura-Chandigarh road near Alampur village.The deceased have been identified as Yash Mittal (22), Aakarshit Goyal (22) and Ishan Kalra (21).Truck was parked on road: CopsThe police claimed that the truck was parked on the road when the car rammed into it. The students were coming from Patiala after paying obeisance at a temple early in the morning.They were residents of Panchkula.The Rajpura Civil Hospital authorities said they had conducted a post-mortem examination and handed over the bodies to the family members of the victims.The injured is said to have been under treatment at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. The police said all four occupants of the car were students of Chitkara University.Avtar Singh, investigating officer, said the accident took place around 4 am when the students were on their way to Chitkara University. The officer said they had registered a case under the relevant sections against the truck driver. Avtar Singh said: “The driver of the truck has not been arrested so far. However, we have impounded the truck.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-university-students-die-as-car-rams-into-truck-at-rajpura-325974
18-10-2021||---||A pall of gloom descends on victims’ families in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 17A pall of gloom descended on the families of the three youngsters after the news of their death in a road accident in Rajpura broke out early this morning.All three accident victims were students of Chitkara University and were returning after paying obeisance at the Kali Devi temple, Patiala, the police said, quoting the FIR.While Aakarshit Goyal and Yash Mittal hailed from Sector 9, Ishan Kalra was a resident of Sector 20.Hunarpal from Sector 46, Chandigarh, who was also sitting in the rear seat of the car when it collided with a truck near Alampur village, Rajpura, is said to be battling for his life at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Aakarshit was only son in the familyThe only son in his family, Aakarshit lost his father, Tirlok Chand, in 2006 and had been living with the family of his uncle, who was a source of emotional and financial support. The car belonged to him. Aakarshit, who was pursuing BTech (Computer), wanted to join his family business later on. He is survived by his mother, Seema, and two sisters.Wished to join father’s bizYash Mittal (21), a student of B Pharma, aspired to join his father’s pharma company after the completion of higher studies. He is survived by his father Ashish Mittal, mother Noni and 15-year-old brother Vasu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-pall-of-gloom-descends-on-victims-families-in-panchkula-325975
18-10-2021||---||Awarding of sentence to Gurmeet Ram Rahim: Sec 144 imposed in Panchkula court area||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 17The district administration has imposed Section 144 in the areas surrounding the District Court Complex, banning gathering of five or more persons.A special CBI court is expected to pronounce the quantum of sentence against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four other convicts in the murder case of a dera follower.Carrying of any weapon like sword, lathi, stick, iron rod, etc, except for sheathed kirpans, has also been prohibited.The dera chief will be produced in the court tomorrow via videoconferencing while the four other convicts will be brought in person for the sentencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/awarding-of-sentence-to-gurmeet-ram-rahim-sec-144-imposed-in-panchkula-court-area-325976
18-10-2021||Mohali||Gangster Roshan Hundal held in Mohali||The police arrested an associate of gangsters Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, and Lawrence Bishnoi, and recovered one revolver with 15 rounds at Sector 91 here today. The suspect has been identified as Jagroshan Singh, alias Roshan Hundal, who was wanted in 10 cases registered in districts of Punjab.He was also involved in the murder of gangster Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital in Amritsar.A special operations team of the organised crime control unit (OCCU), Punjab, was carrying out a special operation under the command of Gurmeet Singh Chauhan, AIG OCCU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-roshan-hundal-held-in-mohali-325977
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three Covid cases in Chandigarh||2 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded two fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,751. While 30,365 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, eight cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. TNS7 new cases in MohaliMohali: Fresh seven cases of Covid surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 68,782. No death was reported in the district till Sunday evening. Among the new cases, one came from Boothgarh and three each from Dhakoli and Mohali. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-325978
18-10-2021||To prevent dengue one needs to control breeding of mosquitoes. Care should be taken to prevent stagnation of water in pits||Open House: What needs to be done to check the spread of dengue?||NPS Sohal, ChandigarhCreate awareness among peopleChandigarh is a city of educated people. To prevent the spread of dengue, the UT Administration should raise awareness about the disease. The Administration with an army of educated and responsible people can drive away dengue by keeping their homes and surroundings clean.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhAdmn must Identify a nodal officerThe Administration must ensure that all establishments, including government and private, identify a nodal officer to make sure there is no mosquito breeding on the premises. People should also behave responsibly. They should maintain personal hygiene and wear full sleeves clothes.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhUT Admn responsible for outbreakThe poor maintenance in sectors and markets has led to the spread of dengue. An app should be introduced for lodging complaints. The residents also need to be responsible. The poor performance of Chandigarh Administration has led to deterioration in health and sanitation systems in Chandigarh.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhMC should carry out fogging regularlyMosquitoes breed in stagnant water, so proper care should be taken to avoid stagnation of water in and around the houses. Anti-malaria department of the MC should carry out regular fogging in the city address any complaints regarding mosquito breeding on priority. Any delay or laxity on part of the officials concerned can lead to deterioration in situation.SC Luthra, ChandigarhNeed proper strategy to fight dengueThe City Beautiful and other constituents of tricity have been witnessing a rapid surge in dengue cases over the past few days. The UT Administration and health authorities have failed to prevent such outbreaks in the absence of a proper strategy to deal with the situation. It is important that health officials, along with civic authorities, take steps to control mosquito breeding. Intensive surveillance and awareness campaigns should be conducted to check the spread of the disease.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaIdentify & fumigate vulnerable areasTo check the rise in dengue cases, the Administration must identify the vulnerable areas and carry out regular fogging in the high-risk localities. People should also be educated on the preventive measures. They should be discouraged from unnecessary storage of water. The Administration must also cover the gutters and drains. Bio-insecticides may also be used to destroy mosquito larvae.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhPenalise violatorsIt is a matter of worry that dengue is spreading in Chandigarh. People should ensure there is no accumulation of water in and around the houses. At the same time, the MC needs to carry out fogging in vulnerable areas regularly to control the spread of the disease. The civic body should also deploy staff to make people aware about the spread of dengue. If residents don’t adhere to norms, they should be penalised.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPeople should Keep surroundings cleanThere has been a steady rise in dengue cases in the region. The main reason behind the spread of dengue is unclean surroundings. We should keep our surroundings clean to check mosquito breeding. The MC should also increase fogging in the affected areas. Regular checks should be carried out by the MC to ensure there is no stagnant water in localities. Lastly, if there are any symptoms of the disease, one should immediately contact the doctor. All these efforts will help in curbing the spread of dengue and other vector-borne diseases.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhResidents should help UT AdministrationAs dengue cases are on rise, it is our duty to help the Administration in controlling the disease. We should not allow stagnation of water in and around our houses. Most of the parks and roadsides are covered with unwanted growth in this season, which needs to be removed at the earliest. Regular fogging should also be carried out, especially in the slums.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhHealth Dept should Conduct surveysThe Health Department must undertake a special sanitation drive in the vulnerable areas. Teams must be constituted to spray anti-larva medicines. The Health Department should also intensify larvae checking to curb the spread of the disease. They must visit every household. The Municipal Corporation must work in close coordination with the Health Department.Anita K Tandon, KhararRegular inspection need of the hourDengue is a seasonal disease. This year, most of the cases in Mohali are being reported from the urban areas. The situation is alarming. The Health Department should make every possible arrangement to provide treatment to the affected. They should also carry out regular inspection, fogging and awareness campaigns till the disease fades away. Specials drives should be carried out in hotspots.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPeople should guard against diseaseThe increase in dengue cases in this year is mainly due to prolonged monsoon. To contain the spread of disease, awareness must be increased at the community level. People should remain vigilant. Residents should not allow stagnation of water in their surroundings. The government should also take necessary steps to check mosquito breeding. There is need to identify high-risk areas and intensified fogging in the city. Dengue testing should also be made free.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaAdmn should Take pre-emptive measuresDengue is spreading its tentacles in the tricity. It is imperative to take pre-emptive measures. Need of the hour is to check the stagnation of water, which is the breeding ground for mosquitoes. At the same time, people should take precautions, like wearing full-sleeve shirts. Open drains and nullahs must also be cleaned on regular basis.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliPrevention is better than curePrevention is better than cure. People should cover their bodies properly, avoid scented soaps and perfumes, remove any stagnant water in their vicinity and use mosquito repellents and nets to themselves safe. Sterile insect technique and larvivorous fish and crustacean can also be employed to check the breeding of mosquitoes.Adish Sood, AmlohClean surroundings, Avoid waterloggingPeople should clean their surroundings and avoid stagnation of water. Special attention should be paid to slum areas and public toilets. Fogging should be done from time to time.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliFumigate entire cityThe top most priority for the Administration should be fogging, not only in the peripheral areas, but within the sectors as well. Strict action should be taken against people urinating or defecating in the open. They should be fined heavily. Also, people should inform the Administration about any leakage in water pipes or garbage in their localities.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhDengue can be fatalWith a prolonged monsoon this year, water logging, etc., has led to a rise in vector-borne diseases. Affected areas need to be fumigated regularly and screening should be increased. Dengue can be fatal and people need to be made aware about its prevention. A proper audit of patients and mortality statistics are necessary in formulating an effective strategy to fight the disease.Garv, PanchkulaAdministration needs to be proactiveHow can you expect any good when the Administration has just one fogging machine? Dengue cases are rising and the authorities are hiding the actual figures. The Administration should undertake a fogging drive and make people aware about the disease. A proper plan should be chalked out and the Administration should stop making any false claims. People must also maintain hygiene to ward off the disease.Anju mohan, PanchkulaCitizens, Admn need to fight collectivelyThe root cause of mosquito breeding is stagnant water and unhygienic surroundings. It is the primary duty of the Administration to spot the areas prone to water logging and take necessary measures. Also, the Health Department needs to be equipped to treat the patients. The citizens must know that the situation can turn fatal if precautions are not taken. It is a joint responsibility of the Administration and public to keep check the spread of dengue.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliCarry out intensive fogging, testingRising dengue case pose a challenge to the Health authorities. The MC should keep a check on places where there is high possibility of mosquito breeding. They must distribute mosquito nets and repellents and start intensive fogging in the city. Testing should also be enhanced. Medical advice should be sought immediately if dengue symptoms appear in any individual. Dengue is a deadly disease. The MC should make people aware of it. People should keep their surroundings clean. They should wear clothes that cover the entire body and use mosquito repellent creams. Stagnation of water should be avoided.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhHold anti-larvae drive, educate peopleThe Administration should fumigate the entire city to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. All the machinery available should be pressed into service. People need to be educated about the precautions to be taken against the disease. Avoid accumulation of water and use mosquito repellent creams while moving out. If infected, seek medical help immediately.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAdmn has failed to contain dengueThe UT Administration has failed to take adequate steps to contain dengue. Fogging is done only in few Sectors, while dumping of garbage on roadsides is still rampant. Also, under construction houses are guilty of letting water accumulate at the site, thus providing a breeding ground to mosquitoes. Unless all this is not checked, dengue will continue to spread. The MC should also monitor the pipelines to stem any leaks. Overwatering of plants should be avoided.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhA wake-up call for AdministrationThe rise in dengue cases should be a wake-up call for the Administration. The unseasonal rain and unhygienic conditions in the localities have accentuated the crisis. There are dengue cases every year and as usual, the authorities concerned have once again failed to take any pre-emptive action to control the outbreak of the vector-borne disease. People should clean their house and close doors and windows before the sunset, as mosquitos are more active post-sunset. The Administration should make efforts to spot vulnerable areas and destroy potential breeding places. Get rid of stagnant water by clearing off all sources of standing water. Fountains at public gardens and plazas should also be stopped during the mosquito breeding season. All of us must check for damp areas in our homes and never let wet waste accumulate. People can also plant mosquito-repelling plants like neem, tulsi, eucalyptus, lemongrass, etc., in their houses.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNeed to fight collectivelyThe development not only lies in the hands of the authorities but also depends upon the responsiveness and sensitiveness of the citizens. Clean and green environment, care for each other and maintenance of nation’s property should be the prime concern and duty of each citizen. With combine efforts of citizens and the Administration, vector-borne disease can be eradicated from our country. There is a need to focus on building a network that unites public health experts, mosquito control practitioners and university scientists to manage vector-borne diseases. Surveillance programnes for invasive vector should be standardised.Charu Malhotra, MohaliClean roads on priorityWe often hear Chandigarh is a clean and green city, but there are heaps of waste lying everywhere. The Administration should clean roads on priority and provide free medicines to people living in vulnerable areas. The MC should conduct inspections, especially in slums, to check the spread of dengue. Camps should also be organised to create awareness among the masses.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhForm special teamsSpecial teams should be formed by the Health Department to check dengue larvae across the city. The residents should be requested to check water logging in and around their houses. Owners should be fined if dengue larvae are found in their houses.AK Jindal, PatialaGet rid of garbage, construction wasteIncrease in dengue cases is a reflection of the lethargic and inept attitude of the Administration. The city needs to get rid of garbage, construction waste and any source of stagnant water to prevent the spread of disease. Sewage systems need to be cleansed and intensive fumigation needs to be carried out across the city. The citizens also need to cooperate with the Administration in fighting the dengue.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe UT Administration failed to ensure compliance of cracker ban on Dasehra. What steps should it take to ensure the ban is not violated on Diwali?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-check-the-spread-of-dengue-325979
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Senate elections: Only 14.24% vote in 2nd phase||The second phase polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University Senate was held today at 61 polling booths spread across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Chandigarh.Of the 73,804 registered voters, 10,508 cast their vote, said the officials. The percentage of votes polled was just 14.24 per cent.In the first phase, polling was held at 211 booths and 14.66 per cent had exercised their right to franchise.Voting at all the polling booths went smoothly, claimed officials.The overall voting percentage in phase I and II, across all the 272 polling booths, was 14.57 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-elections-only-14-24-vote-in-2nd-phase-325980
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Final list of candidates for PUTA poll released||Prof Manu Sharma from University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) will contest for the president’s post against Mritunjay Kumar from AC Joshi Library in the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) general elections.The final list of candidates was released by the returning officer Vijay Nagpal here today. The elections are schedule to be held on October 28.Ikreet Singh Bal (Dental College) and Supinder Kaur (Laws Department) will contest for the post of vice-president, while Amarjit Singh Naura (Department of Biochemistry) and Kashmir Singh (Department of Biotechnology) will vie for the post of secretary.Sarvnarinder Kaur (Department of Biophysics) and Shivani Sharma (Department of Philosophy) have filed their nominations for the post of joint secretary.Nitin Arora (Department of Economics) and Sucha Singh (USOL) will contest for the post of treasurer.Deepti Gupta (Department of English), Gaurav Gaur (Department of Social Work), Gautam Bahl (Library-USOL), Jasbir Singh (Department of History), Neelam Paul (Department of Music), Neeraj Kumar Singh (AC Joshi Library), Priyatosh Sharma (Department of History) and Suman Sumi (AC Joshi Library) will contest for Group-I (four seats).AN Singh (Department of Botany), Balram Sooden (Computer Centre), Mamta Gupta (Computer Unit), Navneet Kaur (Department of Chemistry), Vijay Pal Singh (Department of Chemistry), Vijayta Chadha (Nuclear Medicine), Santosh Upadhyay (Department of Botany) and Suman Mor (Environmental Studies) will contest for Group-II (four seats). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/final-list-of-candidates-for-puta-poll-released-325981
18-10-2021||Mohali||PTI teachers climb atop water tank, threaten to commit suicide||The unemployed physical training instructors climbed atop an overhead water tank to protest state government’s “failure” to fulfil their demands.According to information, 646 unemployed PTI were sitting on the protest against the government.President of the Unemployed Physical Training Instructors Union Gurlabh Singh, alias Bhola, said five of the protesting teachers climbed atop the 26-feet high overhead water tank. They are on hunger strike, he added.The coordination committee of unemployed PTI Teachers Union declared that their five members had climbed atop the water tank around 2am, taking the Mohali Administration and the police by surprise.The five protesters have threatened to commit suicide if their demands are not met, stated the coordination committee.Gulab Singh said earlier Pargat Singh, when he was just a MLA, had promised them to get their appointments regularised. He also said if he becomes the minister, he will get it done at the earliest, claimed Singh.“After becoming the minister, Pargat Singh has forgot his promise,” said Singh. “We have already submitted a memorandum of demands to the state government.”Meanwhile, District Magistrate Isha Kalia issued orders for allowing peaceful protests at four designated places in the district, including Dasehra Ground, Phase 8, Mohali; Panchayat land at Chappar Chiri Kalan, Mohali; football ground at Darpan City, Kharar; and at vacant land near Focal Point, Mubarakpur Road, Dera Bassi.Kalia said the failure to adhere to the directions would attract criminal penalty as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the relevant provisions of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pti-teachers-climb-atop-water-tank-threaten-to-commit-suicide-325982
18-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Parvarish scheme: 145 children orphaned by Covid identified in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The UT Administration has identified 145 Covid orphaned children till now under the “Parvarish” scheme and disbursed Rs51 lakh for the welfare of these children. About the schemeThe “Parvarish” scheme aims at ensuring holistic development of children to provide an additional and comprehensive support for their well-being. These include Covid-19 orphaned children or children who have lost one parent due to Covid and the surviving parent has surrendered the child, Covid orphaned children who are living with guardians/extended families, children who have lost one parent to Covid and are living with surviving parent/extended family and Covid positive children.Out of these 145 Covid orphaned children, 12 are living with guardians or extended families, while 133 have lost one parent and are living with the surviving parent.There are two more children, both siblings, who lost one parent to Covid and the surviving parent had given up the children. They have been placed in the Specialised Adoption Agency - “Aashiana” - and will be rehabilitated through adoption as per the guidelines of the Central Adoption Regulatory authority.A total of 182 children have been identified by the District Child Protection Unit as beneficiaries after due approval of the Child Welfare Committee, Chandigarh, under different categories of the “Parvarish” scheme wherein funds of Rs51 lakh had been disbursed by the District Child Protection Unit, Chandigarh, to 145 children and cases of 35 beneficiaries are under process for providing them with the benefits under the scheme.The “Parvarish” scheme aims at ensuring holistic development of children to provide an additional and comprehensive support for their well-being. These include Covid-19 orphaned children or children who have lost one parent due to Covid and the surviving parent has surrendered the child, Covid orphaned children who are living with guardians/extended families, children who have lost one parent to Covid and are living with surviving parent/extended family and Covid positive children.The scheme also provides free education in government-run schools of Chandigarh. In cases where children are studying in private schools from Classes I to VIII, then the annual financial support for educational purposes is provided to each child as per the prevailing amount reimbursed by the Department of Education per child per month under the EWS quota.Besides, monthly financial support of Rs5,000 in order to meet the nutritional and recreational needs of children till the age of 18 years is also given.Cases of 12 Covid orphaned children, who lost both their parents, had also been approved by the Deputy Commissioner on the PM Cares for Children portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parvarish-scheme-145-children-orphaned-by-covid-identified-in-chandigarh-325983
18-10-2021||---||Quash FIRs against Ramlila committees: Chandigarh Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Chandigarh Congress today condemned the Administration for taking action against Ramlila committees for use of crackers while burning Ravana effigies on Dasehra and demanded quashing of FIRs.Congress spokesperson Harmail Kesri said cases had been registered against members of Dasehra committees. “Two days before Dasehra, city BJP president Arun Sood had sent a press release stating that he spoke to the Administration and all Ramlila committees can burn effigies of Ravana with firecrackers. Due to this, the committees burnt Ravana effigies with firecrackers. Later, cases were registered against the committees,” he said. “The city BJP president should be held responsible for all this,” he said.Kesri said the Administration took this decision keeping in mind the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). He said the NGT ban was restricted to Diwali only. In the NGT order, it is nowhere written that action will be taken for burning Ravana effigies with firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quash-firs-against-ramlila-committees-chandigarh-congress-325984
18-10-2021||---||Man found dead in forest area at Maloya||Chandigarh, October 17The body of a 30-year-old man was found under mysterious circumstances in the forest area at Maloya here today.The deceased has been identified as Sunil, a resident of Maloya.Local residents informed the police following which cops reached the spot.The body was shifted to the mortuary at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 here.The autopsy will be conducted tomorrow.Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated by the police.Sources said the victim was survived by his wife and two children, who live separately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-in-forest-area-at-maloya-325985
18-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Neighbouring states elevate patient load at Chandigarh hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17In view of the rising dengue patient load in city hospitals, the UT Health Department has requested authorities of nearby states not to send non-critical patients to government health facilities here.At the GMCH-32, there are 126 patients of acute fever with thrombocytopenia and 38 patients of dengue. Only 25 and eight, respectively, of them are from the city. Out of 90 admissions in the GMSH-16 during the past two days, only 18 patients are city residents.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The number of patients in the hospitals has suddenly increased manifold because of patients from the adjoining areas. Doctors informed that most of the patients from the adjoining areas are non-critical and could have been treated there itself. The authorities of the adjoining states are being requested not to send non-critical patients so that sufficient space and better care is available for the critical patients at the GMSH-16 and the GMCH-32.”To cope with the rush, Covid wards have already been opened for patients of fever, malaria and dengue. Further, the Covid-19 hospital at Sector 48 is also being opened from Monday for such patients.The Health Department has stated that there was sufficient stock of required medicines and kits and each of the aspect was being closely monitored. The department stated that the number of cases was expected to reduce in the coming week.A total of 394 cases of dengue have been reported from the city so far and 310 of these have surfaced this month. As many as 85 cases are from other states.The UT Health Department has requested the Education Department for providing 100 NSS volunteers for assisting malaria/dengue-related activities starting from Monday. The activities would continue till October 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neighbouring-states-elevate-patient-load-at-chandigarh-hospitals-325986
18-10-2021||---||Rain brings down mercury by 8°C in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The weather in the city turned cold today as rain brought down the maximum temperature by 8°C.As per the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the city is likely to witness light rain on Monday. Thereafter, there will be dry weather for few days.The maximum temperature in the city today dropped to 28.4°C, which is four degrees below normal. Yesterday, it was 36.4°C, which was four degrees above normal.The minimum temperature recorded today was 21.8°C, which is four degrees above normal. It was 20.6°C yesterday. For the next three days, the day temperature is expected to remain between 25°C and 29°C while the night temperature is likely to be around 20°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-brings-down-mercury-by-8%C2%B0c-in-chandigarh-325987
18-10-2021||---||143 more down with dengue in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 17A record 143 new cases of dengue surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases this season to 1,554. Health officials said however, the vector-borne disease did not claim any life today.While 344 cases and two deaths were reported in September, 1,183 cases have surfaced till October 17 and 12 patients have succumbed to the disease.A total of 265 samples of the suspected dengue fever patients were taken and the reports of 143 of these came positive for the disease.Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We have an alarming situation at our hands and to deal with it, anti-dengue drives have already been started. However, we need full cooperation of the residents as well. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our primary aim is to check the spread of the vector-borne diseases.”Dr Adarshpal Kaur said teams of the Health Department had been holding an inspection, spray and awareness campaign for the prevention of dengue fever across the district since March this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/143-more-down-with-dengue-in-mohali-district-325988
18-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Ex-cricketer Prem Kumar writes to BCCI, UTCA over irregularities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17Former state cricketer Prem Kumar, who is one of the former founding members of the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, has written a letter to UTCA and BCCI officials alleging irregularities in the association.The letter came as a ‘Pandora’s box’ ahead of the UTCA’s annual general meeting (AGM), scheduled for October 30. Meanwhile, several members alleged that they were yet to receive the AGM’s invitation and agendas.“As per Chapter 8 under heading XXXVII of the Constitution of the UTCA, orders and memorandum of the UTCA, including the apex council and the general body, shall be freely available to the general public at a reasonable price,” raised Kumar.“All payments and expenditures made by the UTCA, which are in excess of Rs25 lakh, shall be enumerated and uploaded on the website. Finance and compliance reports of the auditor shall be uploaded on the website,” Kumar wrote.Kumar alleged that even after the adoption of the new constitution, the UTCA failed to do so.“No CEO has been appointed so far. The association has no stadium and the availability of Mahajan Cricket Ground with the association is merely an eyewash. Not a single cricket academy of the UTCA has been set up till date. Players are doing practice at private academies after paying hefty charges. No ethics officer has been appointed at the advice of the apex council. UTCA officials have kept the reality of having their own cricket stadia and academies before the members of the BCCI affiliation committee appointed by the BCCI, which is concocted and falsely projected,” alleged Kumar.AGM’s agendaThe scheduled annual general meeting (AGM) mainly carries agenda to confirm minutes of the last AGM and adoption of audited statements of accounts for the year ended on March 31, 2021. Several life members claimed that a house of 2/3rd is needed to pass the agenda and they have been kept in the dark to avoid any kind of opposition. “We are yet to receive the AGM’s invitation. It should have been sent before 21 days along with the audited report. We have been kept in the dark intentionally. UTCA’s top brass relatives and friends, who have been made members, can easily fulfil the quorum,” said a senior member.‘Invitation sent to all members’“Invitation for the AGM has been sent to all members through courier as per law. Several members have received the invitation and we have the confirmation. Audited report must have been sent along. Other members will receive the invite soon. About the allegations, we are following all legal protocols and there’s nothing wrongdoing in the association. If anyone has any objection, they can approach us. We are yet to receive any kind of complaint letter from any member,” said Devinder Sharma, Treasurer, UTCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-cricketer-prem-kumar-writes-to-bcci-utca-over-irregularities-325989
18-10-2021||---||5 from Chandigarh get ‘Dak Sewa Award’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Punjab Postal Circle organised ‘Dak Sewa Award’ at the Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-D, here, today to felicitate employees for their excellence and outstanding contribution to public service. A total of eight people received the award. Out of this, five are from Chandigarh.The programme began with a welcome address by Manisha Bansal Badal, Postmaster General, Punjab West Region. VK Gupta, Chief Postmaster General, Punjab, gave away the awards.Radhika Dhir, Director Postal Services, Punjab (HQ), apprised the gathering of various initiatives such as Postman mobile app for real-time update on delivery, time-bound delivery of mails by the department to enhance delivery efficiency. Nodal delivery centres have been set up in Sector 17, 19, 22, 36 and 55 to ensure delivery to public through single point.A press conference was also held during the event. Gupta intimated the press about various citizen-centric services being offered to the public by the department such as Aadhaar updation and enrolment, various services such as payment of utility bills, applying PAN card, recharging FASTag, payment of insurance premium, loan EMIs, new gas connection etc. through common service centres and delivering driving licence, voter ID cards, e-challan, intakal/fard documents, passports through Speed Post.He said India Post was consistently striving to provide all kinds of citizen-centric services at the doorstep of customers. The department was evolving and adapting itself regularly to meet the changing needs of the country and its citizens.Shilpi Sinha, Director (Finance), Chandigarh, and other officers of the department were also present during the function.The awardees are Sanjeev Kumar from Amritsar; Parminder Singh, MTS, Mani Majra PO, Chandigarh; Kirandeep Kaur, OA, Divisional Office, Chandigarh; Vinod Kumar, PRI (P), Ludhiana HO, Ludhiana City; Balbir Singh, Assistant Director (Staff), Punjab Circle, Chandigarh; Manoj Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Chandigarh Division, Chandigarh; Sanjay Coundal, System Manager, Chandigarh Division; and Veeran Rani, Postman, Faridkot Head Post Office, Faridkot Division.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-from-chandigarh-get-dak-sewa-award-325990
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh AAP protests rising fuel, vegetable prices||The city unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today took out a protest rally across the city against the rising prices of petrol, diesel, gas, vegetables and pulses. The party workers also burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A large number of AAP volunteers were present in the rally, led by General Secretary Vijaypal Singh.Singh said the general public was facing hardships due to skyrocketing prices of diesel, petrol, gas cylinders and food items. The BJP came to power by misleading people around eight year ago. The party also promised to bring back good days, but nothing happened.AAP leader Jaideep Malhotra, along with his supporters, burnt an effigy in Sector 29. He said the party would continue to raise the issue till the prices were not brought down. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-aap-protests-rising-fuel-vegetable-prices-325991
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Visit to Indo Swiss Training Centre||Int’l wrestler to visit collegeChandigarh: Padma Shri Awardee and international wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt will visit the Aryans Group of Colleges to felicitate the winners of Innovative Idea Awards on October 24. The students will be honoured with 100 per cent scholarship during the event. Anand Sharma, member, Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), and Ghazanfar Ali, Director, Youth Sports Services, J&K, will also attend the function. TNSLegal aid clinic inauguratedChandigarh: A legal aid clinic was inaugurated on the campus of the Sri Sukhmani College of Law by Rajinder Singh Rai, District and Sessions Judge and Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali. The event was followed by a legal services camp for the awareness of general public of 15 Dera Bassi villages. TNSMCM celebrates e-Waste DayChandigarh: The Sustainable Practices Committee of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an event, ‘e-Safe’, to mark the celebration of International e-Waste Day. The aim of the celebration was to generate awareness regarding the hazards of e-waste and its proper disposal by handing it over to authorised recyclers instead of giving it to scrap dealers. TNSFit India Cycle RallyChandigarh: Students of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22 (D), MDAV, Sector 22, Government High School, Sector 22-C, and Shishu Niketan Public School, Sector 43, participated collectively in a “Fit India Cycle Rally”, organised by Hubs of Learning (HUB ID CH2829) Club. The students pedalled to Sukhna Lake carrying placards advocating cycling as an essential component of a healthy lifestyle. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visit-to-indo-swiss-training-centre-325992
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile phones snatched||Myraa claims gold medalChandigarh: Myraa Khattar claimed a gold medal in the age group of 8 to 10 years on the concluding day of the 37th Chandigarh State Yogasana Sports Championship. Mannat Bdwal claimed second position in the same age group, followed by Sayona Gupta at the third position, Priya Rana at fourth and Namya Narang at fifth position. TNSGolf tourney by Alumni AssnChandigarh: The Alumni Association of the Post Graduate Government College for Men, Sector 11, organised a golf tournament at Forest Hill Golf and Country Club on Sunday. Col KS Kondal emerged as winner of the tournament, while Major (retd) RS Virk claimed the second position. Rajiv Malhotra was declared the winner for shooting maximum birdies and Major General JS Sandhu (AVSM) won the event for marking maximum pars. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-phones-snatched-325993
18-10-2021||---||Three university students killed in accident on Rajpura-Chandigarh road||Patiala, October 17Three students were killed while one was seriously injured in an accident as the car they were travelling in collided with a truck on the Rajpura-Chandigarh road near Alampur village on Sunday morning.All the four car occupants were students of Chitkara University.The bodies have been sent to Rajpura Civil Hospital while the injured has been referred to a government facility in Chandigarh.Avtar Singh, investigating officer, said that accident took place around 4 am when the students were on their way to the Chitkara university. The officer said that they had registered a case under relevant sections against the driver of the container.Meanwhile, Rajpura Civil Hospital authorities informed that they had already conducted the post mortem and handed over the bodies to the family members of the deceased. The injured is under treatment at Government Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.The deceased have been identified as Yash Mittal (22), Aakarshit  Goyal (22) and Ishan Kalra (21). It has been learned that Yash and Akshit were residents of Mani Majra area of Chandigarh while Ishan Kalra was a resident of Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-university-students-killed-in-accident-on-rajpura-chandigarh-road-325790
