19-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||UT Election Commission announces reserved wards for MC Chandigarh polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19The State Election Commission, UT, on Tuesday announced reserved wards for MC Chandigarh elections scheduled to be held in December.The SC reserved wards are 7, 16, 19, 24, 26 , 28 and 31.The women SC reserved wards are 16, 19 and 28.The women general reserved wards are 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 18, 22 and 23.The State Election Commission, UT, announced the names after holding the draw of lots for reservation of wards of the MC. The elections to 35 wards of the MC are scheduled for December.The nomination process for the MC election will start in late November. The elections are to be concluded before December 31, when the term of the present corporation comes to an end.The elections to 35 wards will be conducted by nine returning officers (ROs) and each RO will be assisted by two assistant returning officers (AROs). Besides, two ROs and four AROs have been kept in reserve.With the merger of 13 villages with the MC in December 2018, the number of wards increased from 26 to 35. Earlier, only nine of the 22 villages were under the jurisdiction of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-election-commission-announces-reserved-wards-for-mc-chandigarh-polls-326575
19-10-2021||---||15% primary kids show up at govt schools in Chandigarh on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The first day of reopening of schools for primary school students saw a tepid response as only 15 per cent students of classes I to IV turned up at government schools today.Private schools may start classes from Oct 25We were waiting for clearance from parents. For classes I to IV, around 80 per cent parents have agreed to send their children to school. We are most likely going to start the classes from October 25. — HS Mamik, President, ISAThe UT Education Department opened schools for these classes today. In the case of classes VI to VIII, 57 per cent students attended government schools, while 38 per cent students of classes IX to XII showed up at the schools.The schools had reopened for Class IX onwards in July. Classes VII and VIII were restarted in August and classes V and VI were reopened in September.Wearing of mask, sanitisation of the campus, proper social distancing and other precautions were ensured. Students attended classes with the consent of their parents. The classes are being held both in the offline and online modes.Some private schools have not yet opened classes for the primary wing. Atul Khanna, Director of Strawberry Fields School, said the school would be opened for the primary wing from October 25.HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association (ISA), said, “We were waiting for clearance from parents. For classes I to IV, around 80 per cent parents have agreed to send their children to school. We are most likely going to start the classes from October 25. The students from the senior wing are still turning up in low numbers and the figure is hovering over 40 per cent only. They are satisfied with online teaching and don’t want to come to school. The government should keep only one option of teaching so that more students return to school.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-primary-kids-show-up-at-govt-schools-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-326435
19-10-2021||Naina Mishra||60% population in Chandigarh fully immunised against Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Around 60 per cent of the target population in Chandigarh has been fully immunised with Covishield.Experts see it as an indicator of low magnitude of third wave and lesser severe patients.UT sees four casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported four cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus. Five patients were cured of the disease. TNSNo death, 3 fresh cases in MohaliMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,785. No new death was reported, while two more patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one surfaced in Mohali (urban) and two in Dhakoli. Of the 68,785 positive cases reported so far, 67,683 patients have been cured. There are now 34 active cases. TNSNo fatality, 2 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,753. The toll remained at 378. While 30,365 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 10 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. TNSPGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said, “Once vaccination is complete, there are less chances of a re-infection. Even if a person contracts the infection, he/she will have immunity against the virus and the severity will be less.”“The magnitude of a third wave will be much less with this pace of vaccination. Also, many people got infected during the second wave and they all have immunity against the virus,” he said. “Our priority is a two-dose schedule of the vaccine first. There will come a time when the antibodies from vaccination or infection will fade out and we may need a booster dose. There are several countries administering a booster dose,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Till now, 9,19,293 beneficiaries in Chandigarh have got the first jab, which translates to vaccination coverage of 109.05 per cent. “Vaccination will definitely decrease the severity of the disease. Our aim is to vaccinate as many as possible so that even if a person contracts the infection, he/she does not land up in the hospital in a critical state,” said Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-population-in-chandigarh-fully-immunised-against-covid-326436
19-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh sees coldest October day in over a decade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The city today witnessed the coldest October day in more than a decade as the maximum temperature dropped by over four notches to 24°C.Rain predicted on October 23 and 24The Met Department has predicted chances of light rain on October 23 and 24. “Coming few days are going to be dry but we see western disturbance coming again. It is likely to rain on October 23 and 24,” said a Met official.Today’s temperature was eight degrees below normal. Chandigarh had yesterday recorded a maximum of 28.4°C.As per the Chandigarh Meteorological Department data, today’s temperature was the lowest on any day of October from 2011 to 2021. In the previous few years, the maximum temperature had dipped to a low of nearly 25°C.The Met Department has, however, not compiled the data regarding the all-time lowest day temperature in the city.The sudden drop in the temperature was attributed to a western disturbance. “The western disturbance lies over Afghanistan and its neighbourhood and is interacting with the easterlies at lower levels from the Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, rain was reported for two days and the maximum temperature went down,” said a Met official.Due to the change in the weather conditions, the day temperature fell from 36.4°C on Saturday to 28.4°C on Sunday.It further fell to 24°C today. On the contrary, nights have remained relatively warmer. The city today recorded a minimum of 21.6°C, which is five degrees below the normal. The minimum temperature has recorded an increase in the past two days as mercury raised from 20.6°C on Saturday to 21.8°C on Sunday.Meanwhile, in the coming three days, the day temperature is expected to rise and the mercury is predicted to stay between 29°C to 31°C.The minimum temperature is likely to see no major shift and is expected to be around 21°C to 22°C. In the past 24 hours, Chandigarh also recorded 1.3mm rainfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-coldest-october-day-in-over-a-decade-326437
19-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh civic body told to simplify draft policy for construction waste management||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18To make it easier for residents, the UT Administration has decided to fine-tune the draft policy for the management of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city.During a meeting on the C&D waste management, UT Adviser Dharam Pal directed the MC Commissioner to simplify the draft policy so that it is easy to understand and also easy to implement.Policy decisionAfter fine-tuning the policy, it will be ready within a week, said Dharam Pal.In August, the Administration had finalised the draft policy to process 100 per cent waste being generated in the city and use it to make recycled items like gravel and slabs, which can be used in the construction of roads.Under the policy, it will be made mandatory for all those constructing or reconstructing their houses to send the C&D waste to the processing plant in the Industrial Area.As per the policy, those reconstructing their houses will be levied C&D waste processing charges at the rate of Rs176 per square metre per storey and Rs22 per square metre for new construction at the time of approval of the building plan from the Estate Office or the MC. As an incentive, if a waste generator brings the C&D waste to the processing plant, he/she could take back 50 per cent of the volume of the waste in recycled items. Before approving the building plan, the generators will be given an option to either send the waste material directly to the processing plant or ask the MC to pick it up after paying the applicable charges.It will also be mandatory for all government departments, boards and corporations to send their C&D waste to the processing plant. Chandigarh generates nearly 90 tonnes of C&D waste every day. The waste generator will be challaned at the rate of Rs5,500 per vehicle for dumping unprocessed waste in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-told-to-simplify-draft-policy-for-construction-waste-management-326438
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Draw for reservation of wards in Chandigarh today||The State Election Commission, UT, will hold the draw of lots for reservation of wards of the Municipal Corporation (MC) tomorrow. The elections to 35 wards of the MC are scheduled for December.Nominations in late NovThe nomination process for the MC elections will start in late November. The elections are to be concluded before December 31, 2021, when the term of the present corporation comes to an end.The draw of lots for the reservation of wards for Scheduled Castes (SC) candidates, including SC women, and women (general), to be filled through direct election, will be held on October 19 at the UT Guest House.Due to the Covid-19 protocol, only two persons from each political party would be allowed to attend the proceedings of the draw of lots, the commission stated.The nomination process for the MC elections will start in late November. The elections are to be concluded before December 31, 2021, when the term of the present corporation comes to an end.The elections to 35 wards will be conducted by nine returning officers (ROs) and each RO will be assisted by two assistant returning officers (AROs). Besides, two ROs and four AROs have been kept in reserve.With the merger of 13 villages with the MC in December 2018, the number of wards increased from 26 to 35. Earlier, only nine of the 22 villages were under the jurisdiction of the MC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/draw-for-reservation-of-wards-in-chandigarh-today-326439
19-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||T20 World Cup: Chandigarh gears up for India-Pak encounter||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Not only cricket buffs, but hoteliers are also waiting for the Sunday – the day when India take on Pakistan in the ICC T20 World Cup.Heightened security The Chandigarh Police are gearing up for the occasion and are making special security arrangements to avoid any untoward incident.Sources claimed that a survey of hotels had already been carried out and special deployment of police personnel would be made at various Sectors.“As the match is scheduled to start at 7.30 pm, we have to be extra vigilant. Fans won’t be allowed to create a ruckus at parking lots or on roads. If needed, special nakas will be put up in sensitive zones. Official orders in this regard will be issued soon,” said a top police official.Covid riskMany fans said instead of enjoying the match in a hotel or at a bar, they would make arrangements at home to avoid the risk of getting infected.It’s better to arrange things at home and invite friends to enjoy the match. Amid the increase in the number of Covid and dengue cases, it is better to stay put at home. —  Khush, A Cricket fanAfter a gap of almost two and half years, Indian cricket team will lock horns with Pakistan on October 24.As everyone won’t be lucky enough to watch the epic battle sitting inside the Dubai International Stadium, the hoteliers here are planning to install wide screens and offer special menus to make it a memorable occasion for the cricket lovers of the city.“We have already installed a big screen and will offer a special menu. Special dishes will be made and named after different states. Mocktails will be named after players. We are also planning special screening for the guests,” said Raghuvir Singh, manager, Hotel Aroma.“India is playing against Pakistan after a gap of two years. It’s a big occasion. So yes, besides live screening, we are going to create the vibe with mega schemes and special menus,” said Ankit Gupta, owner of Himani Vertigo Lounge, Sector 35.Meanwhile, local bars and pubs, which promote sporting events, also plan to change the theme of their venue. “We have placed orders for cricketing gear and equipment. These will be installed inside the food courts and bars so that our guests get a proper environment,” said a Sector 26-based bar owner.Not only hoteliers, but various coaching centres are also planning to telecast the Indo-Pak encounter. Sources claimed that the match would be telecast live on the big screen at the Sector 16 stadium.“Yes, plans have been made for children and trainees. The shorter format of the game can be enjoyed by one and all,” said a top UT official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/t20-world-cup-chandigarh-gears-up-for-india-pak-encounter-326440
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 shopkeepers booked for selling firecrackers in Chandigarh||Three more shopkeepers have been booked for selling crackers despite a ban imposed by the UT Administration on the sale and use of crackers in the city.Rupesh Kumar, SDM (South), today ordered the sealing of three stores for selling crackers. An FIR has also been registered against the shopkeepers for violating the orders of the State Disaster Management Authority. On Friday, the SDM had ordered the sealing of a shop in Attawa for selling crackers.The ban was imposed in view of the NGT orders and a possible third wave of Covid. Any violation of the orders was to invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-shopkeepers-booked-for-selling-firecrackers-in-chandigarh-326441
19-10-2021||Mohali||68 new dengue cases in Mohali||As many as 68 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the count to 1,622.No death due to dengue was reported from across the district till this evening, said health officials.In Mohali, 1,622 cases of dengue have been reported in the past two months. The total number of deaths stands at 12. A total of 143 samples were taken and out these, 68 tested positive for dengue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/68-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-326442
19-10-2021||---||Farmers halt rail traffic in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 18On a call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to protest against the three farm laws, farmers blocked the Chandigarh-Morinda railway line in Mohali, disrupting the rail services today.A large number of farmers, along with their families, from Mohali and the adjoining areas gathered at the Mohali railway station and staged a dharna on the rail tracks.Addressing the protesters, social activist Manjeet Singh said the farmers had been fighting since long demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Instead of listening to the farmers, the government was making plans to defame the farmers’ struggle.He said the farmers would never let the Central Government succeed in its nefarious designs. The struggle would continue till the dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, repeal of the three farm laws and fulfilment of other demands of the farmers. The struggle would be intensified in the days to come.Speaking on the occasion, various farmer organisation leaders said the farmers blocked the railway tracks demanding the removal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni from the Cabinet in connection with the murder of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri.They said it was unfortunate that no action had been taken against him in connection with the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur. This had resulted in great resentment among the farmers.Kripal Singh Siau, senior district vice-president, Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Lakhwinder Singh, block president, Mohali Kisan Union, Aman Punia, Minder Sohana, Harvinder Nambardar Sohana, Hardeep Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Maninder Chilla, Jaswant Singh and Navdeep Baidwan were among those present in the protest.Gurnam Singh Dau, while addressing the farmers on a railway track in Kharar, criticised the Central Government for its insensitiveness towards farmers’ demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-halt-rail-traffic-in-mohali-326443
19-10-2021||---||Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi cancelled, 8 trains plying through Chandigarh Railway Station delayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Nearly eight trains plying through Chandigarh Railway Station were delayed due to the rail roko protest, a call for which was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi (train number 2046) was cancelled.Trains delayedThe Lucknow Chandigarh SF Special (02231) was late by over eight hours. The New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi (02011) was short-terminated at Ambala. The Kerela Sampark Kranti SF Special (04559) was late by about seven hours. The Lucknow-Chandigarh Special (05011), Ramnagar-Chandigarh Intercity SF Special (02527) and the Patliputra Chandigarh SF Special (03255) were yet to arrive when this report was filed. Besides, the Paschim Express and the Unchahar Express too were delayed.About 200 members of various pro-farmer organisations in the city, including the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, Pendu Sangharsh Committee and the Kisan Ekta (Chandigarh), blocked the railway tracks around the city, despite the rain. They demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the revocation of the three farm laws.One of the passengers, Anita, who was waiting for the train to Lucknow said, “This all is happening because PM Modi is troubling farmers. We can’t even go via road because they will charge extra fare. As it is, petrol and diesel rates are too high.”Satnam Singh Tanda of the Kisan Ekta (Chandigarh) said, “This is a strong message to the Modi government. We don’t want to inconvenience anyone, but if the government is adamant on the issue of farm laws, we won’t budge.”At the railway bridge near Raipur Kalan, the protesters raised slogans against the government while village folks provided them with langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-new-delhi-shatabdi-cancelled-8-trains-plying-through-chandigarh-railway-station-delayed-326444
19-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bapu Dham man gets RI in NDPS, Arms Act cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18A local court has sentenced Mintu, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, to 20-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) after convicting him in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act case. It also imposed a fine of Rs2 lakh on the convict.The court has also sentenced Mintu to three-year RI under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and also imposed a fine of Rs25,000 on him. Both sentences will run concurrently. In case of default of the payment, the convict will have to undergo RI for one more year.The police had arrested Mintu near the IT Park with 280-kg ganja, one pistol and five cartridges on May 12, 2019.An FIR under Section 20 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against him at the IT Park police station. As per the prosecution, Mintu was arrested on a tip-off.The police caught the accused while he was coming from the Kishangarh chowk and going towards the Shastri Nagar light point in an SUV. The police had recovered 14 bags of ganja weighing 280 kg, a pistol and five cartridges from the vehicle.The rear seats of the vehicle were removed to make space for the bags containing ganja. Initially, the accused tried to mislead the police by claiming that the bags contained election campaign materials. During checking, the police found ganja in all bags.The police claimed that the accused procured ganja at cheaper rates and was planning to sell it in the tricity. Mintu used to work as a fruit vendor at the Sabji Mandi in Sector 26 here. He sold drugs (ganja) at higher rates and further started lending money to small vendors at the mandi.After hearing the arguments and examining the witnesses, the court convicted the accused and ordered him to undergo 20-year rigorous imprisonment under the NDPS Act. The court also imposed a fine of Rs2 lakh on him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-man-gets-ri-in-ndps-arms-act-cases-326445
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Devendra Sharma is Chief of Staff, Western Command||Lt Gen Devendra Sharma has been appointed the Chief of Staff (COS), Western Command, Chandimandir. On assuming charge today, he laid a wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial to pay homage to the martyrs.He takes over from Lt Gen Manjinder Singh, who has been posted as General Officer Commanding 16 Corps at Nagrota.Lieut-Gen Sharma is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy. In a career spanning over three decades, he has held varied and significant appointments including command of an armoured regiment, an armoured brigade and an infantry division, all in the Western Sector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-gen-devendra-sharma-is-chief-of-staff-western-command-326446
19-10-2021||Ambala||Theft suspect flees from Ambala Sadar police station||A person, who was arrested in connection with a theft, managed to flee from the Ambala Sadar police station on Sunday. The suspect has been identified as Gurjit Singh, a resident of Sullar village.As per a complaint given by Head Constable Ajit Pal, who is an investigating officer at the Ambala Sadar police station, Gurjit was held in connection with a theft case. He, however, managed to escape after breaking the window glass of the investigation room and jumping over the rear wall of the police station. Efforts were made to trace Gurjit, but to no avail.A case under Section 224 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Ambala City police station.SHO Ambala City Ram Kumar said: “The building of the Sadar police station falls under the jurisdiction of the Ambala City police station. Hence, a case has been registered here. Gurjit was held in a mobile theft case, but he managed to escape. Efforts are being made to nab him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-suspect-flees-from-ambala-sadar-police-station-326447
19-10-2021||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi MC shuts eyes to dengue threat||At a time when hospitals are jam-packed with dengue patients, the scene outside the Municipal Council office here is a mess. The road leading to the office and the market complex is waterlogged but the civic body officials are unmoved.Street vendors, shopkeepers and visitors to the MC office complained that they had to bear the inconvenience day in and day out but the officials had failed to get the stagnant removed which was a potential dengue threat. Street vendors and local residents said they were forced to clear the stagnant water.Residents of Sector 17 near the Ramlila ground here complained that there had been no fogging in their area even once since the dengue cases started rising in the city. The MC officials, however, said regular fogging was being done in the morning and evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mc-shuts-eyes-to-dengue-threat-326448
19-10-2021||---||Armed Forces Preparatory Institute director Maj Gen BS Grewal retires||Chandigarh, October 18After 11 years at the helm of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, which significantly helped stem the decline in contribution of Punjab to the officer cadre, its first director, Maj Gen BS Grewal, hung up his boots.He handed over charge of the AFPI to Air Commodore Nitin Sathe, head of the institute’s cadets training wing today. He will hold the post till the time a new director is appointed by the state government.Maj-Gen Grewal had been appointed AFPI Director in October 2010 after superannuating from the Army as Deputy Commandant of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Kharakvasla.“It has been a great second innings for me. I could not have asked for a more fulfilling, challenging, educative and satisfying experience,” he said. “Today, 11 years down the line, nine batches have passed out from this institute and about 180 alumni have already joined the Defence forces as officers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/armed-forces-preparatory-institute-director-maj-gen-bs-grewal-retires-326449
19-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||UNDP team to interact with Chandigarh residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18A team of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) will interact with local residents from tomorrow to know how they want their city to be in 2030.The team will attend the “Corporation Aapke Dwar” event in different parts of the city. Residents and RWAs will take part in these events. They will share the problems of their areas with councillors and MC officials.The UNDP team members will get a chance to interact with public at ground zero and understand their issues. A questionnaire of around 30 questions ranging from issues related to development, civic issues and aspirations of people will be give to the residents.An MC official said there were questions like “How residents want to see their city in 2030?, What are their expectations?, What improvements are required in their areas? and What are the problems?.The “Chandigarh Master Plan 2031”, which was finalised around seven years ago, has achieved little progress. Questions related to it were also expected to be there.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said: “The UNDP team had a meeting with the UT Adviser. Following this, its members approached us about taking feedback from the public. I suggested them to join us at our ‘Corporation Aapke Dwar’ events where from people from all corners of the city will be present. They will get the actual feedback there.”The event, which is starting just two months before the elections, will kick off from Tuesday evening from Sector 45 and will continue till code of conduct comes into force.“Under this campaign, the MC will reach different areas to listen to the grievances of local residents. Once the code of conduct is in force, we will listen to the issues of their delegations in the MC office as we will not be allowed to hold public gatherings,” said the MC chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/undp-team-to-interact-with-chandigarh-residents-326450
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Senior lawyer Dr PC Markanda passes away||Dr PC Markanda, a senior advocate and renowned authority on arbitration laws, passed away here today after a brief illness. He spoke at a national-level webinar on October 9 along with Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju.A Doctor of Laws (LLD), he practised at the national and international levels. Dr Markanda was a leading author of law books on arbitration and conciliation, building and contracts, law of partnership and mediation. He had to his credit more than 50 papers published in national and international journals.A doyen or arbitration in India, he served as vice-president of the Indian Council of Arbitration (ICA) for two consecutive terms (2007-2008 and 2008-2009) and as member of its governing body for 10 consecutive terms (1986-2019). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-lawyer-dr-pc-markanda-passes-away-326451
19-10-2021||Zirakpur||Pehowa resident booked for rape||The police have booked a Pehowa resident, Virender, on the charges of rape, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. The suspect impregnated, assaulted and later forcibly tried to give abortion pills to her, the victim, a resident of Panchkula, alleged.On the statement of the victim, the police have registered a case against the suspect under Sections 313, 323, 376 and 506 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.In her complaint to the police, the victim said she met Virender eight years ago. He lured her and raped her at a hotel in Zirakpur. Later, he started harassing her and sexually exploited her several times. When she got pregnant, he beat her and forcibly tried to give her abortion pills. The suspect was still intimidating her.The police said efforts were on to trace the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pehowa-resident-booked-for-rape-326452
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman hangs herself to death||Illegal hoardings removed in cityChandigarh: Taking a serious view of the mushrooming of illegal advertisement hoardings, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation on Monday carried out anti-encroachment drives in different parts of the city and removed unauthorised hoardings. Following the directions of MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra, a team of the Engineering Wing and the Enforcement Wing removed 160 glow signs, hoardings, boards and flexes. Over 60 boards, glow signs and hoardings were removed from Sector 22-A and 100 glow signs were removed from Sector 34-C. The Commissioner said such drives would be carried out on a regular basis. TNSMC inspects parking sitesChandigarh: Teams of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation inspected various parking sites under Zone-1 & 2 from October 8 to 17 on a daily basis. During the inspection in Zone 1 (32 parking sites), haphazard parking was found and challan amounting to Rs10,000 was issued to the contractor. Violations such as haphazard parking and attendant sans proper uniform were found in Zone 2 (Sector 5, 8, 9, 17 and 22). A challan of Rs70,000 was issued to the contractor. MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra took a serious note of the violations in the parking sites and asked the officers concerned to take strict action against the contractors, besides issuing them notices. TNSAdda Cricket Eleven log winChandigarh: Adda Cricket Eleven (ACE) defeated Panchkula Cricket Associates by 36 runs in the ongoing Rang De Basanti T20 Cricket Cup here on Monday. Batting first, ACE posted 167/8 in 20 overs. In reply, the Panchkula outfit posted 131 runs before getting all out in 18.1 overs. TNSPGGC-42 shines in shooting ballChandigarh: Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 42, won the 1st Senior State Shooting Ball Championship for Women here on Monday. In the men’s senior final, Capital Club claimed the title by defeating Success Boxing Club 2-1. The Sector 42 team, meanwhile, registered a 2-0 win over Success Boxing Club to win the women’s title. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-hangs-herself-to-death-326453
