20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Maloya: 2 days on, murder case registered||Rs 28.5L withdrawn from MC accountChandigarh: An unknown person managed to withdraw Rs28.51 lakh from the bank account of the Municipal Corporation by presenting a forged cheque. In his complaint to the police, Varinder Singh Thakur, Chief Accounts Officer, MC, reported that the person presented two forged cheques at the Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, on October 18 and tried to withdraw money. It was then discovered that an amount of Rs28.51 lakh was withdrawn at the same bank by presenting a forged cheque on October 11. A case has been registered. TNSJewellery stolen from houseChandigarh: Cash, jewellery and documents were stolen from a house in Sector 41. Complainant Harshit reported that Rs65,000, gold and silver jewellery and documents were stolen from his house between October 15 and 18. A case has been registered. TNSCity Mayor lays foundation stoneChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for strengthening the sewerage network and stormwater drainage system of Burail village and Sector 45. The stone was laid in the presence of Commissioner Anindita Mitra, area councillor Kanwarjit Rana, other councillors and MC officials. TNSTribune Model School shineChandigarh: Tribune Model School, Sector 29, defeated Aurobindo School (6-5) in the girls’ sub-junior category on the opening day of the State Netball Championship on Tuesday. In the boys’ sub-junior event, Aurobindo School, Sector 27, logged win over Chandigarh Club (7-4). In the boys’ junior event, DAV Sports Club defeated Moti Ram School (7-5) and Tribune Model School girls outplayed Sacred Heart School (8-7). TNSDistrict Roller Skating meetPanchkula: The District Roller Skating Association, Panchkula, will conduct the District Roller Skating Championship on October 22 and 23 at Blue Bird High School, Sector 16. The selected skaters will represent Panchkula district in the Haryana State Roller Skating Championship. As per the Roller Skating Federation of India (RSFI) guidelines, all skaters should register themselves online. Skaters will not be allowed to participate in the district or state championships without online registration. They are required to specify their registration no on the district entry form. Entry forms are available at the respective skating centres and schools. TNSTennis academy to be launchedChandigarh: The RoundGlass Tennis Academy will be launched at Chandigarh Club. The academy will be headed by Aditya Sachdeva, a reputed coach with more than 20 years of top-level experience. Sachdeva has coached and developed 24 national champions. Ten of his students have represented India in the prestigious Davis Cup and Billie Jean King Cup (former Federation Cup) competitions. TNSPanjab varsity declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results for Bachelor of Laws (2nd semester) and Bachelor of Laws (4th semester). TNSMentorship programmeChandigarh: Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Chairperson, District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), inaugurated a “community mentorship programme” for young adults of After Care Homes on Tuesday. The District Magistrate congratulated the DCPU, Child Welfare Committee and experts/mentors for initiating this programme for the rehabilitation of young adults and also mentioned that the mentors were always required at every stage of life. The DCPU, under the aegis of the District Magistrate, is working for the implementation of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and its Model Rule 2016. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maloya-2-days-on-murder-case-registered-326944
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||20 champions exhibit cycling skills||Chandigarh Cycling conducted its first BMX Show at the Panjab University grounds. The BMX, which as has recently been made an Olympic event apart from circuit races, is challenging and comes in the Xtreme sports category.Around 20 champions representing Manipur, Shillong, Chandigarh, Mumbai, Pune, Jaipur, Patna, Delhi and Agartala took part in the show and exhibit their cycling skills and tricks in Flatland and Street BMX. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-champions-exhibit-cycling-skills-326943
20-10-2021||---||Zirakpur: Six booked for fraudulent sale of plot||Zirakpur,October 19The police have booked six persons for fraudulent sale of a plot dating back to 2013 in Zirakpur.The suspects - Surinder Singh, Hari Chand, Munish Dev, Surinder Singh, Bhim Sen and a woman from Jarnail Enclave in Zirakpur - have been booked under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and the Registration Act. Complainant Navjot Singh, a resident of Mohali, stated that his plot in Zirakpur was fraudulently registered in the name of some other person by forging the papers from the Dera Bassi court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-six-booked-for-fraudulent-sale-of-plot-326942
20-10-2021||Mohali||New voter registration from November 1||In view of the ensuing Assembly elections, the district administration has decided to speed up the process of special summary revision of photo electoral rolls.A special campaign will be launched from November 1 to register new votes. Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said a special campaign would be held from November 1 to 30 to register/unregister or any amendment in votes. She said the Election Commission of India had announced January 1, 2022, as the cut-off date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-voter-registration-from-november-1-326941
20-10-2021||---||Chandigarh: ‘Nigam Aapke Dwar’ launched||Chandigarh, October 19Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today launched the “Nigam Aapke Dwar” programme to hear MC-related grievances of residents.The programme was launched at Sector 45 here this evening in the presence of Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, MC; Kanwarjit Rana, area councillor, and others.Local residents raised various grievances related to water supply, door-to-door waste collection, pruning of trees, laying of paver blocks, maintenance of parks, recarpeting of internal roads and haphazard parking in front of the car spare parts market in Bruali. The officers concerned assured the residents for their early solution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-nigam-aapke-dwar-launched-326940
20-10-2021||---||Farm activists’ march through Chandigarh villages tomorrow||Chandigarh, October 19Members of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee, farmers and farm activists will take out a march through 23 villages of Chandigarh with the ashes of four farmers and a journalist, who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, on October 21.“The ashes of Lakhimpur Kheri violence victims arrived here from Shambhu border on Sunday and have been kept at Khuda Ali Sher village. At a meeting held on Tuesday, it was decided that the ashes will be taken across the city,” said Gurpreet Singh Somal, general secretary, Pendu Sangharsh Committee.From the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Kuldeep Singh Kundu, Sarvesh Yadav and Rajinder Bali attended the meeting. Yadav said, “The ashes will be immersed in the Sutlej at Ropar. We appeal to the residents of sectors and villages to extend support to the march.” The farm activists will leave Khuda Ali Sher village at 9 am.Protest held against BJPAt an event in Sector 45, which was attended by Mayor Ravikant Sharma, at least 10 farm activists staged a protest against the new farm laws as per a call of the SKM. “The two inner roads of the sector were blocked and we peacefully protested near the barricades,” said Sarvesh Yadav of the SKM. Kirpal Singh from the Naujawan Kisan Ekta said, “Two local residents raised pro-farmer slogans and were taken away from the venue of the event by the police. They joined us at the barricades later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-march-through-chandigarh-villages-tomorrow-326939
20-10-2021||---||Brother-in-law opens fire at widow in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 19A woman suffered a bullet injury in her stomach after her brother-in-law, who was allegedly pressuring her to marry him, opened fire at her in Ambala Cantonment today.The woman, a widow, has been identified as Rachna (35), a resident of the Pakki Sarai area, Ambala Cantonment. The suspect has been identified as Sandeep Sharma (37), a resident of Ghaziabad.Victim’s brother Deepak Singh, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, in his complaint to the police, stated that Rachna got married to Nilesh Sharma in 2004 in Ghaziabad and the couple had three children (a daughter and two sons). Her husband died last year and her brother-in-law Sandeep was having bad intentions towards Rachna and her daughter, following which she shifted to the Pakki Sarai area in Ambala Cantonment in June this year.“Sandeep started coming there also from Ghaziabad. He used to threaten us and pressurise Rachna to marry him. On Tuesday morning, Sandeep opened fire at Rachna with an intention to kill her and also pointed his pistol at me and threatened to kill me,” Deepak alleged.The woman was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, from where she was referred to the PGI Chandigarh. A case was registered at the Parao police station.Investigating officer SI Radhey Shyam said: “The condition of the women is stable. The accused is unmarried and he had been pressuring the woman to marry him. He has been arrested and the pistol has been recovered from his possession.”Devender Singh, SHO of the Parao police station, said: “The accused works as a typist at a tehsil in Ghaziabad . He will be produced in a court tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brother-in-law-opens-fire-at-widow-in-ambala-326938
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||GIS mapping of city: Chandigarh first to use LiDAR technology||Chandigarh has become the first city in the country to use light detection and ranging (LiDAR) technology for Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping of the city.The LiDAR survey data includes high-resolution photograph of the entire city covering around 144 sq km. These high-resolution photographs contain complete details of roads, building, trees, forest, open areas, parks, water bodies and utilities.This LiDAR data would help in generating the 3D models of the entire city in the form of digital elevation model and digital surface model which would further help department(s) in areas like utility management, population growth, encroachment identification, social economic distribution and traffic management. The Department of Information Technology, UT, organised a training on LiDAR-based GIS mapping of the city.The training was attended by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, along with senior officials of the UT Administration. The training was conducted by the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology. The training was conducted to sensitise the departments to GIS and LiDAR data and its usage in various departments of the UT for better synergies and effective application of the data. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gis-mapping-of-city-chandigarh-first-to-use-lidar-technology-326937
20-10-2021||---||Veggie prices head north||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Skyrocketing prices of vegetables have burnt a hole in the pocket of the common man.Experts claim that the rise in vegetable prices is expected to continue at least for another week given the present climatic situations and inflation in fuel prices.Today, the prices of tomato were recorded at Rs 50 per kg in the wholesale market and Rs70 to Rs 80 per kg in the retail market, while those of onion remained at Rs 38 per kg in the wholesale and Rs 50 per kg in the retail. Capsicum was available for Rs 90 per kg in wholesale and Rs120-Rs140 in retail, okra for Rs 25 per kg in wholesale and Rs 40 per kg in retail, cabbage at Rs 25 in wholesale) and Rs 40 in retail, cauliflower at Rs 35-Rs 40 in wholesale) and Rs 50-Rs 60 in retail, cucumber for Rs 14-Rs15 in wholesale and Rs 30 in retail and green beans for Rs 40 per kg in wholesale and Rs 60-Rs 80 in retail. The prices of these vegetables increased in the past few weeks.“The hike is mainly due to climatic conditions in major farming areas. Crop has been damaged due to rain/flood in several areas, while farmers are yet to harvest crops in some area. Increase in onion prices is expected to continue for another 15 days till the time new crop comes. In addition to this, inflation in fuel prices has also affected veggie prices. Carriage and labour charges have been doubled. Businessmen are struggling hard to get labour and meet the hike in carriage charges. Inflation has definitely hit the market,” said Brij Mohan, president, Sector 26 Sabji Mandi Aditya Association, Chandigarh, and Apple Market Association, Panchkula.Meanwhile, residents continue to face the heat amid increase in demand during this festive season. Not only residents, but also those into food business are also troubled with the hike in veggie prices.“We have to think twice before buying anything. The government should help common man by removing excess taxes,” said Shivani, a local resident.“We can’t increase prices of our products and cannot even compromise with the quality. Rise in vegetable prices has directly hit our business amid the ongoing inflation. I hope this hike is temporary,” said an owner of a burger joint at Sector 44.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggie-prices-head-north-326936
20-10-2021||---||3 Panchkula cops booked in lawyer’s thrashing case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 19On an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the police have registered a case against three cops for forcibly taking away a lawyer, Deepak Aggarwal, from his house and brutally assaulting him.A case has been registered against Head Constable Virender Singh, Constable Iqbal and Constable Dilbagh under Sections 166-A, 323 and 342 of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station. The complainant alleged that Section 365 (abduction) was not mentioned in the FIR as the Panchkula police were trying to save their personnel.Meanwhile, the District Bar Association, Panchkula, has issued a notice that no lawyer would fight the case of the three cops, who had already been suspended. Even as the police cancelled the false FIR filed against the lawyer, the cancellation report was not filed in the court. According to law experts, both the cases cannot run simultaneously.On September 11, advocate Deepak Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 4, Panchkula, had called the police by Dialling ‘112’ to complain that a scooter was wrongly parked in front of his house. After reaching the lawyer’s house, instead of listening to his complaint, the three cops had started making a video of the complainant, it was alleged. The lawyer was taken away in the PCR and allegedly thrashed. The whole incident was captured in CTV cameras.The Reader of DCP Mohit Handa confirmed that the case was registered against the three cops and the cancellation report pertaining to the case against the lawyer would be filed in the court soon.High Court Bar Association president GBS Dhillon said he would take up the matter of not adding Section 365 in the case with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-panchkula-cops-booked-in-lawyers-thrashing-case-326934
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration hikes DA to 28%||The UT Administration has decided to enhance the rate of dearness allowance (DA) from the existing 17 per cent to 28 per cent of the basic pay for UT employees as well as deputationists of Punjab working in Chandigarh with effect from July 1, 2021.The DA will be given on the Central pattern in the revised pay scales as per the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission, implemented in the UT vide a notification, dated August 28, 2021.The Administration has enhanced the DA of the UT employees, pensioners and employees working on deputation from Punjab and continuing to draw their pay in the pre-revised pay scales as per the Fifth Punjab Pay Commission from the exiting 164 per cent to 189 per cent from July 1, 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-hikes-da-to-28-326924
20-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Despite reduction in reserve price, e-auction brings little cheer to CHB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Reduction in reserve price of leasehold commercial units provided little relief to the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) after its auctions repeatedly receiving a lukewarm response.The CHB had decided to reduce the reserve price of its vacant commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis by 20 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. The move followed a tepid response to its last three e-auctions. After reducing the reserve prices, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 vacant units — 132 commercial and 31 residential units on a leasehold basis and 28 residential units on a freehold basis in the city.However, the CHB sold 19 commercial and four residential units on leasehold basis and nine residential units on freehold basis to the highest bidders after the e-bids were opened today.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the total highest bid amount was 12.04 per cent above the total reserve prices. “However, in case of commercial units, the average highest bids are 21.40 per cent higher than the average reserve prices,” he added.The CHB earned a total revenue of Rs16.29 crore from the e-auction of nine residential units on freehold basis and four residential and 19 commercial units on leasehold basis against the total reserve price of Rs14.54 crore, he added.Since the e-bids were opened today, the highest bidder is required to pay the 25 per cent of the bid amount by October 27 to avoid forfeiture of the earnest money deposit and blacklisting from future tendering processes of the CHB, added Garg.In the previous e-auction, the CHB was just able to sell only three commercial units out of 151 and five residential units out of 38 on leasehold basis. In the e-auction of commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis held on July 1, the CHB could sell only 12 units out of 156 and two residential units out of 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-reduction-in-reserve-price-e-auction-brings-little-cheer-to-chb-326906
20-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Dengue claims two more lives in Mohali district, toll 14||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 19The dengue situation continues to be precarious in the district as two more persons have succumbed to the deadly disease during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 14. Besides, 26 new cases surfaced today, raising the total number of cases to 1,648.While 344 cases and two deaths surfaced in September, 1,304 cases and 12 deaths have surfaced this month. As many as 438 persons have tested positive for the vector-borne disease in the past five days only. A total of 56 samples were taken for dengue test today and 26 of these tested positive.According to sources in the Health Department, the number of dengue cases could be much higher as the government hospitals, including the civil hospitals in Phase 6, Dera Bassi and Kharar, were facing shortage of testing kits to detect the vector-borne disease. The patients have been forced to turn to private hospitals, who charge between Rs800 and Rs1,000 per test.As per norms, the department only considers test reports by a government lab and then carries out an insecticide spray in the patient’s house. All private hospitals and labs need to report any suspected or confirmed dengue case to the Health Department for remedial measures.While confirming the shortage of testing kits, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the scarcity was not only in Mohali but in entire Punjab. She said they had sent the demand and were expecting to receive the testing kits by tomorrow.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said they were facing an alarming situation as the maximum number of cases was surfacing from urban areas such as Phases 3B1, 4 and 5, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Kurali. She said anti-dengue drives had been started and the number of anti-larvae teams increased. However, they need cooperation of residents, who need to take vector-control measures at their houses, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-two-more-lives-in-mohali-district-toll-14-326905
20-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh: Councillors’ unspent funds all set to lapse||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19The five-year term of the councillors of the current MC is about to end and their unspent ward development funds are set to lapse. Two councillors have unspent funds of more than Rs1 crore each.The code of conduct for the MC elections is expected to be announced in a fortnight, following which the unspent funds will lapse. The elections are scheduled to be held in December.According to data procured from the civic body office, Farmila, the BJP councillor from ward number 6 comprising Dadu Majra Colony, Dadu Majra and Shah Pur, has Rs1.27-crore unspent funds. Of the total Rs 1.79 crore, including carried forward funds, she could spend only Rs51.41 lakh.This is despite the fact that Dadu Majra is infamous for its garbage and other civic problems.Congress councillor Satish Kainth from ward number 11 failed to spend Rs1.32 crore during his five-year term. Of the total Rs1.85 crore available to him in the past two years, works of only Rs53.4 lakh could be administratively approved.“The files of works worth around Rs22 lakh are pending with the PA of the MC Commissioner. Earlier, due to fund crunch and now due to not clearing of files, my funds have remained stuck,” reasoned Kainth.Another BJP councillor and former Mayor Davesh Moudgil from ward number 22 got administratively approved works worth only Rs76 lakh of the total Rs1.64 crore in the past two years. He has unspent funds to the tune of Rs88 lakh.BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali from ward number 20 could not spend Rs89 lakh. He had Rs1.64 crore available, of which only works worth Rs75 lakh could be approved. The ruling party’s Heera Negi has Rs74 lakh as unspent funds.Besides, several other councillors too could not spend the entire development fund available to them.ExceptionsSome councillors such as Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Chanderwati Shukla and Ravi Kant Sharma of the BJP and Devinder Singh Babla and Gurbax Rawat of the Congress have been able to use almost the entire funds. “I have a big area, so I planned and followed up my cases with MC officials. Thus, I could use the entire funds at my disposal,” said Sidhu.Ward development fundEach of the 26 elected councillors got ward development funds to the tune of Rs40 lakh per year in 2017 and 2018. The funds were later doubled and in 2019 and 2021, they got Rs80 lakh each. The funds were not allocated in 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Funds not used in a year are carried forward till the lapse of the five-year term of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-councillors-unspent-funds-all-set-to-lapse-326904
20-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Ward quota spoils councillors’ plan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19The reservation of 16 wards for the MC elections has left many sitting councillors disappointed as their wards have been reserved for women or SC candidates.Prominent among those affected are the Leader of the Opposition in the MC House, Devinder Singh Babla, who has a stronghold in his ward, BJP councillor Rajesh Kalia, who is also popular in his ward, and three-time BJP councillor Rajesh Bittu, who will now have to either choose other wards or field a woman member of their family in case their parties consider their names.In a draw of lots conducted by the State Election Commission, UT, in the presence of political leaders and officers, ward numbers 7, 24, 26 and 31 were reserved for SC candidates, 16, 19 and 28 for women SC candidates and 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 18, 22 and 23 for women candidates (general category).Of the 35 wards, 16 have been reserved. The area falling under the wards was earlier revised following the merger of 13 villages with the MC in December 2018.Ward number 10, which now comprises Sector 27, 28 and 29, has been reserved for a woman candidate (general category). In the present House, Sector 27, 28 and 30 fall in ward number 18, from where Babla is the Congress councillor. Ward number 10 now reserved, Babla has started exploring other options.“My wife will contest from this ward as I have worked a lot here. If the party wants me to contest from some other ward, I will also fight,” said Babla. He won twice from this ward in 2006 and 2016, while his wife won in 2001 when the ward was reserved for women.The reservation of wards has also come as a blow to old warhorse Bittu, a three-time BJP councillor from ward number 16, which comprises Sector 20 and 33. It is now ward number 18 and has been reserved for a woman candidate (general category). “Whatever the party decides, I will abide by it,” he replied when asked whether he would field a family member or consider contesting from some other ward.The reservation of wards also caused trouble to Kalia, a former Mayor and BJP councillor from ward number 7 (Maloya, EWS Colony, Maloya, Sector 39 (West) and the grain market). His ward, which is now ward 28, has been reserved for a woman SC candidate. He will also have to do his calculations to remain in the fray.In a trouble for the ruling BJP, all three seats held by it (revised ward numbers 4, 5 and 6) in Mani Majra have been reserved for women candidates (general category). Councillors Jagtar Singh Jagga, Anil Kumar Dube and Vinod Aggarwal will have to look for alternatives.“We have active women party leaders in the area. That is not a worry for us,” said city BJP chief Arun Sood. The BJP and the Opposition Congress will now have to scout for more women candidates.Areas under 16 reserved wardsFor SC candidateWard No. 7: Ambedkar Colony, Charan Singh Colony and small flats, all in Mauli JagranWard No. 24: Sector 36, 42, 53 and 54, Furniture Market, Adarsh Colony and Sector 42Ward No. 26: Sector 38 (West), Dadu Majra Colony, Dadu Majra village, Shahpur Colony and villageWard No. 31: Kajheri Colony, Sector 52, Sector 61, Kajheri village, Transit Camp, Karsan Colony, Kuldeep Colony, Pandit Colony, Gwala Colony and Majdoor Colony in KajheriFor woman SC candidateWard No. 16: Sector 25 Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25 and 25 (West)Ward No. 19: Industrial Area, Phase II, Ram Darbar, TatarpurWard No. 28: Maloya village, EWS Colony, Maloya, Sector 39 (West), Gursagar Bhattal Colony, Gwala and Kumhar Colony, Sukhrana and Bansal FarmFor woman (general category) candidateWard No. 1: Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora ColonyWard No. 4: Basti Kishangarh, Basti Bhagwanpura, Pipli Wala Town, Housing Board duplex houses, Mani Majra, IT ParkWard No. 5: Old Mani Majra (NAC), Shanti Nagar, Mariwala Town, Thakur Dwara, GovindpuraWard No. 6: Railway Colony, Mauli Jagran (Part II), Shivalik Enclave, Dhillon Complex, Motor Market, Darshni Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Indira ColonyWard No. 9: Industrial Area, Phase I, Sanjay Colony, Kabari Colony, Colony No. 4, DariaWard No. 10: Sector 27, 28, 29Ward No. 18: Sector 20 and 30Ward No. 22: Sector 31 to 33Ward No. 23: Sector 34, 35 and 43||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-ward-quota-spoils-councillors-plan-326884
