21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 38 resident held with heroin||2 arrested with stolen bikesZirakpur: The police arrested two persons and recovered two stolen motorcycles from them on Wednesday. The suspects have been identified as Monu, alias Yarid Khan, alias Gandhi, a resident of Dayalpura village, and Suraj, a native of Purnia, Bihar, who stays in Dera Bassi. The police said the suspects were nabbed while they were coming to Zirakpur with a stolen motorcycle and trying to sell it. Another stolen motorcycle and a mobile phone were recovered from them. The suspects were produced in a court and remanded in police custody. On October 18, Niaz Mohammad, a resident of Nabha Sahib village, reported that his motorcycle and a mobile phone were stolen. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station. TNSTheft suspect in police net, againAmbala: The Ambala police have arrested Gurjit Singh, who managed to escape from the Ambala Sadar police station on Sunday. Ram Kumar, SHO of the Ambala City police station, said Gurjit was arrested and produced before a court on Wednesday, which sent him to judicial custody. He was earlier arrested in connection with a mobile theft case. However, he had managed to flee from the police station after breaking the window glass of the investigation room and jumping over the rear wall of the police station. TNSThree elected to PU SenateChandigarh: Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa, Mukesh Kumar Arora and Sandeep Singh have been elected to the Panjab University Senate from from the graduate constituency. Randhawa polled 2,386 votes, Arora got 2,859 votes and Sandeep bagged 3,667 votes to emerge winners on the second day of counting. The counting will continue to declare winners on 12 more seats. TNSCity rallyist, navigator winChandigarh: Seasoned Chandigarh rallyist Harvinder Bhola and navigator Chirag Thakur won the ‘Rally of Himalayas’ organised by Himalayan X-Treme Motorsports Club from October 7 to 10. The duo won the ‘Overall Winner’ title in Manali. As many as 100 top rallyists from across the country participated in the rally. Driving Maruti Grand Vitara 1850 CC, Bhola, along with his navigator Thakur, covered 500 kms in four days. All four stages majorly covered the challenging terrains of Hamta Pass, Manali, Kaza, Kunzum Pass and Losar of Spiti Valley. TNSJaipur college log victoryChandigarh: SS Jain Subodh College, Jaipur, registered a one-wicket win over TKR College, Hyderabad, in the ongoing Redbull Cricket Cup on Wednesday. Batting first, the Hyderabad team scored 86 runs before getting all out in 18 overs. In reply, Jaipur lads posted 88/9 in 17.1 overs. TNSStone for laying paver blocks laidChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for laying paver blocks in Burail village in the presence of area councillor Kanwarjit Rana. He said the work of laying paver blocks in a total of 8,207 sq m area would be completed within six months at a cost of Rs68 lakh. TNSDelegation meets Edu MinisterChandigarh: A nine-member delegation of the Association of Unaided College Teachers (AUCT), Punjab and Chandigarh, met Pargat Singh, Minister of Higher Education, and Krishan Kumar, Secretary, Higher Education, at Punjab Bhawan, to raise their demands. Their demands include deletion of the clause 6 from the Service Security Act to bring the unaided college teachers under the protection of the law and to convert unaided posts in the colleges into aided ones. TNSPEC lecture seriesChandigarh: Career Development and Guidance Centre (CDGC), Training and Placement Cell of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), launched “Udaan - The Higher Education Seminar 2021”, a lecture series . On the third day, Ashish Bhatia and Arjun Bhalla, both of whom have accomplishments in the corporate world, discussed with the students international opportunities in management studies. Bhalla, alumnus of PEC, is pursuing an MBA from London School of Business. The speakers emphasised how valuable networking was and the countless opportunities it provided to boost one’s career. TNSWater supply line openedChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Tuesday inaugurated an independent and dedicated water water supply line from Sector 37 to 22. The line has been set up at a cost of about Rs62 lakh. The Mayor said the residents of Sector 22 had been complaining of low water pressure for the past many years. The dwellers of second floor had to fetch water in the buckets from the ground floor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-38-resident-held-with-heroin-327437
21-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||1 dies, 2 hurt in furnace blast||One labourer died and two others were seriously injured after a blast at an iron furnace in Mandi Gobindgarh late last night. The blast occurred at Modi Concast Private Limited. The deceased has been identified as Amanjot Singh, a resident of Kumbran village near Mandi Gobindgarh, while injured have been identified as Shella Ram and Prabhu Nath, both migrant labourers. The blast occurred as soon as the labourers put scrap in the furnace and the melted iron fell on them. They were rushed to a private hospital, where Amanjot succumbed to injuries.On the statement of Malkiat Singh, father of the deceased, the Mandi Gobindgarh police have registered a case against Deepak Modi and Anil Modi, owners of the furnace under Sections 287, 336, 337 and 304-A of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-dies-2-hurt-in-furnace-blast-327433
21-10-2021||---||Hockey Punjab eves log victory||Chandigarh, October 20Hockey Punjab thrashed Le Puducherry Hockey (18-0) in the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship, in Simdega, Jharkhand.Harpreet Kaur (23rd, 37th, 40th and 50th) starred in the match with four goals to her name, while team captain Harpreet Kaur (2nd and 16th) Navjot Kaur (11th), Anjali Panwar (15th, 51st and 52nd), Sanjana (17th and 57th), Vishali Sharma (23rd and 47th), Karmanpreet Kaur (28th and 41st, 46th) and Mitali (50th) scored in the team’s win.Hockey Karnataka outclassed Hockey Bengal with a scintillating 16-0 win in their Pool H match.Assam Hockey beat Hockey Rajasthan (6-0) and home team Hockey Jharkhand put up a fine performance in their Pool A match as they beat Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu (8-1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-punjab-eves-log-victory-327431
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tribune Model School girls netball champs||Tribune Model School, Sector 29, registered a 7-5 win over Sacred Heart School, Sector 26, to win the girls’ sub-junior title in the 7th Netball State Championship. Earlier in the league matches, Sacred Heart girls defeated Dev Samaj School (6-4) and Tribune Model School overpowered Aurobindo School (6-3). Aurobindo School claimed the third place by defeating Dev Samaj girls (6-4).DAV Sports Club won the boys’ sub-junior title by defeating Aurobindo School (7-6). Dev Samaj School claimed the third position by registering (4-0) win over Snehalya Club.In the boys’ junior league matches, DAV Sports Club defeated Dev Samaj School (11-10) and Aurobindo School ousted GNPS (4-3).In the girls’ junior event, Tribune Model School defeated Sacred Heart School (9-6) and British Academy ousted Dev Samaj School (7-5). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribune-model-school-girls-netball-champs-327430
21-10-2021||---||Swastika’s maiden entry into semis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Unseeded Swastika Ghosh toppled seventh seed Krittwika Sinha Roy (4-0) to enter her maiden semi-finals of the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship at Tau Devi Lal Multipurpose Indoor Stadium here today.On a day that saw several seeds tumbling out, including the top two seeds, Swastika’s remarkable rise in recent times has caught the imagination of fellow players. The 18-year-old, who won the gold in WTT Youth Contender in Tunis last month, blanked out Krittwika with her superior display. The Airports Authority of India girl, who was stretched the full distance in the earlier round by Karnataka’s Kushi Viswanath, sailed through without breaking a sweat.Fifth, sixth and eighth seeds Takeme Sarkar, Anusha Kutumbale and Prapti Sen had it easy against their opponents to join Swastika in the semi-finals. Earlier, top seeded Sreeja Akula bowed out losing to Surbhi Patwari of the AAI (1-4) to enter the quarterfinals. Fourth seeded Reeth Rishya went down to unseeded Diya Chitale (4-2). Second and third seeds Sutirtha Mukherjee and Ayhika Mukherjee made their exits in the Round of 32.Sharath sails into semisTop seeded Sharath Kamal, second seeded Manav Thakkar, third seed Soumyajit Ghosh, and fifth seed Harmeet Desai moved into the men’s semis.Earlier, Kamal dropped a couple of games before pulling the plug on the 16th seed Jeet Chandra. The PSPB veteran won (3-1, 9-11, 11-7, 11-3, 11-2 and 11-7) for a quarterfinal showdown with Sudhanshu Grover, who is seeded nine. Seventh seed Ronit Bhanja’s exit was a surprise as he went down to qualifier Sarthak Seth, a TTFI wildcard, (11-8, 10-12, 11-8, 12-10, 8-11 and 12-10) in a grim pre-quarterfinal battle. Star attraction Manav Thakkar ousted Sarthak Seth (11-7, 11-9, 11-5 and 11-7).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swastikas-maiden-entry-into-semis-327429
21-10-2021||---||Top seed Mohanty sails into tennis semis||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 20Top seed Dilip Mohanty outplayed Anondito Guha (7-5, 6-1) to sail into the men’s 35+ semi-finals in the ongoing Roots-ITF Seniors International Tennis Ranking Championship, today.Harneet Singh also logged an easy (6-1, 6-1) win over Mohit Pandey, while Raj Kumar ousted Kiran Kumar without conceding a single game (6-0, 6-0). Varun Makkar also made his way to the semis by defeating Prasang Raheja (6-0, 6-2).In the men’s 45+ quarterfinals, S Vebkataraman faced a tough resistance before logging a (6-7(6), 6-4, 6-3) win over top seed Vijay Kumar. Third seed Yogesh Kohli blanked A Rastogi (6-4, 6-1) and Monty Roy defeated second Sunil Lulla (7-5, 6-1). Shyam Jagat had to struggle hard before logging a (6-3, 3-6, 6-1) win over Soni Gopal.In the men’s 55+ quarterfinals, top seed Nirmal Rajan Kumar ousted Anil Nigam (6-1, 6-0). Third seed Sanjai Kumar also registered an easy (6-2, 6-0) win over Om Prakash Choudhary and Kuldeep Singh defeated Rakesh Kohli (7-5, 6-3). Second seed Ajeet Bharadwaj moved ahead by defeating Naresh Vij (6-1, 6-2).In the men’s 65+ quarterfinals, top seed Narender Janweja defeated Mahender Kakkad (6-2, 6-0) and Mridulal Barkakoti outplayed Darshan Lal Maria (6-1, 6-0). Vinayak Gujrathi thrashed Sudhir Kumar (4-2, 4-0) and second seed Suresh Murthati defeated Pala Ram Sehgal (6-0, 6-0).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-mohanty-sails-into-tennis-semis-327427
21-10-2021||---||Mutilated body recovered from drain in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 20An unidentified body was recovered from a drain near Manji Sahib Gurdwara in Ambala City on Wednesday. After getting information, the police reached the spot.The body was fished out from the drain. Ram Kumar, SHO of the Ambala City police station, said: “A decomposed body has been recovered from the drain and it seems that it was lying there for the past few days. It also appears that some animals have mutilated the body as its head was not intact. The body has been shifted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City. It will be sent to the Medical College in Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, for postmortem examination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mutilated-body-recovered-from-drain-in-ambala-327426
21-10-2021||---||Three shopkeepers booked under Copyright Act||Mohali, October 20The police raided three shops, two in Balongi and one in Kharar, and booked their proprietors for selling huge quantities of fake salt and tea of a branded company.The shop owners have been booked under the Copyright Act. Goods worth Rsfive-six lakh were seized from them.The police said the salt and tea were being packaged and sold as products of a branded company. A company official had given a complaint in this regard to the police. One of the shopkeepers claimed that he had genuine bills of the goods purchased from a company dealer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-shopkeepers-booked-under-copyright-act-327423
21-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Youth Congress launches door-to-door poster campaign||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Chandigarh Youth Congress (CYC) today launched a door-to-door poster campaign for the upcoming MC elections.Manoj Lubana, president of the CYC, said: “MP Kirron Kher had promised to implement a citizens’ charter, provide 24-hour water and electricity supply, end traffic jams, streamline parking and set up a Chandigarh service selection board, but little has been done in this direction.”“She has also failed to regularise need-based changes in Chandigarh Housing Board units or come up with a housing scheme for UT employees. Promises such as construction of a film city, setting up of a single-window system, and abolition of contractual labour are also gathering dust. If all this wasn’t enough, the Municipal Corporation has never been in such dire straits financially,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-launches-door-to-door-poster-campaign-327421
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC issues 30-day notice to public, shopkeepers||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation issued a 30-day notice to the general public/shopkeepers and businessmen to remove all illegal advertisements contrary to the provision of the control order, failing which action will be taken against the violators as per law.Issuing the orders here today, MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said continuous indifference by violators had been viewed seriously and a special drive began from October 18 to remove such illegal advertisements.She said the violators were liable to pay advertisement fees and penalties, which might run into several lakhs depending upon the size of illegal hoardings or advertisements. Such violations also attract action under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code as well as the Indian Penal Code for the violation of Prevention of Delhi Defacement of Property Act, 2007. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-issues-30-day-notice-to-public-shopkeepers-327420
21-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Muktsar youth acquitted of rape charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, Chandigarh, has acquitted a youth, a resident of Muktsar, Punjab, of the charge of raping a woman on the pretext of marrying her, after the prosecution failed to prove charges.The UT police had registered a case against the accused on a complaint of the woman for offence punishable under Section 376 (2)(n) of the IPC in 2016.The woman, in her complaint, said she was in a relationship with the accused for the past five years. She alleged that the accused developed physical relationships with her on the pretext of marriage. Her parents also gave the consent for their marriage. She alleged that the accused took her to hotels and rented accommodations several times to develop physical relations. She alleged that the accused also tried to take her to a foreign country even before marriage as he desired to settle abroad. However, her parents did not allow her to do so.She alleged that later the behaviour of the accused changed towards her and he started talking to other girls. On the basis of her statement, the police registered a complaint.After investigation, the police presented a challan against the accused in 2017 in the court and charges were framed against him for which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Rabindra Pandit, counsel for the accused, argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the case and placed the records to prove his points.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the court said the prosecution had miserably failed to discharge the requisite onus beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt. Consequently, the accused stands acquitted of offence punishable under Section 376 (2)(n) of the IPC.The court said: “The accused and the prosecutrix were in a relationship. Parents of the prosecutrix were aware of their relationship. Parents of the accused objected to their marital alliance due to different caste. The prosecutrix has stated that in year 2013, the father of the accused had refused their marital alliance. Despite this, she continued relations with the accused. The accused, at no point of time, concealed the fact that his parents had reservations about their marital relations. The conduct of the accused narrated by the prosecutrix in her testimony is evidence of the fact that the accused was desirous of marrying the prosecutrix and made all efforts at his command to fructify the same. He not only convinced the parents of the prosecutrix but also tried to convince his parents, though unsuccessful. The conduct of the accused established his intention to marry the prosecutrix. However, it did not materialise on account of family circumstance”.The court said: “This leaves no manner of doubt that the relation between the accused and the prosecutrix was the result of their affection and liking for each other and not solely based on the promise to marry, as alleged”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/muktsar-youth-acquitted-of-rape-charge-327418
21-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration reconstitutes advisory panel to oversee implementation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The UT Administration has reconstituted the advisory committee to oversee the implementation of the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016, in the city.According to a notification issued by Nitin Kumar Yadav, Secretary, Environment, the committee shall meet once in six months.The UT Health Secretary will be the chairman of the committee, whereas the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Director, Environment, Director, Health Services, Director, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary, Chief Architect, Urban Planning Department, Secretary, Indian Medical Association, (UT Chapter), a representative of Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal facility, and a representative of an NGO, will be members and the Member Secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, will be the Member Secretary of the committee.The biomedical waste comprises human and animal anatomical waste, treatment apparatus like needles, syringes and other material used in healthcare facilities in the process of treatment and research. This waste is generated during diagnosis, treatment or immunisation in hospitals, nursing homes, pathological laboratories and blood banks.Scientific disposal of biomedical waste through segregation, collection and treatment in an environmentally sound manner minimises the adverse impact on health workers and on the environment. The hospitals are required to put in place a mechanism for effective disposal either directly or through common biomedical waste treatment and disposal facilities.According to an official, mixing of hazardous waste with non-hazardous results in contamination and makes the entire waste hazardous. It is necessary to segregate and treat both types of waste.According to the 2016 Rules, bio-medical waste, which is classified into four categories based on treatment options — untreated human anatomical waste, animal anatomical waste, soiled waste and biotechnology waste — shall not be stored beyond a period of 48 hours.Healthcare facilities have to make a provision within the premises for a safe, ventilated and secure location for the storage of segregated biomedical waste, pre-treat the laboratory waste, microbiological waste, blood samples and blood bags through disinfection or sterilisation on site and then send it to a common bio-medical waste treatment facility for final disposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-reconstitutes-advisory-panel-to-oversee-implementation-327415
21-10-2021||---||Sweets shops, dairies checked in Mohali district||Mohali, October 20In order to ensure clean, hygienic and quality food items to people during the ongoing festive season, a food safety team of the District Health Department conducted surprise checks at sweets shops and dairies in the Kharar and Mullanpur areas.District Health Officer Subhash Kumar said on the instructions of Health and Family Welfare Minister OP Soni and Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, the food safety team checked the quality and durability of sweets and milk. The team collected a total of nine samples of milk and milk products, which have been sent to the Kharar lab for testing. He said all sweets shops and dairies on the Jhungian road, Kharar, and Mullanpur were inspected. Samples of milk, curd, ‘khoya’, milk cake and ‘kalakand’ were collected.Dr Subhash Kumar said shopkeepers were directed to mention the expiry date of sweets on the tray. During the checking, the shopkeepers were also instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and the Health Department to curb the spread of the Covid. They were told to wear gloves and face masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without a face mask.The shopkeepers were also briefed on the Food Safety Act. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items and pay special attention to cleanliness. He said the checking was not meant to harass anyone, but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to people.The District Health Officer said: “A mobile testing van is moving throughout the district. People can get the quality of any food item checked at the van. The van is equipped with modern machinery, which is capable of checking the quality of milk, RO water or plain water, turmeric, salt, pepper, spices, cold drinks, desi ghee, etc. A fee of Rs50 per item will be charged”. Food Safety Officer Lovepreet Singh was also part of the inspecting team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweets-shops-dairies-checked-in-mohali-district-327414
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Elante Mall reports biz recovery||Notwithstanding changing customer behaviour and patterns, the Elante Mall has claimed that they managed to recover over 90 per cent of the business that they did in the same months of 2019.“A lot of things have changed during the course of the pandemic, including consumer behavior, shopping patterns and trends. For some time now, the customer journey has been evolving. It’s no longer simply about visiting a store. It now involves an overall brand experience,” said Anil Malhotra, Executive Director, Corporate Affairs, Hospitality, Offices & CSR, Nexus Malls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elante-mall-reports-biz-recovery-327411
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||The city on Wednesday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Three patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSNo new case in MohaliMohali: The district on Wednesday reported no new case of Covid-19 while four persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. The tally remained 68,788 while the recoveries rose to 67,689. The active cases in the district are 31. The toll stands at 1,068. — TNS3 fresh Covid cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded three fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,756. While 30,366 people have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-327410
21-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Capt Vikram Batra’s name missing on Panjab University shooting range signboard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Two years on, the Panjab University authorities are yet to install a single sign board outside “Capt Vikram Batra, PVC, Shooting Range”, to guide visitors on the campus.On July 7, 2018, the PU dedicated its state-of-the-art indoor shooting range to the Kargil war hero, Capt Vikram Batra, Param Vir Chakra (PVC), on his martyrdom anniversary.Also read: Vikram Batra, a man of his wordAlthough a brief history about Captain Batra has been beautifully imprinted inside the shooting range, the signage and landmark board, outside the arena, refers to it as “Panjab University Shooting Range”.Not only this, there has been no site about the actual name of the shooting range even on the website of the Directorate of Sports, PU. There has been no mention of this range under the “infrastructural facility” column and the forms to get membership also term it as “University Shooting Range”.“We will get it checked and rectify it. This is a very small thing,” said a senior official, seeking anonymity.Most residents living on the campus are unaware about the name of this range. “I was not aware of its name. We usually term it as a PU shooting range, which is written on the signage. If hostel names are well written outside the buildings and on the landmark boards, the same should be done here,” said a professor, not willing to reveal his name.In 2018, a plaque of Captain Batra was unveiled at the shooting range in the presence of his brother Vishal Batra. Captain Batra, a Palampur native, was an alumnus of the PU and had stayed at Hostel No. 1 on the campus. He pursued MA-English in 1995-96 after completing his BSc from DAV College, Sector 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capt-vikram-batras-name-missing-on-panjab-university-shooting-range-signboard-327408
21-10-2021||---||Redevelopment of Chandigarh railway station suffers a setback||Chandigarh, October 20The Ministry of Railways has ‘in principle’ decided to close down the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), leaving the plan for redeveloping Chandigarh railway station in limbo again.Though zonal railways have now been directed to develop stations’ projects, officials could not give the exact details of how they plan to go ahead with the redevelopment.The renovation of Chandigarh railway station has been hanging fire since October 2012, when the then railway minister, Pawan Kumar Bansal, had announced that it would be made it a world-class facility.The IRSDC was formed in 2012 for transforming the country’s railway stations into world-class hubs.It was only in March this year that the IRSDC conducted the first pre-bid meeting for leasing vacant land parcels for mixed-use development as part of the Chandigarh railway station redevelopment project. In September, the bids were invited for setting up a rail arcade at the city station.In a letter dated October 18, the Railway Board communicated the approval to dissolve the IRSDC.“The Competent Authority has now decided ‘in principle’ for the closure of the IRSDC,” read the contents of the letter, which has been addressed to the vice-chairman, Rail Land Development Authority; chairman and managing director, Ircon; chairman and managing director of RITES Ltd; and the managing director and chief executive officer, IRSDC.“All project-related documents be handed over to respective Zonal Railways by the IRSDC. Examine other contracts. Transfer (novate) the contracts to Zonal Railways. All necessary procedural formalities for the closure of the IRSDC should be initiated,” the letter by Harish Chandra, Deputy Director, Station Dev.-2, Railway Board, states.The IRSDC officials remained tight-lipped about the closure of the corporation. However, an IRSDC official, on condition of anonymity, shared, “Only the railway board and corporate office in Delhi can tell why this decision was taken. The planning of IRSDC projects was done in Delhi office of the corporation. In fact, the tenders were floated and one was awarded too, but then Covid happened in March 2020. There is a clause that if during the contract, there’s a pandemic or famine or anything, the contractor can leave. The company then backed out. Right now, we have no SOPs on how to go about the projects except handing them to the zonal railways as per the letter issued by the railway board.”When contacted, GM Singh, DRM, Ambala Division, said, “We still don’t have any updates on the further steps that need to be taken, but we are ready to take up tasks we are given and perform them to the best of our abilities.”No work carried out for 7 years: BansalPawan Kumar Bansal, former railway minister and MP, said, “This government is out to sell all assets of the country. The 50 trains that have been privatised will have a 30-minute head-start, which is beneficial for private players. As for world-class railway station projects, no work has been done for the past seven years now.” He added, “In the name of converting these stations into world-class stations, it seems they are now planning to pass them on to private players, considering that even stations are being privatised. This will impact everything, from the rates of platform tickets to car parking tickets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/redevelopment-of-chandigarh-railway-station-suffers-a-setback-327406
21-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t order re-probe merely because complainant party is dissatisfied: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has reminded the subordinate courts that reinvestigation of a criminal case could not be ordered merely because the complainant party was discontented with the closure report filed by the investigating agency.“The dissatisfaction of the complainant party qua the cancellation report is a normal instinct and that criteria alone cannot form the basis for ordering further investigation,” the High Court has asserted.The assertion by Justice Raj Mohan Singh came in a case where a Judicial Magistrate (First Class) rejected the cancellation report submitted by the investigating officer in a murder and criminal conspiracy case and remitted the matter for further investigation.Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted the perusal of the impugned order would show that only consideration by the trial court was the dissatisfaction of the complainant party. It was settled principle of law that the court, dealing with the cancellation report, was required to record its own satisfaction, while accepting or rejecting the same. The court could reject the report by giving reasons. It could, in the process, also refer the matter for further investigation. The court could also take cognisance of its own as well. But it could not reject the cancellation report merely on the ground that the complainant was not satisfied with the investigation.Justice Raj Mohan Singh added it was true that the Magistrate, while accepting or rejecting the cancellation report, could not compel investigating agency to change its opinion, to form a particular opinion or to submit the challan or the final investigation report. But the court could certainly give reasons for directing the police to undertake further investigation.“While rejecting the cancellation report, the Magistrate is duty bound to record its own satisfaction, instead of accepting mere disagreement of the complainant. It is not the satisfaction of the complainant, which would ultimately matter, but it is the satisfaction of the court that would be the relevant factor for acceptance or rejection of the cancellation report,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh added.Before parting with the order, Justice Raj Mohan Singh further added it would be just and appropriate to direct the Judicial Magistrate to revisit the issue and pass appropriate order in accordance with law. The Bench also ordered setting aside of the impugned order on the sole ground of non-recording of satisfaction by the trial court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-order-re-probe-merely-because-complainant-party-is-dissatisfied-hc-327403
21-10-2021||---||Boy killed as truck hits bike in Raipur Rani||Panchkula, October 20An 18-year-old boy was killed while the pillion rider, both residents of Hangoli village, was injured after a truck hit a two-wheeler near an under-bridge at Mauli in Raipur Rani late yesterday.The deceased has been identified as Shubham. He died on the spot. Tthe pillon rider, Rajpal, suffered injuries.The complainant, Mukesh Kumar, a relative of the victim and resident of Hangoli, said, “Around 10 pm yesterday, we were on our way back from Barwala. My cousin, Shubham, was riding a motorcycle with Rajpal as his pillion rider, while I was on another vehicle. We were on National Highway 7 when near a under-bridge, a speeding truck hit his motorcycle and sped away.”A post-mortem was conducted today after which the victim’s body was handed over to his family.The police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (death by negligence) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-killed-as-truck-hits-bike-in-raipur-rani-327400
21-10-2021||---||Road mishaps leave 2 dead in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 20Two accident deaths have been reported from the city. While an elderly person was killed after being hit by a speeding car, a man riding pillion on a motorcycle died after being hit by a CTU bus.According to the police, complainant Uma Shankar, a resident of Dhanas, reported that a CTU bus hit his motorcycle near the Kisan Bhawan chowk, Sector 35, on October 18. His friend, Raju, who was riding pillion, got injured.The injured was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police have registered a case against the bus driver, Baljeet Singh, at the Sector 36 police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.In another incident, a 65-year-old woman, identified as Boni, a resident of Colony No. 4, Industrial Area Phase I, died after being hit by a Swift car being driven by Darshan Singh near the Colony No. 4 light point on October 19.The victim was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where she later succumbed to her injuries.A case has been registered against the car driver at the Industrial Area police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishaps-leave-2-dead-in-chandigarh-327399
21-10-2021||---||Rail engine derails near Chandimandir, 3 hurt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20An electric engine coming from Kalka derailed near Chandimandir around 6 pm this evening. The loco driver, assistant loco driver and a railway guard were injured and have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, said an official.“We got an intimation about the accident in the evening around 6 pm and the driver, assistant driver and a rail guard got injured. They are stable and being treated at the Panchkula Civil Hospital,” the official said on condition of anonymity. “Right now, we are only concerned about the well-being of the injured. An inquiry will be marked to see what happened and why the engine derailed,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rail-engine-derails-near-chandimandir-3-hurt-327396
21-10-2021||---||Immigration firm owner held in Mohali, 150 passports seized||Mohali, October 20The police have recovered 150 passports and two notary stamps from the owner of an immigration company in Sector 70 here.The suspect, Vikas Verma, the owner of Prime International Consultancy, was arrested. A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and the Immigration Act was registered against him at the Mataur police station. The suspect will be produced in court tomorrow.Vikas Verma could not give a satisfactory explanation for possession of such a large number of passports. The police are verifying the authenticity of the seized passports. The police also seized two laptops and a mobile phone of the company owner.The investigation team suspect that proformas of fake documents, fake offer letters and other documents related to immigration might be there.The police said there were several complaints of immigration fraud following which raids were conducted today. Mataur SHO Navinpal Singh Lehal said the suspect cheated innocent people on the pretext of sending them abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immigration-firm-owner-held-in-mohali-150-passports-seized-327395
21-10-2021||---||Review ban on crackers:  Dealers to Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, October 20Citing losses, the Cracker Dealers’ Association, Chandigarh, has again requested the UT Administration to review its decision on cracker ban and at least allow the use of green crackers.Members of the association held a meeting today and decided to approach the UT Administrator and the UT Adviser and urged them to rethink and revise the orders of cracker ban in Chandigarh while taking into consideration the orders of the Rajasthan Government and other neighbouring states.Association president Davinder Kumar Gupta and general secretary Chirag Aggarwal stated that on the demands of cracker dealers, the Rajasthan Government had amended their earlier order of a complete ban on firecrackers. “The government there allowed the use and sale of green crackers in the state. As per the orders, green crackers have been allowed on Diwali, Gurpurb and other festivals with restricted timings,” they stated.Even as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal, the sale and use of green crackers could be allowed in cities, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/review-ban-on-crackers-dealers-to-chandigarh-administration-327392
21-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||MHA to take up revision of building misuse penalty with Chandigarh tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Pending for a long time, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will take up the issue of revision of penalty charges being imposed for misuse of building bylaws in the UT. A senior official the MHA would take up the issue through videoconferencing with senior UT officials on Friday.Recently, the Secretary, Estate, UT, had written to the MHA to give powers to the UT Administrator to decide on the quantum of penalty for misuse of building bylaws.In a proposal submitted to the MHA nearly two years ago, the UT Administration had recommended to fix the penalty at 0.75 per cent of the minimum collector rate per square yard per month for misuse and violation. The proposal pertains to an amendment to the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952, to reduce the penalty being charged by the Estate Office for misuse and violation of building bylaws.At present, the Administration is charging a penalty ranging from Rs225 per sq ft to Rs355 per sq ft per month for various types of properties.After getting an approval from the MHA, the penalty would be reduced to one-sixth of the current amount. The UT had proposed to charge a penalty of 0.75 per cent of the collector rate per square yard per month in case of misuse/violation of building bylaws in the non-permitted category and 0.50 per cent of the collector rate in case of misuse/violation beyond the permitted coverage.The Estate Office had increased the penalty for misuse and violation in 2007 from Rs20 to Rs500 per sq ft per month for the area being misused by the occupier under the Estate Office Rules, 2007.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mha-to-take-up-revision-of-building-misuse-penalty-with-chandigarh-tomorrow-327389
21-10-2021||---||PU-PGI underpass: Chandigarh fails to hire structural design consultant||Chandigarh, October 20The UT Engineering Department has failed to engage a consultant to prepare a structural design of the pedestrian underpass to be constructed between the PGI and Panjab University (PU).The department had invited bids from eligible consultants for preparing the structural design. However, it had to cancel the process as only one firm submitted a tender, a senior official of the department said, adding that now, fresh bids had been invited.He said the aim of preparing the structural design was to produce a structure capable of resisting all applied loads during its intended life.The work would entail detailed geo-technical investigations to determine the properties of soil up to a depth of 35 m for designing the foundations, approaches and other structures.The firm would be required to prepare preliminary drawings and details with tentative dimensions required for calculation of quantities of various items for the construction work. In November 2019, then UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given in-principle approval for the construction of the underpass after the traffic police had apprised the Administration of the need of an underpass between the hospital and the university due to a heavy rush of patients and their attendants, as thousands of people from neighbouring states reach the medical institute for treatment every day.As buses drop passengers on the road opposite the main gate of the hospital, they have to cross the road amid heavy traffic, which is a risky affair. Also, people have to wait for a long time to cross the road due to heavy traffic on both sides of the road. Likely to cost nearly Rs7.20 crore, the underpass would be 15-m wide and 38-m long. It would have 12 shops, including of photostat, so that patients or their attendants visiting the PGI could get basic facilities at one place.The Urban Planning Department had already prepared drawings of the underpass. Recently, the Engineering Department had decided to have ramps instead of the mechanised staircase at the underpass. The Municipal Corporation will shift the underground cables and water and sewage pipes while the remaining work would be carried out by the Engineering Department.On completion of the underpass, thousands of patients visiting the PGI will get relief from crossing the busy Madhya Marg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-pgi-underpass-chandigarh-fails-to-hire-structural-design-consultant-327387
21-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Last 5 Mayors’ priority — open gyms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Setting up open-air gyms in parks across the city apparently remained the top priority of all Mayors in the past five years. Each Mayor spent a major share of their Rs2-crore funds on these, while residents felt maintenance of the equipment is a big issue due to its “low quality” and too many such facilities are wastage of money.Incumbent Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma opened around 10 open-air gyms in his 10-month tenure so far. He spent a whopping Rs35.46 lakh on open-air gyms of the total Rs1.99 crore he spent on works. “We normally avoid opening gyms. It is on the demand of residents that councillors make a proposal to the Mayor. If we open one in Sector 22-B, residents of Sector 22-C also demand it. As far as taking care of the equipment is concerned, we recently mandated that the agency will be responsible for its maintenance for three years. Equipment usually breaks because two-three children sit on it or people do not use it properly,” said Ravi Kant.His predecessor Raj Bala Malik in 2020 could utilise only Rs49.37 lakh due to the first Covid wave. Still, she spent Rs9.40 lakh on setting up open-air gyms in Sector 34 parks.In 2019, the then Mayor Rajesh Kalia opened as many as nine gyms, spending Rs38.28 lakh of the total Rs1.97 crore he had utilised. Before him, Davesh Moudgil spent Rs30 lakh on three open-air gyms and a gym at sports stadium in Dadu Majra. Among all Mayors in the current five-year MC term, the first Mayor, Asha Kumari Jaswal, gave the city the most number of open-air gyms. She opened around 11 such gyms, spending nearly half of her funds on these. She spent Rs86 lakh of the total Rs1.90 crore she utilised on various works.Hitesh Puri, Chairman of CRAWFED, an umbrella body of RWAs, said, “People use these gyms, but their maintenance is a big issue. Almost all gyms have broken equipment as these are not made of quality material. Besides, opening too many gyms is wastage of money. Instead, Mayors should spend on putting up mast lights in dark areas and make toe walls, which are the necessities.”RK Garg, president of a senior citizens’ body, said, “An excessive number of gyms serves no purpose. Their wear and tear is a big problem. Mayors should instead identify and resolve civic issues besides raising infrastructure. They should also keep in mind the poor financial health of the civic body.” Each Mayor gets Rs2 crore for a one-year tenure. The Mayor can spend these funds at any ward barring his own. The current MC is ruled by the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-last-5-mayors-priority-%E2%80%94-open-gyms-327385
21-10-2021||---||Dengue: Panchkula MC procures 11 fogging machines, residents say too late||Panchkula, October 20With dengue cases going past the 350 mark, Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar today instructed officials to take all necessary steps to check the spread of the vector-borne disease.She told officials to give special attention to most-affected areas such as Sector 4, 7, 10, 11, 15, 19, 20, 21 and 26, Old Panchkula and Rally, Abheypur, Budhanpur and Haripur villages.This season, dengue cases have also been reported from Surajpur, Marranwala, Pinjore, Kalka, Kot and Barwala areas.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation has finally woken up from its slumber to intensify fogging in all wards of the city. The civic body has procured 11 new fogging machines — 10 thermal fogging machines (small) and one vehicle-mounted fogging machine (large) — to “make every ward of the city dengue-free”.With fresh additions, the MC now has 16 fogging machines – 14 small and two large. However, residents said the civic body’s intervention came “too late” as the disease continues to spread its tentacles in almost every locality.Bharat Hiteshi, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 10, said, “If timely measures had been taken by the all departments concerned, the situation may not have gone out of control.”Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said dengue cases had been rising at an alarming rate in the city, so they decided to procure new fogging machines to curb the spread of the disease. He said they had been coordinating with the Health Department over the prevailing dengue situation in the city.“Hopefully, dengue numbers will drop next week,” he said. MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said new machines would allow us to ensure timely fogging in every ward that falls in the jurisdiction of the civic body. He urged citizens to be fully alert and take preventive measures at personal level.15 more taken illA total of 15 fresh cases of dengue were reported on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 366 in the district. The official dengue death toll is still zero.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-panchkula-mc-procures-11-fogging-machines-residents-say-too-late-327384
21-10-2021||---||6-yr-old among 4 succumb to dengue in Mohali district||Mohali, October 20A six-year-old was among the four persons who succumbed to dengue in the district today. Besides, 107 new cases of the vector-borne disease were reported.The deceased have been identified as Balongi resident Sakshi, 6, Nayagaon resident Paramveer Singh, 26, Zirakpur resident Manju Vats, 67, and Phase 5 resident Anupam, a 28-year-old woman. Three patients died at private hospitals while the child breathed her last at the GMSH-16.The overall count of dengue patients has touched 1,755 in the district. As many as 1,384 cases were reported this month only. So far, 18 dengue patients have died in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-yr-old-among-4-succumb-to-dengue-in-mohali-district-327383
