22-10-2021||Mohali||1 held for bid to smuggle Liquor||PGGC, sector 42Chandigarh: The UT Director of higher education, inaugurated a 86-seater mini-conference hall and an elevator at the IT Block of the Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, here on Thursday. Funds for the conference hall and elevator were provided by RUSA. TNSSGGSC, sector 26Chandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, has been instituted as a member of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Karandeep Singh Cheema, joint secretary, SES, Manish Gupta, chairman CII, Chandigarh chapter, and proprietor, Synergy Industries, and Pancham Cajla, chair, Young Indians Chandigarh Chapter and Founder, Anuprayaas Foundation, formally certified the college as a member of the CII at an event. The CII membership will encourage mutual cooperation between the college and the CII, help in improving the industry-institute interface and facilitate setting up of new incubation centres. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-for-bid-to-smuggle-liquor-327954
22-10-2021||---||Harneet stuns top seed in straight sets||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 21Harneet Singh stunned top seed Dilip Mohanty in straight sets 6-2/6-3 to sail into the men’s singles +35 final in the ongoing Roots-ITF Seniors International Ranking Championship here today.He will face fourth seed Raj Kumar, who defeated Varun Makkar 6-4/6-0 in his semifinal tie. In the men’s singles 45+ semis, third seed Yogesh Kohli outplayed S Venkataraman 6-3/6-2 and Monty Roy thrashed Shyam Jagat 6-1/6-3.Nirmal Rajan Kumar reached the men’s 55+ final as Sanjai Kumar conceded the match. Nirmal won the first set 6-3 and was leading 3-1, when Sanjai decided to leave the match. Second seed Ajeet Bharadwaj defeated fourth seed Kuldeep Singh 6-2/6-0. In the men’s 65+ semis, top seed Narender Janweja defeated Mridulal Barkakoti 6-4/6-1 and second seed Suresh Murthati ousted Vinayak Gujrathi 6-3/6-4.In the men’s doubles 35+ semis, Raj Kumar and Dilip Mohanty defeated Vikas Gulia and Gurmeet Singh 4-1/4-0, while Manav Arora and Varun Kakkar was awarded walk over against Gulvir Singh and Saminder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harneet-stuns-top-seed-in-straight-sets-327953
22-10-2021||---||Tribune Model School win twin title in Netball championship||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Tribune Model School, Sector 29, bagged double title in the ongoing Seventh Netball State Championship here today. The event was organised by the Netball Sports Promotion Association. After winning the girl’s sub-junior title, Tribune eves outclassed British Academy 8-6 to claim girls’ junior title. Sacred Heart School, Sector 26, claimed third position.In the boys’ junior final, DAV Sports Club defeated Sri Aurobindo School 7-5. Guru Nanak Public School, Sector 36, finished at third position. Khalsa Alumni defeated Spartans Club 17-16 to win boys’ senior title. Meanwhile, Chandigarh Club lads claimed third spot.In girls’ senior event, Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, registered a 22-15 win over British Academy. Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, finished at third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribune-model-school-win-twin-title-in-netball-championship-327952
22-10-2021||---||Sharath, Prapti win north zone TT c’ship||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 21Top seeded A Sharath Kamal defeated Soumyajit Ghosh 4-3 to win the men’s singles final of the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships, at the Tau Devi Lal Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, today.The 39-year-old top-seed led 3-1, but a mentally strong Ghosh staged a good recovery to level the score 3-3 before Kamal ended his chance of a title victory, the Haryana paddler had been searching for quite some time.For Kamal, it was the first zonal title after Vizag in 2016. Kamal should have finished in the sixth game itself when he led 5-0. He, however, allowed Ghosh to claw his way back to take the issue to the decider. In the last game, Kamal showed his class and wasted little time while picking up the winner’s purse of Rs84,000.The women singles had two worthy players in eighth-seed Prapti Sen and unseeded Swastika Ghosh making it to the final for the first time. The pendulum of fortune swung from one extreme to another until the decider. But for this, one could predict their approaches. However, Prapti made fewer mistakes than Swastika. That made the difference between lifting the trophy and losing the grip over it. Despite being unwell, the little girl from Kolkata seized the opportunity to take home the prize money of Rs72,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sharath-prapti-win-north-zone-tt-cship-327950
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||National championship: Chandigarh girls record 10-1 win in hockey||Hockey Chandigarh outclassed Goans Hockey 10-1 in the ongoing 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship, in Simdega.Dhapa Devi (6th, 11th, 21st, 45th, 50th and 58th minutes) starred in the match for Hockey Chandigarh with six sensational goals. Priyanka (9th), Rajani (29th), Khushdeep Kaur (49th), Parneet Kaur (54th) scored a goal each for the team’s success. For Goans Hockey, Geuel D’Souza scored the lone goal.Earlier, in the opening match of the day, Hockey Maharashtra registered a big 23-0 win against Hockey Gujarat. Ashwini Kolekar (1st, 4th, 14th, 42nd and 53rd minute), Shivani Sitaram Sahu (10th, 11th, 35th, 36th and 41st minute) and Kajal Sadashiv Atpadkar (17th, 21st, 22nd, 28th and 54th minute) scored five goals each in this feat while Utkarsha Nana Kale (8th, 21st, 28th and 51st minute), Himanshi Gawande (19th, 20th minute) and Manashri Narendra Shedage (37th, 57th minute) scored to ensure their team began campaign with a win.Odisha also recorded an easy 12-0 win over Hockey Himachal. Neha Lakra (5th, 28th minute), Nitu Lakra (10th minute), Aten Topno (13th minute), Sandhya Kujur (14th, 45th minute), Anjela Toppo (24th minute), Jyotsna Rohidas (39th minute), Jyoti Chhatri (41 th minute), Kamla Singh (42nd, 53rd minute) and Neha Toppo (60th minute) netted goals. Chhattisgarh Hockey got the better of Hockey Madhya Pradesh 4-1 in a hard-fought match. The first two quarters were evenly fought with both teams going into half time in a stalemate. But Chhattisgarh Hockey came up with a good attack to convert the first goal in the 33rd minute through Kusum Kumari Mahto, but Hockey Madhya Pradesh equalised within the next two minutes through Shaheen Khan (35th minute). However, in the 45th minute Chhattisgarh Hockey took a 2-1 lead with Aanchal Sahu’s goal while they did well to defend the score. Anisha Sahu’s 55th minute goal and Leena Kosare’s 57th minute goal ensured they bagged the three points. Hockey Bihar defeated Hockey Jammu and Kashmir 8-2 in the last match. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-championship-chandigarh-girls-record-10-1-win-in-hockey-327949
22-10-2021||---||Ambala: Nigerian held in drugs case||Ambala, October 21The CIA-2 unit of the Ambala police has held a Nigerian national in connection with a case of drugs registered at the Parao police station.The suspect has been identified as Martin. He was held in Delhi.Two men were held and around 60 gm of heroin worth around Rs6 lakh was recovered from them on October 18. A case was registered at the Parao police station. During the investigation, the Nigerian national was held by the police.DSP, Ambala Cantonment, Ram Kumar said, “On October 18, two persons (Deepak and Tarsem) of Ambala Cantonment were held and nearly 60 gm of heroin was recovered from them. They disclosed that they had bought the heroin from Martin.”The police suspect Martin’s involvement in more drug cases and his previous record is being verified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-nigerian-held-in-drugs-case-327947
22-10-2021||---||Guest faculty of colleges protest against Punjab Govt||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 21Assistant professors working as guest faculty in government colleges of Punjab for the past 18 to 20 years held a protest dharna at Kharar on Thursday.The Guest Faculty Assistant Professors Association, Punjab, state president, Dr Ravinder Singh, said, “The Punjab Government has been working hard to snatch the employment of guest faculty assistant professors.” There were 1,873 posts in 48 government colleges of Punjab out of which 962 were filled with guest faculty assistant professors while six sanctioned posts were lying vacant and incumbents were to be recruited for 160 posts also vacant in newly opened government colleges of the state, he added.If the Punjab Government wanted to provide employment to youth then it should issue advertisements for vacant posts on which no guest faculty assistant professor was working, he said. For the past 15 years the government was collecting PTA funds from children and their parents and paying salaries to guest faculty assistant professors, he added. This had burdened many poor students, he said.Dr Anu Sharma and Prof Ravneet Kaur, guest faculty assistant professor of Government College, Ropar, said, “We will intensify protest if the government did not announce release of Rs56,100 and safeguard our employment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guest-faculty-of-colleges-protest-against-punjab-govt-327943
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Experts discuss defence acquisition process in India||The Chandigarh Management Association (CMA) today organised an interaction on management practices with delegates of the College of Defence Management (CDM), Secunderabad, detailed by All India Management Association, New Delhi, in collaboration with SD College, Chandigarh. The delegation was led by Col Piyush Baberwal.The interaction also included a presentation by Capt Muneesh Sharma and Col Jagmohan Sharma on defence acquisition process. They said the process for defence acquisitions in India had evolved considerably in the last decade or so, and had been tremendously refined further.“The importance of modernisation and balancing operational needs with transparency and probity cannot be ignored,” they added. Dr Deepak Jindal, president of the CMA, promised CMA’s support to the CDM for conducting programmes on management. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-discuss-defence-acquisition-process-in-india-327942
22-10-2021||Mohali||LED lights to come up at traffic signals in Mohali||Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu inaugurated state-of-the-art traffic signal lights adjacent to IISER on Airport Road here today. Sidhu said these high intensity LED direction lights had been installed here as a pilot project.The existing traffic lights, which were in round shape, had been replaced by directional lights, Sidhu added. These would be visible from a long distance, look beautiful and help in preventing road accidents during fog in winter, said Sidhu.“LED direction lights are being installed on main roads in Mohali. These will replace old traffic lights in a phased manner,” Sidhu added. “Mohali is on the international map. So, it has to be made more beautiful,” said Sidhu. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, MC Commissioner Kamal Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar and XEN Kamaljit Singh were among those present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/led-lights-to-come-up-at-traffic-signals-in-mohali-327941
22-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Private schools in Chandigarh seek clarity on starting transport service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21A majority of the parents have decided to send their kids, studying in junior classes, to schools. However, their main concern remains transportation and the rise in the number of dengue/viral cases.Many schools are still awaiting the UT Education Department’s clear orders on whether they can roll out full transportation service or not. “Parents are asking us about transportation services. We are yet to get confirmation from the UT Administration on starting transportation services at full swing for students. Putting a cap on the number of students using transport facilities is not feasible. We cannot call students on alternate days and it even won’t solve the purpose. The Education Department should issue clear standing instructions,” said a principal of the school.Parents concerned over safety of wardsSources claimed that over 70 per cent parents from major schools have given their consent to send their wards to schools. Meanwhile, others still worry about various issues.“Schools have to be clear on keeping our kids safe. Amid the rise in the number of dengue and viral cases, they should ensure that kids coming to school are healthy. Managements should also carry fogging inside school premises on a regular basis. Also, the blended mode of teaching (offline and online) should continue,” said Anuj, a parent.“If one goes by the given data, there are 30 per cent people, who still hesitate to send their kids to schools. The UT and school administrations should consider their interests too and take decisions accordingly,” said Dalip, another parent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-in-chandigarh-seek-clarity-on-starting-transport-service-327940
22-10-2021||---||Families of martyrs honoured||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, October 21To commemorate the sacrifice of police martyrs, the district police organised a function at the Police Lines here today.Families of 17 police martyrs belonging to the district were honoured by SSP Sandeep Goel.Addressing the function, SSP said it was a matter of great pride for the Punjab Police that its 693 officers and jawans sacrificed their lives for the national.The SSP said: “It is our moral duty to extend every help to the families of the 17 martyrs belonging to the district.”Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik assured the families of the martyrs that all their problems and issued would be looked into on priority basis and added that the district administration would extend all facilities and benefits of government-sponsored welfare schemes at their doorstep.SP(H) Harpal Singh said the sacrifices made by the martyrs would remain an inspiration and guiding force for all of the force. He also called upon NGOs to come forward to extend help to these families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/families-of-martyrs-honoured-327935
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Darbar double murder: Court frames charges against ASI||A local court here has framed charges against Punjab Police ASI Harswaroop, who allegedly killed his sister-in-law Divya and younger brother Prem Gyan Sagar, after an argument over water supply at their two-storey house in Ram Darbar in June.The charges have been framed for the offences committed under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.Harswaroop, who was posted at the Police Headquarters, was arrested on the complaint of victims’ son on June 22.As per the prosecution, Harswaroop and Prem Gyan Sagar had been living in a house owned by their father, who lives in Himachal Pradesh.While Harswaroop stays with his wife, son and daughter on the ground floor, Prem’s family used to stay on the first floor.According to the police, the brothers had a strained relationship and used to fight regularly over issues such as division of electricity and water bills.In the lead up to the crime, the two had arguments over water supply. Prem had reportedly accused Harswaroop of deliberately switching off the water pump to stop supply to the first floor. He had even called up his father to complain against his elder brother.According to the police, the duo fought again on the day of the incident. Around 9 pm, the Harswaroop went to the first floor and allegedly attacked Prem while he was having dinner, said the police. Prem was stabbed half a dozen times.As his wife Divya intervened, Harswaroop stabbed her too, the police said. Divya had died on the same night, while Prem succumbed to his injuries at GMCH-32 three days later. Prem used to work as a delivery man for a private firm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ram-darbar-double-murder-court-frames-charges-against-asi-327933
22-10-2021||---||Lid off illegal immigration office in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 21The police raided an illegal immigration office on the VIP road in Zirakpur today and arrested two persons for sending people abroad illegally.The arrested duo has been identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Thana Road in Banur district of Patiala, and Gursewak Singh, a resident of Chakk village in Ganganagar district of Rajasthan.A team led by Asistant Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh raided immigration office Right Way Solution located at Chandigarh City Centre on the VIP Road, the police said.The two were running the centre without a license and were planning to flee as they had received a huge sum of money for sending people abroad, they said.A total of 20 persons had been sent abroad by the Satnam and Gursewak, informed the police.A case under Section A/D 24 Immigration Act has been registered at the Zirakpur police station in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lid-off-illegal-immigration-office-in-zirakpur-327932
22-10-2021||Panchkula||HSVP demolition drive halted after stay order||The Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) today carried out a special demolition drive at Kundi village in Sector 20 to reclaim around 2 kanal land on which a private person had constructed a “pucca” house.However, the anti-encroachment team of the HSVP had to stop its drive midway after a stay order by a court.“Our anti-encroachment team could only raze 50 per cent of the illegal construction after the ‘encroacher’ obtained a stay order from a court. The ‘encroacher’, Sita Ram, has been living on the HSVP illegal land for the past 20 years ago. He was issued a notice 10 days ago to vacate the land,” said an official, not wishing to be identified.Around 30 police personnel were deployed to ensure law and order during the drive. A duty magistrate was also appointed to supervise the drive. Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had recently issued clear-cut instructions to officials from the HSVP and the Municipal Corporation to ensure “illegal encroachments are removed from government land across the district”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hsvp-demolition-drive-halted-after-stay-order-327929
22-10-2021||---||Can never forget sacrifice of our bravehearts: Haryana DGP PK Agrawal||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 21On Police Commemoration Day, Haryana DGP PK Agrawal led serving and retired police officers in paying tributes to the police martyrs at the Police Memorial in Panchkula today.Paying rich tributes to the martyrs, Agrawal said the supreme sacrifice made by our bravehearts for maintaining law and order and unity and integrity of the nation could never be forgotten.The DGP said this year, Haryana Police constable Sandeep Kumar also sacrificed his life in the line of duty.“The nation will always be grateful to these bravehearts. Their supreme sacrifice is an inspiration to everyone who proudly wears the khaki,” he said.The DGP also paid tributes to those “karamveers” who lost their lives during the Covid pandemic.Earlier, the DGP laid a wreath at the Police Memorial to honour the memory of the martyrs.Apart from the DGP, senior police officers, including ADGP (Crime) OP Singh and ADGP (CID) Alok Mittal, also paid their respect to the martyrs.Hailing the efforts of the state government, the DGP said a special ex gratia grant of Rs30 lakh was given to family members of the police personnel who die in the line of duty.In addition, financial assistance of Rs65 lakh is also given to the next of kin of the deceased personnel under a special agreement of accidental death insurance cover.Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police, Panchkula, Saurabh Singh read out the names of the martyrs from the state police and the Central Armed Police Forces to acknowledge the supreme sacrifices made by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/can-never-forget-sacrifice-of-our-bravehearts-haryana-dgp-pk-agrawal-327928
22-10-2021||---||BSF remembers fallen heroes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Tributes were paid to the martyrs at the Border Security Force’s Western Command Headquarters on Police Commemoration Day.A wreath was laid at the memorial by NS Jamwal, Additional Director General, BSF, Western Command, on behalf of all ranks of the force.Senior BSF officers and personnel were present on the occasion.Police Commemoration Day is observed in memory of the 10 Central Reserve Police Force personnel, who lost their lives while defending India’s sovereignty against the Chinese army in Ladakh in October 1959.From September 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021, 47 BSF personnel have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsf-remembers-fallen-heroes-327927
22-10-2021||Mohali||Police Commemoration Day observed in Mohali||Police Commemoration Day was observed at the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, here today to pay respect to the police personnel, who laid down their lives for the unity and integrity of the country.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, Judicial Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Singla, along with other police personnel, paid homage to the martyrs.“I salute the police personnel who have sacrificed their lives for the country. The nation shall forever remain indebted to these heroes,” Kalia said in her Police Commemoration Day address.In the past one year, 377 police personnel, including the two from Punjab, have sacrificed their lives in line of duty, she said.“On this day, let us also resolve never to forget our brave heroes, who have laid down their lives at the altar of duty, and to look after the families of these police martyrs,” said the DC.SSP Navjot Singh, while paying tributes to the martyrs, lauded the courage exhibited by the police personnel during the Covid pandemic.When curfew was imposed due to the pandemic and no one was allowed to go out, the police personnel, regardless of their health or that of their family members, plunged into the fight against Covid-19, he said. “Eighty-six police officials and other personnel lost their lives due to Covid.”The SSP also informed families of 35 police martyrs, who belonged to the district, could not be invited for the function due to the Covid protocol.Earlier, silence was observed for two minutes in memory of the martyrs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-commemoration-day-observed-in-mohali-327926
22-10-2021||---||Chandigarh police pay tributes to martyrs||Chandigarh, October 21A parade was organised at the Sector 17 police station here today to mark Police Commemoration Day.A two-minute silence was also observed to honour the memory of the police personnel who sacrificed their lives on duty.UT DGP Parveer Ranjan, along with other police officers, paid homage to their departed colleagues at the Martyrs Memorial.The family members of the martyrs were also present at the event.At the end of the two-minute silence, a prayer was held in memory of the martyrs.A total of 377 police personnel, including officers, from paramilitary police forces and police organisations laid down their lives in the line of duty between September 1, 2020 and August 31 this year.The central police organisations and the state police observe the day as Martyrdom Day.Commemoration Day||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-327925
22-10-2021||Mohali||Two more succumb to dengue in Mohali, toll reaches 20||Two more persons succumbed to dengue in Mohali district in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 20. Also, 93 fresh cases were reported till this evening. A total of 1,848 positive cases have been reported in the district in the past two months, with 344 cases and two deaths recorded in September. A total of 231 samples were collected today, out of which 93 reported positive for dengue. “We have an alarming situation at our hands. Anti-dengue drives have already been started. But we need full cooperation of the residents. The number of anti-larvae teams have been increased as our primary aim is to check the spread of the vector-borne diseases,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur. She said inspection, spray and awareness campaigns by the teams of District Health Department for the prevention of dengue fever have been going on in the district since March. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-succumb-to-dengue-in-mohali-toll-reaches-20-327923
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents rue lack of fogging||Amid rising cases of dengue, residents from various localities in the city have complained about lack of fogging and other preventive measures to check to the spread of the vector-borne diseases.As of today, the number of dengue cases reported from the city stands at 508 and the fatalities three.Nirmal Sharma, a resident of Sector 33, said, “Two people are down with dengue at my house. Despite repeated attempts, we could not contact the authorities concerned. Fogging is not being done in our locality. Chandigarh is known for its cleanliness, but the prevailing situation paints a bad picture of the city. Fogging should be carried out before the onset of rainy season to kill mosquitoes and other insects spreading diseases. Why the authorities wait for cases to go up before springing into action?”She added that as helpline numbers don’t function properly, they eventually have nowhere to go for redressal.Jaswinder Kaur, a resident of Sector 21-C whose son is suffering from dengue, said there had been a delay in anti-fogging operations, which led to the rise in cases. “Only a few days ago, fogging was carried out in our locality. It’s too late. The situation has already gone out of control,” she added.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Fogging is being carried out as per the Government of India guidelines, wherever there is an outbreak. Excessive fogging can also lead to health issues like difficulty in breathing. Adequate precautions are being taken to control the spread of dengue infection. A proper fogging schedule is prepared on a daily basis.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-rue-lack-of-fogging-327921
22-10-2021||---||Dengue: Private hospitals in Mohali told to increase beds||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 21To combat the rising dengue cases, the district administration here today asked the private hospitals to increase the “dedicated beds for dengue patients”.“Don’t deny treatment to anyone,” Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia told the managements of various private hospitals during a review meeting.“If a private hospital doesn’t have enough beds for dengue patients, then guide them on further treatment,” she added.Kalia also informed that a Google sheet would be generated for private hospitals to fill the data regarding bed availability on a daily basis so that the administration could be ready for any eventuality.“This Google sheet will be made available on the district administration website – https://sasnagar.nic.in,” she said.The DC also called upon private hospitals to assist the administration in dengue prevention activities like fogging, container survey and awareness campaigns.Kalia, meanwhile, directed the health officials to identify the hotspots and speed up fogging.Managements of various private hospitals were present in the meeting.Listing out the measures to combat the spread of dengue, Kalia said multi-purpose health workers had been deputed for dengue prevention and raising awareness against the disease.She directed the health workers to carry out regular checks, including at sites that have turned into breeding zones.Kalia was accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra.She also reiterated that card-based testing had been banned and only ELISA test was recommended for dengue screening.If private hospitals have the facility of ELISA testing, they will continue with the practice. If they don’t have the facility, then samples have to be sent to government hospitals for testing, she asserted.The DC also informed that the government had capped the dengue test at Rs600.She said the district administration had announced a helpline number (0172-2219506) and email (sasnagarhelpline@gmail.com) for any enquiry or complaint regarding fogging and awareness activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-private-hospitals-in-mohali-told-to-increase-beds-327920
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees three fresh cases of Covid-19||The city recorded three fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The overall tally now stands at 65,315. There was no new fatality in the past 24 hours and the toll remained at 820. While 64,469 patients have been cured of the disease, 26 are still getting treatment. —TNS5 test +ve in MohaliMohali: Five new Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported, while three patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each surfaced in Boothgarh and Gharuan, while three cases were reported from Dhakoli. TNSNo new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no new case of coronavirus on Thursday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,756. With no fresh death, the toll also remained at 378. While 30,366 patients have been cured so far, 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 98.73 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-three-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-327918
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to replace poor quality wheat stock||On receiving several requests from beneficiaries for replacement/exchange of poor quality wheat, which was inadvertently disturbed among a few beneficiaries under the PMGKY (IV) between August 24 and September 9, the Administration has decided to replace the poor quality stock.An official said the food stock of beneficiaries who had collected it between August 24 and September 9 from the community centres at Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra, Govindpura, Sector 26, Housing Board Colony, Dhanas, EWS Colony, Dhanas, and Maloya would be replaced.He said only wheat bags of 25 kg weight would be considered for replacement.The beneficiaries will have to bring the poor quality wheat bags along with them for replacement. New wheat bags will be issued only in exchange for 25-kg wheat bags. The quality of foodgrains will be checked by food inspectors and only poor quality wheat will be replaced.The beneficiaries have been asked to arrive with poor quality bags along with a pink token slip issued for the purpose. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-replace-poor-quality-wheat-stock-327915
22-10-2021||---||Third eye for protection of women in Mohali city||Mohali, October 21For the protection of girls and women, the Mohali Municipal Corporation will install 100 CCTV cameras in markets having a huge footfall at a cost of Rs4.5 crore under the Nirbhaya scheme of the Central Government.A detailed project report has been prepared in this regard. Under the project, 100 cameras will be installed in the city under the first phase at Phase 7, Phase 3B2 market and near the ITI for girls in Phase 5. There will be 80 fixed and 20 moving cameras.The decision was taken at an MC meeting today. The meeting was chaired by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg, the DSP (Traffic) and other officials were present at the meeting.The Mayor said the Punjab Government has taken several steps for the protection of women, but in spite of this, atrocities against women were on the rise. The state government had formulated the Punjab Urban Local Bodies Surveillance Grid for Women Safety scheme under which CCTV cameras would be installed in places frequented by girls such as colleges, universities, educational institutions and markets, he added.The Mayor said under this scheme, in the first phase, 100 CCTV cameras would be installed in Mohali city. He said these cameras would be monitored by the Punjab Police, various law enforcement agencies and the state government authorities, which would significantly enhance the security of women in the city.Sidhu said the police had identified places where crime against women was likely to increase.He said once the cameras were installed, these would not only help curb crime against women, but also check other crimes such as burglary and fights in markets.80 fixed, 20 moving camerasA detailed project report has been prepared in this regard. Under the project, 100 cameras will be installed in the city under the first phase at Phase 7, Phase 3B2 market and near the ITI for girls in Phase 5. There will be 80 fixed and 20 moving cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-eye-for-protection-of-women-in-mohali-city-327914
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Admn celebrates nation’s 100 cr doses||The UT Health Department had a befitting celebration on the completion of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses by India.In view of the liberal availability of the vaccine, a lot of beneficiaries from neighbouring states also got themselves jabbed in Chandigarh. A function was organised to mark the occasion. It was attended by Health Secretary Yashpal Garg, Additional Secretary, Health, Rubinderjit Singh Brar and the Director. Health and Family Welfare, Dr Suman Singh.A cake-cutting ceremony was organised in the presence of the Medical Superintendent, GMSH, Sector 16, VK Nagpal and Deputy Medical Superintendent Paramjit Singh. Rangoli, banners, balloons and decoration made the venue look elegant. The Health Secretary congratulated the health team for their untiring work and excellent vaccination undertaken in the City Beautiful.The 100th beneficiary was honoured with a memento by the Health Secretary and the health staff were given commendation certificates. Similar celebrations took place at various health and wellness centres and at the civil hospitals in Sector 22, 45 and Mani Majra. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-celebrates-nations-100-cr-doses-327912
22-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Farmila fails to get dumping ground cleared of garbage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21The councillor from ward number 6, Farmila, failed to keep her promise of clearing waste from the dumping ground at Dadu Majra and opening a theme park in the adjoining area during her five-year term. Instead, some residents alleged that she brought more problems than resolving the existing ones.“The councillor could not get the dumping ground area cleared of waste. Instead, new landfill site and a material waste recovery centre were opened in Dadu Majra during her tenure. The additional waste infrastructure has caused us more problems,” said Dyal Krishan, president, Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee.“Only old approved works were done in the colony. Paver blocks were laid at a height due to which rainwater enters houses. The link road of Dadu Majra and Sector 38 (West) was recarpeted ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha polls and it was not done properly,” he said.Harjinder Singh, chairman, Residents Welfare Association, Dadu Majra Colony, complained, “Both the local MP and the councillor had promised to clear the dump. The long wall around the waste site was built only after the court sought to know its height. Street light poles were erected long ago, but lights were not installed.”Tarsem Rana, former sarpanch of Dadu Majra village, said, “Since my childhood, there is a word around that the waste dumping ground will be cleared. Will it ever happen? However, during the last five years, sewerage and water pipeline works were done in our village. Even two-three transformers were installed, which improved the power supply to the village. A sports facility also came up. The tile work in the streets is pending. We hope it will be done too.”On her major promise, Farmila said, “The mining of half of the legacy waste is under way. For the remaining half, a tender will be floated soon. The work would have completed in my tenure if there was no Covid-19 outbreak. I got a 20-ft boundary wall built around the dumping ground. Earlier, papers, polythene and other waste used to fly to the residential area.”Counting her other achievements, she said, “I got roads built and pavers laid in the village and the colony. The main pipelines of sewerage and drinking water, which earlier used to pass from inside houses, were shifted outside. High-mast lights were put up in markets and at the sports stadium.”Dadu Majra residents said they had been living in a hell-like situation bearing with the foul smell emanating from the dumping ground. Several area residents are facing breathing and other health problems due to it. Besides, smell and leachate also bother commuters.Farmila: Councillor from ward number 6||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-farmila-fails-to-get-dumping-ground-cleared-of-garbage-327908
22-10-2021||---||Property-related issues: 11-member panel for streamlining process||Chandigarh, October 21Local Member of Parliament Kirron Kher today chaired a meeting of an 11-member committee to review the process of sanction of mutation, grant of occupancy certificate, no-objection certificate and other citizen-centric requirements via videoconferencing with members.The members of the panel discussed pivotal issues such as streamlining the process of mutation of property through sale deed, transfer of lease rights by sale, grant of no-objection certificate and certificate of unearned profit under the 1973 and 2007 Rules.The committee also discussed issues such as unearned increase for transferring society flats and other properties, charging of the GST by the Chandigarh Housing Board and transfer of flats in case of GPA holders. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar shared the progress of digitisation of the Estate Office with the MP.The 11-member committee includes the Mayor, Deputy Commissioner, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, Chief Architect, Senior Standing Counsel, Secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board, Assistant Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation, Estate Officer, Finance and Planning Officer and Arun Sood, councillor.The committee has been constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court to streamline the process of sanction of mutation, grant of occupancy certificate, no-objection certificate and other citizen-centric requirement,s including calculation of unearned profit under the 1973 or 2007 Rules.A Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and AS Bopana observed, “Residents of Chandigarh are widely harassed while seeking a no-objection certificate for the sale of leasehold property as the procedure for its grant and of deposit of unearned increase is interpreted in different manners by different officials, which the Administration has failed to control.”“The committee shall submit its report to the Administrator and the Chandigarh Administration, preferably within three months. We hope that the Administrator will take appropriate steps to implement the suggestions made by the committee, including forwarding of the proposed amendments to the statute to the Ministry of Home Affairs, if any, suggested by the committee,” the Bench stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-related-issues-11-member-panel-for-streamlining-process-327907
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman found murdered at house in Hallo Majra||A 30-year-old woman was found murdered at her house in Hallo Majra here this afternoon. The police have arrested a man for the murder.The victim has been identified as Vinita, who was a housewife. Her husband Ranjit Singh, who works at a factory in Mohali, had left for work in the morning, while their 12-year-old son had gone to the school when the incident took place. The family is staying on rent on the first floor of the house.The victim’s son was the first person to see the body following which he raised the alarm.“The woman’s son returned from school and found his mother lying in a pool of blood. He then informed the neighbours,” sources said.On getting information about the incident, the police reached the spot and initiated an investigation.Sources said the victim was stabbed to death. She had an injury mark on the stomach. The knife used in the crime was found on the spot.The police said during the investigation, it came to light that a man, identified as Jatinder, a resident of Deep Complex, Hallo Majra, used to visit the victim in the absence of her family members. The police said the victim’s neighbours had seen him visiting her house today.Neighbours, who were questioned by the cops about the incident, claimed that they didn’t hear any noise coming from the house.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s husband stated that his wife had stopped talking to Jatinder following which the suspect started harassing her over the phone and threatened her.A case was registered against Jatinder at the Sector 31 police station and he was arrested. A team of the CFSL also visited the spot.Meanwhile, the body was shifted to the mortuary at the GMCH in Sector 32. — TNSSuspect arrested, knife recovered||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-found-murdered-at-house-in-hallo-majra-327887
