23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Expect rain in Chandigarh today, tomorrow||“Keeping in view the ongoing harvesting of crops in the region, it is suggested that necessary arrangements be made for the safe storage of the harvested crop,” he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-rain-in-chandigarh-today-tomorrow-328589
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools can ply busess||Two bike thieves in police netChandigarh: Two youths, Karan (18) and Ankit (18), residents of Dhanas, have been arrested for stealing a motorcycle from Sector 24. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSThree arrested for murder bidChandigarh: The police arrested Gurjant Singh, alias Nony (20), Sonu, alias Khalnayak, both residents of Panchkula, and Amarjit Singh, a Mauli Jagran resident, for allegedly stabbing one Shivam. The injured victim was admitted to the GMCH in Sector 32. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSSec 25 resident stabbedChandigarh: A Sector 25 resident, identified as Shubham, was allegedly stabbed by one Gautam and his friend, near the victim’s house. He was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSSchool Student performs KathakChandigarh: Khushi Sharma of Class XII at Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, gave a kathak performance at Pracheen Kala Kendra on Friday as part of its Parampara series. Khushi is a disciple of Dr Amit Gangani and has taken four years of formal education and training in kathak. She qualified Sangeet Bhushan (2nd year) at the age of 12. She has won first prize in a kathak competition conducted at the Tagore Theatre. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-can-ply-busess-328394
23-10-2021||Mohali||Unemployed PTI teachers block  Airport Road near Sohana gurdwara||The 646 Unemployed Physical Training Instructors (PTI) Teachers Union partially blocked the Airport Road near the Sohana gurdwara.Long queues of vehicles had been witnessed since morning. Union president Gurlabh Singh said they had submitted a memorandum regarding their demands but the government had failed to reply. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unemployed-pti-teachers-block-airport-road-near-sohana-gurdwara-328383
23-10-2021||---||Chandigarh team for BCCI women’s tournament||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has announced the Chandigarh squad for the BCCI Women’s Senior One Day Trophy beginning from October 31. Amanjot Kaur will lead the side in the Elite Group. Chandigarh will face Railways on October 31, Odisha on November 1, Uttarakhand on November 3 and Mumbai on November 6. The team will depart for the tournament tomorrow.The team is as follows: Amanjot Kaur, Nandini Sharma, Monika Pandey, Twinkle Pathak, Parushi Prabhakar, Shivangi Yadav, Kumari Shibi, Priyanka Guleria, Parul Saini, Rajini Devi, Kashvee Gautam, Palak Rana, Sarah, Aaradhana Bisht, Manisha Badhan, Shivani Thakur, Rameeza, Jyoti, Divya Sharma, Nikita Nain, Mehul, Suman, Parminder Kaur, Jyoti Kumari and Simranjit Kaur Jhol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-team-for-bcci-womens-tournament-328381
23-10-2021||---||Raj Angad Bawa, Harnoor Singh selected for Men’s Challenger Trophy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22All-rounder Raj Angad Bawa and batsman Harnoor Singh have been selected from Chandigarh by the BCCI for the upcoming Men’s Challenger Trophy (Under 19) starting November 4, 2021. Both players are to report in Ahmedabad on October 26 followed by a week-long quarantine period.While congratulating both players, UTCA president Sanjay Tandon said he hoped for their best performance.Both players performed well in the recently concluded Vinoo Mankad Trophy wherein Raj Angad Bawa himself was captaining the Chandigarh team. Bawa had scored 107 runs and clinched seven wickets. Harnoor had scored a total of 193 runs, including a century, in the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raj-angad-bawa-harnoor-singh-selected-for-mens-challenger-trophy-328380
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Chandigarh defeat Arunachal||Hockey Punjab, Hockey Chandigarh and Hockey Haryana registered victories in their respective matches on the second day of the 11th Hockey India Senior Women National Championship 2021 in Jhansi today.In a Pool E match, Hockey Chandigarh defeated Hockey Arunachal (5-0). In the first match of the day, Odisha registered a comprehensive (18-0) victory over Hockey Himachal in its Pool D match. In Pool E, Hockey Punjab defeated Hockey Andhra Pradesh (12-0).In Pool A, Hockey Haryana eased past Le Puducherry Hockey with a comprehensive (25-0) win. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-chandigarh-defeat-arunachal-328379
23-10-2021||Panchkula||Amateur Avani wins season’s second title||Amateur Avani Prashanth won her second title of the season as she held off the seasoned Panchkula golfer Amandeep Drall by a shot to win the 11th leg of the Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Panchkula Golf Club.Avani and Amandeep played even par rounds, which helped Avani stay ahead to emerge victorious. Avani totalled 2-under 214, while Amandeep aggregated 1-under 215.Three golfers - Pranavi Urs (76), Jahanvi Bakshi (73) and Vani Kapoor (73) - were tied for third place at 4-over 219. Seher Atwal (75) was sixth at 221 and Rhea Jha (73) was seventh.Saaniya Sharma, amateur Kriti Chowhan and Hitaashee Bakshi took the eighth to 10th places.Amateur Avani, who is playing both WPGT circuit and amateur Tours, won the third leg in Mumbai and was also runner-up at the DLF Golf and Country Club in Gurugram in the eighth leg and was again second in the 10th leg last week in Chandigarh.Avani’s 66 in the second round, as also that of Saaniya Sharma, were confirmed as the ladies scoring record at the Panchkula Golf Club.Starting the final day one shot behind Avani, experienced Amandeep bridged that narrow gap with a birdie on the second hole. However, a dropped shot on par-5 fifth gave the lead back to Avani, who parred the first six holes.Avani landed her first birdie on the seventh but gave away that gain on the next hole. So, when the players reached the turn, Avani was still one ahead. The others had been way behind, and the contest was now between Avani and Amandeep.On the back nine, while Avani birdied 11th and 12th, Amandeep birdied 11th and bogeyed 12th. That meant Avani was now three shots clear. There was another twist as Avani dropped shots on par-3 13th and par-4 15th, while Amandeep birdied 15th to pull level with the young amateur.With two holes left, it was now about holding nerves. Amandeep bogeyed the 17th, while Avani parred the 17th and 18th and won the title. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amateur-avani-wins-seasons-second-title-328377
23-10-2021||---||Mansa beat Mohali, win U-25 cricket title||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 22Mansa defeated Mohali by 14 runs to win the U-25 One-Day Tournament at Maharaja Yadavindra Singh International Cricket Stadium in Mullanpur.Satyam Sharma (32) and Randeep (41) helped Mansa reach 203/9 in 50 overs. For Mohali, Kunal Vishwa 3/35 and Harry Dhaliwal 2/32 were the main wicket takers.In reply, Mohali lost four wickets for just two runs in 2.3 overs. Thereafter, Prabhnoor Bhalla (49), Jasinder Singh (24), Kunal Vishwa (39) took Mohali to 189 in 49.1 overs before being bowled out.Saksham Kumar (4/56) and Manpreet Singh (2/25) were the most successful wicket takers for Mansa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansa-beat-mohali-win-u-25-cricket-title-328375
23-10-2021||---||Dr Harneet Singh emerges victorious in tennis||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 22Dr Harneet Singh emerged victorious in the men’s singles of the 35-plus age category during the Roots ITF Seniors International Rankings Tennis Championship at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur today.Singh, a city-based gastroenterologist, stunned top seed Dilip Mohunty (7-5, 6-1) in the semi-final. In the final, he defeated Raj Kumar in a closely contested match (6-3, 7-5).In the 45-plus age category, Monty Roy beat Yogesh Kohli (6-3, 6-0) to win the title.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-harneet-singh-emerges-victorious-in-tennis-328374
23-10-2021||---||Suhana, Payas win TT titles||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 22Punching way above her weight, Haryana’s Suhana Saini felled Karnataka’s Yashaswini Ghorpade to win the singles of the youth under-19 girls’ crown in the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships at Tau Devi Lal Multipurpose Indoor Stadium here today. Suhana won 4-3 in a thriller.Payas Jain of Delhi, after his recent exploits in Tunisia, Slovenia and Oman, made sure he added another silverware in the under-19 boys’ little later. He defeated state-mate Yashansh Malik 4-0 to win the singles trophy and also a purse of Rs34,000.Results:Youth U-19 Boys Singles (Final): Payas Jain (Del) bt Yashansh Malik (Del) 11-4, 11-7, 11-8, 11-9.Semifinals: Payas Jain bt H Jeho (Miz) 11-4, 11-6, 11-6, 7-11, 11-8; Yashansh Mali bt Deepit R Patil (Mah) 7-11, 3-11, 9-11, 11-4, 11-9, 11-5, 11-7.Youth U-19 Girls Singles (Final): Suhana Saini (Har) bt Yashaswini Ghorpade (Kar) 5-11, 11-9, 11-8, 6-11, 11-9, 13-11.Semifinals: Yashaswini Ghorpade bt Vanshika Bhargava (Del) 11-5, 11-7, 11-8, 11-6; Suhana Saini bt Diya Chitale (Mah) 10-12, 7-11, 8-11, 11-6, 11-8, 11-8, 11-9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suhana-payas-win-tt-titles-328373
23-10-2021||Mohali||Over 100 Rayat Bahra students get placements||Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions (RBGI) has touched a new high in placements with over 100 students getting placements in top-notch companies at handsome packages.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman, RBGI, said that had been possible as the university had professional teams for in-house training, placement, training partners, assessment agencies, career counsellors, industry training partner and entrepreneur development.The number of students selected in Wipro alone was 27 at a package of Rs 5 lakh per annum. The other companies included IBM, Birla Soft, Bebo Technology, Blue Bash, Pep Coding and Winnie Tech. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-100-rayat-bahra-students-get-placements-328372
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police DSP honoured for peacekeeping operations in South Sudan||As many as 24 Indian police officers and paramilitary forces officers, including Punjab Police Deputy Superintendent of Police Sanjeevan Guru, were honoured for exemplary peacekeeping operations in the Bentiu state of South Sudan. Guru is currently serving as an Operation Officer at a field office in Bentiu. Earlier, he was posted as the Deputy Superintendent of Police at the Punjab Police Officers Institute in Sector 32, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-dsp-honoured-for-peacekeeping-operations-in-south-sudan-328371
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Five contract covid-19 in Chandigarh||Just one case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded just one fresh coronavirus case on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,757. The toll remained at 378. While 30,367 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 12 cases are active. TNSFive fresh cases surface in MohaliMohali: Five new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Friday, while two patients were cured. Among the new cases, three surfaced in Dhakoli and one each in Boothgarh and Gharuan. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-contract-covid-19-in-chandigarh-328370
23-10-2021||---||Residents debunk zero dengue toll claim by Panchkula Health Department||Panchkula, October 22A welfare association of Sector 10 residents has once again come out to “debunk the zero death claim by the Panchkula Health Department”.Bharat Hiteshi, chairman, House Owners Welfare Association, Sector 10, said, “Our locality has reported its third dengue death just yesterday, but despite our requests, officials haven’t turned up for fogging. Are they waiting for more casualties to occur?”He shared the names and addresses of patients who died of the vector-borne disease.Hiteshi said, “Three residents from Sector 10 who died of dengue are Kamlesh Singla (house number 133), Tejinder Kaur Chadha (house number 143) and Ajanta Kaushal (house number 74).”As per the latest dengue bulletin, the district has reported no dengue fatality so far.Meanwhile, the dengue tally stands at 396.Chander Mohan slams ‘poor health services’As dengue continues to spread its tentacles in Panchkula, former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan today slammed “poor healthcare services” being provided to dengue patients at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.“The dengue situation has gone out of control. Two-three patients are being accommodated in one bed at the Civil Hospital,” he said after a visit to the facility.Chander Mohan also wrote to state Health Minister Anil Vij on the issue and sought his intervention.The senior Congress leader said the official tally did not reflect the ground situation, which was “much worse”.He added that the actual cases could be above 750.Responding to the allegations, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta claimed that fogging was being done by the Municipal Corporation two to three times a day in all sectors, slums and villages.He said the civic body recently procured 13 new fogging machines for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-debunk-zero-dengue-toll-claim-by-panchkula-health-department-328369
23-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Estate Office set to go paperless from Monday||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22To provide seamless services to residents of the city, the UT Estate Office will completely go online from Monday. Known for delaying applications for months, the remaining seven offline services will now be available at the click of a mouse from the beginning of next week.Aimed at providing technology-driven services, in the first phase, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had launched five of the 16 services online on September 28.In the second phase, four more services were made available to residents online on October 12 and in the third phase, all remaining seven services will be available at the click of a button from Monday.Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, said all information about the services provided by the Estate Office, Acts, rules and notifications were available on their website https://estateoffice.chd.gov.in.“The Estate Office offers various property-related services. All services are being digitised in a phased manner. From Monday, residents will be able to avail of all services hassle-free from the comfort of their homes or offices,” said the Deputy Commissioner.He said the SMS service had been introduced to keep the applicant in the loop about the status of the work done. In an attempt to simplify the processes, the department had decided to omit the irrelevant documents, he added.Meanwhile, several residents who have submitted their applications for the transfer of property and sale deeds online have received their transfer certificates within a week as their applications were processed as per the new online system. Services launchedFirst phaseSecond phaseTo be launched in third phase on Oct 25||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-office-set-to-go-paperless-from-monday-328368
23-10-2021||---||PG fire case: Victim told me about congestion at the facility, says uncle||Chandigarh, October 22Dinesh Mehta, uncle of one of the girls, Muskan, who died in the fire at a PG in Sector 32 here last year, told the court that the victim had told him about congestion in the PG facility where she was residing.The fire broke out on the first floor of the PG running in a house on February 22, 2020. Three girls, Muskan Mehta, Riya and Pakshi Grover, all aged between 19 and 21 years, were killed. At the time of the incident, 17 girls were present in the house.The police had registered a case against the accused under Sections 304, 336,188 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The court has begun examining the witnesses in the case.Dinesh Mehta told the court that he used to meet her niece, Muskan, at the PG.She used to tell him regarding congestion in the PG but she was not willing to leave the facility due to her studies when he asked her to reside in his house.He said he got a call from his brother around 4 pm on the day of the incident who told him that a fire had broken out in the PG. He said when he reached the PG, he found the facility was badly gutted. They found three girls, Muskan Mehta, Riya and Pakshi Grover, unconscious. When the girls were taken to the hospital, the doctors declared them brought dead.Meanwhile, the examination of the prosecution witness, Jasmine Kaur, could not be held through videoconferencing from Canada today. Jasmine Kaur is also an eyewitness to the fire incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pg-fire-case-victim-told-me-about-congestion-at-the-facility-says-uncle-328367
23-10-2021||Panchkula||2 Panchkula villages 100 pc vaccinated||As the country achieved a milestone of administering 100 crore Covid doses, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday visited the Sector 12A dispensary where he expressed gratitude to healthcare workers for their “dedication and hard work in achieving the landmark feat”.He also congratulated Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar and her team of doctors for achieving 100 per cent Covid vaccination with both doses in two villages namely Khoi Bhagarni and Dhakhrog of the district. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and BJP District President Ajay Sharma were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-panchkula-villages-100-pc-vaccinated-328366
23-10-2021||Amarjot Kaur||2 heritage tables of Punjab Vidhan Sabha auctioned for Rs 13.36L in LA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Two tables of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha were auctioned by Bonhams in Los Angeles for Rs13.36 lakh yesterday. Ajay Jagga, member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, has written to CM Charanjit Channi, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh, Executive Director, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), Ghada Waly; and others in this connection.Jagga wrote that he had earlier conveyed to the authorities concerned on October 14 regarding the auction of the two tables which were heritage articles of the city. “Who sold the Vidhan Sabha heritage tables in violation of the Constitution of India and the MHA orders (22 February, 2011) and who took these to the US for sale. The inventory number of the table is written in Gurmukhi (Punjabi) and is clearly visible,” he added.He has requested the authorities to look into the matter, order a probe as to who sold these articles. They may also approach the law-enforcing agencies of the US through our Embassy to know how these items reached the auction house, so that the auction of smuggled heritage items (if any) can be stalled in future after ascertaining the facts.Jagga states that the Article 49 of the Constitution has been violated several times through such auctions where the city’s heritage items have been going under the hammer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-heritage-tables-of-punjab-vidhan-sabha-auctioned-for-rs-13-36l-in-la-328365
23-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||11-year-old PEC admission scam: CBI court vacates stay on trial||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, has vacated the stay on the trial of the case in which some students allegedly fraudulently and dishonestly got admission in PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, on the basis of fake and forged nepalese citizenship certificate under the direct admission of student abroad (DASA) scheme during the academic session 2010-2011.While allowing the appeal of the CBI, the court has issued notices to the prosecution witnesses for November 16, 2021, for the recording of evidence.The case was registered by the CBI on September 07, 2010, under Section 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had granted ad-interim stay on the proceedings of the trial on a petitions filed by accused Arushi Aggarwal and Nishant Sherawat in 2016 and in 2017. Narender Singh, public prosecutor for the CBI, argued for vacating the stay in view of the order of the Supreme Court passed in the case of Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited & Anr. Vs. CBI dated October 15, 2020. He argued that the interim stay was not extended by a speaking order.The counsel for the accused opposed the application and said due to the outbreak of Covid 19, the case was adjourned by the High Court from time to time. The counsel relied upon an order dated April 28, 2021, passed by the High Court and contended that as per the order, all interim orders/directions shall stand extended till June 30, 2021.He said the operation of this order was extended from time to time. Therefore, the stay on the proceedings of the trial court cannot be vacated.After hearing of the arguments, the court, while applying the apex court in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited Vs. CBI, says when a stay is granted by the Superior Court or even by the High Court, the same will end on an expiry of six months from the date of such order unless a similar extension is granted by a speaking order. Not only this, the description of the speaking order is defined by the Supreme Court that the speaking order must show that the case was of such exceptional nature that continuing the stay was more important than having the trial finalised.Besides, duty is also cast upon the trial court not to adjourn the case beyond a period of six months of the order of stay so that on the expiry of the period of stay, proceedings can commence unless the order of extension of stay is produced.“A perusal of the orders passed by the High Court in the case in 2016 and 2017and also the subsequent orders reflects that these are not speaking orders. Therefore, guided by the mandate of Asian Resurfacing in Road Agency Vs. CBI, I see no embargo if the proceedings before the trial court are hereby resumed. Further, both parties did not produce any order of the superior court qua stay of the proceedings as directed by order dated July 23, 2021, of this court. Therefore, the present application filed by the CBI is allowed.” says the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-year-old-pec-admission-scam-cbi-court-vacates-stay-on-trial-328364
23-10-2021||---||26 passports seized, Mohali immigration firm owner booked||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 22The police seized 26 passports, a stamp and documents from an immigration company, Falcon International Education Immigration, in Phase-3B2 on Thursday night. Its owner, identified as Sarbjit Singh, has absconded.A police team, led by DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu, carried out a surprise check at the firm today but the owner was missing. “Twentysix passports and other documents have been seized from the office. The police are investigating whether the owner had the licence to run the immigration company.”A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 420 and 473 and the Immigration Act at the Mataur police station.Sources said several immigration companies in the city were under the scanner and surprise checks would continue in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-passports-seized-mohali-immigration-firm-owner-booked-328363
23-10-2021||---||CBI court denies bail to Chandigarh's woman SI in graft case||Chandigarh, October 22The accused is admittedly a police officer and if she is released on bail at this stage of investigation, she is most likely to pressurise the witnesses and also hamper the investigation of the case. The CBI court stated this while rejecting the bail application of a woman Sub-Inspector, Sarabjit Kaur, who was arrested by the CBI while allegedly accepting a bribe.The CBI had arrested the woman SI on September 17, 2021. The CBI had registered an FIR against the accused on a complaint of a person, who alleged that she had demanded the bribe from him to remove his name from the FIR registered at the Sector 36 police station, Chandigarh.The counsel for the accused argued that the accused never committed any offence and had been falsely implicated in the case. It was argued that she had two children to look after and her mother-in-law was also bed-ridden as she was suffering from cancer. No female member was present in the house to take care of her mother-in-law and both children. Statements of all witnesses have already been recorded and no useful purpose would be served by keeping the accused in custody. Hence, she deserved to be released on bail.Public prosecutor Narender Singh argued that the accused had been apprehended in a serious offence and the bribe money was recovered from her which she had demanded and accepted in the presence of an independent witness.It was argued that CBI investigation was at the crucial stage. In case the accused, who is a senior police officer, is released on bail at this stage, she is most likely to pressurise the witnesses and hamper the investigation.After hearing the arguments, Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, said the accused was a police officer. If she was released on bail at this stage of investigation, she was most likely to pressurise the witnesses and hamper the investigation. As a result, no ground was made out to release her on bail and the application filed by her is accordingly dismissed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-denies-bail-to-chandigarhs-woman-si-in-graft-case-328362
23-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Building misuse penalty: Re-examine recommendation, MHA asks Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the UT Administration to re-examine the recommendation submitted for revision of penalty charges being imposed for misuse of building bylaws in the city.During a videoconferencing, the MHA today directed the UT authorities to reconsider the recommendation and then submit a fresh proposal to the Central Government, said an official of the UT Administration.Pending for years, the Secretary, Estate, UT, had recently written to the MHA to give powers to the UT Administrator to decide on the penalty charges for the misuse of building bylaws.In a proposal submitted to the MHA nearly two years ago, the UT Administration had recommended to fix the penalty at 0.75 per cent of the minimum collector rate per square yard per month for misuse and violation.The proposal pertains to amendment to the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952, to reduce the penalty being charged by the Estate Office for misuse and violation of building bylaws.At present, the Administration is charging a penalty ranging from Rs250 per sq ft to Rs350 per sq ft per month for various types of properties.The UT had proposed to charge a penalty of 0.75 per cent of the collector rate per sq yard per month applicable in case of misuse/violation of building bylaws in the non-permitted category and 0.50 per cent of the collector rate per sq yard per month applicable in case of misuse/violation of building bylaws beyond the permitted coverage. If the proposal had been accepted by the MHA, the penalty would have been reduced to one-sixth of the current amount.The Estate Office had increased the penalty for misuse and violation in 2007 from Rs20 to Rs500 per sq ft per month for the area being misused by the occupier under the Estate Office Rules, 2007.What UT proposedThe UT had proposed to charge a penalty of 0.75 per cent of the collector rate per sq yard per month applicable in case of misuse/violation of building bylaws in the non-permitted category and 0.50 per cent of the collector rate per sq yard per month applicable in case of misuse/violation of building bylaws beyond the permitted coverage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/building-misuse-penalty-re-examine-recommendation-mha-asks-chandigarh-328361
23-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to go ‘smart’ with road repair work||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The UT Administration will go “smart” in fixing patchwork with modern road repair machines.The UT Engineering Department has brought a jetpatcher machine from Gujarat on a trial basis to repair roads damaged due to rupture, trenching, overloading, wash out and surface damage.The machine uses a simple four-stage process for automatic repair of potholes on the road. The machine uses high volume and low-pressure blower to blow all loose debris from the pothole, clean it and prepare the hole for an effective patchwork. The machine then coats the pothole with an asphalt emulsion that seals the pothole and prevents further damage from occurring due to moisture. Aggregate is mixed with the asphalt emulsion and blown into the pothole at high velocity. After the pothole has effectively sealed and filled, a light layer of dry aggregate is applied to the patch to prevent it from adhering to car tires.CB Ojha, Chief Engineer, UT, said: “The machine has several advantages over manual road repair works. The environment-friendly machine can accelerate the repair work, requires less number of labourers and produces negligible pollution.”Moreover, it was a lot more useful in carrying out repair work in narrow lanes and on cycle tracks. The machine could be parked in a nearby area and repair could be carried out by a moveable pipe of the machine, he said, adding that the road could be used within half an hour after carrying out the patchwork.A sample repair work was carried out today and they would observe the sample for more than a month, before replicating the work in other parts of the city, he said, adding that the technique was being used in southern states, but the UT would be the first in North India to use automatic repair of damaged road. It would be quick-fix solution to the damaged roads, he summed up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-go-smart-with-road-repair-work-328360
23-10-2021||---||Education Department starts ‘Kilkaari’ for children of Chandigarh schools||Chandigarh, October 22To achieve the objective of quality and excellence in Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE), the Department of School Education, Chandigarh, has started “Kilkaari Project” for schoolchildren.The idea behind the project is to make classrooms as learning spaces which bolster curiosity, energy and imagination of toddlers.The project was formally inaugurated in Government Primary School, RC (III), Dhanas, by the Director, School Education, Chandigarh, Dr Palika Arora. The previous Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, under whose guidance the project was conceptualised and initiated, also graced the occasion.A special introductory session was held for all Urban Resource Centre Coordinators and Cluster Resource Centre Coordinators to explain the pre-primary design of the ECCE which includes, “The Path to Class (Corridor)”, “The Class (Indoor)”, “The Class Beyond Walls (Outdoor)”.The orientation of all principals/heads of government schools has been planned with the aim that the learning from the pre-primary design created in GPS-Dhanas can be adopted/adapted in all government schools of the city.A workshop for nursery teachers has also been planned in the coming months for the transition of teaching learning under the ECCE and the development of toys/teaching learning material so that the same can be used in all pre-primary classes. All principals/heads will undertake a campaign, “Share toys give joy”, for the collection of toys from their local area so that the same can be utilised in classroom teaching at the pre-primary level.The thought behind the programme has been to make classrooms full of positive laughter, shaping the enormous bundles of energy in our wonderful young ones into love for learning, far away from fear and hence the name “Kilkaari”.Thought behind projectThe thought behind the programme is to make classrooms full of positive laughter, shaping the enormous bundles of energy in our wonderful young ones into love for learning, far away from fear and hence the name “Kilkaari”. It envisions classrooms as learning spaces which bolster curiosity, energy and imagination of toddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-starts-kilkaari-for-children-of-chandigarh-schools-328359
23-10-2021||---||2 held, 27 stolen two-wheelers recovered in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 22A gang of vehicle thieves has been busted by the local police and 27 two-wheelers, including 26 Splendor motorcycles, recovered.The police said two suspects, identified as Sharanjeet Singh (23), a resident of Ambala, and Gurveer Singh (22), a resident of Mohali, were nabbed at a naka in Sector 42 while riding a stolen Splendor motorcycle on October 18.The police got their four-day remand during which they revealed that they had stolen Splendor motorcycles from across the tricity.The police said they used to sell the motorcycles to Mandeep Singh (22), a resident of Pinjore, following which he was arrested.Mandeep’s interrogation revealed that he used to affix fake number plates on the motorcycles and further sell these to people in rural areas.The police said Sharanjeet disclosed that he used to visit Chandigarh by falsely claiming that he was going for IELTS coaching. However, instead, he was indulged in stealing vehicles.Fifteen cases of vehicle theft — 11 in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula — have reportedly been solved with their arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-27-stolen-two-wheelers-recovered-in-chandigarh-328358
23-10-2021||---||68-yr-old man dies of dengue in Mohali||Mohali, October 22One more person died of dengue while 48 new confirmed cases were detected in Mohali today. The deceased has been identified as Ganesh Singh (68), a resident of Mundi Kharar. He was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali.As many as 116 suspected cases surfaced in the district. With this, the count of dengue cases has risen to 1,896. As many as 21 suspected deaths have been reported from the district so far. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “Residents should avoid sitting outside in the morning and evening. Precautions should be taken for the next two months.”An official said residents should clean all water containers such as coolers, refrigerator trays, pots and broken or old containers in and around their houses and use mosquito repellent spray in the house and lawns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/68-yr-old-man-dies-of-dengue-in-mohali-328357
23-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: In Kainth’s ward, lot yet to be done||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22A number of promises made to ward number 11 residents by councillor Satish Kainth during the poll are yet to be fulfilled.Promises, including building a community centre, green belt, new inner road in Sector 56, upgrading the panchayat building in Palsora, completing the sewerage and work on laying a storm water pipeline have not been fulfilled during his five-year term though several works have been started.“The councillor had promised to set up a big green belt behind our houses, but nothing has happened. A new road was promised to be built for house numbers 4800 to 5500. It later transpire that the “naksha” of the road is not approved and the councillor got only poles erected there,” said Yograj Singh, chairman, Jai Maa Ambe Seva Dal, Sector 56. “In five years, the work on the promised community centre in Sector 56 could not be completed. The councillor earlier tried to inaugurate even though the work had not been completed, but residents protested. The sewer pipeline remains blocked and the dirty water comes on the road, causing foul smell in our sector,” he added.Joginder Singh, general secretary, RWA, Sector 56, said, “Internal roads were built in our area and lights were put up in parks. However, no other work was done. At some places, poles have been put up sans light fittings. Though sewer pipelines are being laid, there is no drainage and water comes on the road.”Palsora village resident and local BJP leader Mandeep Singh said, “The anganwadi building in our village was declared unsafe. However, neither was it demolished nor a new building constructed. Even the Sampark Centre here is in a poor state as its water connection has been cut and there is no public toilet. Residents got another blow when the Palsora dispensary was shifted from here. Work on the Phirni road, sewerage and a storm water pipeline has not been completed as yet. Roads have been dug up for pipelines for long, causing inconvenience to residents.”Cong invites applications for MC electionsChandigarh: The city Congress has invited applications from interested persons who want to contest the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections. Accordingly, interested persons have been asked to collect application forms from the party office in Sector 35. The applications will be accepted from October 25 to November 10. The forms can be collected during the office hours daily between 11 am and 5 pm. Party leaders said they would give special consideration to prominent city residents and distinguished persons, who have made exceptional contribution to society. — TNSSatish Kainth: Councillor from ward number 11 (Won on the BJP ticket in 2016, but later joined the Congress)Areas under ward: Part of Sector 53, 54 (Adarsh Colony), 55 (Housing Board Colony), 56, Rehabilitation Colony, Palsora, and Palsora village)Major promises: Building a community centre, green belt, new inner road in Sector 56Result: Other than the community centre, work of none startedAchievements: Work on laying storm water pipeline & sewerage in Palsora; tubewell; 90% work of laying paver blocks done; setting up open air gyms in Sector 55 and Sector 56CouncillorspeakIn a week or 10 days, I will get the community centre and a new tubewell inaugurated in Sector 56. — Satish Kainth, councillor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-kainths-ward-lot-yet-to-be-done-328356
23-10-2021||Amit Sharma||Speeding to blame for 92% crashes in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Overspeeding was the root cause of 92 per cent road crashes reported from the city in 2020. Of the 50 fatal accidents in which 53 persons died, 47 were due to overspeeding, reveals a report compiled by the Road Crash Analysis Cell of the Chandigarh Traffic Police.The city witnessed 159 accidents (as per registered FIRs), of which 50 were fatal and 109 non-fatal. As many as 53 persons died and 148 were injured in these accidents.However, there were nine non-FIR cases in which nine persons were killed and seven injured.Overspeeding has come forth as the major killer with 47 fatal cases in which 50 persons lost their lives, 10 cases of grievous injuries that left 14 injured and 76 cases that left 125 with minor injuries being caused by overspeeding.The remaining three accident deaths were reported due to drunken driving, jumping the red light and driving on the wrong side.Meanwhile, the number of causalities due to road crashes has fallen from 138 in 2010 to 53 in 2020 while the number of persons injured has also declined from 415 in 2010 to 148 in 2020.The lockdown imposed in the city due to Covid-19 contributed towards the decrease in the number of accidents.According to the report, most of the people killed in fatal road crashes last year were two-wheeler riders, which comprised 43 per cent followed by pedestrians and cyclists at 23 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively. Cars have emerged as the front runner in terms of vehicles causing fatal, grievous and minor crashes. Cars led to the death of 32 persons, trucks nine persons and two-wheelers four persons.In their report, the police have observed that haphazard growth has led to creation of bottlenecks and congestion on roads, which has resulted in a rise in the number of road accidents.Based on the accidents, the police have identified four black spots and vulnerable spots in the city.5 pm-midnight accident-prone time||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speeding-to-blame-for-92-crashes-in-chandigarh-328355
