24-10-2021||---||Medical representative kidnapped, robbed; 6 booked||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 23The police registered a case against at least six persons, including a woman, for allegedly kidnapping and robbing a Patiala-based medical representative yesterday.In his complaint to the police, Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Jai Jawan Colony, Patiala, said he was in the business of supplying medicines. He had received a call from a girl, Manpreet Kaur, who ordered some medicines. When he went to deliver the medicines to Manpreet yesterday, she took her to a hotel in Bhabat area of Zirakpur. While coming back, some persons blocked their way and forcibly put him in their vehicle, and kept moving on the road till late at night. Later, they dumped him near the Patiala bypass and fled the spot.He alleged that the miscreants took away his car, Rs2,500, his Aadhaar card and mobile phone. The police have registered a case against six unidentified persons under Section 379-B, 364-A, 365 and 506 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medical-representative-kidnapped-robbed-6-booked-328836
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Servants drug NRI, mother in Chandigarh; flee with cash||Two newly recruited servants drugged and robbed a woman and her 65-year-old NRI son of their cash, phones, jewellery and other household items at a house in Sector 36 last morning.The matter came to light when the victims regained consciousness in the evening. The police said one of the suspects had been identified as Sonu Thapa (19), a Nepalese national, who was hired a month ago without verification. The other suspect was employed a week ago on Thapa’s request. The police said Surinder Pal Singh (69) and his mother Sarvjit Kaur (89) came back from their house in Pehowa on Thursday evening. Next morning, they were served tea by the suspects following which they fell unconscious. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/servants-drug-nri-mother-in-chandigarh-flee-with-cash-328835
24-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Mani Majra firm told to refund cost of defective mattresses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a company to refund Rs20,000, price of the defective mattress, to a city consumer.The commission also directed the firm to pay Rs3,000 as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.Dr Prem Swaroop Gaur, a resident of Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra, Chandigarh, in a complaint filed before the commission, said he purchased a pair of mattress (Kurlon New Ortho) for his wife, who was an orthopaedic patient, for Rs20,000 from M/s Bombay Collection, Mani Majra, an authorised dealer of M/s Kurlon Enterprises Limited, on November 6, 2016, having three-year warranty.He said within six months of the warranty period, the mattresses started sagging.He said when the issue was raised, a representative of the company checked the mattresses and replaced these with a new one. New mattresses again sagged more than 1.5 inches within a span of eight months.In its reply, the company claimed that they visited the premises of the complainant, identified the defects and replaced the defected mattresses with a new one.Pleading that there was no deficiency in service on their part, a prayer for the dismissal of the complaint was made.After hearing the arguments, the commission, comprising president Rajan Dewan and members Priti Malhotra and BM Sharma, said the opposite parties (the shop and the company) indulged into unfair trade practice by supplying defective mattresses. In view of this, the opposite parties were directed to refund Rs20,000, the cost of the mattresses, along with interest @ 9 per annum from the date of purchase i.e. November 6, 2016 till its realisation.The commission also directed the OPs to pay Rs3,000 as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.“No useful purpose will be served by directing the OPs to replace the product again as it has already been replaced and now the consumer has lost faith in the company’s product. If the replaced product develops the defect again, then the complainant will be put to larger harassment because he has to fight another bond of litigation, which will be highly tortuous for him,” the commission said in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-firm-told-to-refund-cost-of-defective-mattresses-328780
24-10-2021||---||Zirakpur private hospital put on notice for overcharging||Zirakpur, October 23Dhakoli Senior Medical Officer Pommy Chatrath today issued a notice to a private hospital here to explain why a dengue patient was handed a bill with MRI and cancer-related medicines, leading to potential overcharging. The patient’s attendant pointed out the irrelevant treatment charges following which a new bill was issued.“We have issued a notice to the Amcare authorities for October 27. They have been asked to explain why such a bill was issued and who issued it. Also, original bills and supporting documents have been sought from the hospital,” said Chatrath.Lohgarh resident Avtar Singh said, “I admitted my father Daljit Singh, 60, to the hospital for the treatment of dengue on October 6. Two days later, I was handed a Rs 40,000 bill, which carried charges for two MRIs and two cancer serums. When I pointed out the irrelevant charges, the nurses and officials misbehaved with me and snatched the treatment file from me. After five days, my father was discharged on paying a bill of Rs 39,000. I have filed a police complaint as well.”Hospital incharge Abhitej Nibber said, “Ours is an NABH-accredited hospital. There is minimal manual interference in our billing process. No overcharging has been done. I have not received the notice, but will reply to it once I get it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-private-hospital-put-on-notice-for-overcharging-328781
24-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||T20 World Cup: Punters put their bet on India in tie against Pak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23Be it on the field or off the field, the Indian cricket team is turning out to be the favourites against Pakistan for the T20 World Cup match scheduled to be held at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium tomorrow.Not only cricket lovers, but local punters are betting on the Indian team against Pakistan. The two sides are facing each other after a gap of over two years.Bookies said the bet was expected to go as high as 2:9 in favour of the Indian team.A bookie, seeking anonymity, said stakes were always high in India-Pakistan matches. “The rates are going to be high in favour of the Indian team and, if they lose the match, it will be a pre-Diwali bonus for us,” said a bookie.“The two teams have not faced each other since June 2019 after a World Cup match in Manchester (England). So, predictions are hard to make. We will be placing our bets on the Indian team,” said a young punter.While the bookies and punters make plans for the day, Chandigarh Police officials said high vigil would be kept on people indulging in such activities. “Our cyber cell team will be keeping an eye on such activities. Action will be taken against the offenders,” said an official of the UT police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/t20-world-cup-punters-put-their-bet-on-india-in-tie-against-pak-328827
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Annual Research Day: PGI honours 47 doctors for exemplary work||The PGI honoured 47 doctors of the institute for their exemplary and credible research work conducted at the institute in the past three years, during its 8th Annual Research Day here today.Prof AK Gupta, Dean (Research) & Medical Superintendent, PGI, said: “It is gratifying to see such an overwhelming response to the 8th Annual research Day. In view of the quality of research conducted, it was a humongous task to judge the best 47 award-winning entries. The awards given in the medical, surgical, pre/para-clinical, innovation and Covid-19 categories were based on the H-Index, which measures both productivity and citation impact of the publication.”“Research and innovation are the only way forward to ensure affordable health care for all in our country where only 8 per cent are having medical insurance and 39 million fall in the BPL category,” said Prof YK Chawla, former director, PGI.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “This year, we had a record of over 600 poster submissions from the faculty and residents of the PGI. The enthusiasm shown brings out the enormous research output of our institute. The past couple of years had seen a lot of us dive into Covid duties and battle the pandemic. But that hasn’t deterred meaningful research into this dreaded disease. This is exemplified by the high impact research put up by the faculty in the special Covid section this year.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/annual-research-day-pgi-honours-47-doctors-for-exemplary-work-328828
24-10-2021||Mohali||Villagers sensitised to free legal aid||To sensitise people to free legal aid, procedure for availing of various legal services and to empowerment of women, Justice Ajay Tewari, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, visited Papri village in Mohali district today.Arun Gupta, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Member Secretary, and Dr Mandeep Mittal, Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum-Additional Member Secretary, accompanied him.Later on, both judicial officers visited the villages of Dharamgarh and Bakarpur. They interacted with villagers and students and informed them about free legal aid service.They said the State Legal Services Authority had so far covered around 13,000 villages, towns and cities of all 23 districts of the state twice to educate the population about free legal aid, remedies against domestic abuse, access to justice and legal remedies etc.It was also told that under Section 12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, a woman, child, any person in custody, specially abled persons, SC/ST and any person having annual income of Rs3 lakh can avail of service of an advocate to be paid by the authority. The services can be availed of for cases in all courts, commissions and tribunals. Anyone can contact the authority through its toll free number 1968.In commemoration of 75th year of Independence and 25th year of Legal Aid Movement, a nationwide campaign, “PAN India Awareness and Outreach Programme - Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: 2nd October to 14th November, 2021”, has been launched by the National Legal Services Authority, New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-sensitised-to-free-legal-aid-328829
24-10-2021||---||Mohali’s frontline women sanitation staff felicitated||Mohali, October 23Former Punjab Health Minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today felicitated frontline women sanitation employees deployed here by distributing suits among them.Sidhu thanked them for their work during the Covid pandemic and preventing breeding of mosquito larvae by keeping the city clean.Addressing the sanitation workers at a function held at a community centre in Phase 7 here, Sidhu said all these frontline employees, who kept the city clean during the pandemic, deserved respect. When lockdown was imposed during the first wave of Covid-19, these workers were still playing their role by keeping the city neat and clean.Suits were distributed among 300 women employees. Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-frontline-women-sanitation-staff-felicitated-328830
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two hurt in road mishap||City sees two theft incidentsChandigarh: An unidentified person stole a mobile phone of a Sector 6, Panchkula, resident from the washroom of a five-star hotel in Sector 17 here on October 19. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered. In another case, the police booked Sector 29 resident Aamir Khan for allegedly stealing Rs15,000, a purse containing some documents and a mobile phone from a scooter belonging to Rohit Kumar of Sector 7 on Thursday. The two-wheeler was parked near a gym in Sector 29. A case has been registered. TNSOwner, GM of club in sec 26 bookedChandigarh: The police booked the owner of Culture Bar, Sector 26, Satinder Singh, and general manager Deepak for keeping the club open beyond the permissible time on the night of October 21, in violation of an order of the District Magistrate, UT. A case under Section 188, IPC, has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. An investigation in the case was in progress. TNSTwo bikers flee with gold chainChandigarh: Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a Sector 37 resident near her home on October 22. A case under Section 379-A of the IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station. An investigation into the case was in progress, the police said. TNSFour booked for assaultChandigarh: Four Maloya residents were booked for obstructing the way of a person, threatening him and thrashing him with sticks near the tubewell park on Friday. The suspects have been identified as Sahil, alias Jani, Raja, Sahil, alias Bread, and Happy. They also allegedly snatched the victim Bunty’s mobile phone, ATM card, watch and other documents. On a complaint of the victim, a resident of Maloya, a case under Sections 341, 323, 379-B, 506 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Maloya police station. TNSTT nationals from todayChandigarh: Over 700 entries have been received across three events in the second leg of the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship starting from October 24 at the Sports Complex in Sector 78, Mohali. It will be the first time after 2019 that boys and girls in the Youth U-17, U-15 and U-13 age group brackets will indulge in some serious activities. It is equally heartening that an event of this magnitude is returning to Punjab after two decades. The Punjab Table Tennis Association had organised the Junior National Championship in 2001 at Jalandhar. TNSCity girls defeat Hockey BiharChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh defeated Hockey Bihar (9-1) in the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship 2021 in Simdega. Palak, Kavita and Sonia Devi scored two goals each, while Priyanka, Parneet Kaur and Anmoldeep Kaur netted one each for Hockey Chandigarh. Pooja Kumari, meanwhile, scored the consolation goal for Hockey Bihar. Hockey Uttarakhand lost a close match against Manipur Hockey (5-7), Delhi Hockey dominated the proceedings against Hockey Gujarat (12-1), Odisha continued their winning streak as they beat Chhattisgarh Hockey (9-0), Hockey Himachal lost (1-3) in a closely-fought match against Hockey Madhya Pradesh and Goans Hockey secured a hard-fought (4-0) win in their encounter against Hockey Jammu & Kashmir. TNSState Roller Skating Championship from October 29Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Roller Skating Association will organise State Roller Skating Championship from October 29 to 31. It will be held at the Sector 10 Skating Rink. Interested skaters can confirm their entries at the tournament venue before October 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-hurt-in-road-mishap-328831
24-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh dengue cases highest since 2017||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23Dengue cases in Chandigarh have crossed the 500 mark with 36 fresh cases recorded today. This is the highest number of cases seen 2017.Of 581 cases logged this year, 497 cases have surfaced in October itself. Of 36 cases registered today, 13 were reported from Mauli Jagran and seven from Sector 20.In 2017, around 1,951 cases were recorded, while the cases dipped to 301 in 2018, followed by 286 cases in 2019 and 265 cases in 2020.Considering delayed rain during September, all sort of preventive and punitive measures are being taken to control the spread of vector-borne diseases by the UT Health Department.The measures include holding awareness and education programmes across in the city, fogging and spray at public/private places in coordination with the Municipal Corporation, checking and inspection of vulnerable places and issuing notices and challans. A total of 8,312 notices and 451 challans have been issued till now. Around 331 show-cause notices have also been issued to private and government institutions.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The conducive conditions of water stagnation coupled with climatic factors will increase the possibility of vector-borne diseases. To tackle this situation, the malaria wing of the Health Department has started house surveys and area surveys for checking mosquitogenic situations since March onwards.”“Defaulters are being issued notices/show-cause notices. Field interventional measures such as source reduction, anti-larval measures are being carried out by field staff all over Chandigarh,” said Garg.85 taken ill in MohaliMohali: As many as 85 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,981. No new fatality due to the disease was reported from across the district, said health officials. Of the total cases reported in the past two months, 344 surfaced in September and the remaining this month. The district reported two deaths in September while the the vector-borne disease claimed 21 lives this year. TNSDengue count goes past 400 mark in P’kulaPanchkula: With 26 fresh cases reported today, the dengue tally in the district has crossed the 400 mark. The currently tally stands at 422. The official count of death due to the vector-borne disease remains zero. Members of the House Owners’ Welfare Association (HOWA) Sector 10, in their core committee meeting today, raised concern over the Health Department’s claim of zero dengue deaths during this season. Bharat Hiteshi, chairman, HOWA, said even after the death of three dengue patients in their locality, the Municipal Corporation had not yet complied with a demand of the association for conducting house-to-house fogging in Sector 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dengue-cases-highest-since-2017-328832
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees one case||Four test positive in MohaliMohali: Four fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the district during the past 24 hours. There was no new fatality while three patients have been cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Dhakoli and Boothgarh while two cases surfaced in Mohali. No case was reported from Dera Bassi, Gharuan, Lalru, Banur, Kharar and Kurali. As of now, the district Covid tally stands at 68,802 and recoveries 67,697. There are 37 active cases with 1,068 deaths. TNSTwo cases in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 30,759. With no new fatality, the toll remained at 378. While 30,367 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 14 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-one-case-328833
24-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Modern community centres underutilised in Arun Sood’s ward||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23City BJP president and councillor Arun Sood may boast of opening two state-of-the-art community centres and Mahila Bhawan in his ward, but he failed to fulfil his promise of operating the centres on the club membership format and holding woman-centric activities at the bhawan during his five-year term.CouncillorspeakGyms could not be opened at two state-of-the-art community centres and Mahila Bhawan as there is no policy and bylaws on appointing instructors at such centres. Arun Sood, City BJP President and CouncillorGyms and libraries at the two centres have been lying shut since their inauguration in Sector 37 and 38 (West). At Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 Bhawan, the women’s gym had remained operational for about a year and was shut later.Though the construction of the two centres began in the previous term of Sood, both projects were completed in his current term. The centres were opened for holding public events on booking in March 2018.“Local residents have no benefit of the community centres as people from other areas book these for holding various events. We have to bear with noise pollution and parking problem instead. Residents were to get the benefit of these by becoming their members, but that did not happen as the councillor wanted to make members and office-bearers of his own choice,” alleged Pankaj Gupta, president, Resident Welfare Association, Sector 38 (West).“A dispensary and a crèche were to come up on the land of the Sector 38 (W) community centre as per a 1996 layout plan of the CHB. They will not be built now. Likewise, it was claimed that woman-centric facilities such as seminars, gym and art activities will be held at the Mahila Bhawan, but it could not be used for the prime purpose it was built for,” he added.Residents said owing to non-resolution of the waste processing plant issue, they had to bear with stench. Recarpeting of road in pocket A of Sector 38 has been hanging fire.JP Yadav, president, RWA, Sector 37-A, said, “In our area, politics gets more prominence over works. Tracks are yet to be built in two parks and dark spots near the gurdwara are still without lights.”As far as MC House meetings are concerned, Sood has been the most vocal councillor.Arun Sood: Councillor of ward number 8Area: Sectors 37, 38 and 38 (West)Promises: To run community centres on the club membership format and hold women-centric activities at Mahila BhawanResult: Membership process could not be started. No activity for women is being held at Mahila BhawanAchievements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/modern-community-centres-underutilised-in-arun-soods-ward-328834
24-10-2021||---||Panchkula: Sector 20 residents oppose paid parking in market||Panchkula, October 23The Panchkula Municipal Corporation’s decision to introduce paid parking in Sector 20 has not gone down well with the area residents. Their representatives recently met senior civic body officials to register their opposition to the move. The tendering process for the allotment of the parking lot is underway.Office-bearers of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 20, said they would write a letter to the state government if the MC did not consider their demand. Besides, they have also planned to stage a protest in support of their “cause”.The General House of the MC had earlier this year passed a resolution to introduce paid parking in the Sector 20 market.KK Jindal, president, Sector 20 RWA, said there could not be any justification for introducing paid parking in Sector 20 as the MC had not developed the parking lot as a special project. He said the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), during the development of the sector, had levied charges for the parking space left in the front of the sector market. Hence, there was no reason for “extorting money” in the name of paid parking, Jindal added. He said the allotment of the parking lot would lead to corruption.MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said the MC General House had passed a resolution in this regard and the tendering process for allotment of the parking lot was underway.“Officer-bearers of the Sector 20 RWA are opposing the move. I will discuss the matter with political representatives in the civic body for a resolution of the issue,” he said.MC decision not justified: RWA ChiefKK Jindal, president, Sector 20 RWA, said there could not be any justification for introducing paid parking in Sector 20 as the MC had not developed the parking lot as a special project. He said the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), during the development of the sector, had levied charges for the parking space left in the front of the sector market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sector-20-residents-oppose-paid-parking-in-market-328826
