25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 45 resident held with heroin||Purse containing jewellery stolenChandigarh: An unknown person stole a woman’s purse while riding an e-rickshaw. The complainant, a resident of Kishangarh, reported that an unknown person riding the same rickshaw stole her purse containing a gold necklace, gold earrings and a gold chain between Shivalik Garden and Mani Majra. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-45-resident-held-with-heroin-329296
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh eves suffer defeat in hockey||Hockey Punjab edge past Hockey Chandigarh (6-0) in the ongoing 11th Hockey India Senior Women National Championship in Jhansi today.Hockey Haryana defeated Hockey Uttarakhand (6-0) as Mahima (17th), Kumari Shailja Gautam (21st), Sonia (42nd), Jyoti (44th), Ekta Kaushik (46th) and Monika Sihag (56th) scored one goal each for Hockey Haryana.Odisha defeated Chhattisgarh Hockey (3-0), Hockey Andhra Pradesh earned a hard-fought (3-2) victory over Hockey Arunachal, Hockey Maharashtra registered a comprehensive (14-1) victory over Goans Hockey and Hockey Madhya Pradesh thrashed Hockey Gujarat (28-0). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-eves-suffer-defeat-in-hockey-329295
25-10-2021||---||Karnataka’s Varun registers win||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24Karnataka’s Varun Kashyap managed to surpass a tough challenge by Harshit Kumar of Bihar in the second leg of theUTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship at the Sports Complex in Sector 78 here today.Kumar kept his opponent on the tenterhooks. However, Kashyap managed to take the last game to register (11-1, 3-11, 11-6, 5-11 and 11-7) victory.Delhi’s Atherva Gupta also struggled before overcoming Punjab’s Vanad Kumar, who needed to win the last two games to beat the Punjab lad. The Delhi boy won (8-11, 11-6, 11-13, 11-7 and 11-4). Rajasthan’s Aaron Gupta managed to put it across Daksh Khandelwal of Delhi to win (11-7, 7-11, 7-11, 11-9 and 11-8), while Haryana’s Siddhant Kataria also defeated Delhi’s Arjav Gupta (8-11, 11-8, 8-11, 11-5 and 11-5) to rekindle hopes. The match between Gujarat’s Dhyey Jain and Arjit Das of National Centre of Excellence, Kolkata, also got stretched with the Gujarat boy romping home (11-8, 9-11, 11-7, 5-11 and 12-10) victorious.Aashish Jain of Delhi began and ended well after Shreyas Mane from Maharashtra gave some torrid moments. Jain beat Mane (11-7, 7-11, 11-8, 7-11 and 11-9). Oishik Ghosh of Bengal was not lucky as he went down (3-11, 11-7, 11-9, 10-12 and 9-11) to Navaneeth Kutty of TNTTA. Rishabh Mayank of Haryana defeated Rohan Dani, a wildcard entrant from TTFI, (11-6, 9-11, 11-8, 2-11 and 11-2) in a bottom group. However, Rajkhowa Roy, also a wildcard, beat Shrisha Roy of Bengal (12-10, 9-11, 11-4, 9-11 and 11-8).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karnatakas-varun-registers-win-329294
25-10-2021||---||Woman dupes Ambala resident of Rs7,000, car||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24A woman allegedly duped an Ambala resident of Rs7,000 and disappeared after taking his Swift car on the pretext of knowing the well-being of her mother admitted to a hospital in Mohali today.The suspect has been identified as 30-year-old Arshpreet Kaur, a resident of Nangal.Mandeep Singh, a resident of Ambala, in his complaint to the police, said on a request of his friend Ram Kalan, he had come to hand over money to a person in Zirakpur. He said when he reached there, he called on the number of the person given by his friend Ram Kalan. He said a woman picked up the phone and asked him to come to a hotel in Balongi.He said when he reached the spot, the woman took the money from him and told him that her mother was very serious and admitted to a nearby hospital. He said the woman took the car and left the spot.He said he dialled the number of the woman when she did not return for a long time, but her phone was switched off. After feeling cheated, he lodged a complaint with the Balongi police station.A case under Sections 379, 406 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against Arshdeep Kaur at the Balongi police station. The police have launched a hunt to nab the woman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-dupes-ambala-resident-of-rs7-000-car-329293
25-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court acquits accused in cell phone snatching case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24Saying that there are multiple contradictions in the statement of prosecution witnesses, Renu Goyal, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Chandigarh, has acquitted a person arrested on the charge of snatching a mobile phone from a woman around four years ago.The police had registered a case on a complaint of a woman, Shikha Rana. The complainant stated that when she was talking on her mobile phone in front of her house on June 19, 2016, a boy came from behind and snatched her mobile phone before fleeing from the spot on a motorcycle.On the basis of her statement, an FIR was registered for the offence punishable under Sections 356, 379 and 411 read with Section 34 of the IPC and the accused, Arvind Kumar, was arrested. A challan was presented in the court. On finding a prima facie case, charges were framed against the accused in 2017 which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.In the challan, the police claimed that the accused was arrested at a naka laid near the beat box in Sector 38, Chandigarh, on July 2, 2016. They claimed that a motorcycle-borne youth, Arvind, was seen coming from the Sector 37 side. The police signalled him to stop for checking and sought documents of the vehicle.Meanwhile, the complainant, who was also accompanying the police, identified the biker, who snatched her mobile phone. The police claimed that on checking, a mobile phone was recovered from him and the complainant also identified her mobile phone.Defence counsel Anil Sharma argued that the accused was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. Sharma further argued that the prosecution had not been able to prove the charges beyond reasonable shadow of doubt. Sharma said there were discrepancies in the statements of the witnesses.After hearing the arguments, the court said there was a contradiction in the statements of the witnesses. The court said the complainant deposed that she reached the naka between 6:30 pm and 7 pm. She was not called by any police official at the naka and she went there on her own alone. A constable deposed that the investigating officer called the complainant at the naka laid between 1:30 pm and 1:45 pm. So, there was a contradiction regarding the time of laying the naka and the fact that how the complainant reached there.These contradictions in the prosecution case have obviously put a dent in their story. Further, the case of prosecution is dependent upon the testimony of the complainant and police officials only.Undisputedly, the alleged recovery has been effected from a highly crowded area of Sector 38, Chandigarh. So, it was essential for the investigating officer to join some independent witness of the area/locality at the time of effecting the alleged recovery as per the mandate of Section 100(4) of the CrPC. However, the investigating officer did not join any independent witness, which is fatal to the prosecution case in the facts and circumstances of the present case.Further, the prosecution has not been able to prove the ownership of the mobile phone stated to be belonging to the complainant. Moreover, the recovery alleged to be effected from the accused is highly doubtful and the entire story of the prosecution has become untrustworthy. Consequently, accused Arvind Kumar is acquitted of the charges levelled against him under Sections 356, 379 and 411 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-acquits-accused-in-cell-phone-snatching-case-329292
25-10-2021||Mohali||Punjab CM announces upgrade of Gharuan village as nagar panchayat||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced upgrade of historic Gharuan village as a nagar panchayat, besides handing over grants for development worth Rs68 crore for 35 villages of the Kharar block in the Sri Chamkaur Sahib constituency.The Chief Minister disbursed cheques worth Rs14 crore to panchayats of these villages and also sanctioned Rs54 crore more.Starting the 4th day of the Sri Chamkaur Sahib constituency tour from Gharuan village falling in the Kharar block of Mohali district, Channi distributed cheques among panchayats of 35 villages.Addressing the gathering at Gharuan, the Chief Minister said in view of the historical importance of the village, it would be upgraded to the status of a nagar panchayat so as to ensure unhindered progress that would also be beneficial for nearby villages. Announcing Rs3.25 crore for the renovation of a sacred sarovar in the village, Channi said no stone would be left unturned for its beautification and developing it as a tourist spot.Speaking during a function at Garanga village, Channi said his government had unveiled a special scheme for waiving electricity bill arrears of consumers having load up to 2 kW so that financial burden on people could be reduced. He appealed to people to drive maximum benefit from the scheme. Channi said arrears worth Rs77.37 crore of 96,911 consumers had been waived in the state till now. He also handed over a bill waiver certificate of Rs2,26,890 to Atma Singh of Cholta Khurd.While distributing cheques among nine panchayats at Garanga village, the Chief Minister exhorted the panchayat representatives to themselves check the quality of development works apart from directing the District Administration to leave no stone unturned in ensuring all-round progress of rural areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-announces-upgrade-of-gharuan-village-as-nagar-panchayat-329291
25-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Chappar Chiri war memorial to be tourist destination soon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24In order to attract tourists, Fateh Heritage Private Limited, a private company, which has taken over the management of the Chappar Chiri war memorial, also known as Fateh Burj, which is built in the memory of Sikh General Baba Banda Singh Bahadur in Mohali, will set up a restaurant and other facilities in the complex.The firm will set up a café shop, a Verka booth and a canteen at the historic complex.Divulging details, Pankaj Bains, supervisor of the company, said in order to attract a large number of people to the monument, they had also decided to hold monthly events in which renowned Sufi singers of Punjab would be invited to perform. He said a library would also be set up where young denizens would be able to go through the history of Punjab and the Sikh literature. A light and sound show would also be held on Sundays.It is pertinent to mention here that the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), apparently finding itself unable to maintain Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Memorial constructed during the tenure of the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2011, had decided to hand over the tallest ‘minar’ of the country to private players for its upkeep. Now, the management of the monument had been handed over to Fateh Heritage Private Limited for 15 years.Bains said they had also installed colour changing lights and aviation lights on the monument. The aviation lights would make the monument more attractive when viewed from the aircraft as around 40 flights operate from the local airport.He said a lift would also be installed in the monument which would go up to the second floor from where visitors would be able to view the city. They would also be printing the literature regarding the rich culture and heritage of Punjab and the Sikh history for visitors.He said swings and slides would also be installed for children. An open air theatre would also be set up in the complex. The pond near the monument would also be cleaned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chappar-chiri-war-memorial-to-be-tourist-destination-soon-329290
25-10-2021||It is really sad that the public is not adhering to the instructions of the administration and is not ready to accept the cracker ban. The UT Administration should make all residents aware of the harm of bursting crackers. Defaulters should be imposed a minimum fine of Rs2||Open house: What steps should administration take to ensure cracker ban on Diwali?||NPS Sohal, ChandigarhNeed to review challan amountIn the larger interest of a healthy environment and to ensure a complete cracker ban, the administration should make sure that the challan amount pinches defaulters.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhQUESTIONHow can the UT Administration control gatherings during the festive season to prevent a possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comAct tough against violatorsThe violation of cracker ban during the Dasehra celebrations clearly indicates a lackadaisical approach of the Administration in enforcing its own orders. This has been happening again and again for the reason that there is generally no action on the violators on the ground. With the Festival of Lights a few days away, the Administration should restrict the use of crackers by fixing a timeline for the bursting of crackers and taking strict action against those not complying with the guidelines. It is imperative that teams of officials, in coordination with police officials, are formed to keep a check on violators.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaAuthorities not seriousThe UT Administration failed to ensure the cracker ban at Dasehra because it lacked a will. On the one hand it announced a ban on crackers, but on the other, it gave licences to vendors to sell these. Also, all Ramlila committees openly flouted the ban by stuffing effigies with crackers and burning them in the presence of VIP guests. At Diwali also, the same story is going to be repeated as the authorities concerned are not seriously taking any steps to enforce the ban, except making half-hearted announcements. Youngsters are bursting crackers in pre-Diwali bash and going scot-free. Unless the seriousness of pollution problem is recognised by the public as well as the authorities, no ban will hold.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhCreate awareness against crackersThere are various steps that can be taken by the UT Administration to ensure a full compliance of the cracker ban on Diwali. Firstly, crackers must not be sold in markets so that people will not have access to these. Secondly, violators need to be heavily penalised (up to Rs3,000). Moreover, awareness should be created against the ill-effects of burning crackers.Palak, ChandigarhBan decision came quite lateDespite the best of intentions of the UT Administration, the ban on bursting of crackers on Dasehra did not yield the desired results, as there was hardly any reaction time to remove the crackers already stuffed in effigies almost all over the city. Banning the bursting of crackers just a couple of days before the event could not have the desired impact on the ground. Initiating police action against the organisers did not carry legal sanctity. As for the individual zealots, who chose to flout the ban while bursting crackers in residential areas, the police have already identified them, and in case they repeat their action during Diwali too, they must not be spared. They must realize that it is the responsibility of every law-abiding citizen to keep the environment reasonably noise and smoke-free, particularly on Diwali night.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAdministration failed completelyThe UT Administration failed to completely ban the bursting of crackers on Dasehra. What sort of Administration is this? Rules are to be strictly adhered to. Diwali is round the corner. Crackers should not be seen anywhere.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhSay a big no to crackersIt is true that the ban on crackers during Dasehra was ineffective in Chandigarh. But for the coming festival of Diwali, the Administration must get stern. A heavy fine should be imposed on violators. PCR teams should patrol areas where there the ban is violated with impunity. CCTV cameras in all public places ought to be in working condition, so that the culprits can be identified. Leaders should desist from helping offenders. The police, too, should not be under pressure while taking action against offenders. Above all, we need to be aware of our responsibilities and should not violate the rules. The ban on the bursting crackers is not in favour of any individual, but the whole humanity. So, be wise and say a big no to crackers this Diwali. It is just a festival of lights and not of crackers.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhBan crackers of high intensityCrackers not only cause noise pollution but also nuisance to citizens. It is high time that we ban the sale of high-intensity crackers which cause severe noise and pollution. Further, the residents should come forward and voluntarily decide not to use high-intensity crackers. The use of LED lights may be allowed during the Diwali celebrations. The Administration should also challan traders for selling high-intensity crackers which are not environmental friendly.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliCome up with effective banI think the major reason for non-adherence to the cracker ban on Dasehra by the Chandigarh Administration was its late notification. By the time the administration had passed the orders, the effigies must have been filled with crackers. Another reason has been the low or negligible action taken by the administration in the past for such open violations. The Administration should not issue any licence for setting up firecracker stalls during Diwali. The ban has to be imposed in the tricity so that an effective control on the sale and bursting of crackers is made easy for the Administration. The defaulters may be slapped a heavy penalty. Happiness of festivities cannot be achieved by bursting crackers only, it can also be achieved with prayers for world peace, harmony and prosperity without involving religion, caste, creed and society.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliLet’s support cracker-free DiwaliThe UT Administration failed to ensure an effective cracker ban on Dasehra. The residents must understand that the pollution is very dangerous to health, specially for senior citizens. Here, the Administration should be vigilant that there is no sale of crackers in the market places and the police keep a check on violators. So, let us enjoy Diwali without pollution and try not to violate the orders.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPlay a positive, effective roleThe administrative authorities must be watchful and those people who violate the rule should be dealt with an iron hand. Besides, people should come forward and make collective efforts to ensure the ban is fully adhered to during the Covid pandemic. If we break this chain of evil, then we can create a healthy and amicable atmosphere in our society. Keeping in view the dangerous connotation of this practice, it goes beyond doubt that crackers should be banned.Anita K Tandon, KhararCracker bursting a display of affluenceThe cracker ban during Dasehra was violated with impunity. Sadly, political pressure is being mounted on the police to cancel the FIRs registered against violators. Succumbing to such pressure will encourage disorder. The administrations in the tricity cannot absolve themselves of the responsibility just by issuing a ban order. Self-regulation does not do. Ban means ban and that must be sternly enforced. Message ought to go loud and clear. Bursting of crackers is a vulgar display of affluence. Children should be encouraged to utilise their pocket money in a better way. Deriving joy or making money from activities that are detrimental to others is unjust in a civil society. Sustained efforts on awareness and education are required to eradicating the evil practice. Media and educational institutions can contribute their mighty bit to our mission to change mind-set. Diwali and Gurpurb will test the Administration’s sincerity and authority.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSpread awareness on green DiwaliThe UT Administration miserably failed to enforce a complete cracker ban in the city on Dasehra. The idea of imposing a ban on crackers is more or less a meaningless exercise when relaxations are given in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula. To deter offenders, you need to enforce the ban aggressively. Sadly, the enforcement part is missing everytime during Diwali. There was a ban last year too but firecrackers went off all over the city. Law making is easy but its implementation is difficult. The department has to consult NGOs to ensure a success of the ban campaign. Campaigns, cycle rallies and street plays can also be organised to create awareness against crackers. Strict regulation and penalties must be imposed on offenders.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhAdmn must work at grassroots levelThe Administration is not able to control the buying and selling of crackers in the city. The administration is very well aware about who are cracker wholesalers in the city. It should discuss with them and give them alternative businesses or allot them selling points outside the city, otherwise they will incur big losses. The government should contact NGOs and the MC who can further be in touch with people at the grassroots level to find a solution to the problem.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCollective effort need of the hourIndia is a country of festivals. Diwali is the most popular festival. It is a matter of great worry that the UT Administration had failed to ensure the compliance of the ban orders on Dasehra. How can you expect any good result if you enforce a ban half-heartedly. Why was the ban not implemented strictly? Restrictions and guidelines have no meaning if not strictly implemented. Perhaps the Administration hesitate to be strict because it is a religious event. Educate people about the ill-effects of cracker bursting effects and dealt with violators strictly. The UT can take the help of RWAs. The Diwali celebrations should be kept a low-key affair. A collective effort will give the desired result.Vidya Sagar GargReward societies for cracker-free DiwaliIn the times of ever increasing pollution, it’s very important to curb the bursting of crackers in the festive season. To effectively ensure the cracker ban around Diwali, the UT Administration has to get more vigilant. A green Diwali must be encouraged through the use of mass media and by organising stalls at public places. Alternative events can be held on Diwali night to attract public so as to dissuade them from cracker bursting. Volunteers should be engaged to increase awareness. Schemes such as giving rewards to housing societies for going cracker-free can be announced. Through efficacious police patrolling, the ban should be properly enforced. Warnings and punishments should be given to defaulters.Ananya Goel, Ambala CanttCreate awareness among childrenBan will be a success only when it is enforced in the tricity. Nakas should be put up to check the entry of crackers in the city. A heavy fine should be imposed on violators. People mostly purchase crackers for the sake of their children. The Administration should create awareness among children via educational institutions and through media about their ill effects. Those who earn their livelihood every year through crackers should be given licences to sell other products in the festival season.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTricity authorities should join handsThe administrations of the tricity should come together on a single platform to ensure the full compliance of the cracker ban orders. Most people buy crackers from the neighbouring states. The Punjab and Haryana governments should also be concerned about the quality of air. The Chandigarh Administration must put police personnel in plain clothes in residential areas as most of the businessmen burn crackers after 10:30 pm on Diwali.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhLet us celebrate green DiwaliLike every year, Diwali is going to be celebrated with fervour in November. The question coming to everyone’s mind is that whether the use of firecrackers will curtail this year. Every year, there is a hue and cry about banning firecrackers on Diwali but all cities get engulfed with dense smoke and noise levels go much beyond the permissible limits. As the courts as well as a few cities such as Chandigarh have imposed a ban on use of crackers this year, it should certainly help in keeping the air and noise pollution levels well within the limits during the festive season this year. We all as responsible citizens of the country should adopt the policy of “no firecrackers” in our own respective village, town and city so that we can breathe clean air and also have noiseless environment around us. There are so many other ways to celebrate Diwali such as exchanging gifts, playing with colours etc. It’s our duty to keep our environment pollution-free and so we must guide our youngsters to celebrate a green Diwali.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliRegulate the sale of crackersBanning crackers will impact the livelihood of many people so a blanket ban is not a solution. Only green crackers should be allowed to be sold and purchased. Proper sale records should be maintained by sellers and checked by the authorities regularly. Most important is educating the masses against the use of crackers. Even nationalism should be invoked to curb the menace. We should involve the religious and political leaders in propagating the message against the use of crackers.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAuthorities need to be more alertThe violation of cracker ban during Dasehra was due to the leniency of the MC authorities. While allotting stalls this Diwali, an undertaking should be taken from each vendor that no crackers or any other related item would be sold and in case of any violation, he could be prosecuted. Besides, the teams should be formed to carry out regular surprise checks on the stalls.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliAllow sale of green crackersKeeping in view the failure of the UT Administration on Dasehra, it should allow the sale of green crackers on Diwali which is also allowed by the Supreme Court. This way children can enjoy Diwali and pollution will also remain under control.Kannan Jindal, PatialaFix a harsh course of actionWe should not deceive ourselves in the name of rituals and traditions. Those were the days when the level of pollution used to remain at its lowest. Nowadays when many people are suffering with respiratory problems due to Covid or air pollution, it would be right enough to refrain from bursting crackers this Diwali. The citizens of the City Beautiful should celebrate a clean and green Diwali and the adjoining cities follow suit. Little relaxation would mean no relaxation. Therefore, the Administration should fix a harsh course of action against violators.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliPeople should take pledgeThe UT Administration should strictly ban the use of crackers. Awareness campaigns should be conducted regarding the harmful effects of cracker on our health and environment. Those who use crackers should be punished with hefty fine and imprisonment. All people should pledge that they will celebrate a green Diwali with diyas and say no to crackers. It is our duty to follow sustainable principles.Adish Sood, AmlohFix duties of colony residentsTo ensure that the cracker ban isn’t violated on Diwali, the Administration should sensitise people, especially children in schools, to the ill-effects of crackers. It should make residents in charge of their respective colonies to keep an eye on defaulters. These residents should report the instances of cracker burning in their respective colonies and sectors along with pictures of the same, and defaulters must then be penalised.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhGive one-hour windowAs proper check on the sale of crackers is not possible in the City Beautiful and other parts of India, so the UT Administration must allow the bursting of crackers strictly for an hour from 8 pm to 9 pm on Diwali. There should be no restriction on the sale of green crackers this year. The sentiments of a majority communities must be kept in mind by the Administration.Kaman Jindal, PatialaSelf-responsibility messageMany cities have banned the use of crackers owing to the increasing levels of air pollution and doctors’ fears that the combined effect of Covid and air pollution can be very harmful. Though the ban was effective up to an extent on Dasehra, air was not clean at all. Unless people themselves are self-responsible towards environment and Covid, no authority or government can play an effective role to make air healthy and clean. The ban was not to punish public but to imbibe self-responsibility towards environment and their own health.Charu Malhotra, MohaliSlackness on part of AdmnThe bursting of crackers of high intensity causes pollution that is dangerous to patients, kids, pregnant women, birds and animals, besides it causes a serious damage to environment. Looking at the gravity of the situation, the Chandigarh Administration has imposed a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the city. But there has been a glaring violation of orders because of slackness on the part of the Administration. Crackers were used freely during on Dasehra. This reflects the poor planning of the UT Administration in enforcing its own orders. It should enforce its own orders strictly.SK Khosla, ChandigarhBe concerned about pollutionIt’s everyone’s guess how effective was the enforcement of the cracker ban on Dasehra. So we are not that sure how far the police and the other government agencies will be successful in ensuring the ban on Diwali. No one is against the celebration of any festival of any religion, but as responsible citizens, we also have a duty to protect the environment by not causing any type of pollution, be it noise, air, soil or water pollution. We all have to take note and be concerned about the deteriorating air pollution in our city. It is high time we think of shifting to only green crackers and those with low emissions. Future generations would be grateful to us if we hand them a clean and sustainable mother earth.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPromote green crackersNo doubt crackers create pollution on Diwali but Hindu festivals are soft target every time. Will the UT Administration make it clear what has been done in 364 days of the year to improve AQI in the city. If the Administration failed to achieve the desired results throughout the year, then heavens are not going to fall in one day. Let the majority community celebrate Diwali as per their tradition. The use of green crackers should be promoted by the Administration on Diwali.AK Jindal, PatialaAdministration also to blameThis is not the first time that organisations, shopkeepers and people have defied the government orders. There are so many examples such as using plastic bags, not wearing a mask in public places which show people have scant regard for rules. The government is also to blame as it never enforces orders strictly.Sukhwant Bhullar, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-steps-should-administration-take-to-ensure-cracker-ban-on-diwali-329289
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two new cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||Only 1 case in MohaliMohali: Only one case of Covid-19 surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,803 in the district. Meanwhile, no death was reported on Sunday and eight patients were cured of the disease. The new case surfaced in the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. — TNSOne in Panchkula tooPanchkula: The district reported just one fresh coronavirus case, taking the overall tally to 30,760. The toll remained at 378. While 30,367 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-329288
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cops to intensify patrolling in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-to-intensify-patrolling-in-chandigarh-329262
25-10-2021||---||Mohali: Two held for stabbing juice vendor to death||Mohali, October 24The local police arrested two persons for murdering a 20-year-old migrant, working as a juice seller, for demanding money for the cigarettes sold to them in Sector 82 here on Saturday.The victim has been identified as Prince Kumar, a native of Bihar and presently residing at Kambala village. The suspects have been identified as Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Dhan Singh village in Bathinda district, and Rinku, a resident of Jagatpura village in Mohali.Bhagwant Singh, SHO, Sohana police station, said the victim and his father Mukhtiar Singh sold juice and cigarettes, respectively, in Sector 82. On Saturday, the suspects came to get a matchbox and the victim’s father told them to clear their Rs500 dues first. On this, they had heated arguments following which the victim also came to support his father.The suspects left for their workplace nearby. Later, they returned and stabbed Prince in his abdomen several times, leaving him in a poolof blood. The victim was rushed to a private hospital in Sohana where doctors declared him brought dead.Bhagwant Singh said a case under Sections 302, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspects. They were arrested and produced in a court, which remanded them to three-day police custody.Meanwhile, the victim’s body was handed over to his family members, who are natives of Chapra in Bihar and living at a rented accommodation in Kambala village for the past few years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-two-held-for-stabbing-juice-vendor-to-death-329261
25-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||T20 World Cup: Fans disheartened as India lose to Pak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24Emotions ran high on Sunday evening as Pakistan thrashed India to log a historic 10-wicket win to start their T20 World Cup campaign on a high note.An unbeaten 152-run partnership between Pakistani openers Mohammed Rizwan (78) and Babar Azam (66) sank the hopes of local cricket buffs. The match was a tense affair for local cricket lovers, who remained glued to television screens to see the desired result. “It was a close match. Losing two wickets in the first three overs was really disheartening. However, Virat Kohli’s innings later gave us some hope. Given the recent performance of our players, the Indian team was expected to perform well,” said Ashwani Goyal, a city resident.“Contrary to expectations, Pakistan bowlers really performed well. This wasn’t a one-sided affair and both sides proved that cricket is a really exciting game. I would love to see both sides play often,” said Arjan Singh, a local cricket expert. “There’s always only one winner, and this time, it was Pakistan’s day,” said Atul Sharma, another local resident.City hotels also witnessed a huge rush of cricket buffs coming to enjoy the match. “We usually witness huge rush on Sundays, but today we had advance bookings. This is not usual and people enjoyed the match. However, the match result was disheartening,” said Paras, manager of a local hotel. “It was a poor performance by the entire Indian team. Both batsmen and bowlers struggled hard, and finally lost the match. This match was certainly important and India should have won it, but the tournament has just started. The squad needs to take lessons from here, forget the past and aim to win ahead,” said Priyank. Anwar, a cricket expert, added, “The team formation should be blamed for the loss today. If Hardik Pandya was not to bowl, why was he included in the team. Either Shardul Thakur or Ishan Kishan should have been included in the squad.”Meanwhile, despite rain, big screens were installed at various parts of the city. People enjoyed the match in huge gatherings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/t20-world-cup-fans-disheartened-as-india-lose-to-pak-329256
25-10-2021||---||Panchkula MC procures six mobile toilets||Panchkula, October 24The local Municipal Corporation has procured six mobile toilets to be placed at various spots across the city to ensure people do not defecate in the open.The civic body had issued a Rs39-lakh tender to buy 10 mobile toilets. The remaining four portable toilets will be received soon, said officials.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal today inspected the toilets, which will be installed at various spots across the city.The MC had recently snapped ties with the Sulabh agency, which was hired for the maintenance and repair of public toilets following complaints from residents and market welfare associations about their dilapidated condition. Chandigarh Tribune, in a news report earlier this year, had also highlighted the unusable state of public washrooms in the city. Broken gates, no provision for water, irregular excreta disposal, stink and no gender symbols were some of the features of the public toilets, the report had pointed out.The city had received ODF++ status for the third time earlier this year.As per the Swachh Bharat Mission ODF++ protocol of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a city/ward/work circle can be notified/declared as ODF++ if, at any point of the day, not a single person is found defecating/urinating in the open and all community and public toilets are functional and well-maintained.Tender was floated for 10 toilets||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-procures-six-mobile-toilets-329250
25-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Ravi Kant failed to resolve parking woes in Sec 17, 22||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24Though during councillor Ravi Kant Sharma’s five-year term, Sector 17 became free of street vendors and their number was limited to some extent in Sector 22, the parking issue was not resolved and caused inconvenience to city residents.Neither the Rs48-crore multi-level parking lot in Sector 17 could be utilised to its capacity nor a multi-level parking came up near Kiran cinema in Sector 22. This led to haphazard parking in Sector 17 and caused trouble to Sector 22 residents as visitors jammed the area in front of their houses by parking their vehicles in streets.“Parking and traffic are big issues in Sector 22. Nothing was done on this aspect in the past five years. The rear of the mobile market and the area around Shastri Market remain full of vehicles,” said Vinod Vashisht, a Sector 22 resident and convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.“Parking near houses often led to fights between residents and the vehicle owners. We are tired of calling up the police and MC officials. The parking issue has remained unresolved. Some park cars in front of the gate of our house or behind our cars with handbrakes on. A large number of vendors add to the nuisance. The situation gets bad on weekends,” added another local resident.Ravi Kant, who is also the current Mayor, said, “To curb parking issues in Sector 22, there was a plan to open a multi-level parking in front of Kiran cinema. I had even taken up the issue with the UT Administration, but it did not materialise. We are going to open kiosks on the terrace of the Sector 17 multi-level parking.”In Sector 22, where around 3,000 street vendors used to do business, only 107 registered vendors are allowed to operate now. “I think about 500 vendors are still working with the connivance of officials,” alleged Kulbir Singh, president of Shastri Market Welfare Association.While Sector 17 was made a no-vending zone, its revitalisation plan is still moving on a slow pace. “Once new vending sites are decided, the vendors will get shifted out of Sector 22. In Sector 17, we are doing regular repair and sanitation works. The MC is not undertaking any major change as the Smart City is already engaged in it,” said Ravi Kant.Vashisht lamented that no public toilet came up in Nehru Park and proper maintenance of parks in Sector 22 was not done. “Due to heritage issue, the public toilet work remained stuck. Now, the tendering process is over and the work will start soon,” added the BJP leader.Ravi Kant Sharma: Councillor, ward number 3Area: Sector 16, 17 and 22Promises: Respite from parking problem, unauthorised street vendorsResult: Partially doneUse of funds: Both councillor’s ward development fund and Mayor’s fund utilisedAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-ravi-kant-failed-to-resolve-parking-woes-in-sec-17-22-329246
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite ban, crackers burst in Chandigarh, again||Despite a ban, the city today saw bursting of crackers on the occasion of Karva Chauth. Earlier, the rule was broken during the Dasehra celebrations. Dasehra organisers had used crackers in effigies and also burst crackers during the celebrations.The violation led to registration of FIRs against different Ramlila and Dasehra organising committees.Ahead of the festival season, the UT Administration had on October 12 imposed a complete ban on the sale or use of crackers of any kind throughout the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-ban-crackers-burst-in-chandigarh-again-329240
25-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Coldest October day in a decade in Chandigarh as city sees highest 24-hour rain after 2004||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24Today was not only the coldest October day in the city ever since the observatory came into being in 2011 here, the day also saw the highest 24-hour rainfall in October since 2004. The maximum temperature today dropped to 19.3°C, 12 degrees below normal. Before this, the lowest maximum temperature recorded in the city was 24°C on October 18 this year.The Met Department has, however, not compiled the data regarding the all-time lowest day temperature in the city. The UT today saw 27.2-mm rainfall in 24 hours. Before this, the highest 24-hour rainfall of 129.16 mm was recorded on October 12, 2004.This whole month has seen unusual rainfall. Till now, a total of 34-mm rainfall has been recorded in October. Before this, it was in 2013 that more rainfall (40.2 mm) was recorded in October. The significant dip in the temperature today forced some people take out their woollens.“Due to another western disturbance, good rain was reported. The weather is likely to be dry now,” said Manmohan Singh, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coldest-october-day-in-a-decade-in-chandigarh-as-city-sees-highest-24-hour-rain-after-2004-329239
