26-10-2021||Mohali||Carjackers take away car after firing at owner in Mohali||In a shocking incident, a car was taken away by two unidentified youths after firing at its driver near Phase 7 petrol pump late Monday night.The injured has been identified as Param Dogra, a resident of Sector 45 Chandigarh. He was rushed to the Phase 6 civil hospital from where the doctors referred him to the PGI Chandigarh as the bullet had ripped apart his finger and he will undergo an operation.In his complaint to the police, Param Dogra said that when he slowed down and stopped on the road, two men threatened him to leave his vehicle and handover the car keys.He said when he resisted one of them fired a gun shot at him and the bullet hit his hand. They forcefully snatched his car and sped towards Chandigarh side. He said that he tried to chase them but in vain.An eyewitness, who works in the Zomato company, said that he had come to the Sector 70 petrol pump to fill petrol in his bike. He saw a young man chasing the Etios car with blood oozing from his hand. He said when he asked the injured man about this, the latter told him that a young man had shot at him and took away his car. However, the accused fled away with the car.He further said there was a long jam on the road due to the colliding of three vehicles at Phase-VII traffic light point. Two Innova and one Tata Tiago car had collided leading to the heated arguments between the three drivers. A large number of people had gathered at the spot but the identity of the injured could not be established.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said that they were examining the CCTV footage and have got vital clues. He said that they will arrest the robbers soon.Divulging further details, Gursher Singh Sandhu, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the incident occurred at around 11:25 pm and the victim had informed that he was returning to his house in Sector 45. When he reached near Phase VII there was traffic jam as three vehicles had collided with each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carjackers-take-away-car-after-firing-at-owner-in-mohali-330004
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma dedicates park to public||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today inaugurated a children park after its facelift at Mani Majra. Spread over one acre, the park has been equipped with new features, including a footpath, huts, fountain and a play section for children, at a cost of Rs 10 lakh.After the inauguration, the Mayor and officers of MC held the “Nigam Aapke Dwar” programme at the park where the local residents put forth their demands and problems related to basic amenities.The Mayor assured the residents of early resolution of their demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayor-ravi-kant-sharma-dedicates-park-to-public-329515
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Challengers trophy: Kashvee Gautam is Team D vice-captain||Chandigarh’s Kashvee Gautam has been appointed vice-captain of Team D under the captainship of Neelam of Uttarakhand for the upcoming BCCI’s Challengers Trophy (Under 19), starting from November 2. Aradhana Bisht, the second player selected from Chandigarh, has been placed in Team C. Both players reached Jaipur today and will undergo a week-long quarantine.Meanwhile, local all-rounders Mehul and Parminder Kaur have been included in the Chandigarh’s squad replacing Kashvee and Aaradhna. The local team led Amanjot Kaur will play its first match against Railways in Pune. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/challengers-trophy-kashvee-gautam-is-team-d-vice-captain-329516
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cricket Academy beat CL Champs by 6 wickets||Chandigarh Cricket Academy beat CL Champs Cricket Academy, Panchkula, by six wickets in the inaugural match of the Second Grecobe Cup Lala Amarnath Aggarwal Memorial U-14 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, the Panchkula outfit scored 114/6 in 20 overs with the help of Manan Arora (42), Shashank Dumka (33) and Kartavya Jagdev (12). Ankan Latka claimed two wickets, while Daksh Kashyap and Atharva took one each.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy posted 115/4 in 19.3 overs. Daksh Kashyap (59) was top scorer, while Shubham (15) and Ranvir (11) also contributed. Manan, Chinmay and Kartavya took one wicket each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-academy-beat-cl-champs-by-6-wickets-329517
26-10-2021||Panchkula||Rolling Tigers Academy skaters win 92 medals||Trainees of Rolling Tigers Academy excelled in the 27th District Roller Skating Championship that concluded today at Blue Bird School, Sector 16. The academy won 92 medals, including 40 gold, in rink (I, II, III and IV) and road races. Roller hockey and speed hockey matches were also held. Organisers selected teams for the state championship to be held in November. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rolling-tigers-academy-skaters-win-92-medals-329518
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||St Stephen’s FC subdue Molon Labe FC 4-1 in football championship||St Stephen’s FC edged past Molon Labe FC 4-1 on the opening day of the Senior State Football Championship, which is being organised after a gap of more than three years, for the Chandigarh Police Shaheed Trophy, today.St Stephen’s lads completely dominated the match as Abhinav netted the first goal in the seventh minute, followed by another goal by Vishesh towards the end of the first half. In the second half, Chhetri netted the third goal in the 65th minute, while Vishesh scored the fourth goal in the 80th minute. Towards the end of the game, Yash Rana scored the lone consoling goal for Molon Labe FC.In the second match LE Professor Club ousted Postgraduate Government College, Sector 11, by a margin of two goals. Goldy scored the first goal in the 28th minute, while Ashish netted the second in the 82nd minute. In the third match Sai Baba International FC defeated City FC 2-1. Both the goals came in the second half of the game as Jagdish (66th minute) and Aman (105th minute) saved the match for Sai Baba International FC. Earlier, Siddarth put the City FC ahead by scoring the first goal in the 31st minute.In the fourth match Chandigarh Police Kids FC thrashed Young FC 7-1 in another one-side affair. Paras (sixth minute), Ashu (23rd and 79th minute), Bhupinder (38th, 39th and 77th minute) and Satnam (60th minute) scored for their side. Ajay (14th minute) and Sahil (69th minute) scored a goal each for Young FC.In the fifth match Burail FC registered a solitary goal win over Royal Green FC. Piyush scored the lone goal of the match in the 51st minute of the match. In the sixth match Golden FC registered a 5-2 win over Chandigarh Police. Rehman Ali (third and 58th minute), Sarfaraz (18th minute), Namgyal (25th minute) and Mehboob (87th minute) scored for the Golden FC squad. Sandeep Lal (29th minute) and Sandeep Nanu (72nd minute) scored a goal each for the police team. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/st-stephens-fc-subdue-molon-labe-fc-4-1-in-football-championship-329519
26-10-2021||---||Chandigarh’s Monika outclasses Rutuja Kapse in boxing meet||Chandigarh, October 25City-based boxer Monika outclassed Rutuja Kapse 5-0 to move ahead in the bantam (52-54 kg) event during the ongoing fifth Elite Women’s National Boxing Championships, in Hisar, on Monday.The Railway Sports Promotion Board's (RSPB) boxer, Manju Rani, entered the 48-kg semifinals with a decisive 5-0 win over Punjab's Minakshai. The 21-year-old Manju packed unbelievable power that certainly took her opponent from Punjab completely by surprise.Another boxer made into the semifinals of the 48-kg category was Tamil Nadu's S Kalaivani, who beat Himachal Pradesh's Jyotika Bisht by a similarmargin in the quarter-finals bout.Another star of the day was Assam’s Jamuna Boro, who entered the last-four stage in the 54-kg category with a dominating 5-0 win over Gayatri Kasnyal of Uttarakhand.In the 52-kg category, Telangana's Nikhat Zareen put up an impressive show against Assam's Manju Basumatary and made her way into the semi-finals with a comfortable 5-0 victory.Equally powerful was RSPB's Shiksha in the 54-kg category, who outperformed Babyrojisana Naorem of Manipur 5-0 to progress into the semis.In the 50-kg category, Punjab’s Komal entered the semifinals after beating Maharashtra’s Anjali Gupta 5-0.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-monika-outclasses-rutuja-kapse-in-boxing-meet-329520
26-10-2021||---||Top players bow out in girls’ U-17 Table Tennis meet||Mohali, October 25Fourth seed Sayali Wani of Maharashtra, fifth seed Pranati P Nair of Kerala, sixth seed Karuna Gajendra of Karnataka and seventh seed M Hansini of Tamil Nadu fell by the wayside in the girls’ youth U-17 event on the second day of the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships at the Sector 78 Sports Complex here today.Unseeded Nandini Sahab of West Bengal began on the wrong foot in the round of 32, but managed to pull it through in the last three games to upstage Maharashtra’s Sayali 8-11, 9-11, 11-5 ,11-8, 11-6.However, Pranati lost her first game to take the next to come to some terms with the pace of the match. But Avani Tripathi turned the tables on her by winning third and fourth games to move into the pre-quarterfinals. Avani recorded 11-8, 8-11, 11-7, 11-9 win.Delhi’s Riddhima Kapoor, without wasting time, simply put it across an off-colour Karuna in straight games 11-5, 11-6, 13-11. Srijita Shaw outplayed M Hansini 11-6, 7-11, 11-8, 5-11, 12-10 to move ahead in the championship.Among the boys’ youth U-17, eighth seed Sarth Mishra from Uttar Pradesh failed to enter the pre-quarterfinals, while other seeds made it without hiccups. Earlier in the day, all the eight seeds in the youth under-17 boys sailed into the second round.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-players-bow-out-in-girls-u-17-table-tennis-meet-329523
26-10-2021||---||Teams contesting PUTA elections roll out agenda||Chandigarh, October 25Contesting parties have started coming up with their agenda and promises as the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) goes to the polls on October 28. A team led by Prof Manu Sharma, who is standing for the president’s post, and Prof Kashmir Singh, candidate for the secretary’s post, highlighted different facets of their election campaign, team, manifesto and other issues at a press conference here today.“We are people with an intention to progress and carry no baggage of hostility, vendetta or hidden agenda. PUTA is a well-respected platform of activism for faculty causes. It gives validation to our actions, a bigger impact and can reach several stakeholders in one go,” said Sharma.“This platform will help us implement our pro-teacher thoughts and ideas. In the last four years, the faculty has been alienated from PUTA due to reasons such as false propaganda and unholy nexus with senators, who want to control university claiming routine administrative tasks as their achievements,” Sharma added.“Ours is a pro-teacher team. For making our university a better workplace with ease of teaching/research and administration we will fully cooperate with all players, including the Vice-Chancellor, the Senate, political representatives or civil society. However, if faculty welfare is threatened, we will not hesitate to bring the full force of our community to fight for the common cause,” said Kashmir.While telling about their agendas, Sharma said, “Implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission has been delayed. The community wants this to be taken up on an urgent basis. The issue of central funding for the university already spearheaded by our seniors will be taken forward.”While talking about incumbent PUTA team Kashmir alleged, “Community has lost trust in the incumbent PUTA because of frequent deception and betrayal, including delay in implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission, counting past service and harming the teaching faculty (collaborating with a few Senators, who stopped dental faculty promotion). Besides, the present team is complicit in spreading hatred, physical and verbal violence, divisive agenda and false allegation, followed by no focus on academic and research agenda.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teams-contesting-puta-elections-roll-out-agenda-329521
26-10-2021||---||Gurdaspur couple takes away Ambala resident's car, nabbed||Mohali, October 25The local police have arrested a couple of Gurdaspur for taking away the car of a resident of Ambala from a hotel in Balongi today. The accused have been identified as Roshan Singh and his wife Arshpreet Kaur.The police have registered a case on a complaint of the Ambala resident, Mandeep Singh. The police arrested the couple from Balongi and produced them before the court which remanded them in one-day police custody.Mandeep, in his complaint, stated that Arshdeep worked as dancer and he was to pay the remaining payment of Rs7,000 for a programme organised in Ambala. On a request of his friend, Ram Kalan, he had come to handover the money to Arshdeep in Zirakpur. When he called Arshdeep, she stated that she was feeling unwell and he would have to come to Balongi, he said.Mandeep reached Balongi at 9.30 pm and he booked a room in a hotel as he had to leave for Pathankot in the morning. He said he fell asleepand Arshpreet Kaur and her husband entered the hotel room as it was open, and took away the keys of his car. They took away his car which was parked in a park.Sent to one-day police custodyThe police have registered a case on a complaint of the Ambala resident, Mandeep Singh. The police arrested the couple from Balongi and produced them before the court which remanded them in one-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurdaspur-couple-takes-away-ambala-residents-car-nabbed-329522
26-10-2021||Ambala||Row over video in Ambala||Sharing an alleged objectionable video against a deity and customs on the social media triggered tension between two communities in Ambala.Phooljeet Singh Cheema of Boh village shared a video on his social media account on Sunday. Following objections, he removed the video.Some people hurled stones at Phooljeet’s house later in the night. The members of the aggrieved community allege police inaction and blocked the Ambala-Saha road.Meanwhile, a delegation met SP Ambala JS Randhawa and sought action against persons who hurled stones at Phooljeet’s house.Mahesh Nagar SHO Suresh Kumar said, “A case has been registered against Phooljeet and the matter is being investigated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/row-over-video-in-ambala-329525
26-10-2021||---||Firecracker Ban: Chandigarh withdraws orders on sealing of shop||Chandigarh, October 25Less than 10 days after a shop was sealed following a ban on selling firecrackers in Chandigarh, the UT authorities today withdrew the orders after the same was challenged before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after a petition was filed against the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents by Sanjeev Kumar through counsel Kunal Mulwani. As the case came up for preliminary hearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, the counsel for the respondents submitted that the authorities had now decided to withdraw the order dated October 16, by which the petitioner’s premises was sealed.The submission was made after seeking instructions from UT SDM (South) Rupesh Aggarwal. The respondents’ counsel further submitted that the premises of the petitioner would be de-sealed today itself, in view of the decision taken by the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firecracker-ban-chandigarh-withdraws-orders-on-sealing-of-shop-329526
26-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sexual Assault Case: Juvenile tried as adult awarded 20-year rigorous imprisonment||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, October 25The Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Fast Track Court, Chandigarh, Swati Sehgal, has sentenced an juvenile, who was tried as adult to undergo 20 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) after convicting him for the offences committed under 376 AB, IPC, and Section 6, POCSO Act.The court also imposed fine of Rs10, 000 on the convict. The convict was above 16 years of age at the time of the incident, but below 18 years. Earlier, the Juvenile Justice Board had declared that the accused be tried as adult and referred the case to the session court.The police had registered a case on the complaint of the mother of a four-year-old girl in 2017, who alleged that the accused molested her daughter when she went to his house for attending tuition class.Her elder daughter used to attend tuition at the house of the accused, mother added. Mother told the police that one day when she found her daughter unwilling to go to the tuition class she asked her the reason. Daughter told her that the accused had unnatural sex with her.Finding prima facie guilty charges were framed against accused for which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Counsel of the accused Jatinder Kumar Kamboj argued that he was falsely implicated in the case. He argued that the victim was not taking tuition from accused. The public prosecutor demanded strict punishment for the accused. After hearing arguments the court stated that the prosecution had proved the case beyond any doubt.“Though the victim is a minor, she had faculties to understand the nature of crime committed by the accused. The victim’s version with regard to mode, manner and nature of sexual assault is consistent and credible. There is no reason for the court to disbelieve or discard version,” the court order stated.The court also awarded compensation of Rs1, 00, 000 to the victim from the DLSA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sexual-assault-case-juvenile-tried-as-adult-awarded-20-year-rigorous-imprisonment-329524
26-10-2021||---||Online firm told to refund money charged  ‘extra’||Chandigarh, October 25District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT of Chandigarh, has directed AJIO, c/o Reliance Retail Limited, to refund Rs1,170 to a consumer who was charged extra for the products delivered at his house by the company.The commission has also directed the company to pay Rs6,600 as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and costs of litigation.The order was pronounced by commission, comprising president Rajan Dewan and member Priti Malhotra, on a complaint of Shobhita Singh, a resident of Sector 33, ChandigarhIn the complaint, Shobhita said that she placed an order for seven items with the company on August 9, 2020, and she opted the mode of payment as “cash on delivery”.The total amount payable to the company was Rs3,809.47 after discount and GST. The items were delivered one by one on various dates to her. She said the company, however, collected Rs4,979.98 through various deliveries. She said the company charged Rs1,170.51 in excess against the total payable amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-firm-told-to-refund-money-charged-extra-329527
26-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||RERA tells firm to pay Rs 6.25L to flat owners||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 25In a major relief to investors, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, has directed KC Land and Finance Limited, SBS Nagar (opposite party), to pay a compensation of Rs1.25 lakh per flat to residents of Panchkula and Mumbai for failing to deliver the possession of five flats.Balbir Singh, Adjudicating Officer, RERA, Punjab, further directed the company to pay simple bank interest plus 2 per cent besides refunding Rs95 lakh deposited with the opposite party.The counsel for the complainants had averred that as per the agreement, his clients had applied for flats in the opposite party’s project, “Floral Court” Janta Residential Township, in Sector 91, Mohali. He said as per the agreement, five flats bearing No A-301, A-302, A-401, A-402 and A-501 in GH-1 were allotted to the complaints on March 29, 2017, for Rs1 crore each. Of the total payment of Rs5 crore, Rs3.85 crore was adjusted as per the agreement and Rs90 lakh through cheques was paid to the opposite party on March 29, 2017.The balance amount of Rs25 lakh was to be paid at the time of delivery of possession of flats. As per the agreement, the possession of the flats was to be given within two years, i.e. by March 29, 2019. The complainants had averred that the project was only a structure and there was no scope of its completion in near future.The complaints served a legal notice to the opposite party on September 10, 2019, asking for delivery of possession of the flats within three weeks failing which they would avail of legal remedy. The opposite party, in its reply, admitted that the project was incomplete and pleaded that the flats would be ready for possession by March 31, 2020.The counsel for the opposite party argued that the complaints had concealed the material facts that due to the paucity of funds, the construction work had slowed down and the opposite party was forced to seek extension of time for completing the project from RERA, and extension to complete flats in Tower-A til December was granted on October 31, 2017. The cost of the material involved in the construction had increased manifold which had stalled the construction of the flats and as per the agreement, the opposite party was ready to pay a penalty of Rs10 per sq ft since March 29, 2019, till the possession of flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rera-tells-firm-to-pay-rs-6-25l-to-flat-owners-329528
26-10-2021||---||Chandigarh: Sector 28 garden a breeding ground for mosquitoes||Chandigarh, October 25At a time when dengue cases are on the rise, Jasmine Garden in Sector 28 here continues to remain waterlogged due to a leakage in the water supply pipeline.Walking tracks and grass area often remain waterlogged. People living the garden fear breeding of mosquitoes.“As dengue cases are on the rise, the authorities should look into the issue. Some parts of the garden remain waterlogged most of the time. We have raised the issue with the horticulture wing, but the leakage has not been repaired since long,” said Naresh Kumar Vasisht, a resident of Sector 28-A.“People are unable to use the walking track due to a leakage in the water pipeline. What is the use of spending money on the track. Public toilets also remain locked here,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-28-garden-a-breeding-ground-for-mosquitoes-329529
26-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Estate Office goes paperless||Chandigarh, October 25To provide flawless services to residents of the city, the UT Estate Office has completely digitised all its property-related services. Now, all 16 services are available at a click of the mouse.Aimed at providing technology-driven services, in the first phase, the UT Administration had launched five services online on September 28. In the second phase, four more services were made available to residents online on October 12 and the remaining seven services were launched online today.Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, said all information about the services provided by the Estate Office, Acts, Rules, notifications, etc, are available on their website - https://estateoffice.chd.gov.in“All services have been digitised in a phased manner. From today, residents can avail themselves of all services hassle-free from the comfort of their homes or offices,” said the Deputy Commissioner.He said the SMS service had been introduced to keep the applicant in the loop about the status of the work done.Services that have gone onlineFirst phaseSecond phaseThird phase||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-office-goes-paperless-329530
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mother-son duo assaulted, 2 held in Chandigarh||Man flees from police custodyChandigarh: The UT police have booked a Sector 8 resident for escaping from the Punjab Police custody. According to the police, Inspector Bhagwant Singh of the Punjab Police reported that Himashu Verma was brought to his house for investigation in a case of cheating registered against him at Navi Baradari police station, Jalandhar. The police said Verma managed to escape from the police custody. A case under Sections 223 and 323 of the IPC has been registered. TNSInter-college quiz tomorrowMohali: The Department of Telecommunication will celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by organising an inter-college quiz on Wednesday at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. A workshop on myths and facts about effects of electromagnetic radiations will also be held at the same venue at 3 pm. TNSAnupama wins badminton titlePanchkula: Local shuttler Anupama Upadhyaya bagged laurels by winning the women's singles title of Infosys Foundation India International Challenge Tournament held at Padukone Dravid Centre for Excellence, Bengaluru, from October 19 to 24. On the way to the finals, she caused a major upset by defeating third ranked Malvika Bhansod, who was selected to represent India in the recently concluded Sudiraman and Uber Cup, in straight sets. She had also defeated Riya Mukherjee, the sixth seed, in the pre-quarterfinals of the championship. In the final, Anupama defeated Unanti 21-19 21-6 to win the title. TNSSimranjit electedChandigarh: Simranjit Singh Dhillon has been elected as Senate member of Panjab University from the graduate constituency. He's the second candidate to win by clearing quota taking 2,902 votes. Dhillon started his political career with student politics from Panjab University in 2008 as PUSU president and remained at the post till 2010. Latter, he joined SOI in 2015. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mother-son-duo-assaulted-2-held-in-chandigarh-329531
26-10-2021||---||Boy dies, friend hurt as car rams into truck||Ambala, October 25A 16-year-old boy died while his friend suffered injuries when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck on the NH-44 near the Ambala City vegetable market early this morning.According to information, the car in which the victims were travelling allegedly hit a truck from behind around 3:30 am. The deceased has been identified as Madhur Grover, while the injured person has been identified as Garv, a resident of Ambala City.Madhur was driving the car, while his classmate was sitting next to him. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where Madhur was declared brought dead on arrival, while his friend is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mohali.Madhur’s father Dhiraj, in his complaint to the police, stated that his son, who was a student of Class XI, told him that he would be staying at his friend’s house to study overnight and would return in the morning. He received a call around 3:30 am that Madhur had met with an accident.“Madhur’s friend Garv told me that they were coming to drop him home. They had just crossed the mandi when their car rammed into the truck. The truck driver applied brakes all of a sudden. As a result, the car rammed into it,” he stated.A case has been registered under Sections 279, 338 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code against the unknown truck driver at the Ambala City police station.The police said Madhur’s body was handed over to the family. The truck driver was yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-dies-friend-hurt-as-car-rams-into-truck-329532
26-10-2021||---||Road mishaps claim 2 lives in Mohali district||Mohali, October 25Two persons lost their lives in road mishaps in the district in the past 24 hours. In a hit-and-run case, a 68-year-old man was killed after an SUV hit an Uber motorcycle he was riding pillion in Sector 71 late on Sunday evening.The deceased has been identified as Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Sector 94.Investigating officer Baljit Singh said the victim was returning home after closing his shop in Sector 71, Mohali. He booked an Uber motorcycle. While he was on his way back home, an SUV, Tata Safari, hit their motorcycle. Jaswinder fell on the road and suffered serious injuries, while the person riding the motorcycle suffered minor injuries. The pillion rider was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead on arrival.On a complaint of Jaswinder’s son Chanpreet Singh, a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the SUV driver. The registration number of the SUV had been traced and the suspect would be arrested soon, he said.In another mishap, a 41-year-old man, a native of Uttarakhand, was killed in a road mishap after a truck hit his motorcycle near the Bhankarpur light point in Dera Bassi today.The deceased has been identified as Kailash Chander Bahugana, who was residing in Dera Bassi. He was working with a private company.The investigating officer (IO) said the accident took place around 12.35 pm when Kailash was on his way to the office in Mohali. When he reached the Bhankarpur light point, a truck hit his motorcycle from behind. As a result, he fell on the road and suffered head injuries. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi, where doctors declared him brought dead on arrival. The truck driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.A case under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the truck driver. The body was handed over to the family members after a post-mortem examination.The IO said they had seized the truck and were hopeful of arresting its driver soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishaps-claim-2-lives-in-mohali-district-329533
26-10-2021||Mohali||3 succumb to dengue in Mohali district, 75 taken ill||Three more persons succumbed to dengue in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 24 in Mohali district.Meanwhile, 75 fresh cases of dengue surfaced from the district till Monday evening, taking the total tally to 2,191. Of the total cases, 344 surfaced in September and 1,820 this month till October 25.Of the 216 samples collected today, 75 tested positive for dengue.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Anti-dengue drives have already been started. We need full cooperation of residents. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our aim is to check the spread of the vector-borne disease.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-succumb-to-dengue-in-mohali-district-75-taken-ill-329534
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Two cases in Chandigarh||2 more test +ve in Mohali distMohali: Two fresh Covid cases surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,805 in Mohali district. Meanwhile, no death was reported on Monday, while two patients were cured of the disease. Both cases were reported from Dhakoli. No new case was reported from Dera Bassi, Boothgarh, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan, Banur, Kharar and Mohali. — TNSTwo fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded two fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,762. The toll remained at 378. While 30,367 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 17 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-cases-in-chandigarh-329535
26-10-2021||Amit Bathla
||Panchkula needs ‘good roads like ones around Speaker’s residence’||Tribune News Service Panchkula, October 27 The city needs “good roads” — identical to the ones around Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s house in Sector 17.  However, the contrast in the condition of roads in the proximity of Gupta’s residence and in other parts of the city is quite clear. The road separating Sector 7 and 8, and the main road connecting Chandigarh and Zirakpur-Shimla highway give a bumpy ride to motorists, making the commute painful and accident-prone. Citing monsoon, the Municipal Corporation had recently carried out patchwork to fill the potholes but the filling has started coming off.  “First it was rain, but what now? I wonder why the authorities keep looking for an excuse to repair roads,” said Hari Prasad, who commutes on a bike from Chandigarh to Pinjore through the main road.   “The roads repaired recently through patchwork have started eroding. The authorities should carry out proper repair of roads to ensure a smooth travel experience for motorists,” said Vishwank, a motorist.  Work to start soon: Mayor  Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said a tender worth Rs50 lakh had been issued for the repair of roads across the city and work would begin soon.  “We won’t leave any road within the city limits in a damaged condition,” he said. He, however, didn’t divulge much detail about the repair work.  In September, Goyal had told Chandigarh Tribune that recarpeting of roads, beginning from Industrial Area, will begin right after the culmination of monsoon.  President, Panchkula Vikas Manch, RK Agarwal said, “A ride through the Sector 5  would tell you the real story about the condition of roads in the city. In the sector, parts of roads look worse than a village road. Panchkula is a planned city, but civic affairs is in tatters. Public money is being wasted in the name of beautification.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-needs-good-roads-like-ones-around-speakers-residence-329536
26-10-2021||---||Vocational teachers lathicharged, 30 hurt in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 25Hundreds of vocational teachers from across the state, demanding better salaries, were lathicharged by the police at Housing Board Chowk.The police also used water cannons on the protesters to disperse them as they were marching towards Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Chandigarh.The protesters, including women and children, started gathering at the protest site in Sector 5 for their three-day planned “maha-andolan” under the banner of the Haryana Vocational Teachers Association.The protesters, who were on foot, left the spot around 3.45 pm to reach Chandigarh but were lathicharged by the police on the Panchkula-Chandigarh border. ITBP jawans were also deployed at the spot.“Senior officials from the administration conveyed to us that the Chief Minister was pre-occupied with other work. Hence, they could not allow us to go forward. We wanted to gherao the Chief Minister’s residence. When we started moving further, the police and paramilitary forces lathicharged us and used water cannons,” said Anoop Dhillon, state president of the association.He claimed the around 30 protesters were injured in the lathicharge and were being treated at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Two sustained serious injuries, he said.Dhillon alleged that only hollow assurances had been received from the state government’s end and the teachers’ condition had only worsened.“Our main demands include better salaries, no involvement of contractors in employment and job security,” Dhillon told Chandigarh Tribune over the phone. The PRO to the DCP claimed that eight personnel were also injured in the clash.He said the number of injured protesters was 15. At the time of the filing of this report, no FIR had been filed.Inspector Rajiv Miglani, Station House Officer of the Sector 14 police station, said, “Medico-legal reports of police personnel injured are being made and their statements recorded. We will initiate action once these are done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vocational-teachers-lathicharged-30-hurt-in-panchkula-329537
26-10-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration plans to make city carbon neutral by 2030||Chandigarh, October 25Amid rising pollution, the UT Administration plans to make Chandigarh carbon neutral by 2030.At the inaugural session of a two-day vision workshop on “Future Ready Chandigarh-2030 & Beyond” here today, UT Adviser Dharam Pal highlighted the current focus areas of the Administration such as clean city, green city, smart city (smart transport, buildings, command and control centres), heritage preservation and protection and development plans.“There are some challenges which need to be dealt with in the future. These are making Chandigarh a regional hub for education, health, commerce, service, IT, manufacturing of micro chips, medical instruments, future planning of rural areas and readiness for climate change, including possibility of making Chandigarh carbon neutral by 2030,” he shared.UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit officially opened the workshop, which is being organised by the Chandigarh Administration and is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with an objective of sustainable improvement of urban infrastructure and services and setting out the desired future roadmap for future ready Chandigarh.Informative sessions by visionaries of diverse areas that touch crucial subjects directly connected to the development of the city will be part of the workshop.The Administrator said, “I am sure the workshop will give an opportunity for bringing about better cohesion and provide a platform for interaction among all stakeholders in meeting our common objectives. After the workshop, there should be appropriate follow-up action to turn this vision into reality.”“Chandigarh needs to keep evolving new paradigms of governance with communities at the core, and an increased use of technology to improve its urban infrastructure, services and optimum utilisation of resources. It should keep driving the economic growth and improve the quality of life of people by enabling local area development and harnessing technology,” said Purohit.The first day kickstarted with an inaugural session wherein Vikas Verma, Regional Head, North, UNDP, explained the role and objective of the workshop.The first thematic group began with a presentation on Chandigarh Smart City projects and future challenges and goals by Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, which was followed by case studies and findings on green buildings — needs and benefits, urban resilience and infrastructure, learning from the Delhi Master Plan, green mobility and its future in India.Historical perspective of Chandigarh, cities and multi-level governance, economic valuation of ecosystems and low carbon strategies were discussed by the second thematic group, under which the Chandigarh aspect was showcased by Debendra Dalai, Secretary, Science and Technology, and Nitika Pawar, Secretary, Social Welfare and Women Development.Palika Arora, Director, School Education, shared the context on the thematic area of education and skill development in Chandigarh, which was followed by informative sessions on future of green jobs, new age job avenues and industrial growth and economic development in the region.Five key thematic areas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-plans-to-make-city-carbon-neutral-by-2030-329538
26-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: Broken roads, paver blocks greet people in Rajesh Kalia’s ward||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25Broken roads and damaged paver blocks in streets of Maloya are the bane of residents of ward number 7 from where Rajesh Kalia is the councillor.His promise of providing recarpted roads and lanes with paver blocks has remained partially fulfilled in his five-year term. It has caused inconvenience to local residents.“Paver blocks, which were laid in some parts, have broken due to poor quality material in Maloya village. Roads are also broken in our area. Street lights are not working, leaving roads dark at night. Besides, a tavern has been opened inside the village, which is a nuisance,” said Maloya resident Harpal Singh. Babu Singh Jandiala, president of the Residents Welfare Association, Maloya Colony, said, “Not even a single work has been done in our ward in the past five years. Roads and paver blocks are lying broken as low quality material was used.”Jandiala said, “Besides, there is no green belt here and residents have no proper place for walks. A walking track was built, but it is full of filth and there is not even a single tree.”CouncillorspeakIt’s not that good quality material wasn’t used. New paver blocks were used and some old ones, which had not yet completed their lifespan, were not removed. The old ones have now got damaged. Roads are broken as these were dug up for laying a water pipeline. The work will be done soon. Rajesh Kalia, CouncillorHe said the area had garbage dumped at various points, but there was no one to pick it up. On agriculture land, shops and “kutcha” houses have come up. There is large-scale encroachment and illegal activities are going on in the absence of any check.Meanwhile, during MC House meetings, the councillor raised more issues of sanitation workers rather than that of his own ward.He was also found engaged in arguments with Congress councillors over the Dadu Majra waste dumping ground.His ward was reserved for an SC candidate and he also became a Mayor in 2019 when the Mayor’s seat was reserved for an SC candidate. However, now his seat has been declared reserved for a women candidate. He will either contest from the neighbouring Dadu Majra or try to field his daughter from the reserved seat, said sources.Rajesh KaliaCouncillor: Ward number 7Area: Maloya, EWS Colony, Maloya, West of Sector 39 and grain marketPromise: Recarpeting roads, covering inner streets with paver blocksResult: Not doneAchievements claimedSewer, drinking water pipelines laidCremation ground readied at a cost Rs50 lakhGreen belt set up in front of police stationHospital in Janj GharGot indoor stadium earmarked at Dasehra groundRefurbished a 7-acre green belt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-broken-roads-paver-blocks-greet-people-in-rajesh-kalias-ward-329539
26-10-2021||---||‘Thak Thak’ gang member arrested for Rs 39-lakh theft in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 25Over two weeks after Rs39 lakh went missing from a cash van, the UT police nabbed a member of the “Thak Thak” gang that had stolen the trunk carrying the cash from the van in Sector 34.The arrested suspect, Satiyaseelan (27), a native of Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, had received some amount of the stolen cash. Five suspects, who are on the run, have also been identified. The police arrested him from Tamil Nadu and recovered Rs4 lakh cash from him.With his arrest, it now appears that the cash van driver, Surinder Pal Singh (46), who committed suicide allegedly after being harassed by the police during the investigation, was innocent.Also read: Days after Rs 39 lakh went missing from his vehicle, cash van driver jumps to death before train in Chandigarh Surinder Pal, who was the driver of the van of the CMS company, a gunman and two other employees had left Sector 47 with Rs1.20 crore on October 8 to load the cash in ATMs across the tricity. The staff loaded cash at ATMs in Sector 34, 35, 37 and 38 (West).On reaching an ATM kiosk in Nayagaon, they realised that a trunk containing Rs39 lakh was missing following which they informed their senior officials. The matter was reported to the police following which a case was registered at the Sector 31 police station.ASP (South) Shruti Arora said the crime was the handiwork of the Thak Thak gang from Tiruchirappalli. “The scrutiny of footage of CCTV cameras installed in Sector 34 revealed that five gang members conducted a recce of the van and one of them signalled the driver that something was lying on the road to distract him. In the meantime, the gang members stole the trunk carrying Rs39 cash,” the ASP said.The ASP said besides CCTV footage, the mobile dump of the area was analysed that led them to a few mobile numbers. Although the numbers were on fake identifies, the police managed to trace the suspects involved in the crime. They have a criminal past.The ASP said the same gang had struck in Sector 9 a few days before the incident.The gang members had managed to steal a purse containing Rs30,000, an iphone and other valuables after befooling the driver of a Fortuner, parked in Sector 9.A gang member knocked at a windowpane of the SUV and pointed towards money lying on the ground. The driver got down to pick up the money. In the meantime, a ladies purse lying in the SUV was stolen.Same gang had stolen purseMembers of the same gang had stolen a purse containing Rs30,000, an iphone and other valuables after befooling driver of a Fortuner, parked in Sector 9.Cops harassed driver?The cash van driver, who committed allegedly after being harassed by the UT police, did not have any role in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thak-thak-gang-member-arrested-for-rs-39-lakh-theft-in-chandigarh-329540
