27-10-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officer to join Chandigarh on November 1||The Haryana Government has placed the services of Rajiv Prasad, HCS, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, at the disposal of the Chandigarh Administration with effect from November 1, 2021.Recently, the government had turned down the extension in service of three Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officers — Ruchi Singh Bedi, Virat and Radhika Singh — and after completion of their deputation with the UT Administration, they were repatriated to their parent state.Recently, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, Department of Personnel and Training, approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs for inter-cadre deputation of Hargunjit Kaur, a Punjab cadre IAS officer of the 2013 batch, from the Punjab cadre to the AGMUT cadre, Chandigarh segment, for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hcs-officer-to-join-chandigarh-on-november-1-330018
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||15 elected to Panjab University Senate||Panjab University on Tuesday announced the election of 15 members to the Senate from the graduate constituency.After Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa, Sandeep Singh, Mukesh Arora and Simranjit Singh, more contestants, including Manish Wayyer (3,022 votes), Varinder Singh (2,676 votes), Ravinder Singh (2,418 votes), Prabhjit Singh (2,305 votes), Balbir Chand Dosan (2,289 votes), Harjodh Singh (2,217 votes), Lajwant Singh Virk (2,128 votes), Jagwant Singh (2,127 votes), Naresh Gaur (2,122 votes), Sanjeev Kumar Bandlish (2,079 votes) and Kapil Sharma (2,027 votes) have been elected.As many as 52,893 votes were polled and 6,817 votes were found to be invalid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-elected-to-panjab-university-senate-330020
27-10-2021||Mohali||Indian wrestling moving in right direction: Yogeshwar Dutt||Olympic bronze medal-winning wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt believes that Indian wrestling is moving towards right direction considering the talent amid youngsters.Dutt was here to award young students during the Innovative Idea Awards, organised by the Aryan Group of Colleges on the theme “Empowering Youth: Empowering Nation”.“Indian wrestling will grow in the coming years. Not only men, but also our women wrestlers are equally good and proving their mettle. We have facility, infrastructure and coaches on our side and we are surely going to excel in coming years,” said Dutt.“Youth should be encouraged to come forward and take part in more and more events,” he said. The event was also attended by Dr MP Poonia, Vice-Chairman, All-India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi, Anand Sharma, Member, Haryana Public Service Commission, and Dr Anshu Kataria, Chairman, Aryans Group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-wrestling-moving-in-right-direction-yogeshwar-dutt-330021
27-10-2021||Mohali||Suhana Saini, Preyesh Raj Suresh walk away with table tennis titles||Preyesh Raj Suresh of Tamil Nadu returned to his winning ways, claiming the boys’ Youth U-17 title and eccentric Suhana Saini lifted the girls’ youth U-17 crown in the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships at the Sports Complex in Sector 78 here.The Tamil Nadu boy, who lost his touch in between, struck form against unseeded Shankhadip Das to win the final (4-0). Meanwhile, Das, who played superbly to reach the final, found it hard right from the word go. He put up some resistance in the second and third games, but not enough to stop the Tamil Nadu left-hander, who served and finished points with precision.Suresh logged (11-6, 11-8, 11-8 and 11-5) win over Das to lift the title. Suhana, who claimed her maiden Under-19 title last week, brought some calmness to her match against Tamil Nadu’s Kavyashree Baskar.Despite Kavyashree taking the lead, the Haryana paddler came back strongly to level. The Tamil Nadu eve again seized the opportunity to go (2-1) up, but Suhana, by now used to fight backs, finished the next three games to add silverware. Suhana finally defeated Kavyashree (6-11, 11-9, 10-12, 11-9, 11-9 and 12-10). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suhana-saini-preyesh-raj-suresh-walk-away-with-table-tennis-titles-330022
27-10-2021||---||JSM FC log win, move ahead in football meet||Chandigarh, October 26JSM FC outplayed Burail FC in the ongoing Senior State Football Championship for Chandigarh Police Shaheed Trophy today. The side logged (5-0) win over their rivals to move ahead in the championship.Rajeshwar FC also outplayed Blue Star FC (6-0). LE Professor FC defeated Sandhu FC (3-0). PU Student FC defeated Uttarakhand FC (6-5) via tie-breaker. Liberty FC, meanwhile, logged (4-1) win over Maruti FC.Tricity Youth United defeated Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, by a margin of three goals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jsm-fc-log-win-move-ahead-in-football-meet-330023
27-10-2021||---||Middukhera murder case: Gangster Amit Dagar brought on production warrant||Mohali, October 26The Mohali police brought gangster Amit Dagar on production warrant from Mandoli Jail in Delhi in the sensational murder of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, alias Vicky.Gangster Amit Dagar was produced in a court, which remanded him to seven-day police remand. The police had earlier failed thrice to seek the gangster’s production warrant. After nominating Dagar in the existing FIR of the Vicky Middukhera murder, the Mohali police obtained his arrest warrants from the court on September 27.Dagar is the second gangster arrested after Kaushal Chaudhary, who is accused of hatching conspiracy when he was lodged in the Karnal jail. Both of them had contacted main shooters who killed Vicky after getting directions from gangster Gaurav Padial, who is presently residing in Armenia.The Mohali police have failed to arrest two identified shooters as they could not locate the hideouts of the duo during the raids conducted in Delhi, Haryana and Western UP.Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said after getting Amit Dagar on production warrant, they were hopeful of vital revelations in the Middukhera murder. He said the accused would be arrested soon.According to the police, four shooters, two each from the Bhola-Latth gang and the Bambiha gang run by Gaurav Padial, were involved in the case. Two gangsters were waiting in a car while two others carried out the killing of Middukhera on August 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-case-gangster-amit-dagar-brought-on-production-warrant-330024
27-10-2021||---||‘Bribery’ Case: Pre-arrest bail plea of CGST officer rejected||Chandigarh, October 26The CBI Court has rejected the pre-arrest bail application of Rajiv Kumar Meherwal, Assistant Commissioner, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST). He was booked by the CBI in an alleged bribery case.The CBI had arrested an advocate, Sunil Arora, and booked Meherwal for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs80,000 from the owner of a firm early this month. The firm was allotted a tender for water supply and sanitation work in the city by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.As per the CBI, the works were exempted from service tax as per notification of the government, but the complainant received a demand notice from the CGST, Chandigarh, advising him to pay service tax of Rs11,44,898.In his complaint to the CBI, the firm owner accused Arora of asking for a bribe of Rs1 lakh for getting the matter settled. It was also alleged that Arora demanded money at the behest of Meherwal, who asked for a bribe of Rs80,000 to be paid to Arora.Senior Public Prosecutor PK Dogra, while opposing the application, said custodian interrogation was required for the accused. The CBI had registered the case against the accused under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bribery-case-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-cgst-officer-rejected-330025
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to keep tricity pollution in mind||The UT Administration will take into account the tricity pollution before preparing a future road map of the city. The UT Administrator, Banwarilal Purohit has stressed that with the growing population, it is imperative to enhance the infrastructure and meet the demands of the residents.The Administrator also shared that the visioning exercise should be at the tricity level of Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula and the peripheral areas. He was addressing a gathering at the concluding session of a two-day visioning workshop on “Future Ready Chandigarh 2030 & Beyond” here today.The Administrator congratulated the experts for highlighting the importance of involvement of the common people in defining the vision for the city.“The quality of amenities should not be distinguished between sectors. Aspirations of the people must be kept in mind. Social cohesion is very important,” he added.In his address, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the report submitted by the experts would be thoroughly examined by officials of the Administration so that proper action was taken on making this vision a reality.The workshop was organised by the Chandigarh Administration and was supported by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with an objective of setting out the future roadmap for Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-keep-tricity-pollution-in-mind-330026
27-10-2021||---||Vocational teachers booked for injuring cops in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 26The Panchkula police have registered a case against several vocational teachers for pelting stones and beating up policemen during a protest held here yesterday.A woman cop, Anju Rani, in her complaint, stated that the vocational teachers started their march from the Sector 5 ground to Sector 18. After reaching Sector 18 on the Chandigarh border, the protesters tried to cross the barricading done by the Panchkula police and the Chandigarh Police.Police and district administration officials asked the protesters to handover the memorandum to them, but they remained adamant on visiting the Haryana Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh.All of a sudden, the protesters started beating up policemen. Police and administrative officials again tried to pacify the protesters. The protesters later started pelting stones at police officials, causing injures to them, including woman cops. The duty magistrate ordered the use of water cannon and mild lathicharge to maintain the law and order.She said the injured cops were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, here.After receiving the medico legal report of the injured cops from the Civil Hospital, the police registered a case against the vocational teachers under Sections 147, 149, 323, 332, 353 and 283 of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vocational-teachers-booked-for-injuring-cops-in-panchkula-330027
27-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali urban accounts for 73% deaths due to dengue||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 26Urban areas have witnessed 73 per cent dengue deaths in the district. Out of a total of 26 deaths, only seven deaths have been reported from rural areas in Mohali district.Today, a total of 75 samples were taken of patients running fever, of which 30 tested positive for dengue. Two persons succumbed to the disease today.A maximum number of dengue cases have surfaced in the urban areas of Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Mohali. Only two deaths were reported in September while 24 persons succumbed to dengue in the district in October.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said mass education has been launched in the district to create awareness among the people on precautions against the disease. She said a house-to-house survey had been launched to detect dengue cases in the district. Teams of the MC were carrying out fogging, she added.On the sole platelet apheresis machine lying defunct at the district hospital, Dr Adarshpal Kaur said that a part of the machine had been damaged and that they had informed the authorities concerned about it. They hope to rectify the machine within a week and till then patients were being referred to the Max hospital where they had to pay the government rates, she added.In Mohali, a total of 2,221 positive cases have been reported in the past two months with 344 cases and two deaths surfacing in September and 1,850 cases in October 26. The number of deaths remains at 26.Meanwhile, to assess the situation in view of the increasing cases of dengue in the Derabassi area, Dr Raju Dhir, Deputy Director, Health and Family Welfare, today visited the sub-divisional hospital and gave necessary instructions to senior health officialsEarlier in the day, Dr Vikrant Nagra, along with his team, visited the high-risk villages of Kuranwala, Saidpura, Mubarikpur and Bhankharpur in the Dera Bassi area and took stock of the situation. Dr Nagra said the team noticed that there was a lot of plastic waste such as carry bags, empty bottles, disposable glasses scattered around, and stagnant water in the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-urban-accounts-for-73-deaths-due-to-dengue-330028
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fire at SBI ATM booth in Sector 49, Chandigarh||City girls in hockey semisChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh registered a comfortable (4-1) win against Hockey Andhra Pradesh to reach the semi-finals of the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship in Simdega. In another closely fought quarterfinal encounter, Hockey Haryana beat Odisha (5-3) to make it to the semi-finals. In the last quarterfinal of the day, Hockey Maharashtra beat Uttar Pradesh Hockey (5-2). Hockey Haryana will take on Hockey Chandigarh in the first semi-finals, while hosts Hockey Jharkhand will take on Hockey Maharashtra in the second semi-finals on October 28. TNSWeightlifting c’ship from Oct 29Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Weightlifting Association will organise the 32nd Senior (men), 24th Junior (men), 16th Sub-Junior (boys), 23rd Senior (women), 16th Junior (women) and 16th Sub-Junior (women) State Weightlifting Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex. The championship will be held from October 29 to 30. Interested weightlifters can confirm their entries with the organisers before the start of the championship. TNSCity eves suffer defeat in hockeyChandigarh: Hockey Andhra Pradesh defeated Hockey Chandigarh (3-2) in the ongoing 11th Hockey India Senior Women National Championship 2021 in Jhansi. Hockey Punjab defeated Hockey Arunachal (6-0). Earlier, Chhattisgarh Hockey defeated Hockey Himachal (14-1). Hockey Uttarakhand drew (0-0) with Le Puducherry Hockey. Hockey Bihar defeated Goans Hockey (4-1) in their Pool B match. In the last match of the day, Hockey Bengal defeated Hockey Gujarat (8-1) in their Pool C match. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-sbi-atm-booth-in-sector-49-chandigarh-330029
27-10-2021||---||Mock drill held at Elante mall in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 26A mock drill was conducted by the UT police at the Elante mall, Industrial Area, Phase I, in view of the festive season.Information about the presence of terrorists in the mall was received by the Police Control Room following which all agencies were alerted. Teams from the Industrial Area police station, the operation cell and the crime branch rushed to the spot and cordoned off the mall. Fire engines and ambulances also reached the spot.Visitors and employees were evacuated after which a bomb disposal squad conducted a search. The parking lot was also vacated as a part of the drill. The drill led to traffic snarls on various roads leading to the mall as the police did not allow the vehicles to move towards the mall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mock-drill-held-at-elante-mall-in-chandigarh-330030
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One case in Chandigarh||Two test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. A 50-year-old man of Sector 25 and a 49-year-old man of Amravati Enclave were found infected. No death due to the virus was reported on Tuesday. — TNSOnly one case in Mohali districtMohali: Only one Covid case surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,806. No fresh death due to the disease was reported. The only positive case came from Mohali (urban). Of the 68,806 Covid cases reported so far, 67,707 patients have been cured. There are now 31 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,068. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-case-in-chandigarh-330031
27-10-2021||---||e-office to bring transparency at PGI, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 26The PGI today launched a new e-office aimed at bringing transparency and efficiency by reducing delays in processing files.While launching the e-office application, Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “Governance processes are based around creation of files, receipts, notings in hard copy and on the file. In a big tertiary care institute like the PGI, quick decision-making can bring a difference in the overall efficiency in patient care and facilitate various citizen-centric services efficiently. The PGI is an institute of national importance and always remained at the forefront in providing best healthcare services.”“e-office will revolutionise the office working and will bring transparency and efficiency by reducing delays in processing files. The PGI has always adopted technological advancements to bring efficiency in its working,” said the Director.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-office-to-bring-transparency-at-pgi-chandigarh-330032
27-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||SAD, BSP to fight Chandigarh civic body elections together||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 26On the lines of Punjab, the city Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has inked a pact with the city Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the local Municipal Corporation (MC) elections scheduled for December.As per the seat-sharing arrangement, 19 seats will be contested by the SAD and the remaining 16 will be fought by the BSP.‘Announcement today’We will announce our collaboration with the BSP on Wednesday. We will contest 19 seats and they will fight on 16. Hardeep Singh, President, City SADHardeep Singh, city SAD president, told Chandigarh Tribune, “We are going to announce our collaboration with the BSP tomorrow. We will contest on 19 and they will fight on 16 seats.”City BSP president Gurcharan Singh Kamboj said, “We are in talks with the CPI. They are likely to come on board. We will leave two-three seats for them. If that materialises, the SAD and the BSP will fight on the remaining seats on the 50-50 sharing basis.”The SAD president had last year declared to contest all 35 seats of the MC. However, after their alliance with the BSP, they have settled for a seat-sharing arrangement.Kamboj said it was after 25 years that the two parties are jointly fighting elections. In the last MC elections, the SAD and BJP had fought as alliance partners. Of the total 26 seats, the BJP contested on 22 seats and the SAD fought on four. The saffron party won 20 seats and the SAD could win only one seat.Kamboj said the BSP had fought on 18 seats, but drew a blank. He shared that property tax, sewerage cess, privatisation/contract system, roads and sanitation would be among the issues to be raised during the elections. Besides, the issues of unemployment, inflation and farm laws would also be taken up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-bsp-to-fight-chandigarh-civic-body-elections-together-330033
27-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Lone SAD councillor couldn’t keep his word||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 26The lone SAD councillor in the MC House, Hardeep Singh, could not keep his promise of upgrading two community centres and opening a dispensary in his ward number 10. Though the upgrade work has recently started at the Sector 42 community centre, it could not be started at the Sector 41 centre during his five-year term. The proposal for a dispensary in Sector 41 is yet to materialise.Hardeep Singh, CouncillorCouncillorspeakI work for people’s welfare. There was a proposal for a dispensary. I have taken up the matter with the UT. While renovation of a community centre has started, work will start soon on the other.“The upgrade could not take place at the Sector 41 community centre, which is small and in bad shape; work has, however, lately started at the Sector 42 centre. There was a proposal for a dispensary, which is much needed here, but nothing has moved in this direction. Besides, lights could not be installed at volleyball park. It’s all dark in the park, which at times leads to illegal activities,” said Vijay Kumar Chikarsal, president, RWA, Sector 41.During a visit to the Sector 41 centre, broken glasses, water leakage and dampness on walls were spotted. Chikarsal said, “It’s not that the councillor did not work. I will give him 7/10.”Shashi Kumar Sharma of the RWA, Sector 42-C, said, “The coucillor was available for even small works. Still, there are issues such as potholes due to rain.”A resident of Butrela, however, complained, “Those residing in Butrela, Badheri and Attawa had a tough time as roads remained dug up for long for laying of sewer and storm water pipelines. After laying of the pipelines, these remained dug up for about two-three months for putting up paver blocks.”Hardeep SinghWard number: 10Area: Sector 41, 42, Butrela and AttawaPromises: Upgrading 2 community centres, opening dispensaryResult: Not fulfilled yetAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-lone-sad-councillor-couldnt-keep-his-word-330034
27-10-2021||Mohali||Two youths flee with car after shooting at driver in Mohali||In a shocking incident, a car was taken away by two unidentified youths after firing at its driver near the Phase 7 petrol pump here late on Monday night.The victim has been identified as Param Dogra, a resident of Sector 45, Chandigarh. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 where doctors referred him to the PGI as the bullet had ripped his finger apart.In his complaint to the police, Param Dogra said he was returning home around 11:25 pm when he stopped his Toyota Etios car on the road as there were a large number of vehicles ahead due to an accident. In the meantime, two youths came and threatened him to leave after giving the car keys to them. The complainant said as he resisted, one of them fired a gunshot at him and the bullet hit his hand. They forcibly snatched the car and sped towards the Chandigarh side while driving on the wrong side. He said he tried to chase them but in vain.An eyewitness, a Zomato worker, said he had come to Phase 7 petrol pump to get fuel for his bike when he saw a young man chasing a car with blood coming out of his hand.The Zomato employee said there was a long jam on the road as three vehicles had collided at the Phase VII traffic light point. Two Innova SUVs and a Tata Tiago car had collided leading to heated arguments between the three drivers.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said they were examining the CCTV footage and had got vital clues. He said they would arrest the robbers soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-youths-flee-with-car-after-shooting-at-driver-in-mohali-330035
