28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University results declared||NCC wing holds cycle rallyChandigarh: Panjab University National Cadet Corps (NCC), Boys Wing, 2nd Chandigarh Battalion of NCC, organised a cycle rally under the "Clean India Campaign: Cycle Rally Awareness Campaign" on the Panjab University campus on Wednesday. It started from the NCC office, Panjab University. TNSWeightlifting championshipChandigarh: Chandigarh Amateur Weightlifting Association will organise the 32nd Senior (men), 24th Junior (men), 16th Sub-junior (boys)/ 23rd Senior (women), 16th Junior (women) and 16th Sub-junior (women) State Weightlifting Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex from October 29 to 30. TNSTheft at grain market, 1 heldChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth has been arrested for stealing vegetables, fruits and cash from the grain market in Sector 26. The complainant, Narender Singh, had reported that 150 kg of onion, 50 kg of tomatos, 22 bags of coconut, Rs1,200 and documents were stolen from near shed number 30 on October 26. The police registered a case and arrested the suspect, Shiv Lal, alias Huddi, a resident of Mani Majra. TNSYouth arrested for trespassChandigarh: The police have arrested Mohit Kumar (22) a native of Uttar Pradesh, for trespassing on the Air Force Station. The complainant, Gp Capt JJ Singh, Station Security Officer, 12 Wing, Air Force Station, reported to the police that the suspect trespassed on the prohibited area following which a case was registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSFour held with 2 stolen bikesZirakpur: The police arrested four persons and recovered two stolen bikes from them on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Gulab Singh of Kala Banjare village, Sangrur, Manjot Singh of Amritsar, and Bhagwan and Prakash of Mauli Jagran. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. The police said in-depth interrogation of the suspects revealed that they had stolen the motorcycles from Mauli jagran and Panchkula. The suspects were booked in various cases earlier also. TNS2 held for immoral traffickingZirakpur: The police arrested a woman and her accomplice under the Immoral Trafficking Act on Wednesday. One of the suspects has been identified as Mohammed Quaiser, who used to assist the woman in trafficking girls at a hotel in Zirakpur. On the statement of the victim, a case under the Immoral Trafficking Act has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. TNSTwo pugilists win medalsChandigarh: Chandigarh boxing team members Neema (66kg) and Monika (54kg), both students of GGDSD College, Sector 32, won bronze medals in the 5th Elite Senior Women’s National Boxing Championship in Hisar, Haryana, on Wednesday. Both pugilists have now been called for the India’s probable camp and will be joining the squad in coming weeks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-results-declared-330794
28-10-2021||---||Syed Mushtaq Ali tourney: Manan Vohra to lead Chandigarh team||Chandigarh, October 27Manan Vohra will lead the Chandigarh team in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Tournament to be played in Gurugram and Lahli (Rohtak) from November 4. The team of 25 members, including five support staff, left for Gurgaon on Wednesday. The Elite E group comprises of Chandigarh, Hyderabad, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Saurashtra.Chandigarh will play its first match against UP on November 4 and will face Delhi on November 5. The city lads will lock horns with Hyderabad on November 6, followed by Saurashtra on November 8. The team will end its campaign against Uttarakhand on November 9.The squadManan Vohra (captain), Shivam Bhambri, Sarul Kanwar, Ankit Kaushik, Kunal Mahajan, Gaurav Puri, Gurinder Singh, Bhagmender Lather, Arpit Singh, Arjit Singh, Jaskarandeep Singh Buttar, Rahul Sharma, Jagjit Sandhu, Shrestha Nirmohi, Parmesh Kumar, Yuvraj Chaudhary, Taranpreet Singh, Jaskaranveer Singh Sohi, Gaurav Gambhir, Amrit Lubana, Rajiv Nayyar (coach), Sandeep Singh Arora (assistant coach), Girish Bhanot (manager), Saurabh Khandelwal (physio) and Sagar Sudan (trainer).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/syed-mushtaq-ali-tourney-manan-vohra-to-lead-chandigarh-team-330791
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Punjab  make it to semis||Hockey Punjab defeated Odisha (2-1) in the quarterfinals of the 11th Hockey India Senior Women National Championship 2021 in Jhansi. Shalu Mann (11th) and Kirandeep Kaur (32nd) scored a goal each for Hockey Punjab, while Rinki Kujur (57th) scored the only goal for Odisha.Hockey Haryana defeated Uttar Pradesh Hockey by a solitary goal. Monika Sihag (14th) scored the only goal of the match. Hockey Maharashtra earned a hard-fought (2-0) victory over Hockey Karnataka in the second quarterfinals.Hockey Madhya Pradesh eased past Hockey Jharkhand with a (5-1) victory. Anjali Gautam (14th, 45th) scored a brace, while Prashu Singh Parihar (14th), Upasana Singh (33th) and Neeraj Rana (55th) scored one goal each for Hockey Madhya Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-punjab-make-it-to-semis-330788
28-10-2021||---||Tricity FC log win in football meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Tricity FC overpowered Chandigarh Police Kids Academy by a solitary goal in the ongoing Senior State Football Championship for Chandigarh Police Shaheed Trophy today.Harman scored the lone consoling goal of the match in the 87th minute. In the second match, Saibaba FC defeated Stephen’s FC via tie-breaker. Earlier in the stipulated time, the match ended in a 1-1 draw. Navjot (108th) netted the first goal to put Saibaba FC in lead, while Shivam levelled the score in the 118th minute for Stephen’s FC.Le Professor FC defeated Golden FC (3-0). Goldy (8th) netted the first goal, while Inderjeet (43rd) doubled the lead and Arjun (78th) netted the third goal. JSM FA overpowered PU Student (2-0). After a goalless draw, JSM FA’s Hemant and Vijay netted a goal each.Meanwhile, contrary to the AIFF rules, Saibaba FC lads were made to play their second match of the day which they lost to Liberty FC (0-4). Navdeep (16th), Gurtejwar (18th), Krishna (28th) and Ankit (52nd) scored one goal each. In their second match, Tricity FC defeated Rajeshwar FC in a tie-breaker.As per the AIFF rules, teams should be given ample layover before playing their second match. The matches are in the 45-15-45 (90 minutes and 15 minutes rest) format.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-fc-log-win-in-football-meet-330787
28-10-2021||---||Abhinand, Jennifer shine in TT||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 27Tamil Nadu’s PB Abhinand and Maharashtra’s Jennifer Varghese took a similar route in the Youth U-15 boys’ and girls’ finals, respectively, on the concluding day of the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship at the Sector 78 Sports Complex here today.Jennifer defeated Sandika Bhattacharjee of West Bengal (4-2) and Abhinand followed suit with an identical score line to beat statemate Balamurugan Muthu. Abhinand opened well to falter, allowing Balamurugan a comfortable recovery. But he could not sustain against the consistent onslaught from Abhinand and, despite his brave efforts, ended as the runner-up. What changed the fortune in Abhinand’s favour was his laboured wins in the fifth and sixth games on extended points.Jennifer, cadet nationals champion in 2019, made a bright opening against second seed Sandika Bhattacharjee. However, the West Bengal girl staged a nice comeback to lead 2-1. In fact, the fourth game gave Jennifer confidence and brought some sanity to the haphazard game plan she dished out in the previous two games. By the time the fifth game began, the match was going only one way.Abhinand knocked the stuffing out of fourth seed Kushal Chopda to enter the final. Earlier, Abhinand survived a scare as West Bengal’s Oishik Ghosh, the eighth seed, stretched him the maximum. Fourth seed Kushal Chopda, the only other top eight players to endure, also entered the semi-finals beating Abhinav Murthy of Karnataka (4-1). Two unseeded players from Tamil Nadu — Balamurugan Muthu and Nikkhil Menon — also made the semi-final cut.In the girls’ category, the top seed bowed out when fourth seed Jennifer Varghese outplayed to win (4-1). The Tamil Nadu girl was visibly hampered and could not come to terms with Jennifer’s attacking approach. Hansini did take a game off her rival, but it was too little and too late. Second seed Sandika Bhattacharjee showed character to take the last two games on her way to the final after trailing (3-2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhinand-jennifer-shine-in-tt-330785
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Five cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||2 cases in MohaliMohali: Two new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours while there was no fresh fatality due to the virus. A case each was reported from Dhakoli and Mohali. Further, eight patients were cured of the disease. — TNS2 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded two fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,766. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-330784
28-10-2021||---||A first: Horse show to begin at Mullanpur club tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27For the first time in the region, Chandigarh Horse Show will be organised from October 29 to 31 at a Mullanpur-based equestrian club, “The Ranch”.In one of its kind, the event will be a vanity fair with an aim to promote equestrian sports. Among the 150 participants, Olympian Imtiaz Anees, who competed in the individual event at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney and finished 23rd overall, will also be making his presence. Dilpreet Sidhu, executive leader of Chandigarh Horse Show, said the event would be inaugurated by UT SSP Kuldeep Chahal.On the last day of the show, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and DGP Punjab Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota will honour the winners. Show jumping and tent pegging events will be organised as per the guidelines of the Equestrian Federation of India (EFI).“As many 21 events, including tent pegging, show jumping and six-bars, will be organised. A total of 150 riders from across the nation have confirmed their entries so far. In addition, the event is being organised under the aegis of the EFI and the winners will carry forward the rankings obtained here to future tournaments,” said Sidhu.He said: “The winner of each event will be awarded Rs10,000, while the runners-up will get Rs6,000 and the second runners-up will purse Rs4,000.”Gursher Dhillon, chief coordinator at “The Ranch”, said the main objective of the show was to promote equestrian sport among people of all age groups.“Horse riding as a sport has a lot of reach in the western countries, but it still needs to be promoted to that level in India,” said Dhillon.Meanwhile, teams from the Indian Navy, Chandigarh Police, Haryana Police, Gurgaon Horse Club, PAP Punjab, Budda Dal School, Patiala, YPS, Patiala, Vardhinand Horse Academy and others will participate in the show. The show will offer a carnival experience through food stalls, games for kids, horse riding and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-first-horse-show-to-begin-at-mullanpur-club-tomorrow-330779
28-10-2021||---||Gang of tractor-trailer thieves busted, 2 held||Ambala, October 27The CIA Naraingarh unit of the Ambala police has busted an inter-state gang of tractor-trailer thieves and arrested two of its members.The police also recovered eight tractors, one trailer and a rotavator from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Jishan and Bhura, both residents of Uttar Pradesh. They were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody.The police said during the investigation of a theft case registered at the Mullana police station, the CIA Naraingarh unit arrested Jishan of Uttar Pradesh on October 22. The court sent Jishan to four-day police remand.During the remand, Jishan disclosed that he, along with Bhura and some other accused, had stolen tractor-trailers from Naraingarh, Shahzadpur and Mullana areas of Ambala and Yamunanagar and Karnal districts.The CIA unit arrested Bhura and recovered eight tractors, one trailer and one rotavator from his possession on Sunday.CIA Naraingarh in-charge Surinder Kumar said: “The gang was active in the area for the past around one year. The members used to conduct a recce in the late hours and then steal tractor-trailers. Two members of the gang have been arrested. Other gang members are yet to be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-tractor-trailer-thieves-busted-2-held-330777
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Television and Radio Studio inaugurated in GGDSD College, Chandigarh||Guru Gobind Singh College for WomenChandigarh: The postgraduate department of commerce, Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, organised a webinar on "Basic Financial Literacy - Banking and Financial Services". The webinar was addressed by Manohar Puranik who is a financial education counsellor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/television-and-radio-studio-inaugurated-in-ggdsd-college-chandigarh-330774
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Class XII student’s book on science fiction released||A book titled “The Missing Prophecy - Rise of the Blue Phoenix”, written by a young author, Khushi Sharma, was released by Pargat Singh, Minister of Education, Sports, Youth Services and NRI Affairs, Punjab.Khushi, a student of Class XII at Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, is a two-time national medal winner in squash, a pianist and a kathak dancer.Khushi said the sci-fi thriller had the lead female protagonist, Ember Hart, who epitomised courage, conviction, perseverance, teamwork and leadership traits. Ember is wandering across universe for three centuries in order to find a way to bring back her beloved Niklaus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xii-students-book-on-science-fiction-released-330773
28-10-2021||---||Man found dead near Chandigarh railway station||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27The beheaded body of a man, aged about 50 years, was found on the railway tracks near railway station here around 10 am today.The railway police have registered an FIR under Section 176 of the IPC. The body has been sent to the mortuary of Sector 6, Civil Hospital, Panchkula, where it will be kept for 72 hours, said Raj Kumar, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh Railway Station.“The station authorities informed us about the body at about 10 am. It seems to be a train accident case. The man is aged between 50-52 and was wearing dark blue track pants with a blue-grey cardigan over a white shirt. Anything leading to the identity of the deceased could not be found,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-near-chandigarh-railway-station-330771
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||3-day world conference commences||Three-day International Conference by Indian National Cartographic Association (INCA) commenced today on the theme “Cartography for Self-Reliant India” which is being hosted by department of geography, Panjab University.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya, in his address, said the geo-spatial field had tremendous potential for generating employment in the country. He also mentioned that in the management of Covid-19 crisis, Covid maps proved beneficial.India will have a coherent national location data framework by 2030 which will assist the country to move towards e-economics, e-service and e-commerce and will help improve services to the citizens.The Surveyor General of India, Naveen Tomar, said the focus should be on the requirement of data collection on a large scale to make India a self-reliant nation — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-day-world-conference-commences-330770
28-10-2021||Mohali||Mohali MLA inaugurates water booster plant work||Former Health Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today kick-started the work of a 5-lakh litre water booster plant here. The plant, which will be installed at a cost of Rs91 lakh, will supply water to Sector 70 and Mataur.Speaking on the occasion, Sidhu said in Mohali, he had started the work of installing water booster plants at four places. Besides, the entire machinery of the water treatment plants in Sector 57 and Phase 6 here was being overhauled. He said automatic treatment machines were being set up at the plants, especially for mixing chlorine with water.He said Rs16 crore was being spent on ensuring uninterrupted and clean water supply to the people of Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mla-inaugurates-water-booster-plant-work-330769
28-10-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula needs ‘good roads like ones around Speaker’s residence’||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 27The city needs “good roads” — identical to the ones around Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s house in Sector 17. However, the contrast in the condition of roads in the proximity of Gupta’s residence and in other parts of the city is quite clear.The road separating Sector 7 and 8, and the main road connecting Chandigarh and Zirakpur-Shimla highway give a bumpy ride to motorists, making the commute painful and accident-prone. Citing monsoon, the Municipal Corporation had recently carried out patchwork to fill the potholes but the filling has started coming off.“First it was rain, but what now? I wonder why the authorities keep looking for an excuse to repair roads,” said Hari Prasad, who commutes on a bike from Chandigarh to Pinjore through the main road.“The roads repaired recently through patchwork have started eroding. The authorities should carry out proper repair of roads to ensure a smooth travel experience for motorists,” said Vishwank, a motorist.Work to start soon: MayorMayor Kulbhushan Goyal said a tender worth Rs50 lakh had been issued for the repair of roads across the city and work would begin soon.“We won’t leave any road within the city limits in a damaged condition,” he said. He, however, didn’t divulge much detail about the repair work.In September, Goyal had told Chandigarh Tribune that recarpeting of roads, beginning from Industrial Area, will begin right after the culmination of monsoon.President, Panchkula Vikas Manch, RK Agarwal said, “A ride through the Sector 5 would tell you the real story about the condition of roads in the city. In the sector, parts of roads look worse than a village road. Panchkula is a planned city, but civic affairs is in tatters. Public money is being wasted in the name of beautification.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-needs-good-roads-like-ones-around-speakers-residence-330768
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body elections: SAD, BSP decide on seats||The city Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the city Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) today declared the wards they would contest from in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections scheduled to be held in December.As per the seat-sharing arrangement, 19 seats will be contested by the SAD and the remaining 16 by the BSP. There are a total of 35 seats.Addressing a press conference, SAD president Hardeep Singh and BSP president Gurcharan Singh Kamboj said the SAD would contest from new ward numbers 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 30, 32, 33 and 34, while the BSP would contest from ward numbers 3, 4, 7, 9, 12, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 28, 29, 31, 35.In the 2016 MC elections, the SAD and the BJP had fought as alliance partners. Of the total 26 seats, the BJP contested on 22 seats and the SAD fought on four. The saffron party won 20 seats and the SAD could win only one seat. The BSP fought on 18 seats, but drew a blank. This time, other than old rivals the BJP and the Congress, the AAP is also in the fray from all seats.‘Dhobhi ghats’ on agenda for House meetingChandigarh: Having failed to properly run and earn from its seven ‘dhobhi ghats’ for several years, the MC is again bringing the agenda in the House meeting to be held on October 29. As per the agenda, dhobhi ghats in Sectors 19, 20, 27, 22, 32, 7 and 15 will be renovated by the MC. Each ghat will have to pay Rs5,000 fee per year to the civic body. No people will be allowed to use the place as a residence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-elections-sad-bsp-decide-on-seats-330767
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DC honours Estate Office staff||Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today gave appreciation certificates to staff of the Estate Office who were involved in digitisation project of the department.To provide seamless services to residents, the UT Estate Office has completely digitised all its property-related services. Now, all 16 services are available at a click of the mouse.“Nearly 40,000 files with more than 80,00,000 entries have been digitised in a phased manner,” said the DC.Aimed at providing technology-driven services, five services were launched on September 28 in the first phase. Four more services were made available online on October 12 in the second phase and the remaining seven services were launched online on October 25.Brar said all information about the services provided by the Estate Office, Acts, Rules, notifications, etc, were available on the website - https://estateoffice.chd.gov.inHe said the SMS service had been introduced to keep the applicant in the loop about the status of the work done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dc-honours-estate-office-staff-330766
28-10-2021||---||Deputy CM OP Soni visits Mohali Civil Hospital, talks to patients||Mohali, October 27Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, who also holds the charge of the Health Minister, today visited the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here to assess the ground realities and enquire about the facilities being provided to patients.During his visit, OP Soni specifically visited the 80-bed dengue ward in view of the rise in the number of patients. He also interacted with the patients to enquire about the arrangements and availability of medicines.He said a special 80-bed ward had been set up on the third floor of the hospital for the confirmed and suspected dengue patients where they were being provided treatment free of cost. In addition to this, the number of beds with mosquito nets had also been increased. In view of the increasing number of patients in the emergency ward, he directed the hospital authorities to deploy more doctors and nurses and make proper sanitation arrangements.OP Soni said any shortcoming in this regard would not be tolerated at any cost and better and quality health care facilities would be provided to the patients. He said if proper sanitation was not ensured, then strict action would be taken against the official concerned.Soni also visited the medicine stock room and enquired about the available stock of medicines.He also appealed to people to take all necessary precautions to save themselves from dengue fever and not allow standing water anywhere in and around their homes. Civil Surgeon Dr. Adarshpal Kaur and other officers were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deputy-cm-op-soni-visits-mohali-civil-hospital-talks-to-patients-330764
28-10-2021||---||Health team inspects sweets shops in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 27Under the supervision of District Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar, a food safety team of the Health Department visited sweets shops in Sector 70, Phase 5, Sohana and Mataur here. The team members collected four samples of sweets and bakery items, including ‘khoya barfi’, ‘rasgulla’ and ‘besan ladoo’.Dr Subhash said on the instructions of Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, the food safety team checked the quality and durability of the sweets and milk. He said 10 kg of stale ‘pinnis’ were destroyed at a sweets shop in Mataur.Officers gave instructions to food business operators to maintain hygienic conditions in the manufacturing process and display ‘use by date’ on sweets items.He said necessary action would be taken to check adulteration of sweets during the festival season in the district. The team also appreciated sweets shop owners for minimising use of colour in sweets and using only FSSAI-permitted colours.Dr Subhash said during the checking, the shopkeepers were instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and the Health Department to curb the spread of the Covid pandemic. The shopkeepers were also instructed not to sell expired items. They were told to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without a mask. The shopkeepers were also briefed on the Food Safety Act. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items and pay special attention to cleanliness.He said that checking was not meant to harass anyone, but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to people. Food Safety Officer Rajdeep Kaur and Lovepreet Singh were part of the inspecting team.Shopkeepers told to wear gloves, masksDistrict Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar said during the checking, the shopkeepers were instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and the Health Department to curb the spread of the Covid pandemic. The shopkeepers were also instructed not to sell expired items. They were told to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without a mask. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-team-inspects-sweets-shops-in-mohali-330763
28-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University likely to fully open after Diwali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Panjab University campus is likely to open for all students in the coming month post Diwali, claimed sources.As of now, the authorities have opened the campus (offline classes) for a handful of students. “Yes, the authorities will open the campus fully for offline classes and examinations. Many departments have already been opened for offline classes and it was like a trial run. The only problem is to allot accommodation to hostellers. And for that, the authorities are talking to the UT Administration to issue a circular. The Adviser to the Administrator has already said ‘yes’ to opening hostels for those who have got both doses of vaccine, and soon the authorities will adopt it,” said a source.Earlier, the campus was opened for students in three phases. It has been completely shut for offline classes since the breakdown of covid pandemic. However, since the dip in cases, the students have been demanding the opening of the campus and hostels for all students.Meanwhile, the authorities stated that the practical examinations (odd semester) for undergraduate classes scheduled to be conducted from December 17 to 21, and for postgraduate classes from December 21 to 24, will be held offline. “With almost everything opened across the nation, there has been a huge demand to open the campus. And it is expected that the authorities will take a final call soon,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-likely-to-fully-open-after-diwali-330762
28-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to study reasons for Education City debacle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Unable to develop an ambitious Education City to provide world-class educational facilities at Sarangpur, the UT Administration will study the reasons for failure of the project.Even after allotment of 150 acres for the project, the Administration has not been able to develop the Education City at Sarangpur. The two of the three educational institutions to which the land was allotted also surrendered it and only one educational institution has set up its campus there.The Administration had decided to develop the city under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode. Of 150 acres, 75 acres have been reserved for private institutions in the first phase. The remaining 75 acres have been reserved for an institute of design and other professional colleges.Under the terms and conditions, the land was to be leased out to the short-listed educational institutions for a period of 33 years, which could further be extended for another period of 33 years and the selected institutions were also required to finalise the revenue-sharing model with the authorities. However, several short-listed firms raised objections to the use of the land, said sources.The UT Administration had shortlisted nine private institutions. Of these, only three had signed agreements for setting up their campuses at the city and the remaining six institutions did not sign the agreement.Earlier, the city was considered as an educational hub in the region, but in the past few years, Mohali has slowly emerged as a major alternative with a number of private and public-sector educational institutions of national and international repute setting up their campuses in the district.Taking advantage of the failure of the UT Administration to develop the Education City in Chandigarh, the Haryana Government recently announced that it would to set up a similar project in Panchkula district.“We will examine the reasons why educational institutions have withdrawn from the project,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. Several other proposals also could not be materialised, he said, adding that on the basis of the analysis, they would work out a way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-study-reasons-for-education-city-debacle-330761
28-10-2021||---||Policeman dies in hit-and-run in Mohali's Balongi village||Mohali, October 27In a hit-and-run case, an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) posted with the ADGP (Internal Security), Punjab, was killed after his motorcycle was hit by a rashly driven Activa scooter in Balongi late last night.The deceased cop has been identified as Rajwant Singh (41), a resident of Kharar.Rajwant Singh was going home on his motorcycle after duty. When he reached Desu Majra, he took a U-turn as there was a traffic jam due to a teachers’ protest. A woman riding an Activa hit his motorcycle after which he fell and suffered serious injuries.He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Kharar, where doctors declared him brought dead. The woman reportedly sped away from the spot. Rajpal Singh Gill, SHO, said they had registered a case under Sections 304 A and 279 of the IPC against the unknown woman at the Baloni police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/policeman-dies-in-hit-and-run-in-mohalis-balongi-village-330760
28-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: In Bharat Kumar’s ward 23, civic issues still unresolved||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27BJP councillor from ward number 23 Bharat Kumar shows a long list of works done by him, but a number of civic issues have remained unresolved during his five-year term.Work of road recarpeting and laying of paver blocks could not be completed in Hallo Majra and Ram Darbar. Hallo Majra residents complained of dirty water supply while Ram Darbar residents raised the issue of ill-maintained parks, dark spots and lack of cleanliness.Gurleen Kaur, a resident of Hallo Majra village, lamented, “People are forced to drink dirty water. Several have been taken ill. Sewer pipelines were laid, but sewage still flows on roads. They first put up paver blocks, then remove these for laying pipelines and finally refixed these. This led to improper fitting and several paver blocks broke. It seems the authorities have no idea what they want to do.”BS Rawat, a former general secretary, Hallo Majra Deep Complex Welfare Association, said, “We always get dirty drinking water supply. Besides, the foundation stone for laying paver blocks in our area was laid twice, but still 30 to 35 per cent work is yet to be done. The promise of regularising houses outside lal dora was not kept. There are no street lights. The only good thing that has happened is that we have got digital electricity meters.”Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Ram Darbar shared, “Roads and work on laying of paver blocks has been done in Phase 2 of Ram Darbar, but it is yet to be done in Phase 1. Parks are not maintained and have wild grass and damaged swings and boundary grills. The street lights are not working. Garbage dumps in various parts is another big issue.”Residents said promises of regularising houses outside lal dora and getting houses converted into freehold from leasehold too remained unfulfilled.The councillor was often seen raising his ward issues at House meetings. During the mayoral poll earlier this year, the dejected BJP leader had announced his resignation from the party for not being given any of the three posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. However, the sulking councillor was later placated by senior party leaders. His ward has now been declared reserved for an SC woman candidate and he is looking at contesting from some other ward.Bharat KumarAchievements claimedCouncillorspeakIn the entire ward, road and paver blocks work was done. For the remaining places, estimates have been prepared and the work will start soon. No complaint regarding dirty water has come to my knowledge. — Bharat Kumar, councillor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-bharat-kumars-ward-23-civic-issues-still-unresolved-330759
28-10-2021||Mohali||Dengue claims three more lives in Mohali||Three more dengue patients died in the district on Wednesday, taking the total number of deaths due to the vector-borne disease to 29. Further, 55 fresh cases of dengue surfaced, pushing the district tally to 2,276. A total of 80 samples of suspected dengue patients were taken and 55 of these tested positive for the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-three-more-lives-in-mohali-330757
28-10-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula records first dengue death; tally goes past 500||With 28 fresh cases, the official dengue tally breached the 500 mark and settled at 519 in the district today. One fatality due to the vector-borne disease is now officially confirmed. A 17-year-old girl, a resident of Ashiyana in Sector 20, had died of the disease. According to officials, she was admitted to the Civil Hospital with unstable vitals on October 25. She died the next day.Though the local Health Department registered its first dengue death today, several RWAs have challenged the claim.On several occasions, the Sector 10 RWA has claimed that the locality has seen three dengue deaths this season but the Health Department did not record it in its official toll.Local citizens have also complained about lack of fogging to check the spread of vector-borne diseases.On the other hand, the Municipal Corporation claimed to have procured 11 new machines to intensify fogging in every ward of the city.The district, which saw only five dengue cases till the end of August, has been witnessing a massive surge in the cases since the past month. The affected areas are Sector 4, 7, 10, 11, 15, 19, 20, 21 and 26, Old Panchkula and Rally, Abheypur, Budhanpur and Haripur villages.Meanwhile, cases have also been reported from Surajpur, Marranwala, Pinjore, Kalka, Kot and Barwala areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-records-first-dengue-death-tally-goes-past-500-330756
28-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Dengue count in Chandigarh breaches 700 mark||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Dengue cases in the city crossed the 700 mark with 41 more cases recorded today.With 653 cases, October accounted for 88.6 per cent of the total cases of dengue. Prior to that, 84 cases had surfaced in Chandigarh. Around 27 per cent of the total cases in the city are from other states.Due to delayed rain in September this year, the “dengue season” has changed this year due to which cases have cropped up large numbers this month.To prevent the spread, the Health Department claims to be taking preventive measures. In 2017, 1,951 cases of dengue were recorded, while the cases dipped to 301 in 2018 followed by 286 in 2019 and 265 in 2020.A total of 8,713 notices and 458 challans have been issued till now. As many as 334 show-cause notices have also been issued to private and government institutions. The soaring dengue count has increased the demand for platelets in the city. There have been complaints about shortage of platelet kits in hospitals and the market, causing a delay in getting timely treatment. There is heavy inflow of dengue patients in emergency wards of hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-count-in-chandigarh-breaches-700-mark-330752
