29-10-2021||---||HC puts Mohali Mayor on notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on notice on a petition alleging non-registration of a case against the accused as they were the “mighty politician’s” blue-eyed boys. The notice has also been issued to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the state of Punjab and other respondents, including the accused.The order by Justice Raj Mohan Singh came on a petition filed by the victim through counsel Charanjit Singh Bakhshi. She was seeking directions to the official respondents to register a case against the accused for rape, criminal intimidation and another offence. Directions were also sought to protect her life and liberty, along with ensuring her husband and family’s protection.The Bench, among other things, observed that a perusal of the status report showed the specific stand of the police was that the prosecutrix was brought to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 on August 5 by ASI Bahadur Singh. The investigating officer also recorded a statement of the duty officer, who stated that the petitioner “was never got admitted” to the hospital. Rather, she went home on her own sweet will. Bakhshi, on the other hand, referred to the alleged victim’s medico-legal report in which the doctor expressed the opinion that the possibility of sexual assault could not be ruled out.Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that Bakhshi was also relying on instructions, dated October 9 last year, issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, wherein mandatory action was proposed to be taken by the police in the case of a crime against women.“According to him, in case of disclosure of a cognisable offence, the police have to register a case and thereafter, investigate the same. The ratio of Lalita Kumari versus the Government of Uttar Pradesh and others can also be relied upon in the present case,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh added.Before parting with the case, Justice Raj Mohan Singh issued a notice of motion for December 16. It was, on the asking of the court, accepted by Punjab Additional Advocate-General HS Grewal on behalf of the state. Advocate Sangram Singh accepted the notice on behalf of the premier investigating agency.“The state counsel seeks time to file a detailed status report in continuation of the status report already on record,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-puts-mohali-mayor-on-notice-331376
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Administration warns striking NHM staff||As National Health Mission (NHM) employees in the city have decided to continue their strike over salary hike tomorrow, the UT Administration today warned that the staff that did not report to the duty will not be allowed to join and the process to terminate their contractual appointment with immediate effect will be initiated.“To ensure smooth operation of health services in the city during the ongoing crisis of Covid, malaria and dengue and to avoid such frequent incidents of indiscipline, we need to deal with it strictly,” the UT Administration stated in a press release.The Administration has also requested the outsourcing agency to provide staff as substitute to the protesting NHM staff. “During the process, preference may be given to those outsourced staff deputed during the second wave of Covid and was disengaged recently,” the UT Administration stated, adding that they would also depute the existing staff in shifts to overcome the “shortage”.It has also been decided that the NHM staff on strike would not be allowed to enter the premises of health facility. “In case of any unauthorised entry, appropriate action to be taken as per the law,” stated the press release.The police have been asked to ensure law and order at health facilities across the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-warns-striking-nhm-staff-331377
29-10-2021||---||African delegation visits Pinjore gardens||Panchkula, October 28On the first day of the two-day Haryana-Africa Conclave, a delegation of African countries today visited Yadavindra Gardens, Pinjore.On reaching the gardens, members of the delegation were welcomed by applying "tilak" according to the Indian tradition. Haryanvi artists played the nagada and presented folk dance to welcome the delegation.Also read: 2-day 'Haryana-Africa Conclave' aims to boost tradeThe members of the delegation enjoyed the performance and danced to Haryanvi folk songs. The delegation was briefed about the history of Yadavindra Gardens by officials of the Haryana Tourism Corporation.They were shown Rang Mahal, Sheesh Mehal and Jal Mehal, and were also informed about the importance of these during the Mughal period.Praising Yadavindra Gardens, the delegation said all heritage should be preserved and maintained in such a way that history always "remains alive". The Haryana Foreign Cooperation Department is organising the two-day Haryana-Africa Conclave.The main objective of the conclave is to strengthen cooperation between Haryana and African countries, mainly in the fields of agriculture, mining, infrastructure, logistics development, information technology and education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/african-delegation-visits-pinjore-gardens-331378
29-10-2021||Mohali||Sweets shops at Dhakoli inspected||Stepping up its campaign against adulterated food items, a food safety team of the Health Department conducted a surprise check at sweet shops and dairies in Dhakoli near Zirakpur and took four samples.Food Safety Officer Ravinandan Goyal said on Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar’s instructions, the team inspected the quality of sweets. He said during the festive season, regular checks were being carried out to provide quality food items to people. He said a total of 14 samples of milk and milk products had been taken from the Zirakpur area this month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweets-shops-at-dhakoli-inspected-331379
29-10-2021||---||Chandigarh staffers to get leave tomorrow||Chandigarh, October 28The UT Administration has decided to grant special casual leave on October 30 to all those employees of the UT Administration who are registered voters in the Ellenabad Assembly Constituency of Haryana. The decision has been taken to enable them to exercise their franchise in the ensuing byelection to Ellenabad constituency on October 30.This will also be a paid holiday in industrial shops and commercial establishments for daily wages employees/casual workers who are registered voters in the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-staffers-to-get-leave-tomorrow-331380
29-10-2021||---||Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu lays stone for road widening||Mohali, October 28Former Health and Family Welfare Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today laid the foundation stone for the widening of a road connecting various villages with the historic Dau village in Mohali district.The road, which will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs5 crore, will facilitate the movement of thousands of villagers in the area.Speaking on the occasion, Balbir Singh Sidhu said development works had been carried out in almost all villages of the Mohali constituency on a war footing.He said the Dau-Manana-Thaska link road connects around 20 villages. Apart from this, it was also a direct link route to Chandigarh, New Chandigarh and the Cricket Stadium, New Chandigarh. Considering the importance of this road,the existing road was being widened from 10 feet to 18 feet.Sidhu also inaugurated the sewage pipeline at Dao village laid at a cost of about Rs25 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mla-balbir-singh-sidhu-lays-stone-for-road-widening-331381
29-10-2021||---||Chandigarh: Electricity substation waste in open irks Sector 8 residents||Chandigarh, October 28Waste from the Electricity Department’s sub-station dumped in an open area in Sector 8-A here has become a nuisance for residents.Transformers and other waste items have been lying dumped here for long, but the Electricity Department continues to look the other way.According to information, this land is reserved for a government primary school. The authorities could neither decide the fate of this area nor clear the mess.“It presents a dirty picture. It has become a permanent dumping ground. The authorities concerned must clear the mess as soon as possible,” said an area resident.This open area falls right on the rear side of city MP Kirron Kher’s house.Area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “Goods dumped here belong to the UT Electricity Department. I have taken up the matter with them several times. They have told me that the waste is being removed in a gradual manner. Old items are being sold as junk.”Dept looks the other wayTransformers and other waste items have been lying dumped here for long, but the Electricity Department continues to look the other way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-electricity-substation-waste-in-open-irks-sector-8-residents-331382
29-10-2021||---||Soham, Syndrela romp home victorious in TT||Mohali, October 28Soham Mukherjee and Syndrela Das of West Bengal lifted the Youth U-13 boys’ and girls’ titles, respectively, in the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship at the Sports Complex in Sector 78 here today.Soham defeated Pratiyush Bauva (4-0), while Syndrela struggled to beat Kavya Bhatt, also from Maharashtra (4-3). If the boys’ final was a damp squib, the girls’ final reached the crescendo with the Bengal girl clinching it in the decider. Soham brooked no challenge from the Maharashtra boy. But Kavya’s resistance was too much to bear for Syndrela, particularly after the Maharashtra girl levelled the score on extended points. Nevertheless, the Bengal girl held her nerves to romp home victorious.Mukherjee outclassed Bauva (11-6, 12-10, 11-9 and 11-8). Earlier in the semis, Mukherjee defeated Debraj Bhattacharjee (10-12, 11-5, 9-11, 11-0, 11-9 and 11-8) and Bauva outplayed Rupam Sardar (12-10, 9-11, 11-9, 5-11, 11-9 and 11-7).In the girls’ U-13 final, Syndrela defeated Kavya (9-11, 11-5, 11-8, 10-12, 11-6, 10-12 and 11-9). In the semis, Kavya outplayed Nandini Reena Balaji (11-9, 11-8, 11-9, 10-12 and 11-9) and Syndrela defeated Ananya Muralidharan (11-9, 11-9, 11-9 and 11-7).ResultsQuarterfinals (Boys’ U-13): Soham Mukherjee bt Arya Sarthak (11-6, 11-8 and 11-6); Debraj Bhattacahrjee bt Sounav Barman (11-8, 13-11, 6-11 and 11-6); Rupam Sardar bt Shrestho Chakraborty (11-9, 10-12, 11-6 and 11-9); Pratiyush Bauva bt Pprantik (11-3, 11-9, 8-11, 8-11 and 11-8).Quarterfinals (Girls’ U-13): Kavya Bhatt bt Divyanshi Bowmick (11-7, 11-7 and 11-7); Nandini Reena bt Ikshika Umate (14-12, 7-11, 8-11, 11-9 and 11-5); Syndrela Das bt Raina Bhoota (6-11, 11-6, 11-8, 11-13 and 11-9); Ananya Muralidharan bt Ayushi Singhal (11-5, 14-12 and 11-9).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soham-syndrela-romp-home-victorious-in-tt-331383
29-10-2021||---||Le Professor, Liberty FC enter football final||Chandigarh, October 28Le Professor FC lads will lock horns with Liberty FC in the final of the Senior State Football Championship for Chandigarh Police Shaheed Trophy on October 29.In the first semi-finals played today, Liberty FC outclasses JSM FC by a solitary goal. After a barren first half, Liberty FC scored the only goal of the match through Navdeep in the 88th minute.In the second semis, Le Professor FC also drubbed down Tricity FC by an identical margin of one goal. Harshit netted the only goal of the match in the 87th minute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/le-professor-liberty-fc-enter-football-final-331384
29-10-2021||---||Chandigarh’s journey to hockey final cut short||Chandigarh, October 28Hockey Haryana will face hosts Hockey Jharkhand in the final match at the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship in Simdega on October 29.In the first semi-finals, Hockey Haryana defeated Hockey Chandigarh in a close match where both teams lived up to the billing with the match going down to the wire. While it was Hockey Haryana who got off the blocks on an attacking note with Neelam scoring the first goal from a penalty corner in the 2nd minute, Preeti extended their lead to 2-0 in the 21st minute. The second quarter, however, belonged to Hockey Chandigarh who scored two back-to-back goals to equalise the score. Kavita scored in the 26th minute and Arti Kashyap struck a splendid field goal in the 30th minute to level the scores before going into the half-time break. Both teams returned from the break to defend their score line with all their heart as the third quarter remained goalless.While both teams did well in the last quarter to keep their score intact, a small defensive error by Hockey Chandigarh gave away a crucial penalty corner in the 54th minute that was brilliantly converted by Neelam who ensured Hockey Haryana were through to the final.In the second semis, hosts Hockey Jharkhand rode on the home advantage as they registered a fantastic (3-1) win against Hockey Maharashtra. The hosts came up with a good show in all departments to ensure they saw their team in the final.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-journey-to-hockey-final-cut-short-331385
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House meeting today||Cycling meet to be held from Nov 6Chandigarh: Chandigarh Amateur Cycling Association will organise the State Road Cycling Championships 2021 from November 6-7. Based on the results, cyclists will be shortlisted for the 26th Senior, Junior and Sub-Junior National Road Cycling Championship, which is scheduled to be held in Kurukshetra from November 25-28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meeting-today-331386
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||RLA to e-auction fancy numbers from Nov 6-8||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will hold an e-auction of special registration numbers of the new series, CH01-CG, along with re-auction of leftover fancy numbers of the previous series from November 6 to 8.The registration for the e-auction of the numbers of the CH01-CG series, along with the re-auction of the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series CH01CF, CH01CE, CH01CD, CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS, will start on October 28 at 10 am and continue till November 5 at 5 pm. The e-auction/bidding will start on November 6 at 10 am to November 8 till 5 pm.The owner of the vehicle, who has purchased it on a Chandigarh address only, will be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The owner of the vehicle can register himself/herself on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy. The link is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in. The details of the fee for registration for participating in the e-auction, the list of the reserve price for each special number, the detail of leftover registration numbers of the previous series and the terms and conditions for the e-auction are available on the Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-to-e-auction-fancy-numbers-from-nov-6-8-331371
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nigerian held with heroin||A 31-year-old Nigerian has been arrested while allegedly possessing 272-gm heroin.According to the police, the suspect, identified as Chucks, a native of Nigeria, who was presently residing at Tilak Nagar in New Delhi, was nabbed near Tribune Chowk while possessing heroin. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-held-with-heroin-331372
29-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Man booked for causing death due to rash driving walks free||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Finding contradictions in the statements of witnesses, Sanjay, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Chandigarh, has acquitted an accused facing the charge of causing death of a person due to rash driving.The police had booked Bhag Singh, a resident of Panchkula, for the offences committed under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC after a person, Parmanand, was killed in a road accident on April 25, 2017 at the Sector 49/50 light point, Chandigarh.The police registered the case against the accused on the complaint of a person, Rachit Arya. As per the prosecution, Arya told the police that the accident took place at 10.45 pm. He said his neighbour, Parmanand, a resident of Pushpac Complex, was ahead of him on his scooter at the light point when the traffic signal was red.A tipper driven in a rash and negligent manner came from the Colony No. 5 light point and hit the scooter of Parmanand. As a result, his Parmanand fell on the road and his head got crushed under the wheels of the tipper.On the basis of the statement, an FIR was registered against the accused, Bhag Singh. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented in the court against the accused.The accused was charged for the commission of offence punishable under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.While the public prosecutor claimed that Parmanand died due to the rash driving by Bhag Singh, defence counsel Anil Sharma denied the charges and claimed that the accused was falsely implicated in the case.After hearing the arguments, the court said there was a contradiction in the statements of the main witness, Rachit Arya, and the investigating officer (IO).“In his cross-examination, Arya deposed that he knew Parmanand as he was his neighbour and was residing adjoining his house. He deposed that he did not know the date when the accident took place. He deposed that Parmanand was driving the scooter, but he did not know the registration numbers of the scooter and the truck,” the court said in the order.The court said the deposition of the complainant and the investigating officer was contrary. The complainant had not supported his own deposition. He failed to explain how the accused acted in a rash and negligent manner while driving his vehicle. The IO also failed to bring evidence for proving rash and negligent driving on part of the accused. No doubt the complainant and the IO had clearly deposed about the identity of the accused and that was not much in dispute. But the second most important negligence of the offence had not been proved by the IO in accordance with law.“In view of this, the prosecution has failed to prove his case beyond shadow of reasonable doubt. Therefore, the accused is acquitted of the charges framed against him by extending benefit of doubt,” the court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-causing-death-due-to-rash-driving-walks-free-331373
29-10-2021||---||Punjab felicitates health officials for achieving feat||Mohali, October 28After crossing a milestone of administering over 2 crore Covid vaccine doses in the state, a felicitation ceremony was held here under the chairmanship of Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni.Speaking on the occasion, Om Prakash Soni said this achievement had been possible with the collective efforts of all health authorities and other stakeholders and institutions such as the WHO and USAID, who had done a commendable work to achieve this feat. He said a comprehensive vaccination campaign was being carried out across the state to cover the entire eligible population.Amit Kumar, MD, Punjab Health Systems Corporation; Dr Andesh, Director, Health and Family Welfare; Dr Om Parkash Gojra, Director, Health Services (Family Welfare); Dr Balwinder Kaur, State Immunisation Officer; and Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal Officer for Covid-19; were honoured for their contributions to the fight against the Covid.District immunisation officers (DIOs) are nodal officers of this vaccination programme in each district. These DIOs were especially felicitated for their contribution to the vaccination drive.Soni, while eulogising healthcare workers, stated that Covid vaccination drive in Punjab was on track to achieve 100 per cent inoculation of its eligible population, thereby reducing the chances of any third wave. He appealed to people to strictly adhere to the Covid-preventive measures.The Deputy Minister also inaugurated a model vaccination centre established under the technical guidance of the USAID’s project, Reaching Impact, Saturation and Epidemic Control (RISE). The USAID will further open such model vaccination centres in each district of the state. It will also establish 20 RT-PCR labs in the state and provide technical support and training to persons in oxygen plants as well.Later, the Deputy Minister also flagged off 11 IEC awareness vans run by Punjab State AIDS Control Society under the HIV/AIDS public awareness campaign from the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here. Vikas Garg, Secretary, Health, and Amit Kumar, Special Secretary, Health-cum-Project Director, Punjab State AIDS Control Society, were present on the occasion.Soni said under this 30-day campaign, people would be made aware of HIV/AIDS. Nukad natak teams were also being sent to make people aware of HIV/AIDS. He said lab technicians and counsellors had been deputed with these vans. They will visit villages, conduct free tests and provide counselling to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-felicitates-health-officials-for-achieving-feat-331374
29-10-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Health Secy for rationalisation of staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28The UT Health Secretary has asked for rationalisation of GMSH-16 staff based on their performance during the second wave of Covid-19.In a review meeting held recently, UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg directed that rationalisation of staff on the basis of actual requirement and availability of funds needed to be done immediately. In future, in case of any requirement, the department would consider those persons, strictly on the basis of merit, who had performed well during their engagement for short period during the second wave of Covid-19.He further said: “In cases where the agency for outsourced staff has backed out, the Health Department should take strict action. Further, instead of resorting to direct payment to the outsourced staff, the department needs to immediately examine the possibility of adopting ongoing contract in other departments of the UT Administration for a short period till finalisation of new agency.”As many as 81 employees engaged in Covid duties under various categories were terminated recently. They were engaged as outsourced employees during the Covid-19. Around 400 employees were engaged during the Covid-19 for the period up to September 30.The Health Secretary also ordered the rationalisation of staff on the basis of actual requirement needs immediately at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Garg said instead of hiring the manpower, the hospital authorities should consider outsourcing some of the services itself after floating an e-tender with appropriate terms and conditions based on the requirement of the GMCH-32. In cases where contracts had expired and new contracts had not been finalised yet, instead of resorting to direct payment to the outsourced staff, the hospital authorities need to immediately examine the possibility of adopting ongoing contracts, he ordered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-secy-for-rationalisation-of-staff-331375
29-10-2021||Naina Mishra||82% Covid patients showed abnormal lung function: PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Around 82 per cent of serious Covid patients, including those who required mechanical ventilation, had abnormal lung function at three months post-ICU discharge, finds study conducted by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Twenty-one patients (18.4 per cent), out of the 114 patients contacted, had died within the first three months post-ICU discharge.The survivors of Covid-19 pneumonia may have residual lung injury and poor physical and mental health even after discharge. The PGIMER study analysed the differences in pulmonary function, mental health, and quality of life (QOL) after recovery, in patients having received non-invasive oxygen therapy versus invasive mechanical ventilation during ICU stay.Patients above the age of 18 years, who had completed three months post-ICU discharge, with moderate to severe Covid-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), were consecutively enrolled from May 1 to July 31. Of the 189 patients admitted to ICU from January 1 to April 30, 2021, 145 were discharged. Of them, 31 were lost to follow-up.The remaining 114 patients were contacted telephonically at three months post-discharge. Twenty-one patients had died within the first three months post-ICU discharge.Among the 93 survivors, 81 reported to the hospital to participate in the study. Of them, only 74 patients could successfully complete the study. In the study, 61 (82%) patients had abnormal lung function at three months post-ICU discharge.In the study, the researchers found that the majority of patients receiving non-invasive oxygen therapy, and all patients receiving invasive mechanical ventilation had a restrictive pattern on spirometry.Restrictive lung disease is characterised by a decrease in the total volume of air that the lungs are able to hold, and is often due to a decrease in the elasticity of the lungs themselves or caused by a problem related to the expansion of the chest wall during inhalation.The researchers concluded that the patients requiring invasive mechanical ventilation (MV) have a greater risk of impaired pulmonary function and reduced QOL post-ICU discharge.“Our study shows that patients requiring mechanical ventilation for the management of Covid pneumonia are at greater risk of pulmonary function abnormalities and physical limitation after discharge from the hospital. A strict follow-up protocol is essential after recovery from mechanical ventilation for Covid-19 pneumonia as the incidence of functional limitations is high. There may be a greater need for rehabilitative therapies for such patients,” read the study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/82-covid-patients-showed-abnormal-lung-function-pgi-331327
29-10-2021||---||Punjab Cricket Association justifies move to induct IAS/IPS officers as members||Chandigarh, October 28Bickering within Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) peaks ahead of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) as members question move to award life membership to 25 senior IAS/IPS officers from the state.While those opposing the move claimed that it was the first step towards making these officers PCA office-bearers, the management maintained that there was nothing wrong in this.“It’s being pointed out that no meeting, either of the Apex Council or of the General House, has been held since 2019 to induct a new life member to the PCA… As per rules, any individual interested in the game of cricket may be enrolled as a life member by the Apex Council on such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the council from time to time...,” said one of the members seeking anonymity.Sources claimed that on March 28, the House had asked a three-member committee to consider and recommend criteria for induction of new life members.The committee, however, has not given any recommendations to the Apex Council/General House so far, claimed another member.ClarificationA PCA spokesperson said: “The 25 senior IAS/IPS officers of the Punjab Government are appointed as members and not office-bearers.”“According to the Lodha Committee’s recommendations, an office-bearer of a sports body should not be older than 70 years, should not be a government servant or a minister, should not hold office in another sports organisation, and should not have held office with a state association for more than nine years. But the guidelines don’t mention these conditions for a PCA member,” said the spokesperson.“Moreover, the new members were chosen following the past practices which have been in place for more than 20 years. The records show that the president and office-bearers induct/enroll new members of the PCA and same procedure was diligently followed,” the spokesperson added.“In the last year, more than 500 matches were conducted to promote cricket in the region. These false statements are being circulated only to embarrass the government, the bureaucracy and the PCA,” the spokesperson asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cricket-association-justifies-move-to-induct-ias-ips-officers-as-members-331330
29-10-2021||---||Protesting farmers enter Chandigarh University, Gharuan||Mohali, October 28The protesting farmers here entered Chandigarh University at Gharuan today over the suspicion that Union Defense Minister Rajnath Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar were visiting the institute to inaugurate the student satellite centre.As the farmers gathered at the main gate of the university, the authorities allowed them to enter the premises. The protesters gheraoed the helipad inside the campus and also raised slogans against the BJP.The protesters said they would not allow BJP leaders to enter Punjab unless the three farm laws were repealed.Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor of the University, said an event was scheduled, but they had cancelled the programme on Wednesday after holding talks with farmer leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-farmers-enter-chandigarh-university-gharuan-331332
29-10-2021||---||Mohali Health Dept seeks IMA support to fight dengue||Mohali, October 28Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur met Indian Medical Association (IMA) officials here today and sought their support in fighting the rising dengue cases in the district.Dr Adarshpal Kaur also directed the private hospitals to report any suspect or confirmed dengue case to the Health Department so that remedial measures could be taken without any delay.“The deadly disease can be controlled with the help and cooperation of all the stakeholders, especially private hospitals which provide services for dengue checkup and treatment,” said the Civil Surgeon.She said private hospitals could not confirm dengue fever on their own if they did not have the ELISA test facility as the simple card-based testing might lead to false results.“All hospitals need to send the suspect samples to the Health Department for confirmation,” she said.She also directed the medical institutions and laboratories to follow the Government of India guidelines in treating dengue patients and desist from overcharging patients.“There have been reports that a few private hospitals indulged in spreading dengue scare to earn more from patients. The hospitals should not get involved in such unethical practices,” she said.Dr Kaur further said medical institutions had been asked to initiate an information, education and communication campaign to sensitise people on precautionary measures.“There is no specific treatment for dengue fever. Prevention is the best treatment. If the symptoms persist, people should visit their health care provider immediately,” she said.Meanwhile, one more person has succumbed to dengue fever in the past 24 hours, taking the total toll in the district to 30.Eighty-five fresh cases also surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the total tally to 2,361.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-health-dept-seeks-ima-support-to-fight-dengue-331336
29-10-2021||---||Panchkula MC floats tender for paid parking in Sec 20, RWA says examining matter||Panchkula, October 28After the Municipal Corporation here put out a tender for the paid parking at Sector 20 market, resident welfare association of the area said they were examining the matter to decide future course of action.The RWA has been opposing the move, calling it “an illegal decision to extort money from the residents”.KK Jindal, president, Sector 20 RWA, said: “We go to the market regularly for our daily needs and will have to pay for parking every time.”Jindal had recently told Chandigarh Tribune they would hold a protest over the issue, if needed.“There is no justification in introducing paid parking at Sector 20 since the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), during the development of the sector, had levied charges for the parking space left in front of the sector market,” he said.The civic body has also decided to introduce parking charges at the Sector 14 market.Earlier in 2020, the MC had introduced paid parking in Sectors 8, 9 and 10.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal though justified the move, saying it will boost the revenue and funds generated through parking tax will be used for the development works.Haryana Pradesh Mahila Congress president Sudha Bhardwaj said the MC should withdraw its decision on paid parking in Sector 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-floats-tender-for-paid-parking-in-sec-20-rwa-says-examining-matter-331340
29-10-2021||---||Education Regulatory Authority to be set up soon, says Pargat Singh||Mohali, October 28Minister for School Education and Higher Education Pargat Singh today said Punjab would soon set up an Education Regulatory Authority.Addressing students on the “Role of Higher Education” at Rayat Bahra University, Pargat Singh said there was a need for an academia-industry interface to ensure that students passing out from universities and other institutions get proper employment.Speaking to the media on the sidelines of the event, Pargat Singh said education needed to be made more affordable to check the immigration of youth.The minister said emphasis should be laid on domain skill, soft skill and industry-interface.There should be special focus on entrepreneurship skill development with international exposure, he said.The universities should introduce selective courses in relevant fields in partnership with industry leaders by having futuristic outlook and employability driven curriculum to increase the employment potential of the passing out students, said Pargat.The minister also lauded the work being done by the Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions.Pargat was accompanied by former MP Sandeep Dixit. PU 6th best in IndiaChandigarh: Panjab University has been ranked sixth in India in the latest US News & World Report Best Global Universities Rankings. The university is 152nd among global universities in Asia and 679th in the world. The survey has been conducted on two separate ranking indicators - global research reputation (12.5 per cent) and regional research reputation (12.5 per cent). The regional indicator significantly increased the international diversity of the rankings, since it focused on measuring academics' opinions about other universities within their region, including bibliometric indicators. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-regulatory-authority-to-be-set-up-soon-says-pargat-singh-331346
29-10-2021||---||PUTA elections: Mritunjay, Amarjit win||Chandigarh, October 28The incumbent House of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has been re-elected for a one-year term by the Panjab University faculty.The team of Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura won the elections concluded today.As many as 567 votes were polled for the post president, out of which 34 were termed invalid. While Manu Sharma got 241 votes, Kumar secured 292 votes to emerge as winner.Naura (285 votes) beat Kashmir Singh (268 votes) to win the contest for the post of secretary.Supinder won the election for the vice-president, while Sarvnarinder Kaur secured the joint secretary’s post. Nitin Arora was elected as treasurer.Suman (304 votes), Gautam Bahl (282 votes) and Neeraj Kumar (282 votes) were the top-three finishers in Group-I. Jasbir Singh (260 votes) finished fourth.In Group-II, Navneet Kaur, Vijayata Chadha, Santosh Upadhya, Balram, Mamta and Sumar were elected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-elections-mritunjay-amarjit-win-331347
29-10-2021||Gurnaaz Kaur||Chandigarh horse show: All for the love of city & equines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28A few like-minded people and their love for equestrianism became the driving force behind the inaugural Chandigarh Horse Show (CHS) being held at ‘The Ranch’ in Mullanpur.Blown away by the beauty of this city, actress-model Alankrita Sahai teamed up with Rajinder Khosa, Gursher Singh Badal and Aashna Vinod Gupta to bring about the show. And in no time, known names from the equestrian sports came on board.As Alankrita explains, “I came to this city just a few months back for some personal and later professional reasons and ended up falling in love with it. So, I decided to give something back to a city that has so much to offer and is meant for bigger and better things like this show.”“More than 100 horses in competition, 21 events spread across three days, food stalls, art and craft exhibitors, an exclusive shop of showjumping and polo merchandise, free horseback rides, it’s as much a carnival as a platform for the equestrian community to indulge in all kind of horse-mounted sports. There’s something for everyone,” she elaborates.Alankrita says the aim of the show is community building. “We want to create an authentic and relatable interaction that can connect people in this increasingly digital world. The event is for the youth and in fact all age groups. It’s a carnival for champions.”“It’s a unique show that aims to provide a thrilling, fun-filled experience,” she adds.While we are aware that a lot of dignitaries, political figures, Army veterans, Judges and polo players are associated with the event, celebrities, including Abhay Deol, Harshvardhan Kapoor, Gurnazar, Bunty Bains, Kulwinder Billa and Freddy Daruwala, lend not just their support but an element of glamour to the show that celebrates the regal animal in all its glory.Talking about the single-toed equines, Alankrita says, “There are horses from The Ranch, some are stabled there by other horse owners, geldings, thoroughbreds, mares to stallions, you’ll find them all.”To curate a vibrant show like this one meant a lot of hard work and a strong vision. And now that it has come alive, Alankrita says, “Even if you are new to the world of horses, this will be the beginning of an unforgettable series of getaways, picnics, socialising, good food and great conversations. We would love to take the Chandigarh Horse Show to all the cities across the country.”On that note, she signs off saying, “We hope for the city folks to be there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-horse-show-all-for-the-love-of-city-equines-331349
29-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Foodie to a boxing champ, Nandini comes a long way||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28An overweight Nandini never intended to become a professional boxer until she met coaches Jai Hind and Bhagwant Singh.Just like any other kid, Nandini loved to gorge on food and never thought of shredding weight. One odd day she caught the attention of her physical education teachers who guided her to the boxing ring, and Nandini has never looked back since then.On Wednesday, the 21-year-old pugilist dominated the competition in the 81+kg category at the 5th Elite Women National Boxing Championship in Hisar to emerge as a champion.Nandini outplayed Haryana’s Neha 5-0 to win the gold medal and also seal a berth in the AIBA Women’s World Championship, which is scheduled to be held in Istanbul later in December.“It has been a long journey. I had never thought of becoming a boxer and coming this far. I have been lucky to be guided by extremely professional people and coaches. My parents have been my support throughout,” said Nandini.An employee of Indian Railways, Nandini represented Chandigarh at various national and international championships before joining the Railways.“Getting a government job was a turning point in my life. I am able to fully concentrate on my game now. In last few months, we trained at the Indian Railways camp in Guwahati under Sagar Mal Dhayal and Chhotu Laura,” said Nandini, who had earlier won a gold medal in the youth category at the Seven Nations Cup in Serbia.She also won a bronze medal in the youth nationals in Delhi. “I won’t lower my guard. I am focusing on winning a medal at the 2024 Paris Olympics and many other championships. I have been switching weight categories and I can try competing in the middleweight category (75kg) – an Olympic category – in the coming years. It’s tough, but I know what I am capable of,” said Nandini.City golfer Mannat shines in KolkataChandigarh: City girl Mannat Brar won the Eastern India Ladies and Junior Girls Tournament held at Tollygunge Golf Course in Kolkata on Thursday. Mannat wiped out the disappointment of finishing second — one stroke behind the winner at the North Eastern India Ladies and Junior Girls Tournament at Shillong last week — with an impressive outing in Kolkata. A Class 9 student at St Kabir Public School here, Mannat topped the combined ladies, A and B category with a three-day card of 215. The tournament was held from October 25-28. Mannat, who recently joined the Chandigarh Golf Course as a student member, had topped the IGU Girls C Category in 2019 but the budding golfer went through a lean patch thereafter as sports activities across the world came to grinding halt due to Covid pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foodie-to-a-boxing-champ-nandini-comes-a-long-way-331359
29-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Review allocation of vending sites, Chandigarh MC told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Facing a flak over “wrong allocation” of sites to vendors, the UT Administration today directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to review the vending zones in the city.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the MC Commissioner had been directed to review the allocation of vending sites so that it could help in increasing the income of the vendors.Apart from “no vending zones” like Sector 17, all other sites in the city would be explored for resettlement of the vendors. At present, there are 46 earmarked street vending zones in the city and the UT Urban Planning Department had recently allowed the MC to set up 15 new vending zones to resettle nearly 1,500 street vendors in the city.The new vending zones have been identified in Sector 19, 20, 24, 41, 45 and 52, Ram Darbar, Mani Majra and Mauli Jagran. Of these areas, the maximum vendors will be resettled in Ram Darbar, Mani Majra and Mauli Jagran.Earlier, under the policy of resettling street vendors from city markets, the MC, with the assistance of the Administration, had created vending sites across the city. The street vendors from different markets, particularly from no-vending zones, were moved to these sites. Most vendors complained that the financial viability of these sites remained poor.In some cases, the vendors even refused to move to the new zones as they contended that there was little or no potential of income generation in these zones. Around 2,000 street vendors have not taken possession of the vending spaces allotted to them.More income for vendors on mindUT Adviser Dharam Pal said the MC Commissioner had been directed to review the allocation of vending sites so that it could help in increasing the income of vendors. Apart from “no vending zones” like Sector 17, all other sites in the city would be explored for resettlement of the vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/review-allocation-of-vending-sites-chandigarh-mc-told-331300
29-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Promised Singapore tag, residents of Bapu Dham kept battling civic issues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28BJP councillor Dalip Sharma had promised to make Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) a Singapore during the 2016 MC elections. Five years down the line, let alone making it Singapore, even basic civic issues of the colony could not be resolved.Residents complained of sewage flowing on to the road, ill-maintained parks, no upgradation of community centre, parking problem and poor sanitation. “The councillor promised to make the colony a Singapore, but even basic things are lacking here. Cleanliness is a big issue. Parks are not maintained. Sewers are choked most of the times. The sewage overflows on to the road. It not only makes the area stink, but pedestrians and bike riders find it tough to use the road," said Kishan Lal, president, RWA, Bapu Dham Colony.Lal said the residents were also promised the ownership rights of houses allotted on leasehold basis, but it was not done. "The people here suffered due to bad roads. These have now been recarpeted in the fifth year of the MC term, ahead of the elections. Besides, no proper arrangement of parking could be made as promised. Vehicles are parked on the roadside, causing chaos," he added.Ravi Kumar, an area resident, said, "The major park of the area near the police chowki could not be developed because of four-five jhuggis. Another park adjoining the kerosene pump has street vendors. A half of the premises of the community centre is being used by the police chowki and in five years, it could not be claimed. The residents have to go to other areas to book space for organising their events."The councillor said, "I promised to make it a Singapore on the basis of my project in which walking track-cum-green belt was to be developed along Sukhna Choe. A sports ground was to be built too, but the forest wing and the UT Administration took over four years to decide the jurisdiction of the land. Now, its map has been prepared and the work will start soon. The area falls under the Administration."On other issues, he said, "About 90 per cent of the sewerage has no problem. At some places, sewers get choked due to some people throwing clothes, glasses and other garbage into it. Sanitation is better than what it was earlier. Maintenance is no issue.”Dalip SharmaCouncillor: Ward number 19Area: Sector 26, Bapu DhamPromise: To make Bapu Dham Colony a SingaporeResult: Basic civic issues persistAchievements claimedTicket to MC HouseThe BJP leader was denied the ticket from this ward in the 2016 MC elections. Dalip then contested independently and won. Later, ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he rejoined the party. His ward is not reserved in the new list declared recently and he seems hopeful of getting the party ticket this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/promised-singapore-tag-residents-of-bapu-dham-kept-battling-civic-issues-331301
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Over 75K Chandigarh residents overdue for 2nd Covid dose||As many as 75,526 persons, who have taken the first shot of Covid vaccine, have not got themselves jabbed with the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses, stated the UT Administration.The issue was discussed by the Administration at a review meeting on the Covid vaccination programme in the city. The Administration said, “Each person is being separately contacted on the given mobile number and a drive has been undertaken to administer the second dose in all overdue cases.” “We have sufficient number of vaccines and there is no waiting time for vaccination,” it added. UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg requested people to ensure they have taken both the doses.“Considering that festival season is going on and there are possibilities of the spread of the virus, everybody should get the vaccination done before Diwali,” he added. “Those who have got their first dose from Chandigarh and then went to other places may get their second dose anywhere in India and should not wait for their return to the city,” stated the official press release. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-75k-chandigarh-residents-overdue-for-2nd-covid-dose-331302
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 4 fresh cases, no fatality||4 Covid cases, no death in Mohalimohali: Four fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district on Thursday. No death due to the virus was reported, while two patients recovered from the disease. One case each surfaced in Boothgarh and Dhakoli, while two cases were reported from Mohali (urban). — TNSOne case in Panchkulapanchkula: The district recorded one fresh case of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,767. The toll, however, remained at 378. While 30,376 patients have been cured of the disease so far, 13 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-4-fresh-cases-no-fatality-331303
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Security on mind, Chandigarh Admn may acquire anti-drone technology||To counter possible drone attacks, the UT Administration is mulling over acquiring anti-drone technology.A meeting in this regard was held with the Secretary, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and senior UT police officials at the UT Secretariat here today.“Methods to counter threats from drones were discussed at the meeting,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal and added that they were also focusing on setting up a cyber security headquarters in Chandigarh to deal with any kind of cyber crime. “We are in touch with the Ministry of Home Affairs on establishing the cyber security headquarters in the city under the supervision of the police,” he said. Over security threats and the possibility of misuse of drones by anti-social elements, the UT Administration has recently banned the flying of drones and low-flying objects in the city. The anti-drone technology developed by the DRDO helps in intercepting, detecting and destroying drones. The system uses a laser-based kill mechanism to detect and destroy drones in the air. The system can identify and jam micro-drones up to 3 km away and shoot laser signals at targets up to 1-2.5 km away. With the help of electro-optical/infrared sensors, this system can detect drones up to 2 km away. An instrument can detect radio frequency communications up to 3 km away. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-on-mind-chandigarh-admn-may-acquire-anti-drone-technology-331304
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||F&CC gives its approval to buy fogging machines in Chandigarh||To curb the menace of vector-borne diseases during the peak season in the city, the Finance and Contract Committee of the Municipal Corporation today approved an agenda item for the purchase of two mountable fogging machines and three portable pulse jet-type fogging machines, operated manually, at a cost of Rs 30.20 lakh. At a meeting here that was chaired by Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor, and attended by Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, and other members, the committee approved various important agenda items, including providing LED decorative lights at Shastri Market and installation of garden lights and street lights near Dhobi Ghat and a public toilet in Sector 22 at an estimated cost of Rs 15.26 lakh.The committee also accorded approval for the work of dismantling and laying concrete flooring in the back service lane in Sector 16 and 22 at an estimated cost of Rs39.07 lakh.An estimate of Rs49.83 lakh for a deep bore tubewell (with the reverse rig method of latest technology) and other contingency works near Adda, Main Road, Kaimbwala, were also approved by the committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fcc-gives-its-approval-to-buy-fogging-machines-in-chandigarh-331305
29-10-2021||Panchkula||Ruckus at Panchkula hospital after patient’s death||The family members of a patient who died created a ruckus at the Civil Hospital here this afternoon. The deceased, Yuvraj of Mani Majra, who was in his 30s, was declared brought dead.As per the protocol, the Sector 6 police post informed the Chandigarh Police about the incident. “The family, however, wanted to take the body with it without the police formalities to be completed. They created a ruckus after we stopped them. The commotion continued for some time, but we finally managed to convince them,” the SHO of the Sector 7 police station, Inspector Mahabir Singh, said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ruckus-at-panchkula-hospital-after-patients-death-331306
29-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Serious lapses in functioning of Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28A report submitted by the Animal Welfare Board of India has noticed serious lapses in the functioning of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). Among other things, supervisors and field inspectors of the SPCA were found to be unqualified, unskilled or untrained for the positions they were holding, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has been told. The submissions before Justice Raj Mohan Singh’s Bench were made by Abhishek Bhateja in his petition filed through counsel Anurag Chopra and Himani Jamwal against the Union of India and other respondents.As the case came up for preliminary hearing, Chopra submitted that the SPCA was a recognised and approved society by the Animal Welfare Board of India. A report was prepared by it after receiving numerous complaints regarding the condition in which animals were being kept in the society at Chandigarh. The report added that the managing body of the SPCA did not have two members of animal welfare organisations, who were actively involved in the work of prevention of cruelty to animals and the welfare of animals in the area. It was also noticed that the society had a chartered accountant, Prem Garg, as a member of a committee.He had no background of the subject.It was also noticed that there was no specialised section for animals needing special care. Only a room with solid flooring and no sunlight had been allotted to paralysed dogs and cats, "thereby increasing high mortality rate of blind dogs also". Referring to the report, Chopra added that the treatment was being provided by non-veterinarian staff of the shelter. Rather, surgeries were performed by them."The grievance of the petitioner is that the impugned orders, in the context of restricting the animal lovers from visiting at any time for taking care of ailing animals, have been passed without holding consultation with animal welfare organisations and other animal lovers/stakeholders, who have been actively involved in the welfare of animals," Justice Raj Mohan Singh added. Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh issued a notice of motion to the Centre and other respondents for November 30. A notice regarding a stay on the operation of the impugned order was also issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/serious-lapses-in-functioning-of-society-for-prevention-of-cruelty-to-animals-report-331307
