30-10-2021||Chandigarh||UP man held with 704 gm of opium||City resident duped of Rs1.72LChandigarh: A Sector 9 resident has been allegedly duped of Rs1.72 lakh by an unknown fraudster. Complainant Arvinder Singh reported that an unknown person approached him through an email and lured him with a job offer in West Asia “within 90 days”. The complainant transferred the money online and later found that he had been duped. A case of cheating has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSWoman’s purse stolen from carChandigarh: A woman’s purse was stolen from her car at Sector 27. The complainant, a resident of Sector 19, said she had gone to Sector 27 to get the battery of her car changed. In the meantime, someone stole her purse containing Rs55,000, five ATM cards, two credit cards and documents. A case of theft has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSAtray's fourth literary workChandigarh: Motivational Speaker and former IAS officer Vivek Atray's latest book was launched by Gen VP Malik, former Army Chief, and ML Sarin, senior advocate, at the CII in Sector 31 on Friday. Titled "It's Still a Wonderful Life", the book is a collection of 120 write-ups which form a part of Atray's popular column titled "Random Forays". TNSWork starts on open-air gymMohali: Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu on Friday announced that the Nature Park in Phase 8 of Mohali would be developed as a tourist destination. Sidhu stated this after inaugurating the construction work of a new open-air gym in the Phase 8 park. He the first priority of the MC was the health of people and for this many open air gyms had been set up in various parks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/up-man-held-with-704-gm-of-opium-331936
30-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Civic body House extends firm’s sanitation contract||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29In what will provide Lion Services Ltd nearly Rs 15 crore in four months, the Municipal Corporation House today extended its sanitation contract for southern sectors till March 31 while ordering a high-level inquiry into “deliberate delay in inviting a fresh tender”.To continue till March 31The present contract of manual sweeping for Sector 31-63 ends on November 30, while the mechanical sweeping contract expires on February 14, 2022. It will now continue till March 31 next year. It was granted to Lion Services Ltd in 2016.The House resolved to request the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator to hold an inquiry into the matter. The officers concerned will have to pay, if found guilty. On May 31, the House had decided not to renew the contract of the firm and instead vowed to invite a fresh tender.However, even after about five months, the officers concerned failed to invite a fresh tender, leaving the MC with no option but to extend the existing contract of the firm today. The officials reasoned that the tendering process would take three months. Thus, in view of the model code of conduct, expected to be enforced in early November, it will not be possible to complete the process.Senior Deputy Mayor and BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu sought to know from the MC’s Medical Officer of Health (MOH), Dr Amrit Pal Warring, “why the already rejected tender is being approved to give an extension to the firm. Please cite the reason why the tendering process could not be completed till now?”The MOH did not seem to have a proper answer to this. He replied, “It was done with orders of superiors at that time.” BJP councillor Arun Sood then asked to bring the file to see the notings of those officers. “No noting of officers other than the MOH is there,” said Sood after reading the file in the House while seeking an explanation.Dr Warring had sought road details of all sectors from the Building and Roads Division, while the tender was only for sanitation work in southern Sectors. He claimed that he was asked by Sidhu to invite a tender for all sectors.He was reminded that the House had not approved it and despite a report of all sectors, nothing was done in the remaining three months.BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali alleged, “It was a game plan of officers to intentionally delay it. When we talk of zero tolerance to corruption, why are officers opening the doors for it? What was the mala fide intention behind not respecting the sentiments of 35 councillors. Who are the mischievous officers to favour the company?Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “We are paying nearly Rs5 crore per month to the firm, which has been in question since the start. Even MP Kirron Kher had questioned the huge amount being paid to it.” The present contract of manual sweeping for Sector 31-63 ends on November 30, while the mechanical sweeping contract expires on February 14, 2022. It will now continue till March 31 next year. It was granted to Lion Services Ltd in 2016.Meanwhile, the MOH was seen crying later during lunch time. He was pacified by two-three councillors and even MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra walked up to him to console him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-house-extends-firms-sanitation-contract-331809
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC approves hike in park maintenance fee to RWAs||The MC House today approved to raise the park maintenance fee given to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). The fee has been increased from Rs2.48 to Rs4.15 per sq m per month. It used to cost the MC Rs2.48 crore per year. It will now pay a total of Rs5.66 crore in a year to the RWAs for the maintenance of parks. The House also approved to give the maintenance of back lanes from Sector 1-30 to the RWAs.Will now cost MC Rs5.66 crore a yearThe fee has been increased from Rs2.48 to Rs4.15 per sq m per month. It used to cost the MC Rs2.48 crore per year. It will now pay a total of Rs5.66 crore in a year to the RWAs for the maintenance of parks.However, before doing so, a meeting of the RWA concerned, area councillor and officers will be held to decide the norms. Waste and other items can be seem dumped in the back lanes at present.The House also approved exemption in the licence fee to licensees of taxi stands due to Covid. The fee exemption agenda of parking lots was, however, deferred.Meanwhile, councillors praised Commissioner Anindita Mitra for her work. However, Congress councillor Satish Kainth alleged that files related to development work in his ward were lying pending at the MC chief’s office.He alleged that the Commissioner had kept all powers with her, which earlier used to be delegated to other officers, due to which development works had got delayed.The Commissioner said that was not the case and wanted to know who had stated this. On this, Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla named Executive Engineer (XEN) Dharminder Sharma.The Commissioner then asked the Chief Engineer to bring details regarding development issues in Kainth’s ward before the House. She also ordered to chargesheet the XEN.Later in the day, details of the approved development works in Kainth’s ward were presented before the House.As per the report presented in the House, a rough estimate of the work of a green belt in Sector 56 was approved on April 28, approval came on May 19, a detailed estimate was approved on September 14 and the DNIT was submitted by the XEN (Horticulture) to the SE and is pending in his office since September 24.Similarly, a request regarding work of desilting of a sewer in Sector 56 was received on February 8. After various processes, it was finally approved by the Commissioner on September 29. Work was allotted to the agency on October 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-approves-hike-in-park-maintenance-fee-to-rwas-331810
30-10-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: One-time settlement, increase in FAR recommended to panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29For providing relief to nearly 60,000 residents, three nominated members of the Board of Directors of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) have recommended one-time settlement for all violations made in dwelling units of the board and to increase the floor area ratio (FAR).The recommendations were made during a meeting of the need-based change committee held here today under the chairmanship of the CHB Secretary. The CHB had constituted an eight-member committee last month to examine the request for further need-based changes in residential units of the board.All three nominated members of the board, Hitesh Puri, Poonam Sharma and Surinder Bagha, were invited as special invitees to present their views on framing a fresh need-based change policy. The members unanimously requested the committee to come out with an amnesty scheme in Chandigarh as per the Delhi module brought in 1999.In Delhi, there were 5 lakh residents facing demolition/cancellation orders for additions made in their houses. They thought that practically, it was not possible to demolish all such houses which came up over the last 20-30 years. They increased the FAR and regularised the unauthorised construction while charging one-time usage charge and never gave the legal right for extra construction beyond permissible limit.“A similar situation exists in Chandigarh as more than 60,000 residents are living under the threat of demolition/cancellation of their houses as they have covered area beyond permissible space but within the boundary line,” they submitted.They also stressed the need to streamline the transfer of property after the registration of conveyance deed and to de-link transfer of property from the violations, which will help thousands of the new owners, and further suggested to make the provision for allowing lift in their dwelling units after considering the voice of majority of residents. For independent houses, the Rules should be framed on the lines of the Estate Office, they stated.The members stated that the CHB had allowed need-based changes more than 35 times in the past 20 years. The first time, 51 types of changes were allowed in 2001.Residents started making changes in their dwelling units in the absence of any specific guidelines from the board and enforcement staff never stopped them. Thereafter, more need-based changes were approved by the CHB in 2010. The board again modified/withdrew these need-based changes in 2017 under the pretext of the Building Rules 2017, thus negating the recommendation of the CHB committee.The CHB in principle allowed a room in the back courtyard, cantilever, etc, within the boundary and the skyline relaxing the FAR. “Now residents who made changes in their dwelling units within the boundary line 25 years ago are unable to get their houses regularised as no guidelines/drawings were provided at that time,” they stated.“Constructions made 20-30 years ago cannot be demolished /altered at this stage. The construction is safe and already under use for all these years,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-one-time-settlement-increase-in-far-recommended-to-panel-331811
30-10-2021||---||Dengue claims one more life in Mohali, 95 new cases||Mohali, October 29One more person succumbed to dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 31 in the district. Besides, 95 fresh cases of the vector-borne disease surfaced, taking the total count to 2,456 in the past two months.Also read: Dengue: Free hospitalisation, tests at Tera Hi Tera Mission Hospital, ChandigarhWhile 344 cases and two deaths had surfaced in September, 2,112 persons were stung and 31 died due to the disease this month. A total of 283 samples of suspected dengue fever patients were taken and 95 of these tested positive for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-one-more-life-in-mohali-95-new-cases-331812
30-10-2021||---||Chandigarh sacks 178 National Health Mission employees on strike||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29The UT Administration today terminated the services of 178 contractual employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) for holding a strike when the city was reeling under dengue and Covid-19 outbreak.The service termination letter issued by UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg read, “Presently, the city is grappling with an unprecedented health crisis with illnesses like Covid, dengue, malaria, acute fever with thrombocytopenia and other vector-borne diseases having spread.Almost all health facilities have patients more than their capacities.”“Such times call for extraordinary commitment and dedication, both from professional as well as humane aspects. It has been observed that on certain occasions, health services in the city have been adversely affected because of your sudden absence/resorting to strike,” the letter citing reasons for termination further read.“From October 28, the contractual employees had proceeded on strike despite knowing the gravity of this unprecedented health crisis prevailing in Chandigarh. Such highly irresponsible conduct has put the lives of a large number of patients at serious risk, which clearly indicates that you cannot be relied upon to provide uninterrupted patient care in the UT,” stated Garg.“The termination letters cite this misconduct a gross violation of the terms and conditions of the contractual appointment,” it stated.Security beefed up at GMSH-16UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has requested the SSP to make security arrangements at the GMSH-16 and other health institutions in the city. Garg said the sacked NHM staff were not allowed to enter any of the health facilities of the UT Administration.Strike to continue: EmployeesAmit Kumar, general secretary of the NHM Employees’ Union, Chandigarh, said, “All employees were fired without any prior notice, which has infuriated them. Today, the employees were not even allowed to enter the GMSH. The strike will continue for the next three days and will be intensified.”What NHM staff demandOver 300 NHM workers went on an indefinite strike in August to demand equal wages for equal work. The UT Administration had then given a written assurance on a salary hike on a par with the DC rate. The NHM employees were recently asked to fill a consent form with revised terms and conditions as per which their working hours and leaves will be revised if they wanted their salaries on a par with the DC rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sacks-178-national-health-mission-employees-on-strike-331813
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandip Singh Brar to continue as Chandigarh DC||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed Mandip Singh Brar to continue as the DC of the UT till further orders.The three-year inter-cadre deputation of Brar was to end on October 31. However, the UT had sought a three-month extension for Brar. It had also recommended the name of IAS officer Vinay Pratap Singh to the MHA for the post of DC.The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three officers to the UT for the post, which is reserved for a Haryana-cadre IAS officer.The panel received by the UT Administration includes the names of Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandip-singh-brar-to-continue-as-chandigarh-dc-331814
30-10-2021||---||Chandigarh: 3 held for duping people in garb of providing govt jobs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Three persons have been arrested by the local police for allegedly duping candidates who had appeared for various exams, including those of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and panchayat secretary, on the pretext of providing them jobs. The investigation has revealed that the suspects had received Rs99 lakh from 43 persons.Received Rs99 lakh from 43 personsThe investigation has revealed that the suspects had received Rs99 lakh from 43 persons.Complainant Sandeep Nandal, marshal of the Secretary, Haryana Vidhan Sabha, had reported that on October 17, a candidate, Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Pinjore, appeared for an interview for the post of reporter with a forged appointment letter claimed to have been issued by the Vidhan Sabha. On questioning, he disclosed that the documents were given by Jitender Singh, who had assured him of appointment.During the course of the investigation, Jitender Singh (28) of Ambala, was arrested. His co-accused, identified as Ganesh Kumar (28), a resident of Burail, and Paras Kumar (30) of Sector 28 were arrested today. The police said Jitender was the kingpin of the racket.Modus operandiJitender used to approach candidates who had applied for different posts such as those of the HSSC, Group D and panchayat secretary. He used to introduce himself as an assistant in the HSSC, Haryana Government and the Industries and Commerce Department, Haryana. The suspects lured the candidates on the pretext of getting them appointed. In return, he used to charge between Rs2 lakh and Rs3 lakh.Thereafter, Jitender, along with his associates, used to prepare fake documents.The police said Ganesh used to prepare fake stamps, while Paras used to prepare fake ID cards of the candidates.The police have recovered fake ID cards of the HSSC and the Haryana Industries and Commerce department, a fake stamp of the Vidhan Sabha, fake interview letters of the Vidhan Sabha, Rs2.63 lakh and a car purchased from money received from the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-3-held-for-duping-people-in-garb-of-providing-govt-jobs-331815
30-10-2021||---||Transferees get certificates from Chandigarh Estate Office within 10 days||Chandigarh, October 29Believe it or not, but many residents have received their transfer certificates within 10 days of submitting the application online with the Estate Office.People were surprised when they received a call from the Estate Office to collect their transfer certificate. Some believed it to be a wrong number and others thought it was a fake call, as how the work which used to take two or three years could be completed in a period of just 10 days.Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar gave the transfer certificates to 12 transferees here yesterday. The transferees who received the certificates praised high of the Estate Office for successfully digitising all citizen-centric services.Many transferees shared their experience about the timely resolution of their cases. They expressed satisfaction of obtaining the NOCs in no time and getting a quick status of their applications/files with the click of a button.The beneficiaries stated that they could not believe that their work had been done in 10 days. After submitting the application, the applicant had to earlier run from pillar to post to get the work done, they shared. After applying a few days ago, Paras Goel said he received a call from the Estate Office that your work had been done and he could take the certificate. Ankit Kathuria, a property dealer, said at first, he thought it was a fake number and later, when he checked the number that it belonged to the Estate Office, he could not believe that the work had been done within such a short span.The DC said he believed that the perception in the minds of the city dwellers about the Estate Office was not right. There was a lack of transparency. People used to talk about whether the Estate Office would ever improve but now everything has changed. People’s work is being done in 10 days. It was a very difficult task that more than 100 employees had been engaged in doing for the past one and a half years, he added.UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit launched the website and online services of the Estate Office on the International Day for Universal access to Information with a vision to making the Estate Office a technology-driven organisation that provides seamless services to the citizens through hassle-free and efficient processes.The Estate Office had been offering multiple services to the citizens such as change of ownership, issuance of no objection certificate, sanction of fresh and revised building plan, collection of lease, GST etc, issuance of allotment letter, transfer of ownership, permission for bank mortgage, permission for change of trade etc.“The digitisation of all these services has made the system more transparent and citizen friendly,” said Brar, adding that nearly 41,000 files with more than 80 lakh entries have been digitised in a phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/transferees-get-certificates-from-chandigarh-estate-office-within-10-days-331830
30-10-2021||---||HC stays proceedings against Chandigarh cop Poonam Dilawari||Chandigarh, October 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the trial court proceedings against Inspector Poonam Dilawari of Chandigarh Police in a case where a local restaurant owner had alleged implication and wrongful confinement by the police.Dilawari, former SHO of Sector 26, had challenged the order of May 3, 2021, whereby she and the investigating officer in the case had been summoned under Sections 211 and 342 of the IPC on the basis of a complaint filed by Gunkaran Singh.In her petition before the High Court,, she has contended that the respondent, Gunkaran, was rightly involved in the said case and a challan was filed by the prosecution against him in the trial court. Further, on October 11, the Additional Sessions Court, on finding a prima facie case, had framed charges against Gunkaran while dismissing his discharge application.It was also averred by her that the summoning order under Section 211, IPC, which deals with false charge of offence with intent to injure, could not have been issued on a private complaint as cognisance on such complaint is barred under Section 195 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Moreover, Gunkaran was under custody on the orders of the court, which cannot be said to be illegal detention.The High Court has fixed December 16 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-stays-proceedings-against-chandigarh-cop-poonam-dilawari-331831
30-10-2021||Mohali||28-year-old booked on charge of raping Kharar woman||A 28-year-old man was today booked on the charge of raping a 26-year-old woman after giving her intoxicants. The suspect has been identified as Puneet Dasha, a resident of Rajpura in Patiala district.Sub-Inspector Karamjit Kaur, investigating officer, said the victim, a resident of Kharar, had lodged a complaint with the Mohali SSP on July 15 last year that she was known to the suspect. She said on December 4, 2016, he called her and said he was in possession of her obscene photographs. The suspect threatened her that if she did not meet him, he would upload the photographs on the social media. She decided to meet him and he took her to the house. The suspect gave her some intoxicants and raped her.On December 14, 2016, the suspect took her to a temple in Chandigarh and solemnised marriage with her. He told her not to disclose their marriage to anyone. After a few days, he stopped talking to her and even threatened to kill her.Karamjit said the suspect had absconded and raids are being conducted at his possible hideouts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-year-old-booked-on-charge-of-raping-kharar-woman-331832
30-10-2021||---||Panel gives nod to Rs 35-crore Mohali development works||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 29Finance and Control Committee (F&CC) of the Mohali Municipal Corporation gave the green light to development works worth Rs 35 crore today.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said work orders of Rs19 crore were given to the contractors and estimates of various development works worth Rs16 crore passed.Prominent amongst others who were present at the meeting were Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar and two member councillors Jasbir Singh Manku and Anuradha Anand (Anu).Sidhu said after the demolition of Phase 3B1 community centre in Mohali, a work order of Rs6 crore had been handed over to the contractor concerned for the construction of a new and modern building. He said the community centre was located in the heart of the city and it was being constructed in a completely modern manner which would be of immense benefit to the people of Mohali.Sidhu said the work orders have been issued mainly for road works, paver blocks, public health works, fire station repairs and parks in various areas of the city.He said the estimates of new development works worth Rs16 crore had been passed for laying premix on roads, carrying out various works in parks, laying paver blocks and other works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-gives-nod-to-rs-35-crore-mohali-development-works-331833
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||PCI honour for Chandigarh Admn officer Swati Munjal||The Press Council of India (Chandigarh Chapter) honoured Swati Munjal, Public Relations Officer, UT, for her excellent contribution to the government sector. The award of excellence was given on the occasion of World Communicators Day for her value addition in keeping the public and media informed as a strong communicator from the Government front during the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pci-honour-for-chandigarh-admn-officer-swati-munjal-331834
30-10-2021||---||4,000 benefited from Suvidha camps: MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, October 29Former minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said today that the Punjab Government was committed to extending the benefits of public welfare schemes to every person and continuous efforts were being made to make the people aware of these schemes.Presiding over a Suvidha camp at the District Administrative Complex here, Sidhu specifically referred to the scheme of allotting five-marla plots to the needy. He said he took up the matter with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to ease the norms so that the benefits could be extended to everyone.He said the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna had become a major source of relief to the people as it provides free treatment up to Rs5 lakh per family to the beneficiaries in public as well as private hospitals.He said around 4,000 beneficiaries had availed themselves of the benefits of various schemes till October 28 during these Suvidha camps held at the subdivision level across the district.Sidhu also distributed job cards of MGNREGA scheme, pension approval letters and consent letters of various schemes to the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-000-benefited-from-suvidha-camps-mla-balbir-singh-sidhu-331835
30-10-2021||Mohali||Employees hold protest against Punjab Govt||Members of various employees organisaiton today held a dharna against the state government. On behalf of the Punjab School Education Board Employees Union, slogans were raised against the government.Meanwhile, the ongoing strike on a call of the Sanjha Karmachari Manch Punjab (Chandigarh) entered its second day. The employees took out a protest march which started from the Punjab School Education Board office and culminated at the traffic light point of Phase 7.Board Employees Association president Parvinder Singh Khanguda and general secretary Sukhchain Singh Saini said the pay commission notified by the government was not clear. There had been no clarification on the arrears from January 1, 2016, till now, they added.Meanwhile, unemployed 646 PTI teachers union, who had been protesting for the past 20 days, gheraoed the DC office to press for their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-hold-protest-against-punjab-govt-331836
30-10-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh’s heritage auctioned in France, Italy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29A pair each of Chandigarh’s heritage chairs and teak bedside cabinets, designed by Pierre Jeanneret, was auctioned overseas.In this connection, Ajay Jagga, member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, has written to India’s Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy and ministers of state Arjun R Meghwal and Meenakshi Lekhi. He stated that the furniture, according to the details mentioned by auction houses, was procured from the city. “The auction of Chandigarh heritage items are clearly in violation of Article 49 of the Constitution of India and the MHA orders (22 February, 2011),” he wrote.On October 27, two armchairs with wooden structure and Vienna straw seat and back, coming from the furnishings of the administrative premises of Chandigarh, were auctioned in Italy for Rs8.70 lakh by an auction house named Cambi.On October 23, Carvajal SVV auctioned a pair of teak bedside tables, dating back to 1955-56 from ‘Private houses of Chandigarh and “MLA Flat” (residence for civil servants) in Chandigarh, Sectors 3 and 4’ went under the hammer for Rs7.81 lakh.Jagga added, “There is an emergent need to get the matter examined from the law-enforcing agencies as to how these items reached France and Italy and if laws of India, France and Italy were followed or not. There is a complete ban of the sale/disposal of such items in India and a ban on export also. Whether the seller is in legal/lawful possession. As there is a mandate under a Article 49, to every state, for the protection and conservation of heritage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-heritage-auctioned-in-france-italy-331837
30-10-2021||---||New members of Punjab Cricket Association barred from voting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29The new members of Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) will not have voting rights, but they can attend the Annual General Meeting of the sports body, directed Punjab & Haryana High Court.The court was hearing a petition by some former office-bearers of Ludhiana Cricket Association, which was earlier disaffiliated by the PCA.The court also directed to conduct the meeting strictly in accordance with the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-members-of-punjab-cricket-association-barred-from-voting-331838
30-10-2021||---||Committees formed to manage Panchkula community centres||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 29The Panchkula Municipal Corporation today released a list of committees constituted for the management of community centres in 19 localities of the city. Each committee includes the ward councillor and four citizens. MC passed resolution on June 30The committees have been formed for the community centres at the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC), Sector 4, MDC, Sector 5, MDC, Sector 6, Sector 7, Sector 9, Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 17, Sector 19, Sector 20 (Old), Sector 20 (New), Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 23, Sector 27 and Sector 28.On June 30 earlier this year, the General House of the Municipal Corporation had passed a resolution to form community centre management committees.The House had also slashed the booking rates for the community centres.While Rs5,000 was fixed for community centres in villages, Rs11,000 and Rs21,000 were fixed for medium and big community centres, respectively.Several RWAs in the city said most community centres had maintenance issues and some of these were occupied by different departments for other purposes.They said they could only hope for a change for the better with the constitution of the committees for the management of the community centres.The key issues in community centres are poor infrastructure, cleanliness and poor condition or non-operational toilets.Meanwhile, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had recently announced that the community centres in the city would be named after martyrs.He had said a resolution in this regard would be brought up during the next General House meeting of the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/committees-formed-to-manage-panchkula-community-centres-331840
30-10-2021||---||Panchkula: Colonel duped of Rs 9.6 lakh in OTP fraud||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 29A Colonel posted at the NCC Group Headquarters in Ambala was allegedly duped of Rs 9.6 lakh after he entered an OTP sent on his mobile number by a con man in a mobile application.A case of fraud under Section 420 has been registered at the Sector 7 police station.The victim, Col Prem Singh Panwar, lives at the MDC, Sector 5, Panchkula.In his complaint, the victim said, “An amount of Rs 9.6 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from my bank account on October 28 around noon. By sending me an OTP on my mobile number, the suspect asked me to feed the OTP in a mobile application when I was at the Government College in Sector 1.” The SHO of the Sector 7 police station and IO in the case, Inspector Mahabir Singh, said investigation into the matter was underway and the suspect(s) would be traced soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-colonel-duped-of-rs-9-6-lakh-in-otp-fraud-331841
30-10-2021||---||9 days on, 61-yr-old Kharar man hit by  rashly driven ambulance dies||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 29Nine days after being hit by a rashly driven ambulance of a private hospital, a 61-year old man succumbed to his head injuries at another private hospital in Zirakpur here today.The victim has been identified as Kanwaljit Singh, a resident of GSJ Apartments, Shivjot Enclave, Kharar. The accidentOn October 20, the victim was crossing the Sector 67-68 traffic light when a rashly-driven ambulance with the siren on came from the Sohana side and hit his motorcycle. The victim sustained serious head injuries. Interestingly, there was no patient in the ambulance at the time of the incident.In his complaint to the police, a passerby, Bhushan Shama, said he was waiting for a relative at the traffic light around 2.30 pm. After the light turned green, the victim started crossing the traffic light.In the meantime, an ambulance, which had the siren on even as there was no patient in the vehicle, jumped the red light from the Sohana side. The ambulance hit the motorcycle and dragged the victim to a few yards, inflicting severe head injuries on him. The blood was oozing out of the victim’s mouth.The ambulance driver alighted and tried to give first aid to the victim. When the blood did not stop, the driver, along with two other persons who were also sitting in the ambulance, took the victim to a private hospital in an auto-rickshaw. Later, they left the hospital.A case under Sections 279, 337, 427 and 177 of the IPC was registered against the unidentified ambulance driver at the Phase XI police station. After the victim’s death at the hospital today, the police added Section 304-A to the FIR.Phase XI SHO Gagandeep Singh said they would soon arrest the ambulance driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-days-on-61-yr-old-kharar-man-hit-by-rashly-driven-ambulance-dies-331843
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 more found infected with Covid-19 in Chandigarh||Covid: Five test +ve in MohaliMohali: Five fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. No death was reported, while three patients recovered. Among the new cases, two came from Gharauan and three from Mohali (urban). — TNS2 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded two fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,769. The toll remained at 378. While 30,377 people have recovered from the disease so far, 14 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-found-infected-with-covid-19-in-chandigarh-331844
30-10-2021||---||After a golden double, Chandigarh swimmer Chahat Arora sets her eyes on Asian Games||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29City swimmer Chahat Arora bagged her second gold medal in the ongoing 74th Senior National Swimming Championships at Bengaluru today.I haven’t trained as much as other swimmers, but I let my experience work for me. I want to thank my parents for the unconditional support they have provided me through my difficult times and my coaches for motivating me. Now I am preparing for the 2022 Asian Games and will give it my best. — Chahat Arora, SwimmerAfter winning a gold medal in the 50m breaststroke event, Chahat clocked 1:17.01s to top the podium in the 100m breaststroke competition.“I am happy with my performance. I was confident of winning medals since Day 1. After creating meet record in heats (33.62s), I won the medal in the 50m breaststroke finals by clocking 33.82s. Today, I have bagged my second gold medal. It has been a satisfactory performance so far,” said Chahat, who practises at Panjab University Swimming Centre in Sector 23 and at Mohali Swimming Pool.Chahat Arora. File photo Earlier in April, Chahat had won two gold medals in the Uzbekistan Open Summer Swimming Championship in Tashkent.Last year, while she was stuck in Thailand, she had won 100m breaststroke event in the Arena Thailand Swimming Championship.She remained the top Indian performer by winning the event in 1:14.42s. She bettered the previous record of 1:14.46s by any Indian in the championship to set a new meet record.“I haven’t trained as much as other swimmers, but I let my experience work for me. I want to thank my parents for the unconditional support they have provided me through my difficult times and my coaches for motivating me. Now I am preparing for the 2022 Asian Games and will give it my best,” said Chahat.Balraj Sharma, general secretary, Punjab Swimming Association, congratulated Chahat on her impressive show in Bengaluru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-a-golden-double-chandigarh-swimmer-chahat-arora-sets-her-eyes-on-asian-games-331846
30-10-2021||---||Returning from injury, Chandigarh golfer Aadil Bedi confident of a good season ahead||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29City golfer Aadil Bedi is all set to compete in the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational, scheduled to be held at the Chandigarh Golf Club here from November 11.In the last two editions of the championship, Bedi had finished in top-10 (tied-4th in 2019 and tied-10th in 2020).I am training hard these days. Coming back from an injury and performing among the professionals will not be easy. However, I am confident that post-recovery, I will make a strong comeback. — Aadil Bedi“There were practically no matches during the 2020 and 2021 Asian Tour. However, next year, we are carrying forward 2019 merit on the Asian Tour as there will be no Q-School in 2022,” said Bedi, who is returning to action after a serious wrist injury.Bedi is also eyeing the Korn Ferry Tour, scheduled for August 2022. “I will surely be going to the Korn Ferry Tour in August 2022. Since I have played one full year on the Asian Tour and also registered a win on the PGTI Tour, I will get into the first stage of this prestigious tour which will be played in the USA.”“I have played a lot of junior golf in the USA and I am very confident to make it through the Q-School,” Bedi added.“I will be relying on my short game and accurate hitting in the next four-five matches. It will be a good build-up to a bigger pro league in the USA next year,” he said.Besides competing in the Jeev Milkha Invitational, Bedi will tee off at Digboi Links, RCGC Kolkata, Pune and Jamshedpur during this winter season.“I am training hard these days. Coming back from an injury and performing among the professionals will not be easy. However, I am confident that post-recovery, I will make a strong comeback,” said the 20-year-old.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/returning-from-injury-chandigarh-golfer-aadil-bedi-confident-of-a-good-season-ahead-331847
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stockton Kings rope in cager Princepal Singh||Princepal Singh’s journey to the NBA entered a new chapter as he has been drafted in by the Stockton Kings in the 2021 G League Draft with the fifth pick in the third round.Stockton Kings are the G League affiliate for NBA team Sacramento Kings.Princepal now becomes the third Indian to play in the G League after Chandigarh’s Amjyot Singh and Punjab’s Satnam Singh Bhamara, the first Indian to be drafted in the NBA.Princepal is the second Indian to be selected in the G League Draft after Palpreet Singh Brar, who was selected in the fourth round of the 2016 Draft. He was a part of the Sacramento Kings Summer League roster this year as the team went on to be crowned champions.Princepal is an NBA Academy India graduate and first from the academy to make it to the NBA G League. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stockton-kings-rope-in-cager-princepal-singh-331848
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navdeep’s last-ditch effort helps Liberty clinch title||Liberty FC won the Senior State Football Championship for Chandigarh Police Shaheed Trophy here today.Ex-general secy Surinder no moreSurinder Kumar, former general secretary of Chandigarh Football Association (CFA), breathed his last on Friday. The former midfielder was a well-known figure among the local football fraternity. TNSIn a see-saw battle, Liberty FC prevailed over Le Professor by a solitary goal. The only goal of the match was scored by Navdeep in the 114th minute.Earlier, JSM FA defeated Tricity FC 3-1 to claim the third spot.Jatin from Tricity Club was named the best upcoming player, while Anish was adjudged the best goalkeeper.Kulbir was named the best scorer and Goldy was adjudicated the best player of the tournament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navdeeps-last-ditch-effort-helps-liberty-clinch-title-331849
30-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Equestrian no longer an elite sport: Imtiaz Anees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29One of India’s most decorated equestrian Imtiaz Anees believes that the sport still needs attention from the corporate world and the government.Also read: Chandigarh horse show: All for the love of city & equines“Ours is a sport which needs a lot of land, where we look for the government help. And to attract more and more participation, we need contributions from the corporate sector. If we compare with other countries, we still have a lot to cover. This is the only sport where men and women compete with each other and moreover an entire family can participate, which is unique in a way,” Anees said on the sidelines of the Chandigarh Horse Show.The 50-year-old, who competed in the individual event at the Sydney Olympics in Sydney in 2000 and finished 23rd overall, said that the sport had gained popularity in the past few years.“It is no longer a sport of the elite class. Over the years, we have seen many good riders coming from humble backgrounds. This sport is very much in the reach of the common man and we have to reduce this gap further by taking more and more people along. Moreover, the kind of exposure we have is very much making this sport popular among people from all classes,” said Anees.Offering tips to the youngsters, Anees said it seemed like an individual sport, but it really was a team game.“The riders should have a very good equation with their horse. The horse is equally important. Many times a rider is full of enthusiasm, but the horse gets some kind of injury. The rider has to take proper care of his/her horse. So, it’s not an individual sport,” Anees explained.He also stressed the need to improve and promote professionalism in coaching.“It is an important part of the game. This can only improve through various exchange programmes with other countries. Equestrian is an Olympic sport and needs proper attention. The Equestrian Federation of India does their part, but I feel there should be more exchanges on coaching/camp/seminars with other countries,” he said.The three-day event, which is being held in association with The Tribune publication, started with much fanfare.Over 100 riders participated in jumping events on Day 1 of the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/equestrian-no-longer-an-elite-sport-imtiaz-anees-331850
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||UTCA coach Rajeev Nayyar expects Chandigarh boys to come good||UTCA coach Rajeev Nayyar is confident of a good show by his team in the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy.Squad: Manan Vohra (Captain), Shivam Bhambri, Sarul Kanwar, Ankit Kaushik, Kunal Mahajan, Gaurav Puri, Gurinder Singh, Bhagmender Lather, Arpit Singh, Arjit Singh, Jaskarandeep Singh Buttar, Rahul Sharma, Jagjit Sandhu, Shrestha Nirmohi, Parmesh Kumar, Yuvraj Chaudhary, Taranpreet Singh, Jaskaranveer Singh Sohi, Gaurav Gambhir, Amrit Lubana A former Himachal Pradesh cricketer, Nayyar said he expected the team to do well in the tournament as they played a good amount of practice matches to be ready for the tournament.“The team is looking good. We have a good mix of experience and youth. It will be a great experience for all of us,” said Nayyar.When asked about dropping few players, including opener Arslan Khan, the coach said: “I am not the right person to comment on the issue. It’s completely up to the selectors… whom to select and whom to drop.”Arslan made a name for himself in the U-23 age group, scoring 700 runs in 11 matches at an average of 70, including five centuries and a couple of half centuries.It will be Chandigarh’s first tournament under experienced Nayyar, who remained active in First Class cricket for nearly 20 years.“I have been in good terms with all the team members. We have got good depth in batting – which is a positive sign. Our players have played for different states and are experienced enough to handle any kind of pressure,” said Nayyar, who is the first cricketer from Himachal Pradesh to represent India A against South Africa, New Zealand and the West Indies.He also represented India B in the Challenger Trophy.“I have been to Chandigarh many a times and also played at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium. I must admit, we have talent and all we need is to perform at this platform,” said Nayyar.The Elite E group comprises Chandigarh, Hyderabad, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Saurashtra.Chandigarh will play their first match against UP on November 4, followed by Delhi on November 5 and Hyderabad on November 6. The side will face Saurashtra on November 8 before meeting Uttarakhand on November 9. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-coach-rajeev-nayyar-expects-chandigarh-boys-to-come-good-331854
