31-10-2021||---||Chitkara International School, Panchkula, gets platinum ranking||Panchkula, October 30Chitkara International School (CIS), Panchkula, became the only school among the schools of six states listed in the Chandigarh Chapter of CII to achieve the ‘Platinum’ ranking in the IGBC Green Schools Rating System (New School).CIS beat its opponents on parameters like site selection and planning, sustainable water practices, conserving and harvesting energy, eco-friendly school material, indoor environment quality, health and hygiene and green education to score 89 on the rating chart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-international-school-panchkula-gets-platinum-ranking-332145
31-10-2021||---||Trucks carrying liquor seized, unknown person booked||Ambala, October 30The Ambala police have registered a case against an unknown person after 3,439 boxes of Indian made foreign liquor were recovered from two parked trucks near a godown in Mohra village on Delhi-Amritsar National Highway late last night.The recovery was made during a joint raid by a team of Ambala and Mohali police.As per the information, the Mohali police had reached Ambala in connection with a case registered under the Excise Act in Punjab.After the raid, the Mohali police team took both the trucks to Punjab.A case was registered on the complaint of a Sub-Inspector under Section 420 of the IPC and Sector 61 of the Excise Act at the Parao police station.SHO Parao police station Devender Singh said: “A case has been registered against an unknown person for dumping the liquor stocks here. The matter is under investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trucks-carrying-liquor-seized-unknown-person-booked-332146
31-10-2021||---||Cattle smugglers hit police vehicle, escape||Ambala, October 30Police personnel here had a miraculous escape as their vehicle was allegedly hit by cattle smugglers on the NH-44 near the MT crossing today.Bharat Singh, a resident of Ambala City, in his complaint to police stated that he was a member of Vandey Matram Dal.He said they received information that a truck carrying bovines from Punjab was on its way to Mewat. Following the information, they informed the police.The truck was spotted and members of Vandey Matram Dal and police personnel signaled the driver to stop. However, the truck driver sped away.The police team chased the truck and tried to stop it near the MT crossing, but the truck driver hit the police vehicle from the rear. The truck driver and another person accompanying him left the truck and escaped from the spot.During checking, 21 bovines were recovered from the truck.A case has been registered under Sections 13(1) and 13(2) of the Haryana Gau Sanrakshan and Gau Samvardhan Act, and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, and Sections 307 and 336 of the IPC, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cattle-smugglers-hit-police-vehicle-escape-332147
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||CSIO transfers tech for LED aircraft lights to BEL||The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) celebrated its Foundation Day with several events, including an online quiz, e-presentation competition and a virtual open day.A Technology Transfer Agreement was also signed between Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and the CSIO for LED-based night vision goggles, compatible wing and fin navigation lights for aircraft, LED-based taxi and landing lights and LED-based drogue lights along with associated test rigs.Prof S Anantha Ramakrishna, Director, CSIO said the new technology developed by the CSIO would lead to more rugged lights for the aircraft since these would be LED based and would replace the thin filament lamps used in earlier versions, which made it more prone to breakdowns.He said it would lead to less power consumption and less heat dissipation, making the lights compatible for night vision capability.Prabha Goyal, General Manager, BEL, signed the agreement on behalf of BEL.Dr Anjan Ray, Director, CSIR-IIP and Head, CSIR-HRDG, stressed the need to decompartmentalising knowledge and using it to match the perfection that nature achieved through its miraculous creations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-transfers-tech-for-led-aircraft-lights-to-bel-332148
31-10-2021||---||Weightlifting Coaching Centre girls triumph||Chandigarh, October 30Weightlifting Coaching Centre, Sector 42, amassed a total of 399 points to win the 23rd Senior, 16th Junior (girls) and 16th Sub-Junior (girls) State Weightlifting Championship Trophy.CAWA scored 269 points to claim the second position, while Public Sports Club, Sector 56, finished third with an aggregate of 213 points.In the girls’ sub-junior competition, Sonam won the gold medal in the 40kg category with a total lift of 60kg.Sonam was followed by Khushboo (52kg) in second place, while Ramjot (32kg) bagged the third position.In the 45kg contest, Archna (108kg) claimed the gold medal, while Monika (88kh) returned with a silver.Kajal (87kg), Aarti (68kg) and Kulveer Kaur (34kg) secured the top three positions, respectively, in the 49kg competition.In the 55kg category, Jiya topped the podium with a lift of 38kg. Neelam Rani (30kg) claimed the second spot.Sumit (105kg) dominated the field in the 59kg category. She was followed by Pooja (73kg) in second place.Shalini (144kg) won the gold in the 64kg competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weightlifting-coaching-centre-girls-triumph-332149
31-10-2021||---||Abhishek Chopra tops show jumping contest||Mohali, October 30Abhishek Chopra of Modi Equestrian Academy claimed gold medal in the open show jumping on the second day of the Chandigarh Horse Show at Mullanpur today.Anmoldeep of PPS Nabha claimed the second position, while Gursobha Singh of HESA Stables claimed the third position. The event is being organised in association with The Tribune.Akash of DAV University claimed the top position in the tent pegging event. He was followed by HC Jaswinder Singh from ITBP in second place, while ASI Manjit Singh finished third.Abhijot Singh of PPS Nabha claimed the top spot in the junior category of the show jumping event.Bilaval Singh Shergill of YPS Patiala, Tejveer Singh, Anmoldeep Singh, Harshjot Singh, Harwardhan Singh and Azadnoor Singh of PPS Nabha shared the second position.In show jumping (successive relay), Anmoldeep Singh and Abhijot Singh topped the podium. Parveen Kumar and Bhagwan Singh of the Chandigarh Police claimed second position, while Gurkaran Singh and Kanwar Gulrussel of PPS Nabha finished third.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhishek-chopra-tops-show-jumping-contest-332150
31-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||UTCA announces education programme for umpires||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) today announced plans to organise an education programme for umpires, scorers and coaches in the month of January 2022.The announcement comes days after Chandigarh Tribune reported that the UTCA was yet to set up an umpires’ panel.“It’s an important issue and we have now planned to organise an educational programme for scorers, umpires and coaches in the month of January. We have included it in our calendar,” UTCA president Sanjay Tandon said during an interaction with the media after attending the annual general meeting of the association.Talking on the resignation of UTCA operations manager Manjit Singh, Tandon said: “He is back in the association and will continue to share his experience to promote cricket.”He also hinted that the association would improve its financial standing and facilities for players.“We are improving our financial standing and facilities for players. We may sign an MoU with some local institutions for using their infrastructure. We have brought the matter to the BCCI’s notice and have been assured that funds to associate members for up-keep of grounds will be approved in the next apex meeting,” he said.Earlier, BCCI selection committee chairman Chetan Sharma and former India captain Kapil Dev addressed the general house.BCCI to release 50% match feeThe BCCI has decided to distribute Rs81.90 lakh among senior men’s players and Rs2.67 lakh among senior women cricketers. Also, Rs1.56 crore will be distributed among the support staff for 2019-20 and Rs23 lakh for 2020-21. Players will get Rs 4.33 crore for 2019-20 and Rs49 lakh for 2020-21 as only three tournaments were played in 2020-21, claimed UTCA chief Sanjay Tandon. Meanwhile, 2,562 cricketers have been registered in men’s and women’s categories for the 2021-22 season. After a former cricketer raised the issue of UTCA’s non-compliance in uploading its details, Tandon claimed that a mobile app would be launched soon for all the cricketing and non-cricketing updates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-announces-education-programme-for-umpires-332151
31-10-2021||---||Manager of Kalka crusher attacked||Panchkula, October 30A manager of a stone crusher in Kalka was beaten up with sticks and looted while he was on his way back home after collecting a payment of Rs 1 lakh on Friday evening.The victim, identified as Saurabh Sharma, was assaulted by a father-son duo and their four accomplices when he was returning after collecting a payment of around Rs1 lakh from Tipra. He was robbed of the payment besides his gold chain and around Rs1,400 he was having with him.A total of six persons were involved in the crime, claimed Sheru, the owner of the stone crusher, JM Industries. “The victim was able to identify two of the six attackers. They are Manish, who used to run a canteen at the plant, and his father Raju,” he added.The police have registered a case under Section 341 (wrongful restraint), 379-B (theft by force) and other relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manager-of-kalka-crusher-attacked-332152
31-10-2021||---||Sector 5 resident held for property fraud||Chandigarh, October 30The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the UT police has arrested a Sector 5 resident in a case of cheating.According to the police, a complaint was received from Vikramjeet Kaushik of Sohana, Mohali, who had stated that the suspect, Dipinder Singh Brar, sold his 25 per cent share in the house in Sector 5 to him for a total consideration of Rs6.23 crore.The police said Dipinder also sold 25 per cent share of his wife Amita Brar, aka Amita Bhanot, aka Anita Bhanot, in the house for Rs6.23 crore. In this way, the suspect sold 50 per cent share in the house to the complainant for a total consideration of Rs12.46 crore.The Estate Office had transferred the 50 per cent share of the house in the complainant’s name in October last year. Afterwards, the suspect and his wife refused to hand over the physical possession of the 50 per cent share in the house (entire ground floor) to the complainant on the grounds that the sale of 25 per cent share of Amita’s property has been done on the basis of forged documents and without her knowledge.During the course of investigation, authenticity of the documents were checked and it was found that the documents were forged.A case was registered at the Sector 17 police station on October 6. The suspect was arrested by the police on October 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-5-resident-held-for-property-fraud-332153
31-10-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court tells woman to return to husband in two months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30A local court has directed a woman to join the company of her husband within a period of two months.The court has issued the directions on a petition filed by a resident of Sector 56 here through counsel Maninder Arora, under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act 1955 for restitution of his conjugal rights with his wife. Arora argued before the court that the marriage of the petitioner was solemnised with a resident of Haridwar in February 2017 as per Hindu rites and ceremonies.The marriage between the parties was a love and runaway marriage against the wishes of the parents of both parties.Arora said after the marriage, both of them were residing in their matrimonial home in Chandigarh with the husband’s parents. The matrimonial life of the husband with the wife was going well as he is earning Rs7,000 per month which he used to spend on him and his wife and all other expenses were born by the parents of the husband.Arora said the woman’s parents were not happy, therefore, they were not keeping the relation with the petitioner or his family but were in touch with their daughter.Arora said on September 30, 2017, the parents of the wife visited the petitioner in Chandigarh and started compelling them to let them take their daughter with them, who was pregnant at that time. The petitioner, apprehending that they may cause harm to the child in womb or to her wife, called the police and mentioned that her wife was being sent to her parents’ house on the responsibility of her parents.Arora told the court the husband received a call in the first week of December in 2017 from an unknowing mobile number that the husband and his family would be involved in a false case by the parents of the respondents as they had misguided their daughter.The respondent was pregnant, therefore, the petitioner was not compelling her to come back but now the parents as well as the respondent have refused to come back even after the birth of a child. Arora argued that the respondent has left the company of the petitioner without any reasonable excuse. Hence, he made the prayer to the court for directing wife to join the company of the petitioner. The wife was served the notices through publication but neither respondent nor anyone on his behalf has appeared and respondent has proceeded against ex parte vide order dated December 12, 2018.Civil Judge (Junior Division), Chandigarh, Sanjay said: “The entire evidence led by petitioner remained unrebutted and unchallenged which must be relied upon. The respondent did not lead any evidence to show that the petitioner had left him and proceeded against ex parte. She could not even inform the court that she has left the company of the petitioner for a reasonable cause. Hence, there is no reason to disbelieve the petitioner’s version. So, it is clear that the respondent left her matrimonial home without any reason and petitioner has led evidence in this regard, it is considered apt to direct the respondent to join the company of the petitioner. In view of this the respondent is directed to join the company of the petitioner within a period of two months from the date of order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-tells-woman-to-return-to-husband-in-two-months-332154
31-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali set to have cycle tracks||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 30The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation here has given its approval to build a cycle track in the city. The panel also earmarked Rs81 lakh for the first phase of the project.A meeting to this effect was held today under the chairmanship of Mayor Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu. During the meeting, the project was okayed and the cost estimate passed.The Mayor, along with Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, also visited the road where the cycle track would be constructed under the first phase.Divulging details, Jeeti Sidhu said traffic in Mohali was continuously increasing and as a result, the number of road accidents involving cyclists was also on the rise. He said to evade such mishaps, an estimate had been passed in the F&CC meeting for construction of a cycle track.He said the cycle track would be constructed from the Industrial Area, Phase 8B, on the Airport Road to Mohali village via Spice Chowk at a cost of Rs81 lakh.The Mayor said a large number of industrial workers on bicycles used this road, which also witnessed heavy traffic. He said similarly, a large number of workers riding bicycles also reach this road from the Balongi side. For their safety, it had become necessary to build a cycle track.Jeeti Sidhu said after the Covid outbreak, the health conscious people also started cycling so that they could stay fit, but increasing traffic created problems for them. “This cycle track will facilitate a safe ride,” he added. He said there were also cycling clubs in Mohali which were demanding construction of cycle tracks. He said after the completion of the first phase, cycling tracks would be constructed all over the city.Areas to be covered in phase 1 of project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-set-to-have-cycle-tracks-332155
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to e-auction 159 properties||Punjab cadre IAS officer Hargunjit Kaur deputed in ChandigarhChandigarh: The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has approved the appointment of Punjab cadre IAS officer Hargunjit Kaur (2013 batch) to the post of Secretary, Union Territory of Chandigarh, on inter-cadre deputation from the Punjab cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. TNSHaryana girls stumble on last hurdleChandigarh: Hockey Madhya Pradesh defeated Hockey Haryana 1-0 to win the 11th Hockey India Senior Women National Championship 2021 at Jhansi on Saturday. Hockey Punjab beat Hockey Maharashtra 2-1 to finish third in the competition. Kanchan Kerketta (9th) was the lone scorer for Madhya Pradesh. Earlier, captain Reena Rani (44th) and Sarabdeep Kaur (50th) scored a goal each to help Punjab overcome Maharashtra after Priya Dubey had put the latter ahead in the 18th minute. TNSAnti-cracker rally organisedChandigarh: NSS volunteers of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22, took out an anti-cracker rally on Saturday to create awareness among masses on the harmful effects of firecrackers on the environment. Volunteers carrying placards, with slogans "Green Diwali-Swachh Diwali", advocated a cracker-free Diwali to reduce noise and air pollution. TNSChaitanya, Armaan triumphChandigarh: Chaitanya defeated Vansh Pathania to win the boys’ 55kg final in the Thang-Ta State Championship. In the boys’ 70kg final, Armaan Sohi outplayed Shihansh. Mukhraz thrashed Vandana in the girls’ 60kg category, while Gagandeep Singh defeated Vinod Kumar to claim the girls’ 80kg title. TNSNational Unity Day celebrated at govt schoolPatiala: Government Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated National Unity Day on Saturday. NCC cadet Riya spoke on the role of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in integrating princely states with the nation. The students came to know about the Statue of Unity and its significance. Principal Nirmal Goyal urged the students to stay united and rise above narrow differences to build a strong India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-e-auction-159-properties-332156
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 6 test positive in Chandigarh||Only 1 case in MohaliMohali: Only one case of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours while there was no fresh fatality. One patient was cured of the disease on Saturday. The only fresh case came from Kharar. TNSNo new case in P’kulaPanchkula: The district recorded no new case of coronavirus on Saturday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,769. While 30,377 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 14 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-6-test-positive-in-chandigarh-332157
31-10-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: Dog, monkey menace a major issue in Ward 1||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu’s Ward Number 1, which comprises posh sectors (1-11), is plagued by the stray dog and monkey menace, besides some civic issues.Residents said Sehaj Safai Kendras in Sectors 8 and 9 are full of garbage. “In our Sector 8 inner market, an unlimited number of food joints has opened. Some people eat food in cars by parking them nearby. They dump the leftover food under cars which attracts stray dogs. Residents are so scared that they carry sticks while going on a walk,” said Ranvinder Singh Gill, president, Householder Welfare Association, Sector 8. He also complained, “Footpaths dug up for laying underground power cables reamain unfilled for months. A part of a road dug up for laying a sewerage line was not restored for three months. This all caused inconvenienced to residents. Besides, visitors to the Madhya Marg market in Sector 8 park their vehicles outside our houses.”I have taken up the monkey menace issue with the Forest Department several times. Regular vaccination and sterilisation drives for stray dogs are being carried out by the MC. As per law, we cannot shift the dogs from their area. Maheshinder Singh SidhuBeenu Mann, a resident of Sector 11, said “Stray dog menace is a big issue in our ward. I am a dog lover but was bitten by a pack of canines recently. Same dogs keep roaming outside my house and we fear for the safety of kids. There is a big box overflowing with garbage which attracts stray dogs. There is also no stopping monkeys that come from the PGI or Nayagaon areas.”Parminder Singh of Sector 7 said other than stray menace, road recarpeting in the sector was a big issue. Besides, a community centre was promised in the sector that has also not been built yet. “The councillor does not visit us,” he alleged.However, Col (retd) Kulwinder Singh, president, Resident Welfare Association, Sector 10, said: “The councillor is accessible and responsive. He has formed a WhatsApp group of residents. Whenever we post any civic problem in the group, he immediately gets it resolved.”The young BJP leader said there are no garbage dump issues in his ward baring exceptions. “As far as Sector 8, 9 SSKs are concerned, food joints staff throw whole day’s garbage late at night after work. But, it is cleared by 8 am,” he clarified.Maheshinder Singh Sidhu: Councillor from Ward Number 1 and Senior Deputy MayorArea: Sectors 1 to 11Promise: Building roads and ensuring proper cleanliness, maintenanceResult: Partially keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-dog-monkey-menace-a-major-issue-in-ward-1-332158
31-10-2021||Mohali||Dengue stings 75 more in Mohali||As many as 75 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours.No death due to the vector-borne disease was reported from the district till Saturday evening, said health officials.Also read: Dengue: Free hospitalisation, tests at Tera Hi Tera Mission Hospital, ChandigarhA total of 2,531 dengue cases have been reported from the district in the past two months. While September saw 344 cases and two deaths, as many as 2,160 cases with 29 fatalities have surfaced this month. A total of 185 samples of suspected dengue fever patients were taken and 75 of these tested positive for the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-stings-75-more-in-mohali-332159
31-10-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Proposal for starting city bus service in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 30Residents of Mohali city are likely to get a Diwali gift as the Municipal Corporation has decided to bring a resolution for starting the city bus service in its coming general House meeting to be held on November 2.In the resolution, which is likely to be passed unanimously, the MC has proposed to run around eight low-floor buses the city. These buses would be operated on a BOO (Build, Operate and On) basis. The company would also be allowed to advertise on these buses to generate funds. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti said there are many parts of the city where CTU buses were not plying or run very late. He said an attempt was also made by the MC in 2016-17 to start the city bus service on a kilometre scheme basis which was not successful. Again in 2019, a proposal was made but it also remained pending. Therefore, the MC has proposed to run five or eight CNG buses with 25 seats on various routes.As per the resolution, the bus operating company would procure the buses at its own cost and provide it to the corporation. Their maintenance and cost of operating would be borne by the company itself. The fare will be fixed by the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proposal-for-starting-city-bus-service-in-mohali-332160
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Prof Jagat Ram retires as PGI Director||An illustrious inning spanning over 42 years has come to an end for Prof Jagat Ram, who retired as the PGI Director after serving the institute for four years and seven months on the top post and 38 years in various other capacities. As its Director, the professor contributed immensely to the institute of national reckoning taking it to new heights, be it in patient care, research or teaching.This is an institute of national importance, and there is a certain depth of dedication required to be here. So, one must not compromise on ethics at all. Prof Jagat RamKumar Gaurav Dhawan, Deputy Director (Administration), PGI, said, “Prof Jagat Ram maintained a cordial and constructive relationship with senior administrators, heads of departments, faculty and other officials of the institute.”The unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic displayed how under the leadership of Prof Jagat Ram, the PGI rose to the occasion and demonstrated its extraordinary capacity for hard work, team spirit and mentorship for this part of the country as teams from different specialties worked in tandem to face the human catastrophe.Besides, the professor is also credited with accomplishing many milestones during his headship as under the NIRF rankings, the PGI was adjudged the second-best medical institution in the country for four years successively. In cadaveric organ donation, the institute has been ranked the ‘Best Hospital’ for the past four years. As far as cleanliness is concerned, the PGI is among the best and Kayakalp awards for the institute during his tenure validated the same. Other commendable initiatives undertaken during his sojourn with the PGI as its director included a new screening OPD in Sarangpur to help manage the mammoth rush of 3 million patients annually. Besides, a 500-bed trauma centre as well as an oncology centre with all kind of services, including medical oncology, surgical oncology, radiotherapy and rehabilitation, is being developed.To provide cost-effective tertiary care services, two more centres, Neurosciences Centre and a ‘mother and child’ care 300-bed centre are being built on the campus.As he bid adieu, Prof Jagat Ram expressed his deep gratitude to the PGI for his professional as well as personal growth. He said, “This is an institute of national importance, and there is a certain depth of dedication required to be here. So, one must not compromise on ethics at all.”“Also, teamwork is extremely important. Individual achievement does not make much sense. Only then, the institute excels,” he signed off. — TNSProf Surjit Singh officiating headProf Surjit Singh, Head, Department of Paediatrics, has been given the officiating charge of the post of the Director, PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-jagat-ram-retires-as-pgi-director-332161
31-10-2021||Mohali||Pistols recovered from gangster||The police today foiled a murder plan with the recovery of three pistols, including one made in Czechoslovakia, and 73 cartridges from gangster Preet Phagwara.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said the police recovered the arms and ammunition on the basis of disclosures made by Rajneesh Kumar, alias Preet Phagwara, a resident of Daddal Mohalla, Phagwara, Kapurthala district. He said Preet Phagwara was an aide of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and was involved in numerous cases of murder, robbery, drug smuggling, etc, in many states, including Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Chandigarh.Mahal said following some snatching incidents that took place within the jurisdiction of the Kurali police, the police brought Preet Phagwara here on production warrant. During investigation, the gangster revealed that he was planning to kill/attack his rival gang member Sukhi Bidhipuria, who is lodged in the jail. He arranged weapons to kill Bidhipuria during a court hearing.Mahal said the arms and ammunitions were brought from other states for the execution of the murder plan.The SSP said Preet, after entering the world of crime in 2014, had been booked in 24 cases registered in Punjab and New Delhi.Earlier, he was a member of Sukha Kahlwan group. After Kahlwan’s killing, he joined the Bhagwanpuria gang. Preet and his associates helped Akul Khattri, a close associate of Jaggu, to flee from police custody during a court hearing in Nawanshahr. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pistols-recovered-from-gangster-332162
31-10-2021||---||Outsourced employees to replace National Health Mission staff||Chandigarh, October 30The UT Administration has taken a tough call on the National Health Mission (NHM) employees whose services were terminated for going on strike. Now, the Health Secretary has ensured that the persons whose contractual appointment has been terminated because of the misconduct are not considered in the fresh selection process.A public notice is being issued to fill the required number of vacancies under the NHM in due process.The NHM employees insisted for pay equal to the DC rates without increased working hours (8 hours instead of 6 hours daily) and lesser leaves. “The sudden strike did not give sufficient time to make alternative arrangements and it badly affected the health services during this ongoing difficult time when the health facilities were overflowing with the patients,” said the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, during a meeting with the Health Secretary.The Executive Committee of Health has also expressed anguish over the conduct of the ex-staff of the NHM. “Knowing the gravity of this unprecedented emergent health crisis prevailing in Chandigarh, such highly irresponsible conduct has put the life of a large number of patients to serious risk which clearly indicates that these ex-staff of the NHM could not be relied upon to provide uninterrupted patient care in Chandigarh. In the past also, some of the NHM staff went on strike and health services in the city were affected,” the committee observed.“The demand for pay as per the DC rates but without applicable working hours and leaves is unreasonable. Agreeing to such unjustified demand will lead to serious implications and become a reason for unrest in the staff deputed as per the DC rates because they may also demand for lesser working hours and other service conditions as per the NHM staff,” said Yaspal Garg, UT Health Secretary.After detailed deliberations and considering the present scenario of health-related issues in the city, the Executive Committee decided that the aspect of pay to the NHM staff as per the DC rates needs to be re-examined carefully after getting status from other UTs, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Till then the guidelines issued by the Central Government for service conditions, including pay to the NHM staff, to be strictly followed.Dept grappling with staff shortageThe termination of services of employees has also created a shortage of staff in the Health Department. The existing staff have been deputed in shifts/extra duty to overcome the shortage. The outsourcing agency has been requested to immediately provide some staff, preferably from the outsourced persons who were deputed during the second wave of Covid, but were subsequently disengaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outsourced-employees-to-replace-national-health-mission-staff-332163
