03-01-2022||Ludhiana||2 smugglers held with 2.1-kg heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-smugglers-held-with-2-1-kg-heroin-357442
03-01-2022||Act strictly against criminals||Open House: What should be done to avert terror strikes and ensure public safety?||Are we safe? This is the question, which haunts every mind when a heinous act such as a bomb blast kills and seriously injures people. And when such a violent incident takes place at the District Court Complex in Ludhiana, which is otherwise regarded as impregnable, safety of life of the public and even their existence becomes a matter of concern. Therefore, to instill a sense of security in the minds of people, the state government must marginalise troublemakers and act firmly against criminals.Novin ChristopherProvide special training to copsTo mitigate incidents such as bomb blasts there should be a proper tracing of the public at public utility spaces and proper barricading on inter-state borders. To maintain law and order, the police should be trained with special guidance that how they can be vigilant to encounter terror strikes.Jasdeep KaurMaintain peace at any costPeace must be maintained at any cost. The bomb blast in the district courts has rendered all of us speechless. This has been an unfortunate incident in which one person has died and a few were injured. When such an incident occurs, many questions come to the mind of the common man. How can the state move towards the path of development in such a violent atmosphere. Punjab has suffered much due to terrorism in the past. Occurrence of the incident might be connected to the upcoming Assembly elections. However, peace must be restored ahead of the Assembly elections.JBS NandaCops should be more vigilant, responsiveLife has become vulnerable to terrorism. Safety is in our hands only. Police personnel should be more responsive and vigilant to cater to the safety and security of the public. CCTV cameras installed at various points must be in a working condition. Security should be tightened in every nook and corner of the city throughout the year to avoid such violent incidents in the future.Swati GargStep up security measures in stateFirstly, it was drones flying near the international border in Punjab, then large hauls of drugs were also caught from near the border. Afterwards, there were sacrilege cases in Amritsar and a village in Kapurthala. And recently, a high-intensity bomb blast occurred in the Ludhiana district courts. All these incidents point to the fact that some anti-social elements are trying to vitiate the atmosphere in Punjab. The bomb blast is a major security lapse. There is an urgent need to step up security measures across the state so that such unfortunate incidents can be stopped. The primary duty for maintaining security is of the state government but even people need to be vigilant. These incidents are a wake-up call for all. All public places must be put under strict surveillance to avoid such incidents. Elections are scheduled to be held in the state soon and the infamous Maur blast had also occurred before the elections in 2017. Hence, the government, police, intelligence agencies and also people must remain alert.Bir Devinder Singh BediStrengthen security at public placesA bomb went off in the Ludhiana courts complex recently killing a person and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab Government to declare a high alert in the state. The explosion might be an attempt to create anarchy in the poll-bound state. Government and police officials must assure residents that they are committed to their safety and security and there is no need to panic. Security must be strengthened at various public places. Owners of eateries, cinema halls, malls and the officials concerned of various public places must check identity cards of their guests and scan their luggage with modern equipment. Police teams with dog squads and anti-sabotage team must carry out inspections at public places and the vigil be increased. The police must be informed immediately in case of any suspicious activity. Criminals and cobnvicted cops should be kept under constant surveillance. Anti-drug drives must be intensified. PCRs should be more responsive to deal with any exigency. Intelligence agencies should provide information to the officials concerned about any untoward incident before their occurrence to stop such acts. Above all, it is a joint task for the police and communities to reduce the risk and fear of such incidents among residents. Learn about locations of local police stations and hospitals for any emergency and ensure to have CCTV cameras installed at important points with the help of the police.RS SembhiRound-the-clock vigil at sensitive places neededUnfortunate incidents of sacrilege occurred in Punjab some days ago and the recent bomb blast incident at Ludhiana courts are a matter of grave concern. The police should be more vigilant as the Assembly elections are also going to be held in the near future in the state. A round-the-clock vigil around all religious places as well as other sensitive public places by the police is the need of the hour. It is also the duty of each and every person to see that nobody should disturb the peaceful atmosphere of the city. Suspects should be nabbed and handed over to the police immediately.Sunil ChopraBe vigilant at public placesTo avert such terror strikes and ensure safety and security of the public at large, one must be extra vigilant in public places attended by large numbers of people. Don’t leave your belongings unattended. When you are in a building or commuting in a public transport, make sure you know about emergency exits. If there is an explosion outside a building, stay inside. Keep away from windows, lifts and outside doors. Find safe ways to leave the area. Move quickly and calmly and follow instructions of emergency officials.Varun ChauhanGive harsh punishment to criminalsAs the elections are scheduled to be held in the state in the near future, there is a need for foolproof security of the public, especially in a big city such as Ludhiana. It is difficult to predict the danger in advance but every effort must be made to reduce it. It is the main duty of the government and the police authorities to always remain on their toes to curb any such violent act. If there is any suspicious activity, it must be noticed and quick action must be taken. Culprits should be given harsh punishment without any extra security and facilities. If somebody gets information about any such activity, it must be reported to the police authorities without any fear of being caught.Ritu PriyaTight security at govt offices neededThe high-intensity bomb blast at the District Court Complex in Ludhiana has raised concern over public safety. As elections are going to be held early this year in the state, law and order has again become a major issue. Again, anti-social elements or politicians are playing dirty politics to destroy the serene atmosphere of the state. To avert such incidents, bureaucrats must abide by strict execution of laws to maintain peace and order and there must be tight security at public places and government offices. Compulsory checking should be done at entrance gates of government offices. Moreover, election campaigns should be held with security, police guards must remain present at such events to ensure the safety of the public.Gurnoor KaushalIncrease number of police personnelIt is primarily the responsibility of the police to ensure the safety of the public, especially during the time of elections. The police must increase not only the number of police personnel on duty and also increase patrolling in streets, market places and important crossings of the city. The police have information about the presence of miscreants in various areas of the city. To keep a watch on their activities, police officials must be deployed in such areas. Any suspicious person creating any trouble must be apprehended and questioned and culprits should be punished as per law. If needed, more police force may be brought from neighbouring states for the safety of the public and all places in the city. The public must also remain vigilant. If they find any suspicious person, the matter must be reported to the police. The police should set up checkpoints at entry and exit points of the city and those coming to the city must be checked properly. All efforts must be made to strengthen the functioning of the police to ensure the safety of people.Gautam DevStrict checking at govt offices neededThe government must take precautions for the safety of the public and smooth functioning of all establishments ahead of the Assembly elections in the state by increasing vigil at shopping malls, offices and other sensitive areas. CCTVs must be installed. Proper checking should be done at entrances to government offices. Nobody should be allowed to enter such places without identity cards. People should not be allowed to roam around public places. One must avoid, if possible, going to places visited by a large number of people.Mohd Saleem FarooquiReduce entrances to public placesThe recent bomb blast in the District Court Complex has exposed serious security lapses. People visiting courts and other public places use many entrances. To ensure the safety of thousands of people who visit courts, offices, markets, railway stations and bus stations, adequate police personnel should be deployed round the clock. Number of entrances to such public places should be reduced and more metal detectors should be used for checking visitors.Ashwani Kumar MalhotraMore efforts by govt neededTo remove fear in the minds of the public and to ensure safety, the government must take various steps. Carrying of identity cards must be made mandatory. Only those people should be allowed entry to public places who have some genuine works. Places such as shopping malls and cinema halls, proper search should be carried out. Security guards must be provided metal detectors for proper checking at entrances to various establishments.Farzana KhanUse hi-tech equipment for checkingThe recent bomb blast incident occurred in Ludhiana created a fear among people ahead of the Assembly elections. To maintain security and peace in the state is a big challenge in such circumstances. Intelligence agencies should be more alert in the state to curn any untoward incident. Security should be tight and strict in all areas. Police patrolling should also be increased. The latest security equipment must be installed at public places. Drones could be used to check security of various areas.Adish SoodSpread awareness among publicIn the past also, many attempts have been made by some anti-social elements to disturb the peaceful atmosphere in the state which were foiled by the Punjab Police. However, the recent bomb blast at the Ludhiana District Court Complex is worrisome. Peace can be secured with meticulous planned steps. The authorities concerned should address the problem of unemployment, start a process of deredicalisation of youth and speedy judicial proceedings should be initiated against accused in sacrilege cases. Political parties should not indulge in spreading hatred. The government and all sections of society should spread awareness about benefits of communal harmony. The police should use the latest technology to trace criminals planning to undertake heinous crimes in the state.Sukhdev SharmaPublic safety should be govt’s priorityRecently, the District Court Complex in Ludhiana witnessed a bomb blast which injured a few and took the life of one person. Such an attack was shocking for people of the entire state. It has raised questions over safety of the public. Mass gatherings are expected at various places due to the festival season and campaigning by political parties for the coming Assembly elections in the state. Hence, public safety should be on the high-priority list of the government. High-risk areas should be identified and police force should be deployed at such locations. Strict security checks should be initiated. Unnecessary gatherings should not be allowed for a while and with the help of media, awareness should be created among the public to avoid any untoward incidents.Akanksha AttriQUESTIONA sudden spike in daily, active cases and positivity rate of Covid has again given rise to the possibility of a third virus wave in Ludhiana district, which had remained worst-hit during the second wave of the dreaded pandemic, claiming maximum lives and infecting a large population. With Covid-appropriate behaviour going for a toss and complete vaccination of target population remaining still below 50 per cent, the state’s biggest and largest district, in terms of area and population, is facing a threat of another health emergency. What should be done to check the further spread of Covid?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-avert-terror-strikes-and-ensure-public-safety-357441
03-01-2022||Ludhiana||LIP to play crucial role in Punjab Assembly polls: Simarjit Singh Bains||LIP president and sitting MLA from Atam Nagar Simarjit Singh Bains today claimed that his party would emerge as a balancing power and would play a crucial role in the formation of the next government in the state as no single party was expected to get majority.Addressing a rally in the Gill Assembly segment under the banner of ‘Lok jagao, Punjab bachao’ (wake up people and save Punjab), Bains announced Gagandeep Singh Kainth as the party candidate from Gill. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-to-play-crucial-role-in-polls-bains-357440
03-01-2022||Ludhiana||52-year-old man dies, 40 fresh cases in Ludhiana district||Forty persons, including three healthcare workers and two international travellers from the USA and Australia, tested positive for Covid in the district. One patient, a 52-year-old man from Lohara, lost his life to the disease.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has now gone down to 97.43 per cent and active cases have now gone up to 144. Yesterday there were 110 active cases in the district. In addition to this, 144 patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 30,12,625 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 29,12,954 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,885, while 11,786 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid here is 2,118 from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/52-year-old-man-dies-40-fresh-cases-in-district-357439
03-01-2022||Manav Mander||Jab for 15-18 age group to start today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 2Vaccination against Covid for adolescents in the age group 15-18 will start in the district tomorrow. Session site for this age group will be set up at all Urban Community Health Centres, all four Subdivisional Hospitals and Civil Hospital.According to the Health Department, there are 2.5 lakh children in this age bracket. Not only parents but also the educational institutes have heaved a sigh of relief with this announcement.Giving information, Civil Surgeon, Dr SP Singh said in the beginning vaccination of those falling in the age group 15-18 will be done at five-six centres and in addition to this it will also be done at all Subdivisional Hospitals.“Covaxin has been provided at these sites. Keeping in view the strike by the healthcare workers we have sought help from the CMCH and DMCH and they will be providing us teams for the same. Sites will be common but teams administering vaccine to teenagers will be different,” said the Civil Surgeon.Children born in 2007 and earlier shall be eligible to receive the vaccine. Registration can be done on CoWin. A slot can also be booked by children by using their parents’ existing CoWin accounts.“Now that schools have opened, the decision of the government to administer vaccine to kids is a welcome step. I will definitely get both my kids vaccinated,” said Jaspinder, a parent.A schoolteacher suggested that the Health Department should also set up camps at schools so that maximum number of beneficiaries are covered in a single day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jab-for-15-18-age-group-to-start-today-357438
03-01-2022||Ludhiana||Elanchezhian takes charge as Khanna SSP||J Elanchezhian (IPS) today took charge as the SSP, Khanna. He was posted as the JCP (City), at the Ludhiana Commissionerate. Yesterday, he was transferred as the SSP, Khanna.Elanchezhian was received by SP (Crime) Amandeep Singh Brar along with other officers.He called senior officials and held a meeting with them. He told them to discharge their duty honestly and directed them to clear backlog of cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elanchezhian-takes-charge-as-khanna-ssp-357437
03-01-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Infant dies as ambulance gets stuck in highway jam caused by contractual employees near Khanna||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 2A month-old child died as the ambulance which was carrying him to a hospital got stuck in a jam on the Khanna-Delhi highway. The highway was jammed by the Contractual Employees Sangharsh Committee in protest against the Punjab Government failing to regularise the services of contractual employees.The protest started at 11.30 am on Sunday morning and the road was not opened till the time of filing of this report.Protesters had installed tents on the highway and they warned that they would not open the highway till the government give them in writing about the regularisation of services of contractual employees.Soni, a resident of Mohanpur village, near Khanna, said his one-month-old son was not well and they had hired an ambulance to admit their child to some hospital in Khanna. “Our ambulance got stuck in the jam on the national highway for a few minutes. Later they went to three hospitals in Khanna where they could not meet any doctor and their child died,” added Soni.Soni said when they could not find any doctor at hospitals, they decided to take him to the DMC Hospital in Ludhiana, but his son died before they could start towards Ludhiana.Manjit Kaur, SDM, Khanna, said they would enquire about the incident.Superintendent of Police (Crime) Amandeep Singh Brar said due to this highway jam, a diversion was already provided from the highway so that commuters heading towards Delhi or coming from Delhi should not get stuck in the jam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/infant-dies-as-ambulance-gets-stuck-in-highway-jam-357436
03-01-2022||---||Youth held for sodomising 6-year-old boy in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 2The Sadar police arrested a youth on the charges of sodomising a six-year-old child on Saturday.A case under Section 377 of the IPC was registered against the youth, Vishal Singh, resident of Lalto Kalan.The victim’s father told the police that on Saturday afternoon his son was playing outside the house when Vishal Singh took him to some empty house in the area and sodomised him.Vishal Singh had lured the boy with buying him a kite.Investigating officer ASI Saraj Kumar said after registering a case the accused was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-held-for-sodomising-6-year-old-357435
03-01-2022||---||Garlanding with Shoes: Farmers, teachers to protest at DC office in support of Ludhiana DEO today||Ludhiana, January 2The incident of DEO Lakhvir Singh being mischievously garlanded with shoes has evoked strong reaction from all fronts. It is not only the teaching community or the educationists who have termed it as a highly “insensitive behaviour”, farmer associations have also joined hands to support the DEO. And in this case, a mass protest and gathering will be held tomorrow outside the DC office at 12 noon.Bharti Kisan Union (Dakaunda) leader Mohinder Singh Kamalpura, BKU (Ugrahan) Saudagar Singh Ghudani, Democratic Teachers’ Front, principals and educationists from private schools and colleges, Government School Teachers’ Union, etc, have extended full support to DEO Lakhvir Singh, who even after being garlanded with shoes, did not lose temper and maintained calm and went ahead as per law.The kisan union leaders, expressing shock over the incident, said a bomb exploded in the District Court Complex recently and still the administration and police did not woke up from slumber and failed to adopt strict safety measures. Now this incident has taken place. “That means there is absolutely no check what all is carried by public or any other person in Mini Secretariat”, rued kisan leader Mohinder Singh Kamalpura.Talking to The Tribune, Principal, Nankana Sahib Public School, Harmit Kaur Waraich said if any molestation had taken place, expressing solidarity with the family, members of the parents’ association could have taken up the matter with the police (if the family had agreed to it). “First, they had no right to teach someone a lesson and secondly, if parents were resisting to file any complaint, those who garlanded the DEO with shoes on the particular issue (as he allegedly failed to take action against the male teacher) had no right to publicise the whole issue,” said the principal.Dr Devinder Chhina, District Nodal Officer (media)-cum-Principal of a government school, said it was a pre-planned conspiracy against the DEO. “Earlier also they had planned to garland the DEO with shoes but unfortunately a bomb blast took place at Mini Secretariat and the parents’ association leaders were not successful in the attempt,” said Chhina.School union leaders said the members of Private School Parents’ Association had no right to interfere in the government’s working. “If they have issues, they can lodge a complaint with the higher authorities. Nobody has given them the right to punish someone,” said another principal of a government school.Teachers, kisan union leaders, principals, etc, have asked the authorities to arrest the accused within 24 hours, else there will be a bigger protest tomorrow.Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot: Office-bearers and activists of various outfits of teachers have demanded strict action against the accused.Activists of the Joint Teachers Front, Raikot, and Alumni Association of Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, Ludhiana, alleged that self-styled leaders of a parents’ association had humiliated the whole teaching community by insulting a senior education officer for no fault of his.“We fail to understand genuineness of such parents towards psychological and moral development of their wards when they can’t respect teachers who have been since known as nation builders,” said Brij Bhushan Goyal, coordinator of the Alumni Association.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, convener of meeting of the Joint Teachers Front, Raikot, said office-bearers and activists of Democratic Teachers Front, Bachelor of Education Teachers Front, Teacher Fellow Union and Zila Parishad Teachers Union had resolved to launch a coordinated movement to take the case registered against the accused to a conclusive end.What provoked parentsAs per members of the parents’ association, the DEO had allegedly failed to take strict action against the male teacher who had allegedly molested a girl student at a government school, near here. While a compromise had reportedly taken place between the family and teacher with the help school authorities and local panchayat, the parents’ association was adamant on punishing the DEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-teachers-to-protest-at-dc-office-in-support-of-deo-today-357434
