05-01-2022||Ludhiana||Religious event held on New Year||Members of the Municipal Employees Sangarsh Committee organised a religious event at Gurdwara Sahib of Purani Sabzi Mandi on Tuesday to mark the New Year. The ‘paath’ of Sri Sukhmani Sahib was held. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and Additional Commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal attended the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/religious-event-held-on-new-year-358341
05-01-2022||---||Cultural hostel night for freshers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna Ludhiana organised cultural hostel night for new batch of students on its campus. The event was full of activities. Fashion show was held. The students also presented Bhangra, Giddha, Naati, Western dance, Manipuri dance, Nepali dance and Kashmiri music etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cultural-hostel-night-for-freshers-358340
05-01-2022||---||Defenders XI pip LDCA Colts by 9 wickets||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, January 4Roopam smashed 78 runs off 44 balls and took three wickets to help LDCA Defenders XI beat LDCA Colts by nine wickets in the ongoing LDCA U-14 Cricket League being played at the Government Polytechnic College grounds, Rishi Nagar, here, on Monday.Batting first, LDCA Colts made 147 runs after losing nine wickets in 30 overs. The architects of their innings were Himanshu and Vibhas who contributed 33 and 22 runs, respectively.For LDCA Defenders, Roopam grabbed three wickets for 12 runs, Tejasman secured two wickets while Ryaan Sehgal and Arshpreet took one wicket each.LDCA Defenders achieved the target in just 17 overs after losing one wicket. Roopam and Arshpreet scored 78 and 31 runs, respectively, to steer their side wrap up the issue comfortably.Meanwhile, in the eighth match in the U-16 category, played at the GRD Global Education Institute grounds on Hambran Road, LDCA Lions XI defeated LDCA Capitals XI by five wickets.LDCA Capitals XI scored 120/9 in 35 overs in which Sargunveer was the main scorer, making 62 runs. Tanishq made 11 runs.For LDCA Lions XI, Chirag Anand captured three wickets after conceding 28 runs, Raunak, Daksham and Arshit Arora took one wicket each.LDCA Lions XI surpassed the total in 27.2 overs after losing five wickets. Sukhsehaj remained unbeaten on 54 runs and Imrozpreet contributed 29 runs whereas for the losing side, Gurkirat, Kabir and Parikshit got rid of one batsman each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/defenders-xi-pip-ldca-colts-by-9-wickets-358339
05-01-2022||Ludhiana||Government schools shut till January 15||With a drastic spike in Covid cases, the state government has announced to shut schools till January 15. Many private schools in the city have also switched over to online classes, once again.As the cases are increasing with each passing day, the parents have expressed concern over the safety of the children. Though the vaccination of children in the 15-18 years of age group has begun, parents feel children had attended New Year, Christmas parties and many were complaining of cold and cough and whether they should go for vaccination or not.Shruti, a parent, said she had got her son vaccinated today but came to know that her son’s best friend had caught Covid. “Now, I am worried. Had I knew earlier about it, I would have waited and got his test done but now nothing can be done,” said the worried mother. The parents are putting pressure in private tutors to start taking online classes. The government had also issued instructions to encourage online teaching.Need to intensify vax driveThe private school managements believe that the government should allow schools to start vaccination drive of their students. “We have the e-portal, every detail of child is with us. We can vaccinate them through proper staff and fill the online details. This way vaccination process can be completed too soon. There are limited centres for children of 15-18 years age group, if they allow schools, the drive would be more smooth and fast”, said Harmit Kaur Waraich, Principal, Nankana Public School. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/government-schools-shut-till-january-15-358338
05-01-2022||---||Ludhiana boys excel in CAT-2021||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Candidates from Ludhiana excelled in the Common Admission Test (CAT) 2021.Nikhil Sharma of Civil Lines has secured 99.74 percentile in the exam. He has passed BTech in production and industrial engineering from the IIT, Roorkee. He is currently working with a Gurgaon-based firm. Nikhil aims to be a social entrepreneur and wants to get admission to the IIM, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru or Calcutta. His mother Meena Sharma is a homemaker and father Bishan Sharma is a businessman.Ankit Bedi of the New Shimlapuri area has also secured 99.74 percentile. He had done BTech (Mechanical) in 2019. He is working with a Bengaluru-based firm. Ankit wants to study masters from the IIM, Ahmedabad, or Bengaluru. His mother Renu Bedi is a homemaker and his father Kuldip Singh Bedi passed away in 2018.Abhishek Jain of Rishi Nagar has secured 99.19 percentile. He is currently doing integrated program in management from the IIM, Indore. He wants to pursue a masters degree from the IIM, Ahmedabad. He wants to be a business consultant. His mother Richee Jain is a homemaker and father Ravi Jain is a businessman.Meanwhile, Sanyam Gupta of Tagore Nagar has also secured 99.06 percentile.The Common Admission Test is a computer based test for admission in graduate management programs. The MCQ test consists of three sections: verbal ability and reading comprehension, data interpretation and logical reasoning and quantitative ability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-boys-excel-in-cat-2021-358337
05-01-2022||Mahesh Sharma||Tribune Impact: Ludhiana admn comes to rescue of child mauled by stray dogs||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 4Day after Ludhiana Tribune carried a report, ‘12-year-old boy mauled by dogs’, in these columns, the officials concerned of the administration have been ordered to check the menace of stray dogs.Besides advising health authorities to undertake responsibility of further treatment of the child, the Deputy Commissioner Madhvi Kataria has advised Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Ahmedgarh, and Executive Officer, Municipal Council, to launch a coordinated movement to check the menace of stray dogs in their respective areas.Having received reports about a sequence of events leading to the inability of the Baurhai family led by daily wager Sukhdev Singh, Ahmedgarh SDM Harbans Singh visited Sood Hospital at Dehliz Road, where Jagdeep Singh (12) was admitted for treatment.“Having been apprised about the condition of the child and situation at Baurhai Kalan village, we advised authorities in the Health Department to closely supervise further management of lifesaving treatment,” said Harbans Singh maintaining that authorities concerned had been advised to ensure that such incidents do not happen again.SMO Dr Rajesh Garg said a process for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the victim’s family had been initiated and the treatment of the child who had been put on immunoglobulins and anti-rabies vaccine.Sukhdev Singh of Baurhai village informed that his son was attacked by a pack of stray dogs when he was running to catch a kite along with his friends on Sunday. “Had the children not scared dogs away, they could have eaten my son then and there only,” said Sukhdev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tribune-impact-admn-comes-to-rescue-of-child-mauled-by-stray-dogs-358336
05-01-2022||Manav Mander||Amid surge in Covid cases, sharp decline in daily tests||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Samples being collected for Covid testing have seen a sharp decline in the district. Contractual staff are on strike for the past one month and since then the sample collection has decreased considerably.Nearly 10,000-15,000 samples were collected in a day during peak Covid wave and on normal days 7,000-8,000 samples were collected on daily basis but after the staff went on strike, the sample collection went down to as low as 1,500-2,000. Today, 2,975 samples were collected.Amidst the rise in Covid cases in the country, the tests per million in the district continue to witness a fall.According to the data shared by the Health Department, on January 1, 2,705 samples were collected. On December 1, 5,436 samples were collected, on December 15, samples collected were 4,739 while on December 31, the samples collected went down to 2,543.On November 10, 7,382 samples were collected, on October 10, 6,578 samples were collected, on September 10, 8,436 samples and on August 10, 14,012 samples were sent for testing. During the months of May-June, samples collected daily were around 10,000-15,000.Civil Surgeon Dr SP Singh said the sample collection has decreased due to strike by the contractual staff. “We need maximum sampling at this time as third wave has already struck us. The staff on strike should join back the duties and help in tackling Covid spread,” said Dr Singh.Keeping this in view National Health Mission has decided to stop salaries of the employees who are on strike for their demand of regularisation of services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-surge-in-covid-cases-sharp-decline-in-daily-tests-358335
05-01-2022||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Man found murdered in Tibba||A man was found murdered in a vacant plot in Tibba here early this morning. His body was found lying under the debris. The face of the deceased was apparently disfigured.The place where the body was found was located near the office of AAP candidate Daljit Grewal Bholla. Later, Tibba SHO Nardev Singh reached the spot. The SHO said it seems that the man was murdered and then his body was concealed underneath the debris. Passers-by saw the feet of the deceased this morning after which they raised an alarm.“We have not recovered any cell phone or any other document from the deceased’s body. It seemed that killers had taken away his belongings, “the SHO said. He said the body was sent to Civil Hospital for autopsy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-358332
05-01-2022||---||3 bike-borne youths open fire at student in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Three bike-borne persons fired at a college student who was sitting outside his house along with his mother on the Kakowal road late on Tuesday evening. Old enmity was said to be the cause behind the incident.Complainant Gurpreet Singh, a student of third year at Khalsa College, Ghumar Mandi, said he, along with his mother, was sitting outside their house when three motorcycle-borne youths came and fired four bullets at him.“I along with my mother went inside our house and closed the door. We had a fortunate escape. The assailants were masked due to which I could not identify them,” Singh said.ADCP Parminder Heer said four rounds were fired by the assailants and efforts were on to identify them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-bike-borne-youths-open-fire-at-student-in-ludhiana-358327
05-01-2022||---||No mask, no services: Ludhiana DC orders restrictions till January 15||Ludhiana, January 4Amid the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma has ordered strict restrictions till January 15. He ordered the imposition of night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am for the people’s movement for all non-essential activities in cities and municipal areas.It has been made compulsory for every citizen to wear a mask in public places and workplaces in the district. In addition, it is instructed to follow social distancing of at least six feet (two-yard distance).During the night curfew, essential activities, operations of industries, offices (both public and private), transportation of citizens and goods on national and state highways and unloading of goods will be allowed. People travelling in buses, trains and aeroplanes will be allowed to reach their destinations. Home delivery of food items will be allowed till 11 pm.Schools and colleges to remain closedEducational institutes, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutes, in the district will remain closed till January 15 while online teaching services from these institutes will be allowed. However, medical colleges and nursing institutes are allowed to open.Restaurants, bars, multiplexes and malls can function at 50 per cent capacity with a condition that all present staff must be fully vaccinated.All sports complexes, stadiums, swimming pools and gyms will be closed (except for players training for national and international sports competitions or venues hosting national and international sports competitions). No spectators or visitors will be allowed to visit these places.AC buses will be able to run at 50% capacity.Only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to be present in government, private offices, workplaces, factories, industries, etc.The District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma ordered ‘No Mask, No Services’. No service will be provided in government or private offices or ‘Sewa Kendras’ to anyone who does not wear a proper mask. Action will be taken against those found violating the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-mask-no-services-ludhiana-dc-orders-restrictions-till-january-15-358321
05-01-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Liquor vends, eateries defy night curfew norms in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Despite the state government imposed night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am, most of the liquor vends and a few eateries in the industrial hub were least bothered about the instructions given by the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.A correspondent with a lensman took a round of the city after the curfew was imposed at 10 pm. Liquor vends at the Jawala Singh chowk, near Haibowal police station, adjoining the Ludhiana Police Lines, Rajpura chowk, Model Town, Pakhowal road, Gill Road, Near Grand Walk Mall, etc, were seen serving liquor to customers.Then came the city’s heart Fountain Chowk, where all other eating joints, commercial establishments, including Pavillion Mall, were found closed after 10 pm, but a famous restaurant, ‘Basant Ice cream’, owned by a Congress leader, was found serving customers. Notably, the restaurant is near the official residences of government officials, including Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and the DC. Earlier during the lockdown amid Covid, an FIR was also registered against the outlet for violating the night curfew norms.An eatery at the Haibowal chowk, near Pavillion Mall, was also found opened.After 11 pm, some liquor vends downed their shutter partially and some eateries in the Civil Lines area were found making home deliveries. However, all restaurants and eateries in Ghumar Mandiand Sarabha Nagar market were found closed after 10 pm.At some places, police officials were also seen asking shopkeepers to close their shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/liquor-vends-eateries-defy-night-curfew-norms-in-ludhiana-358318
05-01-2022||Nitin Jain||Work begins on international airport's interim terminal building in Halwara||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4Finally, the work to construct the interim terminal building of an upcoming international airport got underway at Halwara in Ludhiana on Tuesday, the administration has confirmed.The work was allotted to a Himachal Pradesh-based construction company at Rs 2,272.5 lakh last month, the officials have said.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune, here on Tuesday, that Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh would formally lay the foundation stone of the Rs 38.77-crore project on Wednesday.He said Synergy Thrislington of Solan was awarded the work to construct the interim terminal building of the new international airport on December 9 after being found to be the lowest and the most suitable bidder among the five eligible bidders.Sharma, who was monitoring the progress of the project on a daily basis, said the firm was given six months to complete the allotted work.Divulging the progress of the ongoing work, the PWD (B&R) Superintending Engineer, Rakesh Garg, said the preliminary ground work on the site to construct the state-of-the-art interim terminal building began this morning.He said the technical team of the private firm had started the survey operations at the site to prepare a layout plan, demarcate the land and undertake levelling work.The work to design the final structure was also under process and the same would be finalised shortly.The interim airport terminal will be built on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode on a lump sum basis at the Halwara airbase.Garg said the work for construction of internal roads, estate public health services and campus lighting at the airport terminal has also picked up pace after the completion of levelling and cleanliness operations on the project site.The work was allotted to Ludhiana-based Ceigall India Limited on November 8 at Rs 1,604.15 lakh on the EPC mode with a six-month completion deadline.International flights from interim terminalThe project entails building an interim arrangement to attend immediate requirements to make international flights available to residents of Ludhiana, which was the state’s largest industrial and business city.The interim terminal building will be a prefabricated steel structure with a modern outlook, spread over a 2,000-sq km area with 3,800-sq meter canopy space having a seating capacity of 300 passengers.The PWD (B&R) was the main executing agency while a private firm was hired for architectural design of the project.The scope of the project includes a new terminal building along with the ancillary facilities such as apron taxiway extensions, a sub-station, a boundary wall and an approach road.Apron to park longest airbusThe terminal will be a state-of-the-art building as per norms and requirements of the AAI while construction of the apron will be suitable to park one AB321-200 type aircraft and widening of taxi track and car park will accommodate 75 cars.The common concourse area will have provision for snack bar, toilets, AC switch room, drinking water, separate toilets for men and women, first-aid room, supporting office for AAI and airlines. The check-in area will comprise four check-in counters, adequate queuing space, and baggage conveyor belt with a storing space for 50 baggage trolleys.Besides the flight information display system with adequate number of display devices in departure, arrival and security hold area for passenger facilitation, an adequate number of X-Ray machines for scanning baggage with a required number of security equipment will be installed as per the AAI norms.Deadline missedAfter missing the January 2022 deadline earlier set by the state government to make the new airport operational following much delay in granting the final approval from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the PWD (B&R) had floated two separate tenders for construction of the airport project.It was on October 22 that the AAI had accorded formal nod to the construction of a new interim terminal building for the upcoming international airport at a cost of Rs 4,691.12-lakh.According to the AAI nod, the interim terminal building will be constructed by the Punjab government through its funds, which will be reimbursed to Punjab or its designated agency by the AAI after monetisation of its land at existing Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana.Already, the construction of the airport link road and 2,333-meter-long boundary wall has been completed.In a bid to give a boost to the industrial and economic activity in the state, the state government and the AAI were jointly setting up a new international civil terminal at the Air Force Station in Halwara, which is one of the oldest frontline airbases of the Indian Air Force (IAF), close to Ludhiana.Halwara to replace SahnewalLudhiana, which is Punjab’s largest industrial and business city with a population of nearly 4-million, was at present serviced by a small domestic airport at Sahnewal, which will be shut once the new international airport begins operations. Ludhiana also has the advantage of being at the geographical centre of the state.Future developmentBefore the construction of a regular terminal, an interim building will come up to begin the airport operations here. Land measuring 161.28 acres, comprising 135.54 acres for airport and 25.74 acres for future development, had already been acquired.An alternate approach road to the airport from the Delhi-Katra Expressway was also under proposal by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Project reportTotal project area: 161.28 acresTerminal area: 2,000 sq metersAwarded cost: Rs3,876.65 lakhCompletion target: June 2022Boundary wall, approach road cost: Rs309.33 crore||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-begins-on-intl-airports-interim-terminal-building-358317
05-01-2022||---||4 of family found dead inside railway quarters in Mullanpur Dakha||Ludhiana, January 4Four of a family, including a two-year-old girl, found dead under mysterious circumstances at the railway quarters in Mullanpur Dakha here this morning. The cause of the death was not clear. But the police suspected that the family could have had some poisonous substance on Monday night which might be the cause behind their death.The deceased have been identified as Sukhdev Singh (56), his son Jagdip Singh (28), daughter-in-law Jyoti (24) and granddaughter Manjot (2). Sukhdev was posted as a Mate with the Indian Railways and was posted at Mullanpur Dakha.Local residents said Jyoti was seven months pregnant.Sukhdev’s brother Kulwant Singh said his brother was staying in the railway quarters built in the railway colony in Dakha.“On Monday, Sukhdev had organised a Sukhmani Sahib Akhand Path and some of his relatives had also come. Later in the night, Sukhdev and the three other deceased went to sleep in one room while other relatives slept in the other room,” Kulwant said.This morning at around 7 am when Sukhdev’s wife Balbir Kaur opened the room, the four victims were found dead.Jyoti’s brother Jaswinder said yesterday night at around 11.45 pm she had called him and said her daughter Manjot was not well and she wanted to talk to her maternal grandmother.Dakha police station SHO Gurvinder Singh Bhullar said the police got information about the mysterious deaths of four family members this morning. When the police reached the spot, all four victims were lying dead in their room. It could be possible that they had some poisonous food last night which killed them. Viscera samples of the deceased would be taken to find the exact cause of death. Samples of food were also taken to know if the deceased had consumed some poisonous food.The police had ruled out the possibility of murder as the bodies had no external injuries.Cause of death not knownThe cause of the death of the four victims was not clear. But the police suspected that the family could have had some poisonous substance on Monday night which might be the cause behind their death. Meanwhile, the police have ruled out the possibility of murder as the bodies had no external injuries. Viscera samples of the deceased would be taken to find the exact cause of death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-of-family-found-dead-inside-railway-quarters-in-mullanpur-dakha-358316
05-01-2022||---||41 nursing students among 103 test +ve for Covid in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 4The Covid graph has again started going upwards. After six months, over 100 cases were reported in a day. Today, 103 cases were reported. It was last on June 13, that 112 positive cases were reported in a single day.As many as 41 students and one staff member from the DMC College of Nursing, Malakpur, were among those who tested positive for Covid today. The condition of all students is said to be stable.“Of the total infected students, 20 have been admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital while the others are in institutional quarantine at the college itself. The condition of all students is stable,” said Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, medical superintendent, DMCH. All of them are first year BSc Nursing students.Some students in the college had some symptoms on Sunday. More samples were collected from the college for testing. In addition, 14 healthcare workers were also among those tested positive today.The recovery rate of the Covid-19 patients continues to fall down and today, it was 97.26 per cent and active cases have now gone up to 294. Besides, 285 persons were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 30,17,249 samples have been taken, of which 29,17,363 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 88,044 while 11,842 belong to other districts or states. The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,119 from Ludhiana and 1,062 from other districts.As many as 2,975 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/41-nursing-students-among-103-test-ve-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-358313
