08-01-2022||Ludhiana||Ensure smooth traffic on roads, traffic cops told||The Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Traffic, Karnail Singh, today held a meeting with cops deployed in the traffic zone two and four in the city. In the meeting, cops were told to ensure that city’s traffic runs smoothly otherwise they would be held responsible for snarls.The ACP first held interaction with traffic cops at the Police Lines and after listening to their problems, he assured to sort out their issues. Some traffic cops said when they stop commuters for traffic violation, they misbehave with them and level false allegations of demanding bribe. On this, the ACP told cops to discharge their duty honestly and not to bow to any pressure while issuing challans.The ACP told cops that they must ensure no ambulance or fire brigade vehicle gets stuck on road. Whenever they notice any such emergency vehicle, a clear passage should be given to it, the ACP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ensure-smooth-traffic-on-roads-traffic-cops-told-359312
08-01-2022||---||Contractual employees protest for regularisation||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7Accusing the state government of ignoring their demands, members of the Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC Contract Workers Union Punjab staged a protest at Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Inter-state Bus Terminal here on Friday.Union members said the Transport Minister had earlier assured them that contractual employees would be regularised soon but nothing had been done till date. Even Cabinet meetings were held multiple times since he gave this assurance, they added.They further said their other demands, including a hike in salaries of data entry operators had not been fulfilled. Union leaders Shamsher Singh, Jagtar Singh and others said they had gone on strike for nine days last month. When on strike they were assrued that their demands would be fulfilled soon, but to no avail, leaders added.Union members Gurpreet Singh, Gurwinder Singh and others alleged that a bribe of Rs1.5 lakh was being accepted to recruit employees on an outsourcing basis. The protesting members demanded from the government to curb corrupt practices and stop recruitments in an ‘illegal’ manner.Members said if their demands were not met, they would be forced to intensify their agitation from January 10 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractual-employees-protest-for-regularisation-359311
08-01-2022||---||Pinning hopes on Budget for impetus to industry, Ludhiana bizmen seek tax relief||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7The Union Budget is expected anytime later this month. The city industrialists, already facing the heat of Covid, are expecting high hopes from the government for their survival. Meetings are being held to discuss the issue and few organisations have forwarded suggestions to the Union Finance Minister.Members of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) said that lower tax rates would better the revenue. The government should pass on the benefit of 25% tax, given to the corporate, to the proprietorships, partnerships and LLPs also.KK Seth, chairman, and Gurmit Kular, president, of the FICO, said that the steel prices had almost doubled in the last one year, making it unviable for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to operate. “Industries are suffering losses due to low increase in export orders, especially the MSMEs, which are on the verge of closure,” he added.“We urge the government to rationalise the steel and other raw material prices as the sudden spike in raw material prices has made it impossible for MSMEs to meet confirmed orders,” said FICO members.“We demand that the Credit Link Capital Subsidy Scheme should be made permanent as it is the only scheme for the up gradation of the MSME industry”, said Kular.“Bicycle industry is the mother industry of Punjab, which makes India the second largest manufacturer of bicycles in the world after China. The latter produces 20 crore bicycle in one year, comparison to1.3 crore manufactured by India,” Kular added.“If the government wants to reduce this gap then the technology up-gradation fund scheme should be introduced for the bicycle industry. The Indian industry needs funds to match the global standards of manufacturing,” said Kular.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pinning-hopes-on-budget-for-impetus-to-industry-bizmen-seek-tax-relief-359310
08-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: Protest over poor condition of road in Chandar Nagar||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7Residents and shopkeepers, along with members of Yuva, an NGO, on Friday staged a protest over poor condition of a road in the Chandar Nagar area of the Ludhiana North constituency. After rainfall, water gets accumulated in potholes on the road.Members of the NGO staged a drama to highlight problems faced by the public due to poor condition of the road. A member of the NGO acted as a politician, who came to inaugurate road, just before elections in the drama. He raised questions over the role of elected representatives for failing to resolve such issues.A resident said they had raised the issue of the broken road before the area councillor and MLA, but to no avail. He said the road was dug up for laying sewage pipes, but the work was not completed even after eleven months. It is not clear when this road would be reconstructed, he added.Kumar Gaurav of Yuva, an NGO, said the development works had taken a back seat in the area. “The people are a harried lot as the road is completely broken. Potholes, which are not visible due to water accumulation on the road, lead to mishaps. Elected representatives are not paying any attention to the problem,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-over-poor-condition-of-road-in-chandar-nagar-359309
08-01-2022||---||Malerkotla DC bans use of Chinese kite string||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh, January 7The district administration today banned the use of Chinese synthetic string in the town and surrounding areas. Malerkotla Deputy Commissioner Madhvi Kataria today issued the orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, and would remain in force till March 4.Ahmedgarh SDM Harbans Singh said carrying, stocking, using and transacting business of Chinese string would be considered an offence as the same had been banned by the Deputy Commissioner. The orders were passed following reports of mishaps due to the use of the deadly string for flying kites during past days. Singh cautioned that anybody caught flying kites with the Chinese string would be booked under relevant sections of the IPC.Madhvi Kataria said officials concerned had been advised to ensure zero tolerance in implementation of the prohibitory orders regarding storage, transportation, transaction and use of the synthetic string.Sources said the police were also likely to tighten noose around parents of children who were allowing their wards to fly kites with the banned string.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/malerkotla-dc-bans-use-of-chinese-kite-string-359308
08-01-2022||---||BJP demands removal of Punjab Home Minister, submits memo to Ludhiana DC||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7The situation became tense outside the Mini-Secretariat today when several leaders of the BJP reached the DC office to submit a memorandum on the security breach of the Prime Minister during his visit to Ferozepur. A Nihang present there allegedly used foul language against the PM after which leaders tried to catch him. The police intervened and took Nihang in its custody.The leaders, who were denied entry into DC offic premises, sat there and raised anti-government slogans.The BJP leaders submitted a memorandum to the DC addressed to the President of India demanding that the Punjab Home Minister and the DGP should be dismissed as they had failed to provide security to the Prime Minister.The leaders alleged that around 3,000 buses of BJP workers and supporters were stopped by ‘anti-social’ elements at different places so that none could reach the rally venue. The BJP leaders demanded action against erring officials, who were responsible for maintaining law and order in the state.Today’s dharna was held under the leadership of city BJP president Pushpinder Singal. Debi Sharma, Jivan Gupta and Anil Sareen were among others persons present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-demands-removal-of-home-minister-submits-memo-to-dc-359307
08-01-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana court blast: Boxer, Ranjit unaware who gave explosives to Gagandeep: Probe||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7The interrogation of two jail inmates Sukhwinder Singh Sony, alias Boxer, and Ranjit Singh in connection with the Ludhiana court bomb blast case is yet to give any vital clue to the police.Even role of these two inmates has also reportedly not come to light in the bomb blast case yet, which has further deepened the mystery.Both inmates, with whom deceased Gagandeep had spent around two years in jail after he was caught in a drug case in November 2019, had developed good relationship with him.Notably, on December 23, Gagandeep, a dismissed Punjab Police head constable, had died when explosives he was carrying went off accidentally in the public toilet of the Ludhiana courts.After the blast, the police had brought Boxer and Ranjit, who are facing drug cases, on production warrant from Central Jail, Ludhiana. The preliminary probe of the police had initially found that both these inmates had facilitated talk of Gagandeep with pro-Khalistan elements sitting abroad and the entire conspiracy of bomb could also have been hatched from Central Jail.The police had also recovered some cell phones from jail inmates, which have calls records of their conversation with Gagandeep and with some foreign-based persons, but that would not suffice to establish their role behind bomb blast.Now, the focus of the police is on identifying persons, who handed over explosives to Gagandeep. The interrogation of Ranjit and Boxer has so far not established their role in bomb blast conspiracy.“We have brought two more jail inmates on production warrant, who were close to Gagandeep and are also in good terms with Ranjit and Boxer. Let the investigation reach some conclusions. Only then the police could clear whether these jail inmates have any role in bomb blast or not,” said a police official.“If the police is able to identify persons, who handed explosives to Gagandeep, then the entire conspiracy behind the blast could unfold,” he added.Notably, all senior police officials have gone incommunicado as no one is sharing any information about the ongoing probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/boxer-ranjit-unaware-who-gave-explosives-to-gagandeep-probe-359306
08-01-2022||---||Waterlogging in  a few areas after rain lashes Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 7There was waterlogging in few areas after rain lashed city on Friday. Water accumulated at Feroze Gandhi Market, near Mini Secretariat, Chandar Nagar and a few other areas of the city due to which commuters faced inconvenience.Members of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association have highlighted the issue of waterlogging multiple times before the civic body, but to no avail.Chairman of the association, Col Harjap Singh (retd), said a parking lot opposite Ludhiana Improvement Trust’s office often gets flooded whenever it rained, but the Municipal Corporation did not take any action to find out a permanent solution to the problem.“Earlier, there was a plan to set up multi-storey parking lot on this site, but the project could not be started. No steps have been taken to resolve the problem of waterlogging. Rainwater has accumulated here again today,” he said. Most of the city areas have no stormwater drainage system.Commuters suffer on BRS Nagar stretchMeanwhile, commuters faced problems on the BRS Nagar road that links Ferozepur and the Sunet area. As per the information, portions of the road were earlier dug up for the construction of gullies. These portions have not been repaired. Now, these portions of the road had started sinking after rainfall due to which commuters faced inconvenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/waterlogging-in-a-few-areas-after-rain-lashes-city-359305
08-01-2022||---||Daughter-in-law booked for stealing cheques in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7A city resident has got a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy registered against his daughter-in-law and her kin for stealing his signed cheques of worth Rs 88 lakh.On complaint of Indertejpal Singh, the Model Town police registered a case against his daughter-in-law Manpreet Kaur, her father Naunihal Singh of Delhi, Jasvir Singh of Chattisgarh, Kanwarpal of Noida, Pirthipal Singh of Karnataka and Kuldeep Singh of Ludhiana. A case in this regard was registered yesterday.The complainant said his son Shaminder Pal got married to Manpreet Kaur in 2012. Last year, Manrpeet left home over some issue and started living with her parents in Delhi.“In October, 2020, Manpreet’s father called and said he would come to collect his daughter’s gold ornaments, which they had given at the time of marriage as she had to attend some function. Besides taking ornaments, the accused stole several signed cheques of my son,” the complainant alleged.Complainant further stated that the accused deposited three separate cheques of Rs40 lakh, Rs20 lakh and Rs28 lakh in bank for encashment, but due to insufficient balance in account, these bounced and a notice was issued to his son.Manrpeet has already filed a dowry harassment complaint against her husband and in-laws in Delhi.Investigation officer ASI Harmesh Singh said after registration of case, further probe had been launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-booked-for-stealing-cheques-359304
08-01-2022||---||Raikot: Four held for taking  away car, valuables||Our CorrespondentRaikot, January 7The police claims to have solved a case in which four Scorpio-borne unknown miscreants had snatched an Alto car, cash and valuables from a resident of the local Talab Mohalla area on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.The incidentOccupants of a Scorpio, four in number, intercepted Manpreet Singh’s car near Johlan Road, overpowered him and snatched his vehicle keys. Before the complainant could comprehend the situation the miscreants sped away with both vehicles.The police recovered the snatched car and vehicle used in crime from the accused arrested from separate places on Thursday night. The accused have been identified as Sukhdev Singh of Kulla Patti Raikot, Gursharan Singh Sharna of Ward No. 9, Raikot, Sarabjot Singh Jot of Libra village under Khanna police station and Jaskaranveer Singh Jassa of Bassian.Senior Superintendent of Police Rajbachan Singh Sandhu informed that the Raikot police had solved the car snatching case on the basis of circumstantial evidence within twenty-four hours of the incident.Preliminary investigations by cops led by the SHO, City, Amrik Singh, and investigating officer Gurmit Singh revealed that a black Scorpio had chased Manpreet Singh of Talab Mohalla, Raikot, when he, who along with his friends, was returning home in his Alto car from the Civil Hospital side late in the night on Wednesday.Occupants of Scorpio, four in number, intercepted their car near Johlan Road, overpowered Manpreet Singh and snatched his vehicle keys. Before the complainant could comprehend the situation the miscreants sped away with both vehicles.Having received information about the incident on Thursday, the police registered and FIR under Section 379 B against four unknown miscreants now in custody of the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-held-for-taking-away-car-valuables-359303
08-01-2022||---||Malerkotla man arrested for killing lover's father||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh, January 7The Dehlon police claims to have solved a blind murder of a daily wager of the Forest Department identified as Sinder Singh (65), whose profusely bleeding body was found from a deserted ‘katcha’ road, near Butahri Bridge, on morning of December 23, a day after the deceased went for his routine work from his house.The police had registered a murder case against unknown persons on the statement of Bakhshish Kaur, daughter of the deceased. The accused, now arrested has been identified as Ashraf Ali of Sikandarpura, Malerkotla, who had alleged illicit relations with the complainant. The victim was killed as he had come to know about illicit relations of the accused with his daughter and objected his frequent visits to their house.The Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, informed that cops led by the SHO, Dehlon, Sukhjit Singh, had arrested Ashraf Ali of Malerkotla, who had been named as main accused in a blind murder case of Sinder Singh on December 23.Though the accused had confessed killing Sinder Singh with his own axe on the fateful day, the police was yet to ascertain whether the Bakhshish Kaur was involved in the crime or not.Investigations revealed that Ashraf Ali had deliberately prompted Sinder Singh to consume more liquor till he became inebriated and could be attacked easily. The victim’s belongings, including bicycle, axe and mobile, were thrown in canal by the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-killing-lovers-father-359302
08-01-2022||---||Spike in cases triggers rush for shots at vaccination centres in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7The recent spike in Covid patients and surfacing of three Omicron cases in the district has triggered the rush for vaccination in Ludhiana. Besides, ban on entry of unvaccinated persons in public places is also prompting people to go to vaccination centres for getting jabbed against virus.The rush for getting vaccinated has increased manifold once again. Long queues are seen at vaccination centres these days. On Wednesday a glass of the door broke due to rush of people, who had come for vaccination, at the Civil Surgeon office. Today, 22,648 people were vaccinated, which include 536 in the age group of 15 to 18 years.At present, a total of 50.77 per cent persons are fully vaccinated in the district. The district has crossed 100 per cent coverage for the first dose of vaccine.Presently, 101.56 per cent people have received their first jab. On December 1, there were 42.75 per cent people, who were fully vaccinated and 97.72 per cent had received their first dose.A city resident working in private sector said he got his first dose, but didn’t go for the second. “Now, that the government has made second dose of vaccination mandatory for entering public places so, I got my second dose yesterday,” he added.The Civil Surgeon, Dr SP Singh said, “Now that cases have started increasing, people have once again coming for vaccination. We have been requesting people to get themselves vaccinated, but lately they didn’t care.”“Huge rush is witnessed at vaccination centres these days. People are getting impatient. But as it is said, better late than never. It is good to see people coming for vaccination,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/spike-in-cases-triggers-rush-for-shots-at-vaccination-centres-359301
08-01-2022||Nitin Jain & Manav Mander||Covid positivity rate in Ludhiana at 8-month high, reaches 9.13%||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7The Covid positivity rate, a key indicator of the virus surge, on Friday breached the eight-month high to reach a whopping 9.13 per cent in Ludhiana district, the administration has confirmed. The hit rate has recorded over nine-time rise within just three weeks from nil positivity recorded in the state’s biggest and largest district, in terms of area and population, on December 14, the official figures have revealed.DCSPEAKHealth facilities have been strengthened to ensure timely treatment of all needy Covid patients. Those facing any flu-like symptoms are advised to get themselves tested and get treated. — VARINDER KUMAR SHARMA, DEPUTY COMMISSIONEROn Friday, 345 fresh Covid cases, including 324 locals and 21 outsiders, were reported in Ludhiana, which were also a seven-month high after 416 daily virus patients registered here on May 28 last. The fresh cases included 11 international travellers, including 10 from Italy and another from Dubai, and 22 healthcare workers, which included three from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, nine from Christian Medical College and Hospital and remaining 10 were from the government hospitals.The count of active cases crossed the 1,000-mark and reached 1,119, including 1,097 locals and 22 outsiders, which surpassed the six-month high of 1,113 active cases recorded in the district on June 15. Besides, 1,064 virus patients were asked to isolate themselves at their homes.However, no fresh Covid death or highly transmissible Omicron variant case was reported in Ludhiana on Friday. Ten international travellers, who returned back from Italy had tested positive for Covid at Amritsar international airport on Thursday. Though the Health Department had made all the arrangements for their institutional quarantine, they were sent home directly and have been isolated at their respective homes.“All international travellers have been isolated at their respective homes and our teams are monitoring them. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the samples of their contacts have also been taken. In case samples of any of these travellers turn out to be of Omicron variant then they will be brought into institutional quarantine,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr SP Singh.The sudden spike in the hit rate has ringed alarm bells in the industrial capital of the state, which had suffered the most during the deadly second Covid wave by losing maximum lives and leaving the highest number of persons ill. Friday’s positivity rate was highest after 10.75 per cent recorded in the district on May 13 when Ludhiana was battling the worst-ever second virus wave. The steep rise in the hit rate from nil on December 14 to 9.13 per cent on January 7 has turned the situation grim once again.In the past fortnight only, the positivity rate skyrocketed from just 0.06 per cent on December 24 last to 9.13 per cent on January 7. The hit rate has been on the rise since December 28 from 0.14 per cent to 0.24 per cent on December 29, 0.58 per cent on December 30, 0.71 per cent on December 31, 1.37 on January 1, 1.55 per cent on January 2, 3.4 per cent on January 3, 3.46 per cent on January 4, 6.99 per cent on January 5, 8.69 on January 6 and settling at 9.13 per cent on January 6.Similarly, the active case count also shot up from mere 10 on October 2 to a whopping 1,119 on January 6, which was highest after 1,133 active cases registered here on June 15. The speed with which the active cases were rising was evident from the fact that there were only 80 active Covid patients in the district on December 31 last, which went up to 11 on January 1, further rising to 144 on January 2, 198 January 3, 294 January 4, 490 January 5, 776 January 6, and entering four-digitHowever, the daily sampling further went up to 3,547 on Friday. On Friday, 55 patients, including 33 locals and 22 outsiders, were admitted to various private and government hospitals. While four locals were recuperating at government facilities, 29 locals and 22 outsiders were under treatment at various private institutions in the district.Meanwhile, the recovery rate of virus patients further dipped to 97.58 per cent on Friday. Till date, a total of 30,27,062 samples have been taken, of which 29,26,293 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 88,863 while 11,927 patients belonged to other districts/ states. Total number of persons who lost their lives to Covid included 2,120 from Ludhiana and 1,065 outsiders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-positivity-rate-in-dist-at-8-month-high-reaches-9-13-359300
