10-01-2022||Ludhiana||Khanna police nab four with 70-gm heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-police-nab-four-with-70-gm-heroin-359885
10-01-2022||---||Stubble burning: Doraha college shows the way||Lovleen BainsDoraha, January 9In a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state, the extension cell of Guru Nanak National College here has succeeded in bringing a sea change in the perception of the farming community in the past four years by controlling the menace of stubble burning and bringing 13, 671 acres under the crop residue management scheme with the active support of the Agriculture Department, Punjab, and the CII Foundation, New Delhi.This sowing season, the cell worked in 30 villages and assisted 770 farmers with agri-machinery, focusing on small and marginal ones on a priority basis.The cell has been actively working for the cause of the environment since 2018. In the current sowing season, the college worked in 12 adopted villages — Ghulal, Bijlipur, Neelon, Madpur, Lopon, Khattran, Balala, Mehdoodan, Khaira, Lal Kalan, Kubba and Chak.Besides, 18 additional villages, including Pangalian, Kot Gangu Rai, Rohla, Dhande, Chahilan, Takhra, Punia, Mutton, Jatana, Katani, Ajnaud, Majara, Umedpur, Daburjee and Buani, were supplied with agri-machinery by the cell. It provided six mulchars, three MB ploughs, eight rotavators, five happy seeders, one smart seeder, five super seeders in 30 villages to 770 farmers and succeeded in covering 5,870 acres under the in situ management of crop residue. It also experimented with smart seeder, the latest agri-machinery introduced by the PAU, Ludhiana, on 29 acres.The cell had chalked out a plan of spreading awareness among farmers regarding environment conservation and crop residue management in 2018. Besides organising rallies, nukkad nataks and extension lectures by experts in villages, it addressed the farmers’ demand for machinery. It provided demonstration on 204 acres with happy seeders in Sultanpur, Lopon, Mehdoodan and Khaira and additional three villages of Chak, Balala and Pangalian in 2018. In 2019, the college adopted 23 villages in the session 2019-20 and assisted the farmers with machinery on 1,115 acres. Till November 2020, it had brought 7,801 acres under in situ management of paddy straw.Earlier, volunteers surveyed all 30 villages. They conducted nukkad nataks in collaboration with the Agricultural Department, Punjab. The cell identified the need for specific machinery by different farmers. The college cell also prepared a roster for the same and issued machines to the farmers on a daily basis, besides maintaining accountability as well. It was specifically looked into that the machinery is distributed equally among all, as per the need and time schedule.President, Guru Nanak Managing Board, Roop Brar, and general secretary, Harpratap Brar, congratulated the extension team which was working at the ground level by involving students in the grand project of providing agri-machinery to farmers and checking the menace of stubble burning. The motive of spreading environment consciousness was being realised in the most appropriate manner by the students of the cell. Residue burning has drastically reduced in villages adopted by the cell,” said the general secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stubble-burning-doraha-college-shows-the-way-359884
10-01-2022||Shivani Bhakoo||FOPSIA to oppose political parties assuring revival of truck unions||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9The Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA) have decided to oppose political parties which are assuring reconstitution of truck unions in the state. Recently, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have announced to revive truck unions in Punjab.FOPSIA president Badish Jindal said multinational companies were scared to invest in the state and the local industry was fed up of cartelisation of truck unions. It was the main reason that even after formation of the Invest Punjab Policy in 2013, the industries showed no interest in investment in the state. Looking at all these factors, the Congress government decided to ban 134 truck unions in the state in 2017. This was a major relief for the trade and industry of the state. The Congress approved the Punjab Goods Carriages (Regulation and Prevention of Cartelisation Rules), 2017, that prohibits truck operators from forming cartels or unions in the state.The notification issued by the then Transport Department said the government was desirous of regulating the operations of goods carriages of all types with the object of bringing an end to cartelisation and consequent exploitation of consignors and consignees of goods by such formal or informal unions” including the truck unions.“The end of truck unions is must for the smooth and fearless development of the industries in the state and if any party will support such moves, the industry will oppose them in the upcoming elections. The FOPSIA will soon arrange meetings with other industrial organisations of the state to oppose the parties which have announced such promises which may destroy the industry of state,” Jindal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fopsia-to-oppose-political-parties-assuring-revival-of-truck-unions-359883
10-01-2022||Wear mask to save lives||Open house: What should be done to check further spread of Covid in Ludhiana district?||With coronavirus showing signs of re-emergence, fatalities may start to rise if precautions are not taken and the entire population is not vaccinated. Though it’s important for everyone to wear mask while going out, some people don’t do the same. Many who refuse to wear a face mask can’t understand the seriousness of the situation. People must wear the mask to save lives, including their own.Novin ChristopherGet vaccinated to fight virusIn a big city such as Ludhiana, it will be difficult to control hazards of the third wave of Covid as there is still a large number of population which is not fully vaccinated and many are those who are not even vaccinated once. Our safety is in our own hands. Those who are fully vaccinated must be ready for the Covid booster dose. Negligence in getting vaccinated can create a health emergency that will be difficult to manage. Nowadays, we are not taking safety precautions such as wearing mask and using hand sanitiser. Precautions are the need of the hour. Extra care must be given to the elderly and children. Parents must get their children vaccinated without any fear as the government is allowing kids within the age group of 15-18 to get vaccination. By this way, we can increase our immunity to fight the third wave of the virus.Ritu PriyaCouncillors should spread awarenessOmicron-led third wave is knocking at India’s doorstep. In Ludhiana, there is an increase in the number of positive cases of the virus. Various restrictions have been imposed to control the spread of the disease. Still, all norms are not followed by the public for one reason or the other. Local governments should assign duties to councillors to take care of their respective wards by spreading awareness among people. At each street, one person may be appointed to check unnecessary movement of people. Violators must be dealt strictly. The government should impose night curfew and strength in all offices should be limited to half of the total number. Duties should be assigned on a rotation basis. Everybody must follow the directions of the government and cooperate to control the spread of the virus.Mohd Saleem FarooquiCollective efforts neededThe third wave of Covid-19 is imminent, rather it has started showing its signs as worldwide daily cases are on the rise. Firstly, we all need to realise the fact that we have to learn to live with the pandemic. But this doesn’t mean that Covid-appropriate behaviour should go for a toss. A proper road map comprising detection of the disease, vaccination as well as following the Covid guidelines is a must. Though it is the primary duty of the government to safeguard the lives of citizens, the residents too have a moral duty of following all government guidelines. Only collective efforts of the government, enforcement agencies and people can help us tackle the situation. Hope, the third wave will abate soon.Bir Devinder Singh BediTake strict measures to contain virusCovid-19 pandemic has again started spreading in Punjab. The rapidly spreading highly infectious Omicron variant has left public health experts worried. The spike in cases has been attributed to an increase in poll-related activities with political parties and people not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Norms such as social distancing and wearing masks are thrown to the wind. Laxity at this hour can prove fatal. The public should follow all Covid safety guidelines. Necessary action under the National Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act should be initiated by the district administration. Home isolation guidelines must be followed properly. Strict control measures such as vaccination, proper sanitisation of surface areas, avoiding unnecessary travel and outings, washing hands frequently and free testing should be taken. Any laxity at any stage can lead to faster spread of the virus.Jasdeep KaurFollow guidelines religiouslyThough Covid cases are increasing, residents of Ludhiana are non-serious about safety precautions. The surge is an indication of the third wave. Taking stock of the situation, the Punjab Government has imposed night curfew and other restrictions in the state. All people should follow the guidelines religiously. Covid-appropriate behaviour is important. Avoid crowded places. Parents should get their eligible children vaccinated. Adults who are not fully jabbed should also get themselves vaccinated. People above 60 having any co-morbidity must also get a booster dose, once the health authorities start administering the same.Sunil ChopraExpedite vaccination processA sudden spike in daily Covid cases has given rise to a new possibility of third wave in the city. Ludhiana had remained one of the worst-hit districts during the second wave. But now, Omicron has arrived in the country and it is active in almost every state. Moreover, it has created fear among people. Many people lost their lives during the second wave. To avert such a situation, we have to take precautions seriously. Entry on public transport should be banned for non-vaccinated or partially vaccinated people and strict disciplinary action must be taken against people who not wearing mask. Schools must be shut down if odd and even system is not possible. There must be a limit on public gatherings and the most important thing is that, vaccination should be done at a faster rate. There should be vaccination camps at government offices, schools, private offices and also in wards of the city. Such steps must be taken seriously otherwise it will cause huge destruction of lives.Gurnoor KaushalLarge-scale vaccination neededThe third wave of Covid has already started in the country with the appearance of a new variant of coronavirus called Omicron. The new variant is known to be more infectious, though less dangerous for the life of the infected. The country must be more active in controlling the third wave of the Covid pandemic. There are two main ways to control the same. The first is large-scale vaccination of all citizens. Vaccination of children in the age group of 15 to 18 years old has already started in the country. In the second way, masses must be taught to strictly follow pandemic-control measures. These measures include staying inside homes, use of mask while going out and following social distancing norms while attending events. The government must make all citizens follow these steps strictly. Defaulters must be punished. The police can ensure that every individual is using a mask while going out and people are following all Covid guidelines at social gatherings. People must learn to use the mask properly while going out and avoid social gatherings in public places. The local administrative bodies concerned must hold various programmes with the help of radio, TV and social media on a daily basis for spreading awareness regarding following of Covid protocols.”Gautam DevImpose one-month lockdownThe danger of Omicron variant is looming large. The Ludhiana administration should ensure that all people must follow Covid protocols. Those who violate the guidelines should be given strict punishment under law. The administration should imposed complete lockdown for one month to control the situation. If the government imposes complete lockdown, it should take special care of daily wagers. They should be provided monetary help. If we don’t take the Omicron variant seriously, the situation will get worse. Hence, strict complete lockdown is only option to control the third wave of coronavirus. If we ignore the dreaded virus, it will spread fast among people in the country.Adish SoodMake violators pay heavy fineIt is rightly said that prevention is better than cure. The previous waves of the deadly virus have affected the city badly. Hence, strict measures need to be implemented before the situation becomes worse. The government should impose complete lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. Also, heavy fines should be imposed on violators. At an individual level, it is our responsibility and duty to protect ourselves and other citizens of the country. Hence, wearing mask properly, frequent hand sanitisation and social distancing are necessary. Getting oneself vaccinated is of utmost priority.Harleen KaurLearn from past mistakesThe recent spurt in Covid cases in the country indicates that a third Covid wave is knocking at the door. Timely intervention and treatment can check the spread of Covid. A stitch in time saves nine, hence, top priority of the government should be to administer precautionary doses of vaccines to health staff, frontline workers and senior citizens. The vaccination of the 15-18 age group of children should be another priority. Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly followed and violators be given exemplary punishment. It’s wrong to think that we have won the war against Covid. It’s foolish to let the guard down. Lessons should be learnt from mistakes made during the second wave. Health officials should respond with big efforts. The Deputy Commissioner should review the availability of oxygen and other necessary medical equipment and also alert the public and the officials concerned to be ready for the third wave. Strict measures should be taken at public places such as malls, gyms, palaces, religious places and bus stands. As the new Omicron variant is spreading rapidly, vigil should be maintained on coming international travellers and it should be mandatory for the latter to stay in isolation for 10 days.RS SembhiSpread the word among family, friendsIn the present situation, it is normal to feel sad, worried, confused, scared or angry. Know that you are not alone and talk to someone you trust, like your parents or teacher. Hence, you can help keep yourself and your school safe and healthy. Ask questions, educate yourself and get information from reliable sources. Protect yourself and others by taking Covid-prevention measures. We should be a leader in keeping ourself, our school, family and community healthy. Share what you learn about preventing the disease with your family and friends. Don’t stigmatise or tease anyone about being sick. Remember that the virus doesn’t infect people based on geographical boundaries, ethnicities, age or ability or gender. Hence, stay home and stay safe.Varun ChauhanBan poll rallies, public meetingsAs the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, is spreading all over the country, it becomes the responsibility of the government as well as citizens to check its spread. The local administration should strictly enforce Covid protocols and the public must also follow the guidelines. At the same time, those who are not yet vaccinated should shed all inhibitions and get themselves jabbed. All election rallies, public meetings, protests and processions should be prohibited.Ashwani Kumar MalhotraCovid-appropriate behaviour crucialThe dreaded Covid has again risen exponentially in Ludhiana district with the count of daily and active virus cases spreading fast. The administration has confirmed that the sudden surge of Covid cases could be attributed to the possibility of third wave or spread of the new Omicron variant. We can follow safety guidelines to stop the impending third wave knocking at our doors. Firstly, the need of the hour is to wear mask always. The saddest part is that the majority of the people are seen not adhering to mandatory Covid-safety protocols. They brazenly ignore social distancing norms and roam without masks. Vaccination may definitely help boost one’s immunity but mask and Covid-appropriate behaviour are the most important steps, at least for now. Secondly, the government should instal sanitiser dispensers at public places such as malls, cinema halls, restaurants and hotels. We should also use Covid-safety applications to get the latest news updates by issued by the government. Children should be allowed to play in the open but with all safety precautions. Those who are not taking precautions are a threat to other citizens. They should be heavily fined and those people who have not taken the second dose of the vaccine must be told to get themselves fully vaccinated at the earliest.Jasmine AroraResidents should make efforts to fight covidAs the Covid-19 situation is getting worse day by day it is necessary to keep a proper check on the situation. Two heads from each ward should be selected. They should keep a check on ward members and their vaccination status. They should also keep a check on cleanliness in the area. The police should be strict against violations. Vaccination camps should be held. If the government imposes lockdown, it should take special care of daily wagers and provide food to the poor and homeless. There should be proper checks in slum areas to see whether people are following Covid protocols or not.Khushboo khoslaPrevention is better than cureNumber of people getting infected with Covid is increasing with each passing day. With an increase in the positivity rate, people should really start taking the disease seriously. The situation might get worse due to the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. Hence, following Covid safety norms is the only way to prevent the spread of the virus in the near future. Police should take strict action against people holding mass gatherings and rallies. Wearing mask is the easiest way to prevent the infection. Avoid going out unnecessarily and everybody should carry sanitiser with them. Take all necessary precautions before it’s too late.Akanksha AttriQUESTIONWith daily and active cases, positivity rate and hospitalisation of Covid patients breaching the record of the past six to eight months in Ludhiana district, following which night curfew is already in place, should the current situation, which is turning grim by each passing day, demands more stricter restrictions like lockdown?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-check-further-spread-of-covid-in-district-359882
10-01-2022||---||Husband, in-laws booked for attempting to disrobe woman||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9The Mullanpur Dakha police registered a case against a man, his father and brother on the charges of attacking his wife and making an attempt to disrobe her.A case under Sections 323, 354B and 394 of the IPC was registered against the man, Pargat Singh, his brother Davinder Singh and father Surinder Singh on Saturday.Complainant woman, a resident of Morkrima village, near Dakha, told the police that on January 5 she was talking to her brother Mandeep Singh over phone when suddenly her husband came and started abusing her. Her husband not only abused but also thrashed her.Meanwhile, her father-in-law and brother-in-law arrived and they instead of saving her from her husband, also started abusing and beating her, she said.“My father-in-law hit me with a big stick on my nose and then my brother-in-law, along with my husband, tore off my clothes and attempted to disrobe me. It was only when I raised alarm and neighbour gathered that they left the house,” alleged the complainant.Investigating officer ASI Kiran Bala said after the incident, on January 8 the woman submitted a complaint and taking an immediate action, a case was registered against her husband and in-laws. The ASI Kiran Bala added that the accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/husband-in-laws-booked-for-attempting-to-disrobe-woman-359879
10-01-2022||---||Ludhiana Improvement Trust puts off draw of lots due to poll code||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, January 9Draw of lots for allotment of flats in much-touted first high-rise residential scheme of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), Atal Apartments, has run into trouble once again with the election model code of conduct having come into force from January 8 with the announcement of schedule of the Assembly elections by the Election Commission of India on Saturday. Scheme ‘jinxed’The draw of lots for allotment of 576 HIG and MIG flats, scheduled to be held on January 10 at Nehru Sidhant Kendra has been postponed, confirmed LIT officials.“As all arrangements for the draw of lot for allotments of flats had already been made, the matter is now being taken up with the Department of Local Government, Punjab, to seek permission from the Election Commission for conducting the draw. Accordingly, the new schedule, depending on the response of the Election Commission, will be intimated to applicants and also announced though a public notice,” the officials added.The housing complex, proposed to be set up in over 8 acres of land in Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar on Pakhowal Road, would have provision for total 576 flats (336 HIG and 240 MIG) for which the Trust had received 1,018 applications (854 in HIG and 164 in MIG category).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lit-puts-off-draw-of-lots-due-to-poll-code-359878
10-01-2022||---||Rain exposes poor construction of road in Ludhiana's Model Town||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, January 9A spell of rain that lashed the city during last two days has laid bare the poor workmanship, use of substandard material, lack of supervision on the part of senior officials and execution of work in non-conducive weather conditions in recarpeting of main road in Model Town from Mintgumry Chowk to Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara. The work was carried out by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on behalf of the Municipal Corporation only about a month ago. Pitiable condition of road in Sarabha NagarThe so-called newly recarpeted road, involving an expenditure of Rs 2.27 crore, presents a pathetic look with huge patches of loose gravel, deep depressions and peeled off upper layer in most of the stretch making it clear that the public money spent on the project has been a total wastage.A city-based social activist and secretary of the Council of RTI Activists, Arvind Sharma, who claims to have cautioned the LIT officials even earlier that poor material was being used and carpeting of road was being carried out during night in extremely cold weather, has lodged a complaint with the Director, Local Bodies, Punjab and Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of Local Government Department, Punjab, to hold a probe with regard to quality of material used and workmanship of the project.He claimed in the complaint that he had taken up the matter with senior LIT officials many a times about substandard and below specification material being used by the contractor, and especially that the road was being carpeted during night in extremely cold weather conditions, which were not conducive for carpeting of roads.“But may be due to their affinity with the contractor, the LIT officials failed to act and the contractor got away with recarpeting the main road in a posh area which could not withstand vagaries of weather even for a month,” observed Sharma, while demanding a high-level probe into workmanship and quality test of material used in recarpeting of road. The officials found negligent in carrying out their supervisory duty also ought to be proceeded against, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-exposes-poor-construction-of-road-in-model-town-359877
10-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: Booster dose against Covid from today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9Administering of booster dose for frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidity will began from tomorrow.The precautionary dose will be the same vaccine as has been given previously and there should be a nine-month gap from the date of administration of the second dose.“Healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidity will be able to access the vaccination for precaution dose through their existing CoWIN account. Administering of booster/precautionary dose will began from January 10,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr SP Singh.All persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidity will not be required to produce/submit any certificate from doctor at the time of administration of the precaution dose. Such persons are expected to obtain the advice of their doctor before deciding to avail themselves of the precaution dose, added Dr Singh.Healthcare workers and frontline workers availing themselves of the precaution dose must produce the employment certificate in a prescribed format. This facility will only be available at government vaccination centres in on-site mode. The third dose||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/booster-dose-from-today-359875
10-01-2022||---||1 dead, two Omicron patients among 509 new cases in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9As many as 509 persons tested positive for Covid, including two for the Omicron variant, in the district today. Now, a total of five Omicron cases have been detected in the district so far.Today’s two cases are international travellers who had returned from the UK and tested positive at the airport. Both of them were quarantined in Delhi and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. They returned today after completing their isolation period. One person belongs to BRS Nagar and another to Kitchlu Nagar. The Health Department will be retesting both the persons for Covid tomorrow.Today, one patient lost his life to the disease. The deceased was a 44-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal and was admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital.Now, the total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid has reached 2,121. Till date, the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 89,933, while 12,036 patients belong to other districts/states.Those tested positive today also include 47 healthcare workers, two international travellers from the UK and one cop.Today the active cases jumped to 2,143, while yesterday the active cases were 1,651. Today 2,102 patients were asked to undergo home isolation by the Health Department.At present there are 63 patients admitted to various private and government hospitals. Out of these 41 patients belong to Ludhiana, while 22 are from other districts.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has dipped further to 95.26 per cent.Till date, a total of 30,35,487 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 29,33,518 were found negative.Samples of 4,800 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-dead-two-omicron-patients-among-509-new-cases-in-district-359874
