24-01-2022||Doraha||Five injured as truck rams into stationary bus||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-injured-as-truck-rams-into-stationary-bus-363909
24-01-2022||---||Kup Kalan village residents say no to  booths, posters, rallies, allurements of candidates||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 23Normal practice of setting up booths manned by agents of political parties and issuing slips carrying voter details will hopefully be missing at Kup Kalan village in Amargarh Assembly segment during the upcoming elections, polling for which is scheduled on February 20.Villagers, led by local activists of various outfits, have resolved to check unnecessary expenses, noise pollution, political repugnance and wastage of resources of candidates, their supporters and locals by getting the Code of Conduct implemented voluntarily.A resolution in this regard was passed unanimously during a meeting held at Gurdwara Wada Ghallughara, situated on the outskirts of Rohira village, near here, on Thursday.Say no to intoxicants, allurements, posters and banners, rallying at common places, ferrying voters to polling booths and setting up of candidates’ booths will be the salient features if everything goes well till the conclusion of the election process.However, candidates or their representatives can organise meetings on private premises where designated members of the joint village committee can ask them questions regarding various issues.Residents led by Surjan Singh, Mohan Jit Singh and BKU (Ugrahan) president Sukhjivan Singh informed that they had unanimously decided to keep the village free from political activities, which had been disrupted normal routine and peaceful atmosphere, during almost all elections in the past.When asked about displaying of some posters of certain candidates in the village, they said these would be removed without prejudice. “Sympathisers of almost all candidates were present at the meeting. We will ensure that no candidate is allowed to hoist flag of his party or paste posters in the village,” said Surjan Singh while maintaining that a video of the declaration was uploaded on the social media to spread awareness about the initiative taken by the village in public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kup-kalan-village-residents-say-no-to-booths-posters-rallies-allurements-of-candidates-363908
24-01-2022||Ludhiana||Workshop dwells on industrial agroforestry||The Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a workshop on “Consortium on industrial agroforestry – A value chain approach” under the ICAR-NAHEP-CAAST project in collaboration with the State Forest Research Institute, Ladhowal.The workshop was organised to provide a common platform to learn from a successful existing model of timber production and marketing like Tamil Nadu’s industrial agroforestry. Ninety two delegates from various states and students participated in the workshop.Praveen Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator, Forest, the chief guest, said from the next season, the department would provide good quality planting stock to farmers. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/workshop-dwells-on-industrial-agroforestry-363907
24-01-2022||---||Ludhiana West SAD-BSP candidate Maheshinder Singh Grewal urges CEO to transfer  SHOs||Ludhiana, January 23Apprehending that Station House Officers (SHOs) of the five police stations located in Ludhiana (West) Assembly constituency, represented by Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, might exercise undue influence on voters in favour of ruling Congress, the SAD-BSP candidate Maheshinder Singh Grewal has urged the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Punjab, to immediately replace these officials with those, who had not served in this segment for last three years.After the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly elections came into force, the SHOs were shuffled from one police station to other, but in the same Assembly segment (Ludhiana West), which shows the real intentions of the ruling party. — Maheshinder Singh Grewal, SAD-BSP CandidateIn a communication to the CEO, Grewal, who is also senior vice-president of the SAD, said all these five SHOs, handpicked by the minister were serving in Ludhiana (West) Assembly segment for quite some time.“After the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly elections came into force, the SHOs were shuffled from one police station to other, but in the same Assembly segment (Ludhiana West), which shows the real intentions of the ruling party,” he added.Claiming that police officials (SHOs) chosen by Ashu for deployment in his Assembly constituency even after the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct would make undue interference and influence voters in favour of the ruling party, Grewal demanded their immediate transfer to other parts of the district or preferably out of the district.The SAD leader maintained that if these five SHOs were not immediately shifted from their present places of posting, free and fair elections in this particular segment would not be possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-west-sad-bsp-candidate-grewal-urges-ceo-to-transfer-shos-363906
24-01-2022||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana Central: Multi-cornered contest in Congress citadel||Ludhiana, January 23Ludhiana Central, which became an independent Assembly constituency following delimitation in 2009, has remained a bastion of the ruling Congress for the past two elections held here so far.From a direct contest in 2012 and a triangular fight in 2017, this one of the total 14 Assembly seats in the state's biggest and largest Ludhiana district, in terms of area and population, which sends almost 12 per cent of the total 117 members to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, is in for a multi-cornered contest this time with the entry of the main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) with its new alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the newly-formed two farmers' outfits Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), comprising 19 farm unions, including the one led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, and Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP), formed by a Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, which have formed an alliance.While the ruling Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with its new allies former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, have retained their previous candidates sitting MLA Surinder Kumar Dawar and Gurdev Sharma Debi, who were runner-up in 2017, respectively, the AAP, the SAD-BSP combine and the SSM-SSP alliance have fielded new faces Ashok Pappi Prashar and Pritpal Singh Pali, president of local Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib, and Shivam Arora, respectively, for this seat, which was part of Ludhiana (East) Assembly constituency, before being carved out as an independent segment.Dawar, 70, who before being elected twice consecutively from here in 2012 and 2017, and had represented Ludhiana (East) seat in 2002, said he was contesting his fifth election on the basis of his performance and development. He remained Chief Parliamentary Secretary from 2005 to 2007. He had lost his second election from Ludhiana (East) in 2007.Debi, 62, was highlighting achievements of the BJP-led government at the Centre and was seeking votes to help develop "New Punjab".Prashar, 57, who had quit the Congress to join the AAP for the second time in October last, was seeking votes for bringing about a change and ensuring all-round development of the constituency. He had unsuccessfully contested as Congress candidate from Ludhiana (South) in 2012 and had finished third.Having served as PPCC general secretary and constituency in-charge, Prashar, along with his five-time councillor brother Rakesh Prashar had also joined the AAP in 2016, but returned to the Congress after Prashar was denied the AAP ticket in 2017 polls. His brother Rakesh, along with his supporters, also joined the AAP a few days ago.Pali, who had recently embroiled in a controversy over alleged derogatory remarks against a particular community, was seeking votes against what he alleged as "failure" of the successive rulers, and "achievements" of the previous SAD government.Arora was buoyant over the success of farmers in getting the controversial farm laws withdrawn. He was promising welfare of all sections of society, especially farmers and traders, if the SSM was voted to power.In 2017, Dawar had defeated Debi by a margin of 20,480, by polling 47,871 votes, which accounted for 46.96 per cent vote share, against 27,391 votes, comprising 26.87 per cent of the total polled votes, secured by Debi.The nominee of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), which had an alliance with the AAP in 2017, In 2012, Dawar had trounced BJP's Satpal Gosain to win from here.PUNJAB POLL 2022The WinnerSurinder Kumar Dawar (Congress): 2012, 2017In 2017, Dawar defeated Gurdev Sharma Debi by a margin of 20,480, by polling 47,871 votes, which accounted for 46.96 per cent vote share, against 27,391 votes, comprising 26.87 per cent of the total polled votes, secured by Debi. In 2012, Dawar had trounced BJP’s Satpal Gosain to win from here. Dawar had represented Ludhiana (East) seat in 2002. He remained Chief Parliamentary Secretary from 2005 to 2007. He had lost his second election from Ludhiana (East) in 2007.My work and development of the constituency, especially in the field of education, will ensure my fourth victory this time. The Congress and people of my area have reposed faith in me. — Surinder Kumar Dawar, Congress MLAWe are seeking votes in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and works done by him. People will vote for the BJP to ensure all-round development of the state this time. — Gurdev Sharma Debi, BJPPeople are fed up with traditional parties. They are vying for a change. We will fulfil aspirations of the people, if voted to power, this time in the ensuing Assembly elections. — Ashok Pappi Prashar, AAPWe are seeking votes on the basis of 10-year rule of the SAD in Punjab. People have seen difference in the past five years of the Congress regime and will bring back the SAD this time. — Pritpal Singh Pali, SAD-BSPVoters will throw out all political parties and vote for the SSM to form a pro-people government this time. We will ensure welfare of all in society. — Shivam Arora, SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/multi-cornered-contest-in-congress-citadel-363904
24-01-2022||Enforce speed limits in city||Open House: What main issues plague state's industrial capital Ludhiana?||Roads of the industrial town are becoming death traps. Innocent lives continue to be snuffed out in accidents on potholed and broken roads in the city. Besides, there is no mechanism to enforce speed limits in Ludhiana. Commuters indulge in speeding vehicles, which often leads to mishaps. The traffic police must enforce speed limits on city roads. Heavy penalty must be imposed on drivers violating speed limits in the city.Aamani JainWant development, not freebiesHowever good things may seem, not much has changed in Ludhiana despite political leaders’ tall claims of providing maximum employment to people below poverty line. Two ugly legacies contradict their claim. One child labour and second exploitation of poverty stricken people. Come elections and freebies are being doled out. The fact remains that people need jobs and development and not subsides. Instead of providing freebies, Ludhiana residents need more infrastructure, improved sanitation, better garbage collection system, clean environment and playgrounds for children.Novin ChristopherNo end to traffic congestion in cityThere are many issues, which plague the industrial town. The first and the foremost problem is vehicular traffic in the town. Despite best efforts of the administration, traffic congestion persists in the city, especially during the peak morning and evening hours. A concrete solution to the problem is the need of the hour. Second issue is illegal colonies and encroachments. Such violations cannot go on without the connivance of some corrupt officials. Besides, choked sewers during rainy season and lack of clean drinking water supply inconvenience residents. The list of issues, which the city faces is endless. Therefore, whosoever wants to win the election from the Ludhiana constituency, must look into all these problems and his/her win is guaranteed.Bir Devinder Singh BediAll parties just make big promisesEach contesting party makes tall promises to woo voters in every elections. But after any party comes into power nothing changes. Residents of this industrial town want that the newly elected government should pay proper attention to the growth of industry while focusing on establishment of more units. Ludhiana needs proper health facilities with affordable charges. The city needs modern education system at par with developed countries, along with job opportunities. This will reduce exodus of students to other countries.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiFocus on promoting industrial unitsThe city is hub of large and small manufacturing industries. This has led to rapid urbanisation and population growth over the last few decades. This has also created issues like pollution, environmental degradation and growth of slums. Now, many industrial units are moving out of Punjab or have shut down. The smaller units (MSMEs), which supply parts to big industries, have been hammered. Cheap imports from China have only added to their woes. Ludhiana has, therefore, seen de-industrialization during the last few decades. Rising cost of operation in Punjab has led to exodus of industrial units to other states. Any party, which comes to power in state, should focus on protecting industry by facilitating technology upgradation, accelerating credit availability and cluster development, formulating new schemes, stabilising prices of raw material and development of industrial parks.RS SEMBHIMore job avenues for womenPolitical parties started doling out freebies to voters for getting votes. Big promises are made by all parties contesting elections. Residents want free education for all sections of society and best treatment in both government and private hospitals at reasonable price. More focus should be on education by implementing a new course curriculum. There must be a special institute for self-help groups of women. More job avenues must be provided to women. Dirty drains such as Budha Nullah must be cleaned by plugging waste coming from dying factories on a priority basis. Incentives must be given in the form of subsidies to boost the industry in Ludhiana.Farzana KhanCrime is on rise in cityCovid and its variants have wreaked havoc in the economy of the whole country. Today the industrial capital of Punjab is facing disruption from all quarters. The problem of air pollution in the city has never been properly attended to. Snatching incidents and crime is on the rise in the city. Traffic chaos and bad roads are the root cause of accidents. Industries suffer due to high prices of raw materials and free power cuts. All these issues must be addressed on urgent basis.Dr Sunil ChopraGive tax relief to industryPeople have many expectations from the party, which will win the upcoming Assembly elections. The main issues, which the industrial town is grappling with, are pollution in the environment, traffic congestion, potholed and broken roads, bad rainwater disposal system and corruption in the administration. The industry is suffering due to the ongoing pandemic should be given relief in taxes.Adish Sood, AmlohMove out industry from main cityThere has always been an issue of poor power supply to the city. Small industry like sewing machine and bicycles parts manufacturing units cause pollution in the city. This affects health of residents, who contract diseases. All out efforts must be made to move out these units from the main city. The city has a bad reputation of poor drainage. Sewage overflows on streets and roads especially during the rainy season. Also, there are no proper arrangements for the disposal of the household waste. Piles of garbage can be seen along main roads and entry points to the city. These issue needs special attention. Among many other amenities, the more CCTV cameras must be installed in industrial areas to check thefts during night.Gautam DevFormulate policy to revive sick unitsThere are various issues, which the industrial sector faces in the city. Issues like corruption, weak industrial policy, political interference in big industries and high power rate need to be addressed urgently. Industry in Punjab is passing through a difficult phase. The government, which comes to power, must formulate schemes to revive sick units.Ritu PriyaLudhiana needs international airportLudhiana being industrial town needs an international airport to boost business activities. Many announcements have been made in this regard, but in reality lot needs to be done. Green belts should be developed all around the city. Parking lots should be allotted to reduce parking of vehicles on city roads, which creates traffic congestion. Budha Nullah should be covered. City should have AIMS like hospital to provide better healthcare to residents. More employment avenues must be created for educated residents. All citizens should vote for party, which can resolve problems at the earliest.Vikas SharmaPromote use of green energyThe Assembly elections always bring new hope for development in society. Ludhiana is Punjab’s industrial capital. The city is backbone of the state economy. The focus of political parties should be mainly on issues like infrastructure development, construction of roads and hike in wages of the work force. Also, stress should be on using green energy like solar power to lessen carbon emission and improve air quality in the city. Healthcare in the city should be improved.Jhalak JalanQUESTIONThe recent spell of rains has once again exposed the non-existent drainage system, besides laying bare the quality and workmanship of the recently recarpeted roads in the city. Should officials responsible for undertaking such works worth crores be taken to task?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-main-issues-plague-states-industrial-capital-ludhiana-363897
24-01-2022||---||Perform duties with devotion, honesty: Ludhiana DC to poll staff||Ludhiana, January 23To prepare them for the conduct of the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, slated for February 20, the maiden training session of election staff was held at 14 different locations in the district here on Sunday.District Election Officer (DEO)-cum-Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma visited the training venues and motivated the election staff to perform their duties with utmost devotion and honesty.The first training of election staff was held at AS Modern Senior Secondary School in Khanna for Khanna; Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Khanna Road, Samrala, for Samrala; Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, for Sahnewal; SCD Government College in Ludhiana for Ludhiana (East); Examination Hall of Kundan Vidya Mandir, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, for Ludhiana (South); Auditorium Hall, New Building, Guru Nanak Dev Polytechnic College, Ludhiana, for Atam Nagar; Auditorium of Arya College, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, for Ludhiana (Central); Khalsa College for Women, Ghumar Mandi, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, for Ludhiana (West); Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, for Ludhiana (North); SRS Government Polytechnic College for Women, Rishi Nagar, Ludhiana, for Gill; Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, for Payal; Government Senior Secondary School, PAU, Ludhiana, for Dakha; Swami Ganga Giri Senior Secondary School, Raikot, for Raikot; and the training of election staff was held at Lala Lajpat Rai, DAV College, Jagraon, for the Jagraon constituency.While visiting the training venues at the Malwa Central College of Education for Women, SCD Government College and Khalsa College for Women here, the DC-cum-DEO said the officials put on election duty should feel proud that they have been tasked for such an important work. He said during today’s training the election staff was trained about the entire election process, their duties, handling of electronic voting machine (EVM), VVPAT, besides several other aspects related to the electioneering process.He took a round of the halls where strong rooms for storing EVMs are being created. He also urged the election staff to get themselves vaccinated so that everyone stays safe from Covid. He said as per the directions of the Election Commission of India, the staff deputed on duty in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections can get the booster dose even if they have not completed nine months after the second dose. He said now such staff can get booster dose after 90 days of their second vaccination.Sharma said special vaccination camps for all election staff, including teachers, government, bank and insurance sector empolyees, who have been deputed for election duty, were also organised at all training centres today.He informed that three more such trainings would be organised in the coming days and said the staff deputed for election duty should focus on this important task, rather than finding a way to get exemption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/perform-duties-with-devotion-honesty-dc-to-poll-staff-363895
24-01-2022||Ludhiana||Cook who stole Rs 15 lakh nabbed||The police arrested the Nepalese cook, Amar Nepali, who had stolen Rs 15 lakh from the house of a businessman living in Urban Estate, Dugri. The police recovered Rs 70,000 from the cook.The police said the cook had committed the theft on January 17. After committing the theft, the cook had left Ludhiana and started living in some other city. Yesterday, the cook went to his rented accommodation in Dugri to collect some household things and when the police got to know about his location, a raid was conducted and the cook was nabbed. The police said the cook had sent the stolen money to his parents living in some other state. The police have informed the parents of the cook about the theft case and asked them to return the money. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cook-who-stole-15l-nabbed-363894
24-01-2022||---||Nihangs assault Sikh woman for 'sacrilege' bid in gurdwara||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 23Nihangs allegedly attacked and injured a middle-aged woman on suspicion of a sacrilege attempt when she got emotional on being denied baptism during the ‘amrit sanchar’ programme and insisted on continuing praying while sitting in the hall of Gurdwara Manji Sahib Alamgir.The victim woman, who was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Dehlon, for treatment of injuries on her legs, was referred to the Civil Hospital in Ludhiana for management of unconsciousness supposedly caused due to psychological shock.Varinder Kaur of Habas village and her sister Charanjit Kaur of Meharban village had reportedly visited the gurdwara to pay obeisance and get baptised. When their turn came sewadars denied the opportunity to Varinder Kaur. Varinder Kaur got upset and insisted on continuing prayers while sitting in the hall. However, sewadars tried to make her leave the place and sit aside with the sangat.It was during this period that some of the devotees or sewadars prepared a video mentioning that a woman had tried to commit sacrilege. Some Nihangs reached the place with their traditional weapons. The Nihangs allegedly assaulted the woman, who got injured.The management of the shrine called the police. The Delhon police, led by SHO Sukhjit Singh, shifted Varinder Kaur to the Civil Hospital, Dehlon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nihangs-assault-sikh-woman-for-sacrilege-bid-in-gurdwara-363893
24-01-2022||Manav Mander||Capt Amarinder's party announces four candidates for Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 23Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) candidates from 22 constituencies, which also included names of four candidates from Ludhiana East, South, Atamnagar and Dakha constituencies.The PLC has currently got 37 of the 117 seats in the state as part of its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and SAD (Sanyukt), with discussions still in progress on possibly another five seats for the party.Jagmohan Sharma, who was president of the District Congress Committee, Ludhiana, and is currently PLC district president, has been selected for Ludhiana East. Currently Congress’ Sanjeev Talwar is the siting MLA from this constituency and also the Congress candidate.The Ludhiana South seat will be represented in the PLC by Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri, son of a former Cooperation Minister in the erstwhile SAD government. He belongs to the farming family. The Congress is yet to announce the seat and Balwinder Bains of the Lok Insaaf Party won this seat in 2017 by defeating Bhupinder Singh Sidhu of the Congress with a margin of 30,917 votes.Prem Mittal, SAD’s former MLA from Mansa and former Senior Deputy Mayor of Ludhiana and currently president of the District Planning Board, will contest from Atam Nagar. He will have a tough fight with the LIP’s Simarjeet Singh Bains, who is the siting MLA, and Congress’ Kamaljeet Singh, who was the second runner-up in 2017 elections and currently Congress candidate from Atam Nagar.Damanjeet Singh Mohi, an active Youth Congress functionary, who has formerly been sarpanch, Zila Parishad member and Chairman of the Market Committee Mullanpur, will fight from the Dakha seat. The SAD’s Manpreet Ayali is the current MLA and the Congress has fielded Capt Sandeep Sandhu, a close aide of Capt Amarinder Singh, as its candidate from Dakha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amarinders-party-announces-four-candidates-for-ludhiana-363892
24-01-2022||---||57,124 get jabbed at 258 sites during mega vaccination drive||Ludhiana, January 23During the mega Covid vaccination campaign of the Health Department on Sunday, residents of the district showed great enthusiasm and got vaccinated against Covid.Civil Surgeon Dr SP Singh said 57,124 persons were vaccinated at 258 session sites set up in the district today.Civil Surgeon Dr SP Singh added that teams of the Health Department were being prepared for the mega Covid vaccination campaign from last few days and with the efforts of all the staff finally they have achieved the target.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/57-124-get-jabbed-at-258-sites-during-mega-vaccination-drive-363891
24-01-2022||---||8 dead; 836 new cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 23As many as 836 persons tested positive for Covid, while eight patients lost their lives to the virus in the district today.The deceased include seven men and a woman belonging to Kot Mangal Singh, Bindra Colony, Burj Hari Singh, Giaspura, near Chand Cinema, Model Gram, Dhandari Kalan and Dhandra Road.A total of 1,04,414 persons have tested positive for the virus since March 2020, while 2,178 patients from the district have succumbed to the virus till now.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients today rose to 90.86 per cent. Today there were 7,368 active cases in the district and 7,136 patients were asked to isolate themselves at their homes by the Health Department.At present there are 375 patients admitted to various private and government hospitals. Out of these 232 patients belong to Ludhiana district, while 143 are from other districts.Till date, a total of 31,27,216 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 30,09,165 were found negative.Samples of 7,014 suspected patients were sent for testing today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-dead-836-new-cases-in-ludhiana-district-363890
