28-01-2022||Ludhiana||Live Painting exhibition||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/live-painting-exhibition-364919
28-01-2022||Ludhiana||Jagraon: Govt College celebrates R-Day||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jagraon-govt-college-celebrates-r-day-364918
28-01-2022||Mahesh Sharma||Child safety takes a back seat as campaigning takes centre stage||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 27As the administration continues to battle the Covid surge, spurred by the Omicron variant, organisers of election campaigns are all out to negate results of the coordinated fight against the pandemic.Let alone the compliance of guidelines on social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation, children are now being exposed to the dreaded virus by making them sit unprotected at poll-related events. The Health Department has taken a serious notice of the matter as a recent research found that children aged below 15 years were most likely to get infected due to no vaccination against virus.In gross violation of the Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, children are allegedly being exploited to raise slogans, distribute and paste posters and attend meetings.Even parents, predominantly mothers, don’t hesitate carrying infants and toddlers along with them to attend events being convened during the campaigning.Social activists, led by Lok Jagrukta Foundation president Dipesh Batra, lamented that leaders undertaking campaigns of their candidates, irrespective of their political allegiance, had been violating the Model Code of Conduct and the provisions of the Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, with impunity by exploiting children for various activities such as raising slogans, distributing and pasting pamphlets and posters, besides participation in meetings and rallies.“Even if it is being done unintentionally or due to lack of awareness, using children in the election campaign is a violation of the Protection of Child Rights Act,” Batra said while adding that his NGO had already launched a campaign to make the public aware under the “My family my responsibility” mission.Appreciating that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had already issued guidelines on the issue to the political parties for strict compliance, Batra regretted that all stakeholders, including parents, government officials and candidates, had failed to comprehend the essence of regulations.“Unfortunately, candidates contesting the elections have also been proudly using their children to seek votes for them,” he added.PARENTAL ADVISORYThe officials concerned in the CHC have been advised to make residents aware of not allowing unvaccinated children to participate in poll-related activities as it is detrimental to the fight against Covid pandemic. — Dr Rajesh Garg, SMO, Civil Hospital, Mandi Ahmedgarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/child-safety-takes-a-back-seat-as-campaigning-takes-centre-stage-364917
28-01-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Sale in bazaars keeps admn on toes||The administration remained on toes handling the situation following coming up of an unauthorised ‘sale bazaar’, which has become an annual feature on days following and preceding the R-Day celebrations.As owners of shops and commercial establishments in Chaura Bazar, Main Bazar, Raikot Wala Adda, Railway Road and old Bus Stand Road are divided over the issue of the mobile ‘sale bazaar’, every time the administration is left with only one option, which is to regulate the traffic and prevent scuffles among customers, vendors, shopkeepers and passersby, who are the worst sufferers.Sikandar Singh Jartauli, an office-bearer of the All India Kissan Sabha, and Rajesh Garg, district president of the Anti-Corruption Foundation of India, alleged that the administration had failed to curb the annual ‘sale bazaar’. “Neither of the stakeholders takes permission from any of the authorities concerned for establishing ‘sale bazaar’, particularly during this time when strict guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are in force,” they added.“We fail to understand why the government has closed educational institutes on pretext of students’ safety, whereas there is no check on congestion in the market, which is so detrimental for the fight against the virus,” said Jartauli.The Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Chandar Parkash Wadhwa, said various associations of shopkeepers had been advised to ensure that such events were not allowed in their respective markets. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sale-in-bazaars-keeps-admn-on-toes-364916
28-01-2022||Manav Mander||Congress' 2nd list triggers dissent in party in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 27The second list announced by the Congress has created an uproar among ticket aspirants and their supporters. Candidates for four seats from Ludhiana district, including Gill, Samrala, Sanhewal and Jagraon, were announced by the party high command out of which revolt was witnessed for three seats.Four time MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon and Satwinder Bitti have decided to contest as Independent candidates.From Gill constituency, siting MLA Kuldeep Vaid’s name has been announced while from Samrala, Raja Gill has also made it to the list. From Sanhewal, Vikram Bajwa has been given the ticket and from Jagraon, Jagtar Singh Hissowal has made it to the list.From Samrala, four-time siting MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon has been left out, who decided to contest as an Independent candidate and filed his papers today. This time Dhillon was seeking ticket for his grandson Karanvir Singh Dhillon, but instead it was given to son of former minister late Karam Gill. Raja Gill is into real estate and a commission agent from Khanna.Dhillon today started his campaign after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Charankawal Sahib.“I will be contesting as an Independent candidate. There is no scope of alliance with any party. The Congress has betrayed me by denying ticket. I contested the elections five times and won the seat four times,” said Dhillon.Dhillon said he was seeking ticket for his grandson, but decided to contest as an Independent as it was a collective decision of his supporters.“My supporters wanted that I should contest from Samrala. So, I accepted their demand. I have decided to contest the elections as an Independent candidate,” Dhillon added.Satwinder Bitti, who was ticket aspirant from Sanhewal, has questioned the party for giving ticket to Vikram Bajwa, son-in-law of Rajinder Kaur Bhattal.“The party’s rule of one family one ticket has been ignored in this case as Bhattal has already been announced candidate from Lehra in Sangrur. Although I lost last elections, I have been active throughout these five years. I served people of the constituency. On the other hand Bajwa, an outsider has been given ticket from Sanhewal,” said Bitti.“Congress has been ignoring women and once again one more daughter of the soil has been denied her right. I will continue fighting for the people and if they want I will definitely contest as an Independent candidate,” Bitti added.From Jagraon, sitting MLA of Raikot from the Aam Aadmi Party, Jagtar Singh Hissowal, who joined the Congress recently, has been given ticket.Malkiat Singh Dakha, who was party’s candidate from Jagraon in 2017, has given his entire life to the party. He felt ignored after the party choose a newcomer over him.“I would have welcomed the decision of the party high command had they given ticket to anyone from the Congress and not a new entrant from another party,” said Dakhja, who is also thinking of contesting as an Independent candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-2nd-list-triggers-dissent-in-party-364915
28-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: R-Day celebrated with fervour||Ludhiana, January 27The district-level Republic Day celebrations were held at the local Guru Nanak Stadium here on Wednesday. The day was celebrated with enthusiasm and patriotism.Cabinet Minister Punjab Randeep Singh Nabha officiated the flag hoisting ceremony and took salute from the marching contingents. On this occasion, he was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.Addressing the gathering on the occasion, the minister remembered contribution of Dr BR Ambedkar in framing of the constitution of India. He said the Indian Constitution had united the country.While terming the constitution as a charter of rights and duties of the people the minister said it would be a true tribute to freedom fighters if every citizen of the country abides by their duties.MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Kuldeep Vaid and Sanjay Talwar, District and Sessions Judge Munish Singhal, PMIDB Chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka and PSIDC Chairman KK Bawa were among others, who were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-r-day-celebrated-with-fervour-364914
28-01-2022||Ludhiana||Parvin Bansal is BJP's Ludhiana North candidate||After long wait, the BJP has finally announced Parvin Bansal as its candidate for the Ludhiana North seat. Earlier, names of three senior leaders of the party, including Parvin Bansal, Anil Sarin and Jiwan Gupta, were also doing rounds for the ticket from this seat.Bansal has already contested twice from the North constituency and lost to Congress leader Rakesh Pandey with a margin of 2,000 and 5,000 votes, respectively. Even after losing from the constituency, Bansal did not stop meeting area residents and got enough funds from the Centre for carrying on development works. Presently, Bansal is the Punjab BJP vice-president.Talking to The Tribune, Bansal said his only aim was to serve people of his constituency. “I want welfare of the public in my constituency. It must not be restricted to papers only. I know what actually people want and how we can bring improvement in the North segment,” said Bansal. There are 1.82 lakh voters in Ludhiana North, who will cast their vote to decide fate of the candidates. Rakesh Pandey from the Congress has been elected five times from the Ludhiana North constituency. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parvin-bansal-is-bjps-ludhiana-north-candidate-364913
28-01-2022||Nitin Jain||Gill constituency: AAP, SAD, SSM make contest multi-cornered in rural segment||Ludhiana, January 27It’s bureaucrat versus bureaucrat in Gill, which was carved out as an independent Assembly constituency following delimitation in 2009. Gill, which is Ludhiana district’s biggest segment, has 2,68,759 voters, including 1,42,537 male, 1,26,213 female and nine third gender.While the ruling Congress has reposed faith in its sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was contesting its maiden election from here, has fielded a retired IAS officer Sucha Ram Ladhar. Vaid is also a retired IAS officer.However, the main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), and the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) have made the contest a multi-cornered in this rural seat, which prior to its maiden election in 2012, was a part of Dakha, Qila Raipur and Ludhiana Rural (both since scrapped) segments.In the past two Assembly elections held so far, the Congress and the SAD had won the seat one time each.The AAP has re-nominated Jiwan Singh Sangowal, who was runner-up in 2017, the SAD with its new ally Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has also reposed faith in its two-time former MLA Darshan Singh Shivalik, who had represented this seat in 2012 and Dakha in 2007. The newly-formed two farmers’ outfits the SSM, comprising 19 farm unions, including the one led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, and Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP), formed by a Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, which have also forged an alliance, has fielded a new face Rajeev Kumar Lovely from here.Vaid, 60, is seeking his re-election on the basis of his five-year performance and the promise of continuing the ongoing development of the area in future as well. Having been promoted from PCS to IAS, the former bureaucrat was elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha from here for the first time in 2017. He had also remained Deputy Commissioner of Moga besides serving on various other positions during his career. Sangowal, 57, is seeking votes on the promise of better basic civic amenities, education and health facilities. He said the people were fed up with the traditional parties and were eager to throw them out.Shivalik, 66, is seeking votes on the basis of his past performance from 2012 to 2017 in Gill and 2007 to 2012 in Dakha. He said the people had seen the difference and would re-elect him to bring back development of the area. In his past four elections, Shivalik had won and lost two each from Dakha and Gill.Ladhar, 63, who is supported by the BJP’s new alliance partners former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, is raising the issues of neglect and backwardness of the constituency, which he claimed lacked in even basic civic amenities. A 1991-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre, Ladhar had remained Deputy Commissioner of Sangrur, Ferozepur, Bathinda and Mansa, besides serving as Divisional Commissioner of Ferozepur, Patiala, and Jalandhar, before being superannuated from the post of Financial Commissioner.Lovely, 54, whose father Ajit Kumar was MLA from now scrapped Sidhwan Bet constituency in 1962, is seeking votes to save Punjab from the “clutches” of the traditional parties, whom he accused of not even providing basic civic amenities to the locals.In 2017, Vaid, who was allotted ticket after much deliberations this time in the second list of the Congress party released on Tuesday night, had defeated Sangowal by a margin of 8,641 votes, by polling 67,927, accounting for 37.83 per cent vote share, against 59,286 votes, constituting 33.01 per cent of the total polled votes, secured by Sangowal. Shivalik had ended third with 46,476 votes, accounting for 25.88 per cent vote share. All other seven candidates, including BSP’s Bikker Singh, who had polled 3,455 votes, accounting for 1.92 per cent vote share, had lost their security deposits while 1,647 voters, constituting 0.92 per cent, had opted for “none of the above” (NOTA).In 2012, Shivalik had trounced Congress heavyweight Malkiat Singh Dakha. This time, the voter count has registered an increase of 30,339 votes as compared to 2,38,420 listed in 2017.CandidatespeakThe winnersKuldeep Singh Vaid (Congress): 2017Darshan Singh Shivalik (SAD): 2012We will save water, farming and youth of the state by ending the regime of freebies, create employment opportunities, check drug menace and rampant corruption. — Rajeev Kumar Lovely, SSMI have brought huge grants for the public welfare during my stint. I will continue to serve the people in future as well. The opponents will not succeed in misleading voters. — Kuldeep Singh Vaid, CONGRESS MLAProviding better basic civic amenities besides ramping up the education and health sectors top my agenda. People are eagerly waiting for the polling day to vote for the AAP to power in state. — Jiwan Singh Sangowal,BJPMy performance is in front of the people of my constituency. They are poised to elect me again for the overall development and welfare of all sections of society. — Darshan Singh Shivalik, SADInclusion of residential colonies in MC limits, regularising illegal colonies, improving education, health infra, removing traffic snarls and giving thrust to rural sports will be ensured if the BJP is voted to power. — Sucha Ram Ladhar, BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gill-aap-sad-ssm-make-contest-multi-cornered-in-rural-segment-364912
28-01-2022||Ludhiana||Man caught riding stolen motorcycle||Ajay Kumar of Prem Nagar, Giaspura, was arrested by the police on Wednesday from Manjit Nagar while he was riding a stolen Splendor motorcycle. The police said he was stopped at a naka on the basis of a tip-off that he was involved in cases of two-wheeler thefts. A case has been registered.Five motorcycles were reportedly stolen from the city on Wednesday. Sukhpreet of Gulabi Bagh lodged a complaint that his motorcycle was stolen from outside the Gill Road branch of Axis Bank. One Bajaj CT-100 motorcycle was stolen from outside the residence of Saurav on Mullanpur Road while another Splendor motorcycle was stolen from near Char Khamba Road as per a complaint lodged by Gurpreet. Two Hero Splendor motorcycles were stolen on Wednesday from Guru Bagh Colony and OWPL Complex, Phase V, in Focal Point. Palwinder of Prem Nagar reported theft of his Honda Activa scooter parked outside his shop on Bindraban Road. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-caught-riding-stolen-motorcycle-364911
28-01-2022||Ludhiana||Man loses Rs 70K, cell phone to robbers in Ludhiana||Ram Anjor, a resident of Iqbal Nagar on Tibba Road, who runs a travel agency on Rahon Road lost Rs 70,000 in cash and two mobile phones to armed robbers on Tuesday evening.He said he was sitting in his office when three persons forced their entry to the place and took away the cash lying in the drawer and two mobile phones after threatening him with a weapon. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in this regard on Wednesday.Four held with stolen itemsThe Sahnewal police have arrested four persons, Jatinder, Rambali, Sukhveer Singh and Rakesh Bhatia, all residents of Hara Colony, Sahnewal, and have recovered cans of desi ghee and other items stolen by them from Gurdwara Reru Sahib in Nandpur (Sahnewal) on the intervening night of January 23 and 24. The police said the accused were nabbed on Wednesday on the basis of a tip-off from Old Grain Market in Sahnewal when they were about to sell the desi ghee and empty cans of mustard oil which they had stolen from the langar hall of the gurdwara. Over three cans of desi ghee and four empty cans of mustard oil were seized from the accused who had been booked under Sections 380, 413, 411 and 34 of the IPC.One nabbed for theftIn another incident, a mobile phone store in Hira Nagar on Kakowal Road here was burgled during night hours when it was closed. The miscreants, who had gained entry to the shop after breaking open the lock of the main shutter, took away 12 mobile phones, three smartphones, three old cell phones of customers which were kept at the shop to repair, an AirPod and cash kept in the drawer. The police had registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC on Wednesday. During investigation, the police arrested Rajesh, a resident of New Deep Nagar. Four stolen mobile phones were recovered from the accused. His accomplice, identified as Nandan, a resident of Kali Sarak, is absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-loses-70k-cell-phone-to-robbers-in-ludhiana-364910
28-01-2022||Harshraj Singh||Better living conditions a distant dream for many in Ludhiana South Assembly constituency||Ludhiana, January 27As overflowing sewers is a major problem in various parts of the Ludhiana South Assembly constituency, better living conditions are still like a distant dream for residents in such areas.The residents are pinning hopes on the upcoming government in the state to provide them a permanent relief from the years’ old problem of choked and overflowing sewers.Sewage generally gets accumulated in streets of several areas, including Makkar Colony, Shanti Nagar, Guru Teg Bahadur Colony and Giaspura. The conditions turn worse during the rainy days.People say there are a large number of vehras (quarters for migrant labourers) in the constituency but no steps have been taken to strengthen the sewerage system.Narsingh Tewari of Ambedkar Nagar in Giaspura said: “People have been suffering a lot for many years due to the unsanitary conditions due to the poor sewerage system in parts of the Ludhiana South constituency. Sewerage pipes are of lesser capacity as compared to the large population in the affected areas. We want that the sewerage system should be upgraded so that people can live under better conditions.”Tewari, who is a factory worker, said: “The residents have raised the matter of unsanitary conditions many times in the past but to no avail. However, the sewerage system was upgraded on one of the major roads in Giaspura and then the road was reconstructed. But, dirty water still accumulates on the stretch. Basic problems should be resolved on a priority basis as everyone has a right to live under clean environment.”Another resident of the Ludhiana South constituency, RK Yadav, of Yadav Ahir Mahasabha said: “Sewers generally overflow near Mini Rose Garden in Giaspura. Despite our repeated demands, the problem has not been resolved till date. Sewage often gets accumulated in the garden too. The situation turn too bad during the rainy season.”“Choked and overflowing sewers is one of the major problems in areas of the constituency. Chances of water contamination also remain high due to the overflowing sewers. We want a permanent solution to the problem. After elections, the new government must take the matter seriously and resolve it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/better-living-conditions-a-distant-dream-for-many-364908
28-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: One held for assaulting chemist; accomplice at large; pistol seized||Ludhiana, January 27The police have arrested a person, identified as Raman Kumar, alias Ashu, and his accomplice Laadi, who is at large, has been booked under Sections 307, 336 and 427 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The police claimed to have seized a countrymade pistol, two live cartridges and three spent shells from the spot.Madan Lal, a medical store owner and a resident of Kabir Nagar, here, had lodged a complaint with the police that Ramanand Laadi had attacked him and one of the accused had also made an attempt to shoot him with his pistol but the weapon misfired.He said thereafter, the duo created a scare in the area by firing shots in the air and fled the spot on their Honda Activa scooter.According to the complainant, the trouble began when the motorcycle of two youths from the same locality had slightly touched the mini-truck of the accused. Angered over the incident, the accused started beating the motorcycle-borne youths, Angad and Karan. When the complainant intervened, they threatened him with the fire arm and also made an unsuccessful attempt to shoot him.The police said a hunt had been launched to apprehend the other accused, Laadi. Raman was being produced before a court to obtain his police remand for further questioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-one-held-for-assaulting-chemist-accomplice-at-large-pistol-seized-364907
28-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: 1,080 +ve for Covid, 10 die in 2 days||Ludhiana, January 27A total of 1,080 persons tested positive for Covid in the past two days. Today, as many as 442 persons tested positive while on Wednesday, 638 persons tested positive for the virus. A total of 10 persons lost their lives to the virus in the past two days.Now, 1,06,652 persons have tested positive for the virus so far since March 2020 while 2,199 persons from the district have succumbed to the virus till now.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients today rose to 92.99 per cent. Today, there were 5,278 active cases in the district and 5,033 were asked to isolate themselves at their homes by the Health Department.At present, there are 400 patients admitted to various private and government hospitals. Of these, 245 patients belong to Ludhiana district while 155 are from other districts. Today, 33 patients were on ventilator support.Till date, 31,52,875 samples have been taken, of which 30,32,256 were found negative.Samples of 6,154 suspected patients were sent for testing today, the results of which are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-1-080-ve-for-covid-10-die-in-2-days-364906
28-01-2022||---||13 candidates from nine constituencies of Ludhiana file papers||Ludhiana, January 27As many as 13 candidates, including three covering candidates from the nine Assembly constituencies, filed their nomination papers on Thursday.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said three candidates from the Ludhiana Central constituency, two candidates each from the Ludhiana West and Dakha constituencies and one candidate each from the Samrala, Sahnewal, Atam Nagar, Gill, Payal and Raikot constituencies filed their nominations papers on Day 2.After being denied the Congress ticket, sitting Congress MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon (79) filed his nomination papers as an Independent candidate from the Samrala Assembly segment today.Major Singh filed his nomination papers as an Independent candidate from Sahnewal while Anil Kumar from the Insaniyat Lok Vikas Party filed his nomination from the Atam Nagar constituency.Meanwhile, Surinder Kumar Dawar and Manik Dawar from the Indian National Congress (INC) and Raminder Pal Singh from the People’s Party of India (Democratic) filed their nomination papers from Ludhiana Central.Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Mamta Ashu from the Congress filed their nomination papers from the Ludhiana West constituency. Brijesh Kumar from the Peoples Party of India (Democratic) filed his nomination papers from Gill and Jagdeep Singh from the Rashtriya Janhit Sangharsh Party from Payal. Besides, Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu and Puneeta Sandhu from the Congress filed nomination papers from the Dakha constituency while Baldev Singh of Aam Lok Party United filed papers from Raikot.Varinder Kumar Sharma said as per stipulated norms laid down by the Election Commission, only three persons, including the candidate, were allowed to enter the Returning Officers’ (RO) room where the nominations for the polls would be filed by them from January 25 to February 1, between 11 am to 3 pm. The nomination papers would not be taken on January 30 (Sunday).The nominations will be scrutinised on February 2. The date of the withdrawal of candidature has been fixed as February 4. The election date in the state has been fixed for February 20 while counting of votes will be conducted on March 10.Papers to be scrutinised on February 2The nomination papers of candidates will be scrutinised on February 2. The date of the withdrawal of candidature has been fixed as February 4. The election date in the state has been fixed for February 20 while counting of votes will be conducted on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-candidates-from-nine-constituencies-of-ludhiana-file-papers-364903
