30-01-2022||---||1.05 lakh litres of lahan seized||Ludhiana, January 29The Ludhiana rural police conducted a raid near the Sutlej today and recovered 1.05 lakh litres of lahan.Sharing details, Patil Ketan Baliram, SSP, Ludhiana (Rural), said on the basis of information, he along with the force in coordination with Excise Department Inspector, Sidhwan Bet, conducted a major raid in Baghian village along the Sutlej to check manufacturing of illicit liquor.The SSP said a drone camera was also used to map the area and identify pockets. The accused identified as Nirmal Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Manjit Singh of Baghian village, manufacturing illicit liquor, managed to give a slip to the police party, the SSP added. Raids were on to nab them, the SSP said. A case under the Excise Act was registered against the three accused, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-05-lakh-litres-of-lahan-seized-365416
30-01-2022||Ludhiana||BKU Lakhowal holds meeting||Members of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) Lakhowal discussed their plan to observe the ‘Vishwasghat Diwas’ against the Central Government at a meeting here today .Ajmer Singh Lakhowal, union president, said they would stage protests in front of the DC, the SDM and Tehsil offices on January 31 to mark the ‘Vishwasghat Diwas’. Effigies of the Central Government would be burnt during protests, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bku-lakhowal-holds-meeting-365415
30-01-2022||Ludhiana||Speakers share real-life stories at varsity event||CT University organised an event titled ‘Open mic’ here on Friday. Ten speakers from various fields shared stories based on their life struggle, challenges and accomplishments at the event. The guest of honour was Charanjit Singh Channi, Chancellor, CT University.Speakers Harkirat Kaur Chahal, Tota Singh Dina, Jasleen Garcha, Alaap Sikander, Jassi Sangha, Shivali Tuli, Satinder Kaur, Dev Prashad, Amita Puniani, and Prabhjot Kaur shared their life inspiring stories with participants present on the occasion.Manbir Singh, managing director, CTU, thanked speakers for sharing their inspirational stories. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/speakers-share-real-life-stories-at-varsity-event-365414
30-01-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Will support candidates who promise to get our demands accepted: Forum||Pensioners of various organisations have announced to support only those candidates, who promise to get their long-pending demands accepted and implemented by the state and Centre governments.Updating pension of retired bank officials, revision of medical insurance policies, payment of pending dearness allowance instalments and removal of disparities in the sixth pay scale of state government employees were major demands, said pensioners.Activists of the All Bank Pensioners Forum Ahmedgarh regretted that successive governments had failed to get their long-pending issues resolved, including updating pension on the pattern of the Reserve Bank of India and medical insurance by the parent bank.“Unfortunately, managements and unions of respective banks have also failed to consider us as part of their organisations. We have been left on the mercy of the Union Government,” said Kedar Kapila of the pensioners’ forum.“The forum at a meeting held at MGMN Senior Secondary School has resolved to support only those candidates in the ensuing Assembly elections, who will assure to fight for the acceptance and implementation of our their long-pending demands,” he added.Sukhcharanjit Sharma of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited Pensioners Association alleged that the successive governments had failed to protect their interests. The Union Government had dashed all their hopes through various bills brought on labour laws and privatisation, he added. “Keeping in view the implementation of anti-people policies by the successive governments, we have decided to oppose candidates, contesting polls by making fake promises and offering freebies,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-support-candidates-who-promise-to-get-our-demands-accepted-forum-365413
30-01-2022||Ludhiana||Will ensure development if voted to power: Lekhi||The city BJP in-charge, Union Cabinet Minister Meenakshi Lekhi, today said even when the party was not in power in Punjab, it did lot of development in the state. “Imagine if you vote the BJP to power, what wonders it will do for the people of the state,” Lekhi added.Lekhi was in city today as she has been given the charge of party in Ludhiana for the upcoming Assembly elections. Flyovers, bridges and national highways were here in the city because of the BJP, which provided funds, said Lekhi.“We always had in mind that since Punjab is a border state, it should be developed. The Centre Government provided funds even when the party was not in power in Punjab. If this time people choose the BJP, we will make sure that everyone witnesses development in state,” Lekhi added.When asked how would the BJP perform in the rural areas as majority of villagers were not in favour of the saffron party, Lekhi replied, “You come along me in villages and see what kind of support we are getting in the rural areas. These elections will bring out the reality.”Taking a dig at both Arvind Kejriwal and the Punjab Government, Except for advertisements of over Rs520 crore, Kejriwal did not do anything in Delhi, said Lekhi. Had he really done something good for Delhi, the Capital would have been different, Lekhi added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-ensure-development-if-voted-to-power-lekhi-365412
30-01-2022||Nitin Jain||This Akali bastion headed  for multi-cornered contest||Ludhiana, January 29Dakha, which has remained a stronghold of the Parkash Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), is in for a multi-cornered contest this time. Earlier, it was mostly a direct fight or triangular contest during the past two elections. New entrants have made the electoral battle multi-cornered from the rural seat for the Assembly polls this time.Now, the two-time SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali is pitted against the main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) new face Dr KNS Kang, the Congress nominee, Sandeep Singh Sandhu, who had unsuccessfully fought the 2019 bypoll from here, first-timer Damanjeet Singh Mohi from former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), supported by the the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and another new face Harpreet Singh Makhu of the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP), which has forged an alliance with the newly-formed another farmers’ outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM).Ayali, 47, who is contesting his fourth Assembly election, having won two out of the three in the past, is promising better health, education, employment and sports facilities in the area. He said, “Unemployment will be tackled on a priority basis, if the SAD is voted to power in the state.” Ayali had won his maiden election in 2012 and had lost in 2017 to AAP’s Harvinder Singh Phoolka, whose resignation had necessitated the bypoll in 2019, which Ayali had won.Dr Kang, 56, who is an academician and contesting his maiden election, said bringing about a change in what he alleged as the “corrupt” system and forming an upright government in the state was his main poll plank. He has been an ardent supporter of the AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, who had stayed at his home during visit to Punjab in 2017 Assembly elections.Sandhu, 52, who remained political secretary to former CM Capt Amarinder, is seeking votes on the basis of his performance in the constituency. He is contesting his second election after losing his maiden 2019 bypoll from here. He was re-nominated by the Congress even after his former boss Capt Amarinder quit the party and formed his own party PLC.Mohie, 45, who is fighting his maiden election, is seeking votes for forming the BJP-led government in the state to ensure overall development of Punjab with the help of the ruling dispensation at the Centre. He claimed that Captain Amarinder Singh had fulfilled 93 per cent of the poll promises while alleging that the incumbent Congress government failed to deliver.Makhu, 40, is also seeking votes for bringing about change and throwing out traditional political parties that had been ruling the state in the past.In 2019 bypoll, Ayali had trounced Sandhu by a margin of 14,672 votes by polling 66,297 votes, which accounted for 50.3 per cent vote share, against 51,625 votes, constituting 39.17 per cent of the total votes polled, secured by his nearest rival. All other nine candidates, including the AAP’s new face Amandeep Singh Mohie, who had got mere 2,804 votes, and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) nominee Sukhdev Singh Chak, who had polled 8,441 votes, had lost their security deposits while 642 voters had opted for “none of the above” (NOTA).In 2017, Phoolka had defeated then sitting MLA Ayali by a narrow margin of 4,169 votes. While Major Singh Bhaini of the Congress had got 28,571 votes all other six nominees, including the BSP’s Jaswinder Singh, had lost their security deposits. As many as 981 voters had opted for NOTA.While the SAD had so far represented this seat for nine times since its inception in 1967, the Congress had won from here thrice and the AAP once.CandidatespeakPUNJAB POLL 2022The winnersWe will create new job avenues to tackle un-employment on a priority basis. Our focus on improving health, education and sports facilities will continue in future. — Manpreet Singh Ayali, SAD MLAWe will change the present corrupt system in the state. We will form an upright government to replicate the Aam Aadmi Party’s Delhi model of governance in Punjab. — Dr KNS Kang, AAPI’m seeking votes on the basis of my performance in the past years, besides propagating my vision and plans for the area in the times to come. — Sandeep Singh Sandhu, CongressWe will ensure overall development in the state with the Centre’s help and bring back the pro-people ruling dispensation led by Capt Amarinder Singh. — Damanjit Singh Mohie, PLCWe will ensure betterment and welfare of all sections of society, especially farmers, labourers and industrialists. Will fight against the rampant drug menace and bring small industries to generate more jobs in the state. — Harpreet Singh Makhu, SSP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/this-akali-bastion-headed-for-multi-cornered-contest-365411
30-01-2022||---||15 booked for abetting bizman's suicide||Ludhiana, January 29The Sadar police have registered an abetment-to-suicide case against 15 persons after a man committed suicide in Basant City here yesterday.Accused forced victim to sign blank paper: SonThe deceased buisnessman’s son said the accused forced his father to sign a blank paper after which they took away two of his cars with them. After the incident, his father went into depression and committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan.Naveen Bhatia, Madaan, Rahul, Anuj Narang, Dinesh, Shanti, Bobby, Amit, Poonam Bhandari, Harjap, Khurana, Abhishek Saini, Harminder Singh, Ashok Thaper and Naman Jain were booked in the case.Complainant Piyush Goyal, the deceased’s son, told the police that his father Pawan Kumar (49) was running a garment business and due to Covid-induced lockdown, he could not return borrowed money to the accused.Hence, they had been mentally harassing the victim and had also threatened him of dire consequences if the money was not returned. Yesterday, the accused went to the office of his father and tortured him.The deceased’s son said the accused forced his father to sign a blank paper after which they took away two of his cars with them. After the incident, his father went into depression and committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan.Investigating officer SI Gurpreet Singh said on the basis of the suicide note, a case was registered. Now, further probe was launched in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-booked-for-abetting-bizmans-suicide-365409
30-01-2022||---||36 candidates file nomination papers on Day 4||Ludhiana, January 29A total of 36 persons filed nomination papers in the district on Saturday, the fourth day of filing the nominations, for the Assembly elections scheduled to be held on February 20.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said today, Independent candidate Paramjeet Singh filed his nominations from the Khanna constituency. Paramjeet Singh Dhillon and Sukhpreet Kaur Dhillon from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Ranjit Singh Gahlewal from the BJP filed their papers from Samrala.Harjit Singh as an Independent candidate while Gurcharan Singh from Janta Dal (United) filed nominations from Sahnewal. Narinder Pal Sidhu from the Aam Lok Party United filed papers from Ludhiana East.Avtar Singh as Independent, Balvinder Singh Bains and Jaswinder Kaur from the Lok Insaaf Party filed nominations from the Ludhiana South constituency. Davinder Singh as independent, Baljit Singh from Peoples Party of India (Democratic) and Tajinder Singh as Independent submitted their nominations from Atam Nagar.Gurdev Sharma and Kiran Sharma from the BJP while Harjinder Singh from the SAD (Amritsar) filed nominations from Ludhiana Central. Ripu Daman Sharma from the SAD, Parveen Bansal and Jaya Bansal from the BJP filed papers from Ludhiana North.Jiwan Singh Sangowal and Rupinder Kaur from the Aam Aadmi Party, Sucha Ram Ladhar from the BJP and Darshan Singh from the Aam Lok Party United filed nominations from the Gill constituency.Prabhjot Singh as Independent, Gurdeep Singh as Independent, Jaspreet Singh from the Bahujan Samaj Party filed nominations from Payal. Jagdeep Singh Gill as Independent, Dr Kanwal Nain Singh Kang and Harpreet Kaur Kang from the Aam Aadmi Party filed nominations from Dakha.Kamil Amar Singh and Amar Singh from the Congress, Balwinder Singh Sandhu and Mandeep Kaur Sandhu from the BSP filed nominations from Raikot. Besides, Kanwar Narinder Singh and Manroop Kaur from the BJP, Gurdeep Singh as Independent filed nominations from Jagraon.The DEO-cum-DC said as per the norms laid down by the EC, only three persons, including the candidate, would be allowed to enter the Returning Officers’ (ROs) room where the nominations for the polls would be filed by them till February 1 between 11 am and 3 pm. The nominations would not be accepted on January 30 (Sunday).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/36-candidates-file-nomination-papers-on-day-4-365407
30-01-2022||---||Man ends life over property dispute, relatives booked||Ludhiana, January 29A 38-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence in Muradpura here on Saturday.He took the extreme step due to a property dispute with his relatives.The deceased has been identified as Heera Lal. The Police Division 6 booked deceased’s relatives, including uncles Balbir Kumar and Raghubir Singh and nephews Vishal andVinod. A case was today registered on the basis of a suicide note recovered from near the victim’s body.As per information, the deceased had a property dispute with his relatives as the latter had not been vacating his property. They had also been mentally torturing him due to which the victim went into depression.Today, he went to his room and ended his life. The victim left behind a suicide note in which he had mentioned that the accused were responsible for his death.The police said raids were being conducted to nab the accused. The suicide note would also be sent to a forensic lab to match the handwriting of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-ends-life-over-property-dispute-relatives-booked-365406
30-01-2022||---||387 test +ve, 4 succumb in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 29As many as 387 persons tested positive for Covid while four lost their lives due to the virus in the district today. Those who lost their lives today belong to Rupalo village, Vishwakarma Nagar, Shimlapuri and Sahnewal.Now, a total of 1,07,506 persons have tested positive for the virus so far since March 2020 while 2,210 persons from the district have succumbed to the virus till now.The recovery rate of Covid patients today rose to 94.29 per cent. On Saturday, there were 3,928 active cases in the district and 3,722 were asked to isolate themselves at their homes by the Health Department.At present, there are 365 patients admitted to various private and government hospitals. Of these, 206 belong to Ludhiana district while 159 are from other districts. Today, 29 patients were on ventilator.Till date, 31,66,181 samples have been taken, of which 30,44,598 were found negative.Samples of 6,828 suspected patients were sent for testing today, the results of which are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/387-test-ve-4-succumb-in-ludhiana-365405
30-01-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Drunk man sets four vehicles afire at Joshi Nagar, nabbed||Ludhiana, January 29A drunk man set four vehicles on fire at Joshi Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The raging fire from one of the vehicles had also engulfed a outer wall of a house. Later, residents called the fire authorities to douse the flames.The Haibowal police on Saturday arrested the accused, Shankar, a resident of gali no. 1 in Joshi Nagar. A case under various sections of the IPC was registered against him.The Station House Officer (SHO), Haibowal police station, Sub Inspector Harpreet Singh, said the incident occurred at around 2 am on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The accused, who was a daily wager and a resident of Joshi Nagar, was reportedly under the influence of liquor. He brought some inflammable substance to commit the offence.The accused first set a Tata Ace vehicle (bearing registration no. PB10DE1209) on fire at street no. 6. Later, he moved towards street no 5 and set an auto-rickshaw (bearing registration no. PB3CD0309) parked outside the house ablaze.Afterwards, he tried to set a Tata Nano car (PB10DX2164) on fire. Fortunately, the car could not catch fire as only it’s cover was destroyed in the fire following which the owner of the vehicle woke up and put water over it to douse the flames, the SHO said.Later, the man put another four-wheeler (PB10HB5726) on fire. Since the vehicle was parked outside the house, the outer wall of the house had also caught fire and got completely damaged. The family had to come out of the house to save themselves.Excluding the car, three other vehicles had destroyed.Panic had spread in the entire area as residents had come out and raised alarm.The SHO said preliminary probe suggested that the accused had no enmity with the owners of vehicles put on fire by him and he seemed to have committed the crime under the influence of liquor.However, residents said the accused was a troublemaker as a few months ago also, he had tried to set some vehicles ablaze but he was let off by residents after he apologised in the presence of residents.The police said it was yet to be verified which inflammable substance was used by the accused to put the vehicles on fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drunk-man-sets-four-vehicles-afire-at-joshi-nagar-nabbed-365404
