31-01-2022||Nitin Jain||Raikot: Cong, SAD citadel has all first-timers in poll fray||Ludhiana, January 30Raikot, which is the smallest Vidhan Sabha seat, in terms of voters and area, reserved for the Scheduled Caste members, in the district, which sends a maximum of 14 MLAs, accounting for almost 12 per cent of the total 117 members, to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, has all first-timers in the poll fray for the high-stakes Punjab Assembly polls scheduled to be held on February 20.While the ruling Congress has fielded its Fatehgarh Sahib Member of Parliament Amar Singh’s son Kamil Amar Singh, the main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has nominated Hakam Singh. The BSP, which is contesting the rural seat in alliance with its new partner Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has given the ticket to Balwinder Singh Sandhu while the newly-formed two farmers’ outfits — Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), comprising 19 farm unions, including the one led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, and Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP) formed by Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, which have also formed an alliance, have launched Dr Jagtar Singh. The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, which has joined hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), has fielded another new face Gurpal Singh Goldy from here.The AAP and the SAD (Sanyukt) nominees are the turncoats, who have joined these outfits after leaving the Congress recently.Kamil (34), who has done MBA from the University of Cambridge, UK, in 2015, is seeking votes in the name of his father Dr Amar Singh, a retired 1981-batch MP cadre IAS officer. A spokesperson for the Punjab Congress, he had managed the elections of his father in 2017 and 2019. Dr Singh had unsuccessfully fought his maiden election from Raikot in 2017 but was elected MP from Fatehgarh Sahib, of which Raikot is a part, in 2019 on the Congress ticket.Hakam (66), who had left the Congress in May last year after serving it for over three decades to join AAP, is promising change in the present system to ensure welfare of all sections of society. A government contractor by profession, he had remained the Ludhiana District Congress president, state unit secretary, and vice-president of the Raikot Municipal Council.Sandhu (58) is seeking votes for better education, health and sports facilities. Running a gas agency in Ludhiana, he had remained a member of his native Gobindgarh village panchayat, block samiti member and municipal councillor in Ludhiana.Dr Jagtar (64), who is a retired IRS officer, is seeking votes for saving the state and its people, especially farmers. Also a PhD in Agriculture, he had retired as the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax and had been actively involved in social work in the fields of health, environment and mass marriages of needy girls.Goldy (38), who had left the Congress after being denied the party ticket on January 15 to join the Dhindsa’s SAD, is promising all-round development of the state with the help of the BJP government at the Centre. Running a steel industry in Mohali, he had remained spokesperson of the Punjab Congress, which he had served for 15 years.In 2017, the AAP’s Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, who had also recently joined the Congress and was fielded from Jagraon this time, had defeated Dr Amar Singh of the Congress by a margin of 10,614 votes, by polling 48,245 votes, which accounted for 41.22 per cent vote share, against 37,631 votes, constituting 32.15 per cent of the total polled votes, secured by Dr Singh. While the SAD’s Inder Iqbal Singh Atwal, son of former Assembly Speaker Dr Charanjit Singh Atwal, had polled 29,019 votes, accounting for 24.79 per cent vote share, all other four candidates, including BSP’s Surinder Singh, who had got 878 votes, constituting 0.75 per cent vote share, had lost their security deposits. As many as 816 voters, accounting for 0.7 per cent vote share, had opted for “none of the above” (NOTA).CANDIDATESPEAKWe’re seeking votes on the basis of our party and our own family’s performance and service in the past five years. We have fulfilled all pending demands of the area in the past three decades. We will ensure overall development and welfare of all sections of society. — Kamil Amar Singh, CongressWe will replicate the AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Punjab to make it power surplus and ensuring never-seen before education and health facilities, besides ensuring welfare of all, especially women. — Hakam Singh, AAPWe will improve education, health and sports facilities, which are in bad shape. Our alliance with the SAD will bring back pro-people regime in the state. — Balwinder Singh Sandhu, BSPWe will save Punjab from the clutches of traditional parties by bringing about a change in the system. We will ensure welfare of all, especially farmers, and make state debt-free by cutting down on expenses and ramping up resources. — Dr Jagtar Singh, SSMWe will generate more employment opportunities to check widespread unemployment and ensure justice in sacrilege cases. We will also ensure release of Sikh prisoners and bring major industry to Punjab with the help of the BJP government at the Centre. — Gurpal Singh Goldy, SAD (Sanyukt)The Winners||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/raikot-cong-sad-citadel-has-all-first-timers-in-poll-fray-365768
31-01-2022||---||ASHA, anganwari workers to screen voters for Covid||Mahesh SharmaSamrala, January 30Anganwari workers and helpers of the segment have been senistised to the prevention of spread of coronavirus during the polling for the ensuing Assembly elections, scheduled to take place on February 20.They will also facilitate scientific disposal of biomedical waste generated during the election process on the polling day.Officials in the Health Department have been asked to provide them kits required for screening of visitors at polling stations, including voters, for ruling out entry of infected persons inside the stations.Samrala Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Vikramjit Singh Panthey said employees deployed on election duties had been sensitised to proactive measures to be taken for the prevention of spread of the virus during the election process which would conclude with the counting on March 10.“Specially trained ASHA workers, anganwari workers and helpers have been deployed for the screening of facilitators and voters who visit various polling stations falling under our constituency. A team of doctors has already updated the volunteers about operation of non-contact infrared thermometers and other gadgets required for ruling out chances of entry of Covid positive persons inside the polling stations,” said Vikramjit Singh Panthey.Kits containing IR thermometers, gloves and faces masks providing high protection would be provided to all anganwari workers and helpers on duty, he said.Panthey said as many as 1,198 employees of various government departments had been imparted intensive training for conducting the Assembly elections for the Samrala constituency to be held at polling booths of the area. Twenty sector officers participated in an online training session today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asha-anganwari-workers-to-screen-voters-for-covid-365767
31-01-2022||Hold vigilance probe||Open house: Should officials responsible for poor road works be taken to task?||Commuting in most localities of the city becomes difficult due to waterlogging after rains. It is no secret that in areas where seeping water across the road clogs sewers, residents face a harrowing time. Stagnation of water happens every time when it rains. However, if the MC keeps the city’s drainage system clean, at least sewer clogging can be tackled to some extent. Newly carpeted roads at many places peeled off due to poor workmanship and use of substandard materials. A vigilance probe should be conducted and officials found guilty be penalised.Novin ChristopherQUESTIONIn a disturbing situation, almost 54 per cent non-vaccinated persons have died of Covid in Ludhiana this month. However, around 24 per cent of the casualties were even fully vaccinated. Overall, 80 per cent of the Covid deaths were either non-vaccinated or had missed their second dose. What should be done to ensure total coverage of eligible persons with full vaccination against the dreaded virus?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comFix accountability of officialsA government official is provided with power and resources so that money of tax payers could be used in the best possible interest of the public. Unfortunately, when we come across numerous public works carried out by the authorities concerned, we observe the quality aspect is ignored. Either nobody in the system is bothered or the authorities are working hand in gloves with the agencies and companies concerned. If such officials can be held accountable to each and every action of theirs, I think we can expect some positive outcome in the future, most importantly, in the favour of people, who suffer the most due to such unethical practices.Pardeep Singh BhamraTake officials to task for poor worksOfficials should be held responsible for their works such as recarpeting of roads worth crores and they should be taken to task for poor works. Though the works are to be done by contractors, it must be supervised by officials or other authorities concerned responsibly. The officials should not forget that they are representatives of people and serving for the public.Shine RawalStrict action need of the hourThe winter rainfall turned city roads into pools. I am worried what will happen during the monsoon season. The drainage system of the city has totally failed and so is the carpeting works which seem to have been done with substandard material. As a result, potholes have appeared on roads, after only a few rain spells. Not only erring officials but also the contractors be booked for doing such poor works. Citizens pay taxes and, therefore, they deserve better facilities. Moreover, Ludhiana comes under the Smart City project, which only seems to be a joke. Stringent action against the guilty is the need of the hour.Bir Devinder Singh BediPeople should also make effortsOfficials are definitely responsible for not doing their work properly. Works such as road construction, keeping the drainage system functional are the duties of Municipal Corporation officials. But they do not do their work efficiently. People face a lot of inconvenience in many areas of the city due to their inefficiency. Especially in the rainy season, water remains accumulated in streets but officials did not bother about the same. We as a society should take initiative in our areas by forming committees to improve the situation.Swati GargAct against guilty officials, contractorsIntermittent rains accompanied by icy winds that lashed the city during the past few days disrupted the power supply in several localities, besides leaving city areas flooded due to the poor drainage system and broken recarpeted roads. The rainwater flowed into several houses and shops in low-lying areas. Sewers overflowed badly on various roads, leaving residents to suffer. Several vehicles developed snags while passing through the waterlogged roads. People raised questions over the civic body’s preparedness for the rainy days. The pitiable condition of the roads in the city is an open invitation to mishaps. Potholes on the roads are crying for attention. The roads are being constructed with substandard material due to which they got damaged after some time. Strict action needs to be taken against erring officials and contractors. Firms should be held accountable for maintaining the roads and drainage system for 10 years. The irony is that the contractors and several officials responsible for taking action are hand in gloves with each other.RS SembhiMake contractors redo worksIt is unfortunate that many newly carpeted roads got washed away after rain. The contractors concerned of such works must be sent behind bars, and also all those who are responsible for such projects. Municipal corporations must ensure that there should be slopes on roads with proper drainage holes on both sides of the roads. A period of three or four years must be fixed for a recarpeting work, if the road gets peeled off during the period due to rain, the contractor concerned must recarpet it again at his own cost. Nobody should be allowed to throw waste or dig roads to install poles for any function. We should not throw dirt, filth and other material on roads which further leads to clogging of drains. Roads should be designed in a proper manner during the laying of pipelines.Mohd Saleem FarooquiImpose fine on erring officialsPeople are expecting that before the Assembly elections in the state, roads will be recarpeted but it seems to be a distant dream as all recarpeted roads got peeled off after the recent rains in the region. There was no check on works and the contractor and people concerned who are working under for such projects must be held responsible and fines must be imposed to them. In future, proper drainage systems must be made before recarpeting roads and big underground water pipes must be laid. We are facing same problems every year due to the administration’s apathy. It is the duty of the local authorities to provide good roads with proper drainage system.Farzana KhanFrame strict lawsThe condition of roads and drainage system of our city is a matter of concern. During the rainy season, people have to bear the brunt due to the negligence of the officials and contractors concerned. The government is taking toll tax, house tax and other taxes from people in the name of providing safe and best roads and basic amenities. But unfortunately, we are getting nothing in return. People face inconvenience regularly in the city during rains. In many areas, repair and maintenance of roads are not being done in a proper manner. Officials, contractors and other authorities concerned must be heavily fined for the negligence caused in providing basic amenities to the public. Stringent laws must be introduced for providing strict punishment.Ritu PriyaGive exemplary punishment to guiltyGone are the days when rain invariably brought cheer. Today, it adds to annoyance and discomforts of residents of the city. Waterlogging occurs even on main roads and commuters have to struggle hard to reach their destinations. Water gets collected in potholes on roads which leads to many accidents. These puddles become breeding grounds for mosquitoes which increase the incidence of vector-borne diseases in the city. Heavy rainfall badly damages newly carpeted roads due to the use of substandard materials by contractors in road works. Responsibility of contractors, officials and all others involved in such works should be fixed and the guilty must get exemplary punishment.Sunil ChopraAll persons involved be held accountableRains have exposed the quality of road and drainage works initiated in the city. Inconvenience caused to people is always ignored by the authorities concerned in cities. Officials and other persons involved in such projects must be held accountable for construction works. Election is a good time for people to raise such issues to improve the condition of roads in the city.Jhalak JalanForm residents’ committees“The officials concerned from the Municipal Corporation keep on making payments from public money for poor road works done by contractors. Road layers peel off soon due to poor recarpeting works and potholes appear after rains. It is the responsibility of the MC officials concerned to check the quality of material being used in the road construction and recarpeting works and payments should be made to the contractors only if quality material was used. Roads works are being done during adverse weather conditions due to which roads get damaged in a short time. To check the quality of material used in construction works, committees of local residents in colonies or other localities should be constituted and they should be made responsible to check the quality of works or any other municipal works undertaken in the area. Payments should be made to the contractor or officials concerned only if the committee says the work is satisfactory. The move will give satisfaction to residents and lessen accountability of the officials concerned.Gautam DevInspection of all works neededThe recent spells of rain has again exposed the defunct drainage system, besides the quality and workmanship of the recently recarpeted roads in the city. The administration should fix accountability of officials concerned if there are any issues related to roads and drainage system. Inspection of every public work must be done to avoid corruption.Adish SoodAccountability will stop misuse of fundsThe government is talking about making Ludhiana a smart city but irony is that it is not able to provide basic facilities of good roads and drainage system. Every year crores of rupees are spent on the construction of roads and drainage system but one spell of rainfall exposes the poor quality of the works. To ensure effective utilisation of public funds, the government should hold officials accountable and take stringent action against them.Medha Batra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-should-officials-responsible-for-poor-road-works-be-taken-to-task-365765
31-01-2022||Ludhiana||Tributes paid to freedom fighters||Tributes were paid to the freedom fighters and martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the sake of the country at the District Administrative Complex under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.All civil and police officials and employees paid homage to the freedom fighters and martyrs. A two-minute silence was observed at 11 am.The DC said, “Everyone must feel proud of our martyrs. Every citizen is enjoying the independence due to their struggle and sacrifice.” He paid homage to all the martyrs on behalf of the district administration and made an appeal to all officials, employees and citizens to put their efforts to make India a country of the dream of the martyrs. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tributes-paid-to-freedom-fighters-365763
31-01-2022||---||Ishwarjot is Congress candidate from Ludhiana South||Ludhiana, January 30The Ludhiana South constituency today finally got its nominee from the Congress. Ishwarjot Singh Cheema has been declared candidate for the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections from the constituency.The seat is currently with the Lok Insaaf Party’s Balvinder Singh Bains. In 2017 elections, he defeated Bhupinder Sidhu of the Congress by a margin of 30,917 votes. In 2012 also, Bains had managed to win the seat by defeating the SAD’s Hakam Singh Giaspura with a margin of 32,233 votes.Cheema has been associated with Congress since long and this will be his first political innings.In the Ludhiana South constituency there are a total of 1,67,896 voters — 96,194 males, 71,689 females and 13 third gender.The major problems faced by the people of the constituency are choked sewerage and insanitary conditions everywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ishwarjot-is-congress-candidate-from-ludhiana-south-365761
31-01-2022||---||Woman commits suicide in Jagraon village; husband, in-laws booked||Ludhiana, January 30A married woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her parents’ residence at Rani Wala Khoo village in Jagraon on Saturday. The woman, Salma, took the extreme step allegedly due to the harassment by her in-laws for dowry.The Jagraon police registered a case of abetment to suicide against Salma’s husband Mohammad Khurshid, brothers-in-law Mohammad Rafiq and Mohammad Gafoor and sister-in-law Salma Khatoon, residents of Mohalla Maijina, Jagraon.The deceased’s brother told the police in a complaint that his sister got married to Mohammad Khurshid about nine months ago. Enough dowry was given in the marriage but Salma’s in-laws were still demanding more dowry.On January 28, after beating his sister, the accused threw her out of their house. “Now my sister was living at our house but she was under depression. Yesterday when she was alone at home, she ended her life,” revealed the deceased’s brother.Investigating officer ASI Narinder Kumar said on the statement of deceased’s brother, a case of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the IPC was registered against in-laws of Salma and raids are being conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-commits-suicide-in-jagraon-village-husband-in-laws-booked-365760
31-01-2022||---||50,125 get vaccinated during mega drive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 30After an appeal by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma yesterday, a total of 50,125 persons got vaccinated in a mega vaccination drive organised at more than 300 venues in the district today.While thanking the residents, the DC urged the residents, especially those aged 15-18 years, to get vaccinated in the interest of the society. Varinder Sharma visited a Covid vaccination camp at BCM School in Basant Avenue here today, where he not only interacted with children, but also urged them to motivate their friends for getting vaccinated.He said both his daughters, aged between 15-18 years, are also vaccinated.He said whereas 102 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries have received the first dose, only 64 per cent have received the second dose, which means 36 per cent (around 10 lakh persons) are yet to become fully vaccinated.The DC urged the residents to get vaccinated at the earliest, else they would not only pose threat for themselves, but also for their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-125-get-vaccinated-during-mega-drive-in-ludhiana-district-365759
31-01-2022||---||Three dead, 404 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 30As many as 404 persons tested positive for Covid while three persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. The deceased belong to Aggar Nagar, Tajpur and Focal Point.A total of 1,07,910 persons have tested positive for the virus since March 2020, while 2,213 patients from the district have succumbed to the virus till now.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients today rose to 94.71 per cent. Today there were 3,496 active cases in the district and 3,292 patients were asked to isolate themselves at their homes by the Health Department.At present there are 355 patients admitted to various private and government hospitals. Out of these 204 patients belong to Ludhiana district, while 151 are from other districts. Today 25 patients were on ventilator support.Till date, a total of 31,73,195 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 30,51,131 were found negative.Samples of 7,014 suspected patients were sent for testing today, the results of which are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-dead-404-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-365758
31-01-2022||Manav Mander||Parking, traffic congestion problems remain unsolved in Ludhiana West||Ludhiana, January 30The Ludhiana West constituency boasts of many development projects but the real-life problems like parking and traffic congestion remain unsolved. People of the constituency want that such issues should be taken care of by the elected representatives after the elections.Amrik Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said although the city boasts of many famous and new stores and people from other cities also come here to shop but the basic issue like parking is being ignored here.“We go to bazars like Ghumar Mandi for shopping but there is no central parking facility available. Either we go on a cab and go walking in the bazar or else we are left with no other option but to park the vehicle on the road. Parking on the road is also not safe and traffic police also lift the vehicles. Either Ghumar Mandi should be made a no-vehicle zone like Chaura Bazar or some facility should be provided to the people coming here,” he said.A shopkeeper from Ghumar Mandi said the footfall of customers has decreased to a large extend. “Earlier people use to come here to buy any small or big thing as it was easily accessible but now people come only if they have something special or important to buy. Unavailability of parking space is a major issue due to which the customers are preferring going to other markets,” he said.Another resident said the Ludhiana West constituency has many upcoming projects, as a result most of the roads here are closed down for construction.Traffic on Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Sarbha Nagar, BRS Nagar is disrupted because projects were not planned properly. All the projects were started at the same time which has led to traffic chock-a-block.“The situation becomes really difficult during the peak hours. Schools are shut due to pandemic, otherwise things would have turned really ugly. For a few months when the schools reopened, parents had a really difficult time in dropping and picking kids to and from school as most of the roads were shut or made one way due to ongoing construction. I hope the projects are finished timely for smooth flow of traffic,” said Soumindra, another resident from the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parking-traffic-congestion-problems-remain-unsolved-in-ludhiana-west-365757
31-01-2022||---||3 attacked with swords over 'Rs-3,000 dispute' in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 30Three persons were attacked with swords by some assailants allegedly over a dispute for Rs 3,000 at the Basti Jodhewal chowk on Sunday morning. As per a Police Control Room (PCR) vehicle staff, passing from the spot, the assailants fled while leaving their Maruti 800 car and two scooters there.Complainant Ravinder said he had lent Rs 3,000 to a youth of Kuldeep Nagar and he had then promised to return the money in a few months. Now over two years have been passed but the youth failed to return the money.“Today the youth met me and asked to stay at the Jodhewal chowk as he would come there to return the money. I along with my two friends was standing at the chowk when the youth, along with his accomplices, came and attacked us with swords. We all suffered injuries on our faces and heads,” alleged victim Ravinder.Fortunately a PCR motorcycle was passing from the chowk. The PCR staff, after noticing the brawl, sounded police siren. The assailants on seeing the police fled from the spot leaving their car and two scooters behind.The victims got there medical examination done from the Civil Hospital and lodged a complaint at police station.The PCR vehicle in-charge, ASI Gurpreet Singh, said the assailants were attacking the three persons, but when they saw a PCR motorcycle, they fled. He said the Jodhewal police was informed and further probe has been launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-attacked-with-swords-over-3-000-dispute-in-ludhiana-365756
31-01-2022||---||Ludhiana: Rajgarh Estate guard shot at, injured||Ludhiana, January 30Two motorcycle-borne assailants shot at a security guard at Malakpur village on Sunday morning. The injured security guard was initially rushed to the Civil Hospital but doctors referred him to CMC Hospital.The victim, identified as Sukhwinder Singh (40), suffered two bullet injuries — one on a shoulder and another on his back.The police got to know about the incident from the Civil Hospital authorities.After the incident, ADCP-III Ashwini Gotyal, SHO, PAU police station, Rajinder Pal visited the spot to conduct investigation.The SHO said the incident occurred at around 6.30 am when Sukhwinder Singh was heading to join his duty at Rajgarh Estate.When Sukhwinder Singh reached Malakpur village near the Buddha Nullah, two motorcycle-borne persons, who were already following him, fired bullets from a close range at him. After the incident, the assailants fled. A milkman, who noticed the injured, Sukhwinder, took phone number of his family from him and called them. The victim’s family members then came from Ladhowal and rushed him to the Civil Hospital.Although the condition of the victim is stable but he is still not fit to give statement to the police.The police said until and unless the victim gives any statement, they cannot know the reason of attack.The SHO said a case of attempt to murder was registered against the unknown motorcycle-borne assailants and CCTV cameras of the area are being checked to get clues about them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rajgarh-estate-guard-shot-at-injured-365755
31-01-2022||Manav Mander||53% Covid victims in Ludhiana this month were unvaccinated||Ludhiana, January 30According to the data with the Health Department, of the total Covid victims in Ludhiana till January 28 this year, only 23.59 per cent were fully vaccinated, while those who were unvaccinated comprise of 53.93 per cent.A total of 89 persons have succumbed to Covid till January 28 in the district, of which only 21 were fully vaccinated, 10 were partially vaccinated, 48 were unvaccinated while the status of 10 was yet not known.Amid vaccine hesitancy, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Sunday said strict action would be initiated against those who had wilfully not got the second jab. As per rules, only fully vaccinated people can go out of their homes, he said.Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr SP Singh said though vaccine coverage of the first dose was 102 per cent among the eligible beneficiaries, only 64 per cent of them had received the second dose. “Around 36 per cent (around 10 lakh persons) of the beneficiaries are yet to be fully vaccinated in Ludhiana,” said the DC.“The police will keep a check on unvaccinated persons roaming at markets, marriage palaces, malls, hotels, gyms, restaurants or other public places. Strict action will be initiated against all those persons who are found to have missed their second jab wilfully,” he said.DC Sharma said like in government offices, he would ask industrialists to not give salary to unvaccinated staff.Police will go after those unjabbed wilfullyStrict action will be initiated against those who wilfully did not get the second jab. As per rules, only fully vaccinated people can go out of their homes. — Varinder Kumar Sharma, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/53-covid-victims-in-ludhiana-this-month-were-unvaccinated-365672
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ex-legislator from Qila Raipur Jassi Khangura quits Congress||In another jolt to the Congress in Ludhiana, former MLA from Qila Raipur Jassi Khangura resigned from the party on Sunday.In his resignation letter sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Khangura didn’t cite any reason for his decision. He posted the letter on Twitter and said: “The decisions we take determine our fate. My resignation from INC, the only Indian political party I have ever been a member of.” Earlier, Joginder Singh Mann, and two sitting MLAs — Fateh Bajwa and Rana Gurmit Sodhi — had left the party. —                                     #Punjabpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-legislator-from-qila-raipur-jassi-khangura-quits-congress-365653
