01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Asked to go home, Bidar man chases constable with sword||A man wielding a talwar or a sword chased a police constable in the wee hours of Saturday in the old city here after he was directed to go home by the latter. The police on duty noticed a man standing on the roadside early morning and told him to return home. Enraged over it, the accused pulled out a talwar kept in the side bag of his motorbike and chased the cop.  The panicked constable ran towards the Superintendent of Police's office.  Upon hearing the commotion, people in the area rushed out of their houses and tried to catch hold of the accused who attempted to assault them as well. Tension prevailed in the area for a while as the accused went around smashing windowpanes of the vehicles parked in front of the houses.  Finally, a man managed to catch hold of the accused from behind while the others snatched the talwar from him. The police who arrived at the spot took the accused into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asked-to-go-home-bidar-man-chases-constable-with-sword-868238.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Surveillance to be increased in Dakshina Kannada to check Covid-19 fatalities: DC||Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V on Friday said that the Dakshina Kannada district administration was planning to include teachers from schools and colleges to carry out surveillance programmes aggressively in the district to identify people suffering from comorbid conditions in a bid to reduce Covid-19 fatalities. The survey has already been initiated in the district and will be taken up in each Gram Panchayat. The survey will collect information on all children below 10 years, pregnant women and elderly persons suffering from various illnesses in the district, he told reporters. “In addition to ASHA and anganwadi workers, we have plans to rope in school teachers, PU lecturers and those below 40 years in villages, to monitor the health of vulnerable people,” he added. He said that vulnerable people will be continuously monitored. If the elderly and vulnerable people show any symptoms of Covid-19, arrangements will be made to shift them to hospitals for treatment to ensure that fatalities are checked. Further, the surveillance activities will be intensified to trace the source of Covid-19 infections in the district.  “Task forces have already been constituted at Gram Panchayat level and at ward level in the district. Doctors above 50 years, who are not frontline Covid warriors in the villages, will be training the task force members to monitor the health of people, identify those that are severely ill and shift them to hospitals," he explained. Antigen kits The government has set a target of testing swab samples of 3,700 people per day in the district. The district has already received 27,000 rapid antigen kits, of which, more than 6,000 have been used to conduct the tests. To reach the target, private hospitals have been roped in. At present, the district has 4,608 beds in 61 hospitals of which 662 beds are occupied. Of the 3,946 available beds, 3,760 are normal beds. There are 115 ventilators available in the district while the government has sent 40 ventilators.  Several corporate companies have been donating ventilators under their corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. Measures will be taken to supply oxygen to the beds through piped networks or cylinders. Further, the DC said that awareness will be created on wearing masks in public places and maintaining social distance. Transparency Dr Rajendra said that hospitals should not send patients back citing a lack of beds and to bring in transparency in the availability of beds in hospitals, measures will be taken to inform the public through a mobile application. Stringent action will be initiated against hospitals for overcharging patients for treatment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surveillance-to-be-increased-in-dakshina-kannada-to-check-covid-19-fatalities-dc-868252.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KCCI initiates campaign to create awareness on Covid-19||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has unveiled a campaign both on digital media and outdoor billboards on bringing awareness on the right usage of masks, social distancing and handwashing in the fight against Covid-19. The campaign has received a very good response and attention on social media and with the citizens of Mangaluru. The surge in Covid-19 cases has made the KCCI to initiate the campaign. Indian Red Cross Society, Dakshina Kannada, and Rotary Mangaluru too expressed their interest to support the campaign, said KCCI President Isaac Vas. The theme of the campaign is “Let’s fight back together.” He said, “While the number of Covid-19 infected people was increasing and a vaccine would take some more time it was observed that norms of social distancing and other precautionary practices were thrown to the wind. Many people in Dakshina Kannada were found using masks inappropriately. Wearing a mask in a scientific way by covering both the nose and mouth is imperative to control droplets that spread the virus. We need to rise above our inconvenience to fight the virus. Considering this the KCCI found an immediate need to bring awareness and a constant reminder to people on the right usage of masks, social distancing, washing hands and other dos and don’ts to stay ahead of the virus and beat the pandemic.” The Chamber hopes this campaign would go a long way in the fight of the city against Covid-19 and play its role in putting the pandemic behind us. “Businesses and our economy have suffered enough, we need to work together to fight this virus, we need to rise above minor inconvenience and win this war,” added Isaac Vas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kcci-initiates-campaign-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19-868268.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||College student kills mother for rebuking him in Karnataka||Irked by his mother rebuking him for staying out with his friends late in the night, a college student stabbed her to death in Mandya town, following which he has been arrested, police said. The student was arrested on July 30, a police official told PTI on Friday. He said the woman was upset over her son frequently spending time with his friends till late in the night. On Wednesday, she scolded him for not listening to her advice, following which he stabbed her to death, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/college-student-kills-mother-for-rebuking-him-in-karnataka-868314.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi airport second busiest in Karnataka||The airport in Belagavi has become the second busiest airport in the state after the resumption of domestic flights with travel restrictions being eased during the lockdown period. Since the resumption of flights 25,300 commuters footfall has been witnessed with 855 operations being conducted. The airport has witnessed flight services blooming and also being stopped for various reasons earlier. Since the airport was renovated and expanded, commuters on various routes have patronized the airport and flights with satisfactory occupancy had been operating prior to the lockdown in the month of March last for preventing the spread of Covid-19. Flights operating were in Udan-3 and non-Udan routes too. Flight services resumed on May 25, after the lockdown norms were relaxed and domestic flights were allowed to commute in the country. From May 25 to31, 26 operations were conducted and 445 passengers commuted. Since than flights on different routes have commenced and by end of July 31, the 68-day period airport witnessed 855 operations and 25,300 commuters using the services. Airport Director Rajesh Kumar Mourya told DH that he has not compared the passenger and operations data with other airports in the state and country, but there has been considerable growth in operations and passenger footfall since the resumption of flight services on May 25. He said that the period of May 25 to 31, witnessed 26 operations and 445 passengers, while June month witnessed 386 operations and 10,350 passenger movement. The month of July that ended on Friday witnessed 443 operations and 14,500 passenger movement. From May 25 to July 31, 68 days have witnessed 855 operations and 25,300 passenger movement. Presently flights to the city were connected with Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Indore, Mysuru and Ahmedabad. We expect commencement of flights on other routes soon, Mourya expressed. Each flight has witnessed an average occupancy of 33 passengers with small flights being operated from the city, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-airport-second-busiest-in-karnataka-868444.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru region gets lion’s share in state BJP||The BJP has finally woken up to the importance of Old Mysuru region for its prospects in state politics. Among 10 vice presidents of the state BJP, two — MP Pratap Simha and M Rajendra — are from Mysuru. Among four general secretaries, Siddaraju is from Mysuru. Besides, B Y Vijayendra, who is active in Mysuru region is vice president, while former MLC Ashwathnarayan, who was active in Mandya, is general secretary. However, despite the presence of so many office-bearers, a few MLAs, two MPs and one MLC, the BJP lacks leadership in the region. Mysuru region — presently comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts — is important for both state and national politics. Mysuru was the capital of Mysuru state, up to 1956. The state itself was ‘Mysuru’ till a Mysurean himself, then chief minister D Devaraja Urs, renamed it as ‘Karnataka’, in 1973. The princely Mysuru state comprised the present 15 districts. Earlier, Mandya and Chamarajanagar were part of Mysuru district. Whoever is the chief minister of Karnataka, Mysuru region, has always played a prominent role in state politics. Out of 22 CMs (29 terms), so far, five are from the region While H D Deve Gowda from Hassan went on to become both chief minister and prime minister, two leaders from Mysuru district — D Devaraja Urs (Hosahalli, Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district) and Siddaramaiah (Siddaramanahundi, Mysuru taluk and district) — and one from Mandya — S M Krishna (Somanahalli, Maddur taluk, Mandya district) — became chief ministers. Two more natives of the region — H D Kumaraswamy, Haradanahalli, Holenarsipur taluk in Hassan district, and B S Yediyurappa, Bukanakere village in KR Pet taluk, Mandya district — became chief ministers even though they represent Ramanagar and Shivamogga districts respectively. Besides, leaders like Sahukar Channiah and H K Veerannagowda had come close to chief ministership. In the 1994 poll, BJP found ground in the region — S A Ramadass in Krishnaraja, H S Shankaralingegowda in Chamararaja and E Maruthi Rao Pawar in Narasimharaja constituencies of Mysuru city and C H Vijayashankar from Hunsur and B B Shivappa from Sakleshpur in Hassan district were elected. In 1999, Dr Bharathi Shankar from T Narasipur and V Papanna from Hunsur were added, while Pawar lost and Vijayshankar did not contest. BJP was reduced due to the formation of KJP by Yediyurappa in 2013. In the 2018 Assembly polls, the BJP had an advantage. But, the party missed due to lack of confidence, proper leadership, planning and ground work. Even then, Ramadass, L Nagendra, B Harshavardhan, Preetham J Gowda and C S Niranjan Kumar won from the region. K C Narayana Gowda won in the by-poll in February, but, Adagur H Vishwanath lost an opportunity. To make up the loss, Vishwanath was nominated as MLC, recently. Now, the party has given the highest representation to Mysuru region. Besides, the region has six MLAs, two MPs and one MLC. The induction of senior leaders like former chief minister S M Krishna and former minister V Srinivas Prasad did not help much. Most of the new office-bearers are not grounded. They lack connect with grassroot-level workers. They have good contacts, but lack organisational skills. Thus, there is still a gap in leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-region-gets-lion-s-share-in-state-bjp-868498.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Muslim community observes Bakrid in a simple manner||Amidst Covid-19 pandemic, the Muslim community observed Bakrid across the district on Friday. The community people adhered to the guidelines, issued by the government. There were no mass prayers in mosques and only 50 members were allowed for prayer. The community people offered prayers and police personnel were deputed as a precautionary measure. Social distance was ensured at mosques and only limited people were allowed to offer prayer. The religious heads at Eidgah Maidan, Rajeev Nagar, Gouziya Nagar, Udayagiri mosques, offered prayers and also greeted the community people. The community people performed namaaz and also exchanged greetings among family members, friends and relatives. The Muslim community people distributed food to the poor and needy as part of the festival. The festival was observed in a simple and significant manner due to the Covid crisis. Special prayer was offered for the welfare of the people and the society, said Sirkhazi of Mysuru Mohammed Usman Sharief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-community-observes-bakrid-in-a-simple-manner-868499.html
01-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Opposition leader continues tirade against BJP leaders||Former chief minister, also Opposition leader, Siddaramaiah continued his tirade against BJP leaders and government and claimed that the BJP has no moral right to question him. Siddaramaiah asked, “Shall I take out old cases of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa?” Speaking to reporters here, on Saturday, Siddaramaiah took severe exception to BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar seeking accountability on Siddaramaiah’s Hublot watch, which courted a controversy in 2018. Siddaramaiah said, it is a closed chapter and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has given a clean chit to him in the case. Siddaramaiah said that he has declared his Hublot wristwatch, gifted by a friend, as a government asset and the watch is in Vidhana Soudha. “ACB conducted a detailed investigation in connection with the watch. Why is the BJP raking up old issues? Shall I point at Yediyurappa’s old cases?” Siddaramaiah asked. “Did I purchase the watch with government’s money? Did I loot government’s money to purchase the watch? The watch was a gift,” he asserted. Replying to a query about BJP leaders’ comments that Siddaramaiah has no moral right to speak against corruption as he sits next to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar, who was arrested and sent to Tihar jail in Delhi, in a money-laundering case, Siddaramaiah said, the case is pending before the court and the court has granted bail to Shivakumar. “The charges are not proved. The Enforcement Directorate raided his house and it was politically motivated. Do the BJP leaders have moral right to speak against corruption?” he questioned. Highlighting the Covid-19 pandemic, Siddaramaiah said, “The state government is a total failure in containing the spread and protecting infected patients. The government is not yet prepared and there are no beds in hospitals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/opposition-leader-continues-tirade-against-bjp-leaders-868502.html
01-08-2020||Mysuru||Doctor dies of coronavirus in Mysuru||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/doctor-dies-of-coronavirus-in-mysuru-868269.html
01-08-2020||National||Aerial seeding deployed to make the Aravallis greener||In this case, the dispersion would be done by a drone developed by a startup incubated at IIT Kanpur.  Aerial seeding, a form of broadcast seeding, is traditionally used in areas that are difficult to access.  “In the context of the Aravalli region this will be specially useful since there are many areas that are either difficult to reach or inaccessible altogether, making traditional methods of plantation difficult,”  a forest department official told IE.  This will be the pilot phase of the project and would be tested on 100 acres of land. The project would require women in local areas to be deployed to make the seed balls, thus generating employment.  Acacia senegal (Khairi), Ziziphus mauritiana (Beri), and Holarrhena spp (Inderjo), all species with a high likelihood of surviving in the area, would be planted.  Aerial seeding means the plants do not need any additional The drones could carry almost two kilograms of seed in one go and come equipped with a ‘precision delivery’ feature that can be adjusted according to seeds of different sizes.  Officials estimate that the drones would be able to disperse almost 20,000-30,000 seeds a day.  “The drones will disperse 5,000 seeds per hectare. Survival rate in this sort of plantation tends to be low, less than 50%. So, the point of planting such a high quantity is that, even if the survival rate is 20%, we will have 1,000 trees,” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Vinod Kumar told the source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aerial-seeding-deployed-to-make-the-aravallis-greener-868213.html
01-08-2020||National||Maharashtra govt scraps pension scheme for Emergency-era prisoners||The Maharashtra government on Friday scrapped the pension scheme for the prisoners booked under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) during the 1975-1977 Emergency in the country. The state government was spending Rs 42 crore annually on beneficiaries since July 2018 when the scheme was implemented by the then BJP dispensation. A government resolution (GR)on Friday said the scheme was being scrapped to curb "unwarranted expenditure" amid the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The beneficiaries were getting Rs 10,000 a month as pension for imprisonment during the Emergency. The Congress, while in opposition, had alleged that the Fadnavis government had introduced the scheme to benefit the prisoners who were mostly the activists of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The Congress, which was in power at the Centre during the Emergency, is now part of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra. Senior Congress leader and energy minister Nitin Raut had, immediately after the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power in November last year, had demanded scrapping of the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-scraps-pension-scheme-for-emergency-era-prisoners-868215.html
01-08-2020||National||Parl panel suggests introducing 'unemployment insurance' for unorganised sector in Code on Social Security report||With the Covid-19 pandemic leaving "millions of workers" without a job and pushing them to penury, a Parliamentary Standing Committee has recommended introducing 'unemployment insurance' for unorganised sector workers, saying the absence of this provision is the "biggest gap" in the proposed Code on Social Security 2019. The report on Social Security Code adopted by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour headed by senior BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab said such a provision would take care of "unprecedented labour market situations" like the job loss during the Covid-19. In its report, the panel said it was "deeply concerned to observe that absence of a provision for unemployment insurance for the unorganised sector workers seems to be the biggest gap" in the arrangements for social security schemes. "It, therefore, becomes imperative on the part of the Government to incorporate 'Unemployment Insurance, in the Code, as also recommended by the Second National Commission on Labour (SNCL), for the unorganised sector workers including BOCWs (Building and Other Construction Workers), Plantation workers and self-employed workers so that unprecedented labour market situations can be well taken care of," it said. The mention of unemployment insurance comes against the backdrop of a large number of workers in the unorganised sector losing their jobs during the Covid-19 lockdown. The panel noted that this was recommended by the SNCL, which is contributory by three parties -- employees, employers and the government in an equitable manner. The panel was also dismayed with the fact that the government left out tax-financed ‘unemployment allowance’ for the ‘unorganised workers’ or ‘informal workers’ despite the provision finding space in the previous two drafts. Asked to state the reasons for excluding ‘unemployment allowance’ from the Code contrary to the recommendation of the SNCL, the Ministry said, “unemployment allowance is already provided for under the ESI Act. For the unorganized worker's basic social security has been taken care of in the proposed code.” In its report on the Social Security Code, the last of the four Labour Codes examined by the Parliamentary Committee, it also recommended that the time limit of five years for payment of gratuity be reduced to continuous service of one year. The panel wanted that the provision should be extended to all kinds of employees, including contract labourers, seasonal workers, piece-rate workers and Fixed Term Employees and daily/monthly wage workers. It was of the view that the provisions in the Code suggested that gratuity will be payable to an employee on the termination of his employment after rendering continuous service for not less than five years. Keeping the warning of experts and stakeholders that the provision will be an incentive to employers to terminate employees before five years to deny them gratuity, the panel said that the reduction of eligibility year is necessary keeping in mind the nature of India's labour market where most workers are employed for a short duration period only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parl-panel-suggests-introducing-unemployment-insurance-for-unorganised-sector-in-code-on-social-security-report-868222.html
01-08-2020||National||US Congressman condemns Chinese aggression in Ladakh||A senior US Congressman on Friday condemned the Chinese Army's acts of aggression in India's Ladakh region resulting in deadly clashes between the two countries along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), alleging that Beijing aims to redraw the settled border by force. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a bitter standoff in several areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since May 5. The situation deteriorated last month following the Galwan Valley clashes in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers died. "I rise to condemn action taken by the People's Republic of China, or PRC in Ladakh region of India that led to deadly clashes between the two countries on June 15," Congressman Frank Pallone said on the floor of the US House of Representatives on Friday. "Since -- the truth is -- 1962, the PRC and India have been divided by a 2,100-mile-long Line of Actual Control. In the months leading to this clash, the PRC military reportedly amassed 5,000 soldiers along this boundary... that clearly meant to re-draw long standing settled borders by force and aggression,” Pallone said. This intention of encroachment and escalatory tactics used by the PRC are consistent with the other provocative actions its forces have taken throughout south and southeast Asia, the Democratic Congressman from New Jersey said. To counter this, the House of Representatives has passed an amendment that calls on China to cease the military aggression and urges immediate diplomatic action to prevent further escalation of conflict, Pallone said. "I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Congress to help bolster our vital relationship with India," the Congressman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-congressman-condemns-chinese-aggression-in-ladakh-868228.html
01-08-2020||National||DH Deciphers: Environmental Impact Assessment rules and what they mean||The union government has prepared a new draft of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) rules, proposing significant changes in the way development projects will be processed. The draft rules were put in the public domain in March, and people have time until August 11 to express their opinion about them. Many environmental experts and activists have already raised several red flags about the changes. What's this hullabaloo all about?  What is Environmental impact assessment? What's this new draft?      Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a process under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, which evaluates the potential environmental impact of a development project. Parliament had enacted the law in the aftermath of the Bhopal gas tragedy. Based on the assessment, a panel of experts denies or grants environmental clearance to a project. Existing EIA rules mandate prior environmental clearance for all kinds of projects — mining, infrastructure, thermal or hydropower, irrigation, industries, etc. The EIA was amended in 2006. The current draft, if notified, will supersede the 2006 amendment.  Why is EIA such a big deal?  The EIA is crucial to protecting the environment and humans from adverse consequences of various projects. Carrying out a project without the EIA clearance has often proved disastrous. The gas leak at the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam on May 7 is the latest example. The plant was later found to have been running without the EIA clearance for the past two decades. Globally, too, the EIA is considered a sustainability tool. Almost all countries have a legal procedure similar to the EIA.  What will change with the new rules?  The union government argues that the new rules will simplify the process of project clearance, expedite decision-making and avoid unnecessary delays. Environmentalists and grassroots leaders, however, see them as an attempt to weaken regulation, increase the government's discretionary power and reduce public participation. Some of the aspects that are seen as regressive are:  a) The draft rules exempt a large category of projects from prior environmental clearance. These include coal, minerals, sand and solar projects, thermal co-generation power plants (tied to cement or sugar plants), polymer/plastic manufacturing units, certain chemical units, etc. Factories that manufacture explosives, detonators, etc, have been marked under defence or "strategic" projects.  b) Post-facto approval of projects. A project can go on without getting the environmental clearance and then come back to get it. This could lead to legitimising the violations.  c) The notice period for public opinion has been reduced from "a minimum of" 30 days to 20 days. The time to appeal against environmental clearances in the National Green Tribunal is 30 days.  d) There is no robust post-environmental clearance monitoring system. Local and indigenous communities will no longer be able to complain if a project fails to comply with the EIA clearance.  How will the violations be monitored under the new rules? Violations will be noted only if:  (a) The project proponent admits to it on one's own (suo moto). (b) The government authority concerned notes and reports it. (c) The violation is found during the appraisal by the appraisal committee; or(d) The regulatory authority finds it while processing the application.  This entire process excludes local communities and whistle-blowers, giving companies an opportunity to whitewash the situation. It also reduces the frequency of compliance reports that project owners will be required to submit, from once every six months to once a year. This could lead to delays in reporting incidents, if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-environmental-impact-assessment-rules-and-what-they-mean-868248.html
01-08-2020||National||Covid-19 makes PM Modi's 'rakhi sister' from Pakistan send him a rakhi via post||Originally from Karachi, Shaikh shifted to India after her wedding. This would be the 25th year of her celebrating Raksha Bandhan with PM Modi. The rakhi and a book sent from Ahmedabad have been received by the PM, Shaikh said.  “We have known PM Modi for the past 30-35 years. When I met him in Delhi for the first time, he got to know that I am from Karachi and have been married here. He called me behen (sister). I do not have any brothers. So, after two to three years when we visited Delhi again on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, I tied a rakhi on his wrist,” she told ANI.  “Once on Raksha Bandhan, I told him 'I will pray for you that you come to Gujarat and become the Chief Minister'. At that time he laughed and later when he became the Chief Minister of Gujarat, on Rakshabandhan, I told him that my prayers had been accepted by God. Later, he even became the Prime Minister," she added. Wishing the best for her ‘rakhi brother’ she said, “I wanted to tie the 25th rakhi to the Prime Minister personally but due to Covid-19 crisis I won't be able to. Everyone is facing problems.”  She added that she would be praying for his long life.  This year Raksha Bandhan is celebrated on August 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-makes-pm-modis-rakhi-sister-from-pakistan-send-him-a-rakhi-via-post-868261.html
01-08-2020||National||Senior journalists N Ram, Arun Shourie, advocate Prashant Bhushan move SC challenging validity of contempt law||Senior journalists N Ram and Arun Shourie, along with activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan have approached the Supreme Court challenging the validity of the Contempt of Courts Act, claiming that it violates the fundamental rights to freedom of speech and equality. In a joint writ petition, they claimed that Section 2(c)(i) of the Act is unconstitutional as it is incompatible with preambular values and basic features of the Constitution. They contended that it violated Article 19(1)(a) and was unconstitutionally and incurably vague, besides being manifestly arbitrary.  Section 2(c)(i) of the Act states that criminal contempt means the publication (whether by words, spoken or written or by signs or by visible representation) of any matter or doing of any other act, which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court. The petition filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal on behalf of the three claimed that the sub-section had an extremely wide import and was incapable of objective interpretation and even-handed application. The provision is likely to be used to "stifle criticism and freely discuss the acts of the judiciary".  "The overboard language of the sub-section leaves open the possibility of it being used to punish speech which does not interfere with judicial proceedings or the administration of justice, merely because the speech may sway the sentiments of the public against the court," their plea said. The petitioners also claimed the provision criminalised speech in the absence of proximate and tangible harm. "By criminalising contempt of court in sweeping and absolute terms, the sub-section raises a prior restraint on speech on matters of public and political importance," they said. The language of a tendency of scandalising failed the test of proximate cause or "spark in a powder keg". The dissenting and critical views almost always have such a tendency and has the effect of tangling speech of this kind as a result, they pointed out. Among other grounds, they said the provision had constitutionally chilling effect, failed the test of proportionality and the offence was rooted in colonial assumptions and objects with no regard to fundamental rights in a democracy, including freedom of speech, equality and equal treatment. The petitioners themselves have faced contempt of court at different points of time. Bhushan was issued a contempt notice last month for two of his tweets. He is facing a similar proceedings in the Supreme Court for a 2009 interview accusing former CJIs of corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-journalists-n-ram-arun-shourie-advocate-prashant-bhushan-move-sc-challenging-validity-of-contempt-law-868267.html
01-08-2020||National||'Chinese' dropped from National Education Policy 2020's foreign languages list?||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 approved by the Union Cabinet on July 29 does not mention Chinese among the list of foreign languages to be offered to secondary level students. The policy suggests that learning foreign languages shall help "students to learn about the cultures of the world and to enrich their global knowledge and mobility according to their own interests and aspirations." Founder and Chief faculty at Yellow River Chinese Academy, Shraddha Prabhu Kumar, pointed out that students at the secondary level should be given an option to learn the Chinese language. "The maximum number of people in the world speak Chinese. Giving students the option to choose Chinese would be the most sensible thing to do," she said. Adding that China is one of the top players in the global economy, she said, "Chinese is an ancient language and it should have nothing to do with two countries not seeing eye to eye."    'Boycott China' calls in India have been louder after Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May 5. The situation deteriorated post the Galwan Valley clashes in which 20 Indian Army personnel and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers died. Following that, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government also banned 59 Chinese apps including TikTok and WeChat. Amid the existing India-China tensions, the unmentioned Chinese language in the NEP comes as a crucial move. The NEP 2020 is the first education policy of the 21st century and replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education (NPE), 1986. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-dropped-from-national-education-policy-2020s-foreign-languages-list-868271.html
01-08-2020||National||India sees record single-day spike of 57,118 Covid-19 cases; recoveries surge to 10,94,374||India's Covid-19 tally reached 16,95,988 on Saturday with a record single-day increase of 57,118 cases, while the recoveries surged to 10,94,374, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 36,511 with 764 people succumbing to the disease in a 24-hour span, the data updated at 8 am showed. At present, there are 5,65,103 active cases in the country. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients was recorded at 64.53 percent, while the fatality rate further dropped to 2.15 percent, the data stated. This is the third consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,93,58,659 samples have been tested up to July 31 with 5,25,689 being tested on Friday. Of the new 764 deaths reported, 265 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Tamil Nadu, 84 from Karnataka, 68 from Andhra Pradesh, 45 from West Bengal, 43 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Delhi, 23 from Gujarat, 16 from Punjab, 14 each from Bihar and Telangana, 12 from Jammu and Kashmir and 11 from Rajasthan, the data stated. Ten fatalities have been reported from Madhya Pradesh, eight from Odisha, four each from Assam, Haryana and Uttarakhand, three each from Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, two from Chhattisgarh while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Manipur and Puducherry recorded one fatality each. Of the total 36,511 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 14,994, followed by 3,963 in Delhi, 3,935 in Tamil Nadu, 2,441 in Gujarat, 2,314 in Karnataka, 1,630 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,581 in West Bengal, 1,349 in Andhra Pradesh and 867 in Madhya Pradesh, the data showed. So far, 674 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 519 in Telangana, 421 in Haryana, 386 in Punjab, 377 in Jammu and Kashmir, 296 in Bihar, 177 in Odisha, 106 in Jharkhand, 98 in Assam, 80 in Uttarakhand, 73 in Kerala, according to the health ministry data. Chhattisgarh has registered 53 deaths, Puducherry 49, Goa 45, Tripura 21, Chandigarh 15, Himachal Pradesh 14, Ladakh seven, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur and Andaman and Nicobar Islands five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one, it said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-57118-covid-19-cases-recoveries-surge-to-1094374-868281.html
01-08-2020||National||Home Minister Amit Shah extends Bakrid greetings||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday extended his Eid greetings to people and hoped that the occasion will bring peace and prosperity to the society. Eid al-Adha, also called the festival of sacrifice, is being celebrated on Saturday. "Greetings on the occasion of Eid al-Adha. May this day bring peace, harmony and prosperity in our society," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-extends-bakrid-greetings-868283.html
01-08-2020||National||PM Modi pays tribute to Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his 100th death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to one of the icons of India's freedom struggle Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his 100th death anniversary, saying his intellect, courage and idea of "swaraj" continue to inspire people. He also shared a brief video of one of his 'Mann ki Baat' programmes in which he had referred to Tilak's efforts to unite people against the British rule.  India bows to Lokmanya Tilak on his 100th Punya Tithi. His intellect, courage, sense of justice and idea of Swaraj continue to inspire. "India bows to Lokmanya Tilak on his 100th punya tithi (death anniversary). His intellect, courage, sense of justice and idea of Swaraj (self rule) continue to inspire," Modi tweeted. The prime minister recalled how Tilak evoked self-confidence among people and gave the slogan 'Swaraj is our birthright and I shall have it'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-bal-gangadhar-tilak-on-his-100th-death-anniversary-868299.html
01-08-2020||National||Emulate Delhi model in fight against Covid-19: G Kishan Reddy||All the states in the country need to emulate the "Delhi model" for controlling the spread of the coronavirus, Union Minister of state from Home G Kishan Reddy said here on Saturday. "I am requesting the state government (Telangana) to focus on testing, tracing and treatment. There is a need to increase the number of tests (in Telangana). The more number of the tests, the faster the containment of the disease. You know, Delhi as a union territory I am personally monitoring. There is 84 per cent recovery rate in Delhi. All the states should emulate the Delhi model," he told reporters. The union minister visited the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), a 14-story building at the sports complex at Gachi bowli which was transformed into a hospital. Even in the future as part of the fight against coronavirus, the Centre will send required quantities of PPE kits and ventilators to Telangana, he further said. "The State government should take care of medical professionals involved in Covid-19 treatment. All hospitals should ensure that required quantities of oxygen are available. The Centre has provided 1,200 ventilators to Telangana. N-95 masks and PPE kits and HCQ tablets are also being sent to the state," he added.  He requested asymptomatic patients to be in home isolation and not to venture out to ensure the spread of the disease. The union minister urged the state government to provide incentives to coronavirus frontline warriors such as doctors, nurses and other staff as a token of appreciation for their services and instill confidence. He also advised people not to rush to private hospitals for treatment and make use of government faculties in view of high costs being changed by the former.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emulate-delhi-model-in-fight-against-covid-19-g-kishan-reddy-868311.html
01-08-2020||National||National Green Tribunal raps Ministry of Environment and Forests over monitoring of environmental norms||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) over the compliance of conditions mentioned in environmental clearances granted for projects, saying the mechanism for monitoring environmental norms is inadequate. The green panel said compliance of conditions of environmental clearance must be monitored on a periodical basis, at least once in a quarter. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said there is poor monitoring and there are huge gaps in laying down of conditions and its enforcement. It asked the Environment Ministry to review and strengthen the mechanism for the purpose. The tribunal took note of an affidavit filed by the ministry which mentioned that there are certain proposals to strengthen the monitoring mechanism. The NGT said that this only shows insensitivity to the vital constitutional obligation despite repeated directions. "Repeated plea of merely having such proposals, without effective enforcement on the ground can hardly be held to be satisfactory. Counsel for the MoEF states that there have been further meaningful steps, after filing of the affidavit but the same could not be brought on record. "We cannot accept such a statement. If steps have been actually taken, we fail to understand why the same could not be produced at least during the hearing. We record our dissatisfaction at the attitude of the MoEF on the subject," the bench said. It directed the ministry to take effective steps to discharge its constitutional obligation to advance 'Precautionary' and 'Sustainable Development' principles and also the 'Public Trust Doctrine'. "We need not repeat the observations with regard to the acknowledged deficiencies in the existing mechanism which urgently needs to be remedied. Let affidavit of compliance be filed before the next date by e-mail," the bench said. The matter is listed for hearing on December 17. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Sandeep Mittal seeking stricter mechanisms to ensure compliance of conditions mentioned in environmental clearances granted for projects. Laying down conditions for EC based on the appraisal is not enough unless compliance thereof is duly monitored and ensured with a view to achieve the said object, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-green-tribunal-raps-ministry-of-environment-and-forests-over-monitoring-of-environmental-norms-868341.html
01-08-2020||National||Want to win medals at Olympics, Asian Games: Indian women's junior hockey forward Mumtaz||Indian junior women's hockey forward Mumtaz Khan on Saturday said her goal is to win medals at the Asian Games and Olympics with the senior team but added that she is looking to take one step at a time to achieve it. The 17-year-old player had scored 10 goals to help India secure the silver medal at the Buenos Aires Youth Olympics in 2018. She has also won the bronze medal at the girls under-18 Asia Cup in 2016, silver at the Six-Nations Invitational Tournament in 2018, and the coveted gold medal at the Cantor Fitzgerald under-21 International Four-Nations tournament last year. "I know that whatever I have done so far is nothing as compared to what I want to achieve in my career, so I don't want to get too ahead of myself. I want to ensure I am taking small baby steps, and doing the right things always," Mumtaz was quoted as saying in a Hockey India release. A daughter of vegetable vendors, the journey for Mumtaz has been full of ups and downs, but the forward from Lucknow is determined to keep shining for the country. "It is no secret that I have had difficult moments personally, and sometimes it has been difficult for my parents also, but I am glad that they have always supported me no matter what, and I can't wait to make them happy. "For that, I have very clear goals in mind, which are to perform very well in each training session and each match that I play for my country, and eventually help my team in winning medals at big tournaments like the Olympics and the Asian Games," she added. Hockey happened to Mumtaz by coincidence. She was spotted by her coach in a school racing competition in Agra. "I believe it was in 2011 that I was spotted at one of the races I was participating in for my school. It was Neelam Siddiqui who was present on the occasion and told my father that he should put me into the sport of hockey. "I didn't really know much about the sport back then because I was so young, but as I started watching and playing it, I started developing a real interest," said the teenager who was eventually enrolled at the Lucknow hostel in 2014 and started training under Siddiqui. "I feel it was just a coincidence that coach found me there in Agra, and the rest that has followed has been due to the hard work that I have put in," she added. Mumtaz has many goals in mind and one of them is to help her family. "I come from a very humble background so one of the factors in me playing hockey was that I might be able to help my parents. "I have been fortunate enough to have represented the Indian junior women's team and have always aimed at giving my all on the pitch, and I am hoping that it can translate into a bright future for us off the field," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-win-medals-at-olympics-asian-games-indian-womens-junior-hockey-forward-mumtaz-868344.html
01-08-2020||National||DMK President M K Stalin steps up attack against National Education Policy 2020||Stepping up his attack against the Centre's new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, DMK President M K Stalin on Saturday said it was an attempt at "imposition" of Hindi and Sanskrit and vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and Chief Ministers of other states. The sweeping reforms were not new education policy but "a glossy coat on the old oppressive Manusmriti," he alleged. In a letter to partymen, Stalin said the party was committed to the struggle against such policies of the government, and recalled it (also) moving the Madras High Court on the issue of OBC reservation in All India Quota (AIQ) in medical admissions. There was an "undeclared emergency" in the country, he said referring to the detention of political figures in Jammu and Kashmir among others. On the NEP, he questioned why the "successful" 10+2 system was being replaced with 5+3+3+4 and described the vocational education for children as a "psychological attack" on them. He further said, "with Education placed in the State List, the Centre will assume the remaining rights of the states and take in its control (aspects ranging) from the syllabus to university." "This is an attack on the federal structure being underscored by the Constitution of India," Stalin said in the letter. DMK was, therefore, opposing the NEP and will also join hands with other like-minded political parties and chief ministers on the issue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-president-m-k-stalin-steps-up-attack-against-national-education-policy-2020-868362.html
01-08-2020||National||Fraud alert! How fraudsters are using e-SIMS to cheat you||Warning people of this latest fraud technique, the Hyderabad cyber crime police has issued an advisory against cybercriminals who are posing as customer care executives of telecom companies such as Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone and promising to give the customers an eSIM connection. How are they working? The victim of the fraud usually receives a warning saying that their SIM card will be blocked in 24 hours if their KYC is not updated. They will get a message saying “Dear customer, your SIM card will be blocked in 24 hours,” or “Please update your eKYC verification.”   Next, the fraudster will call the victim in the guise of a customer care executive and ask them to update their KYC details online by forwarding the email ID sent by the fraudster to the service provider’s customer care number. The message asks the customer to click on the email ID and fill a form. The format of the message looks like automated messages from mobile service providers.  The email ID actually belongs to the fraudsters and using the customer, register their ID so that they can access all the bank information. The fraudsters use the customers’ phone number to register their email ID and ask the customer to forward an eSIM request to the service provider. The form asks the customer to fill in their name and banking details. Once the eSIM is activated, the activation QR code goes to the fraudsters’ registered email ID.  After which the fraudster can easily use their handset to scan the QR code and the physical SIM running in the customer’s phone gets blocked.  The fraudster can now register the eSIM with digital wallets and link it to the customer’s bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fraud-alert-how-fraudsters-are-using-e-sims-to-cheat-you-868366.html
01-08-2020||National||Indian expats in UAE can renew passport in just two days||Indian expatriates in the UAE can now get their passports renewed in just two days with a new operating procedure taking effect from August, according to a media report. Further, the Indian Consulate in Dubai can now accept passport applications from expatriates living across the UAE, the Gulf News reported. Earlier, each emirate had its individual centre for verification. The passport renewal forms will be processed on the same day as it is received, Consul General of India in Dubai Dr Aman Puri told the newspaper. Puri said some applications could take longer to process. “It would take a longer time, an average of two weeks, if there is any need for special approvals like police verification or any other clearance from India,” he explained. Last year, the Indian mission here issued over 2 lakh passports, the highest count for an Indian mission across the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expats-in-uae-can-renew-passport-in-just-two-days-868377.html
01-08-2020||National||India's borders not safe under NDA regime: Akhilesh Yadav||After former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday demanded that the NDA government must tell the people if China had occupied Indian territory. Speaking to the reporters here, Akhilesh said that the borders of the country were not 'safe' under the NDA regime. ''The centre must tell the people if China has occupied our territory...if so then how much...the people have a right to know the truth,'' the SP president said. He also said that the government must try to find a ''diplomatic solution'' of the boundary issue with China. ''China is not likely to pull back....the government should explore diplomatic ways to resolve the issue,'' he added. Akhilesh also attacked the Yogi Adityanath government in the state on what he alleged ''worsening law and order situation''. ''The law and order has completely collapsed in the state....no one is safe,'' he said. The SP president said that the present dispensation believed in 'thonk do' (kill) policy as a result of which the police had gone berserk and killing people in fake encounters. ''One can not expect anything good from this regime when it has given a free hand to the police to kill innocent people,'' Akhilesh said. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi has been accusing the Narendra Modi government of 'misleading' the people on the issue by claiming that the Chinese Army did not intrude into the Indian territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-borders-not-safe-under-nda-regime-akhilesh-yadav-868381.html
01-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan files petition challenging validity of defective plea in contempt case||Faced with a contempt notice over his tweets, advocate Prashant Bhushan has filed a petition in the Supreme Court challenging entertaining of a defective plea in violation of his right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. He asked the court to recall the order on listing the petition by one Mahek Maheshwari against him on July 22 in a fresh contempt, and the July 24 order in 2009 contempt case for being "unconstitutional, illegal, void and non-est".  Maheshwari, a Gwalior-based lawyer, had filed a contempt petition against Bhushan which was converted into Suo Motu criminal contempt. Bhushan claimed to accept the petition by Maheshwari, filed without consent from the Attorney General or the Solicitor General, was illegal in terms of Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act. He also submitted the matter could not have been placed before a bench led by Justice Arun Mishra without providing him with a copy of the administrative order.  The activist-advocate was issued a notice in a Suo Motu criminal contempt on July 22 for his tweet on June 27, wherein he accused four CJIs of "playing a role in the destruction of democracy". He faced the adverse action for another tweet on June 29, wherein he accused the current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and keeping "the SC in lockdown denying citizens their fundamental right to justice". In his plea, Bhushan claimed an old tweet was published in a newspaper on the date of hearing indicating a conspiracy against him. He also contended that digging out of the old 2009 matter against him and placing it before a bench led by Justice Mishra was contrary all rules, norms, procedures and practices as this was just one of 19,442 regular hearing matters and 28,882 miscellaneous matters, pending before the court. This reflected "desire to ensure that he is somehow convicted for contempt without following the due procedure". He alleged that the actions against him smacked of malice in law and deserved to be set aside.  "The directions of the Chief Justice and published orders by the Supreme Court during Covid-19 period indicate that matter as such could not have been taken up at all, there being no urgency whatsoever," he claimed. Bhushan said if the court was not willing to recall the contempt notice, this matter should be heard when physical hearings resumed as the proceedings in video conferencing faced frequent technical glitches, the inability of counsel to log in and lack of clarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-files-petition-challenging-validity-of-defective-plea-in-contempt-case-868387.html
01-08-2020||National||Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh passes away at 64||Loved by some and hated by many in equal measures, Amar Singh, who was called by his detractors the 'Machiavelli' of Indian politics and a “friend of a friend” by his well-wishers is no more, having breathed his last in a hospital in Singapore thousands of kilometres away from the fields of politics--New Delhi and Lucknow where he played his power pranks.    Singh, who rubbed shoulders with the film stars like Amitabh Bachchan and corporates--Ambani brothers and Sahara’s Subroto Roy was equally at ease in his relationship with grassroots politicians with a rural background like Mulayam Singh Yadav but towards the end of his day he had become kind of a political pariah with no party daring to induct him even as in both the BJP and the Congress, there were many who wanted him for his “skills” that endeared Singh as it brought scorn for him in equal measure. A Congress politician in a private conversation had once called him “Corporate Thakur” during a discussion on the representation of politicians from Rajput (Thakur) communities in all parties. Many parties used Singh’s troubleshooting and fund-raising skills, the two qualities that saw the rise of the former Samajwadi Party general secretary from a small industrialist from Azamgarh to the mover and shaker in power corridors of UP and Delhi. Singh, who had got into a sleazy audiotape controversy in 2011, had revealed many secrets of the political life of many friends and foes in both public and private conversation but equally, he also kept many of the secrets with him including the role of the country’s top-notch politicians in the UPA’s trust vote of 2008. Though later he characterised it as the “greatest blunder to support UPA’s trust vote” but the dark details behind the sordid drama of wads of cash notes displayed by BJP MPs in the Lok Sabha were never out. He was later sent to jail in the case and this rankled him that despite the party “using” him did not induct him. Singh, who had undergone a kidney transplant, died in Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore where he was undergoing treatment. He was accompanied by his wife and two daughters. Condoling his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled him as an “energetic public figure”, who witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters and known for his friendship across many spheres of life. Samajwadi Party chief and former UP CM Akhilesh, who had got into a bitter war of words with Singh in 2016, tweeted a photograph of Singh with his father and party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. President Ram Nath Kovind said Singh was a man of many parts, and an able Parliamentarian. Singh, whose will moved the political career of many in Samajwadi Party for 14 years since 1996, had to quit the party unceremoniously in 2010 after a fierce fight with party’s Muslim face Azam Khan and Mulayam Singh’s brother Ramgopal Yadav—both who vociferously opposed his return to the party in 2016. While Singh had many friends straddling across various fields of politics, film and business, one person who firmly stood by him in his thick and thin was movie star Jaya Prada, who was also expelled along with him from SP. Singh’s short-term attempt at floating his own party Rashtriya Lok Manch in 2011 bombed so was a short-lived failure was his association with Rashtriya Lok Dal. Mulayam Singh Yadav backed him to the hilt after his second coming into the SP, made him a Rajya Sabha member and appointed him party general secretary despite Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘outsider’ attack on but when the control of the organisation passed into the hands of the son, Singh became irrelevant. In his last years, he was inching close to the BJP and had even attended events with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.  From his hospital bed, he issued a video message on Jyotiraditya Scindia joining BJP in March this year, expressing amusement at the way politics takes turns.  On Scindia attacking Congress after 18 years of association, Singh, who often emphasised on “pragmatism in politics” advised him to “let the window at least open even if the doors are closed so that air can come in”. He was so active on social media that earlier in the day, he posted messages on Twitter, paying tributes to Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his 100th death anniversary and also wishing people on Eid. The leader, who was passionately attached to political life, frequently issued video messages from the hospital bed, something that only the death could severe from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-mp-amar-singh-passes-away-at-64-868393.html
01-08-2020||National||Goa Guv shoots down govt proposal for new Raj Bhavan||The ongoing tussle between Governor Satya Pal Malik and Chief Minister Pramod Sawant took a fresh turn on Saturday, after Raj Bhavan in a statement spurned (for now) the Goa government's offer to build a new residential complex for the Governor, calling the proposal "irrational and imprudent".  The stern comment from Raj Bhavan comes a week after Sawant said that his government had approved a project to build a new Raj Bhavan complex and had begun the process of identifying a location for it.  "The Governor in his letter to Chief Minister has further clarified that his requirement for functioning as Governor is very limited and he does not require any new Raj Bhavan building per se," Raj Bhavan said in a statement issued on Saturday.  Sawant's announcement of a new Raj Bhavan complex, especially when the government is on an "austerity drive" had triggered an avalanche of criticism in the media, social media as well as from the Opposition, which had accused the Sawant-led administration of splurging money, instead of using financial resources to battle the pandemic.  Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has also lauded the Governor's decision to stall the new project.  "It is the responsibility of the government to set its priorities. Giving basic comforts to the needy must top the agenda of every effective administration. The welcome decision of Governor of Goa to keep the new Raj Bhavan project on hold. Economic Revival Plan is (the) need of the hour," Kamat tweeted.  State Congress president Girish Chodankar had also alleged that the present Raj Bhavan, which currently functions from a centuries-old Portuguese era complex, was being eyed by the casino lobby in the state to start a new casino centre.  Malik said that he was concerned about the adverse press which Sawant's announcement of building a new Raj Bhavan had attracted. "A lot of negativities and controversies are being generated on the matter of the state government's proposal for construction of a new Raj Bhavan building," the Raj Bhavan said in its statement.  Sawant and the Governor have been at loggerheads ever since the latter had accused the Chief Minister of trying to "put words in his mouth" and blame the media for criticism of the BJP-led coalition government's management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Malik last month had also picked holes in the state government's apparatus and strategies to contain the pandemic, causing much embarrassment to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-guv-shoots-down-govt-proposal-for-new-raj-bhavan-868394.html
01-08-2020||National||Govt issues draft notifications to ensure only BIS certified helmets sold in India||To ensure good quality helmets to be available for two-wheeler users, Union Ministry of Road Transport Ministry and Highways has initiated the process to make only Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) certified helmets to be produced and sold in India. "A draft notification issued for bringing protective helmets for two-wheelers rider under compulsory certification as per Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 2016. This will enable to have only BIS certified helmets for two-wheelers to be manufactured and sold in India," said a statement from the Ministry. Once final notification issued, selling or manufacturing non-BIS certified helmet will be an offence. In India, around  70% of helmets sold don't conform to the BIS norms. "BIS certification will improve the quality of two-wheeler helmets and would improve road safety scenario, and further would be helpful in reducing fatal injuries involving two-wheelers," said the statement.  The BIS already issued a notification about new two-wheeler helmet standards which will come into force on September 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-draft-notifications-to-ensure-only-bis-certified-helmets-sold-in-india-868397.html
01-08-2020||National||Centre decides to allow export of indigenous ventilators as Covid-19 fatality rate falls to 2.15%||Centre on Saturday allowed export of ‘Made-in-India’ ventilators following a glut in the market as domestic manufacturers stepped in to boost production and a decline in the proportion of Covid-19 patients requiring intensive care. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 approved the decision to allow exports after the case fatality rate declined to 2.15%, indicating that fewer number of active cases were on ventilators, an official statement said. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had told the GoM on Friday that only 2.32% of the Covid-19 patients under medical supervision were on oxygen support, 1.61% was on intensive care and 0.28% on ventilator support. These numbers were reported on Thursday. On Friday, the proportion of patients on ventilators had marginally reduced to 0.22% of the 5.65 lakh patients under medical supervision. In mid-May, 2.7% of patients were on oxygen support, 3.1% were in ICUs and 0.45% were on ventilator support.  The decision to allow export of ventilators drew sharp criticism from the Congress. “Is there no shortage of ventilators in all hospitals in the country. Is this decision in the public interest,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. India had banned the export of ventilators in March to ensure domestic availability of the machines that keep critically ill patients breathing and appealed local manufacturers to collaborate with automakers to step up production. The industry complied and automakers such as Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra & Mahindra and PSUs such as BEL and BHEL stepped in to meet the challenge taking the total manufactures of the breathing devices to 20. However, the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMeD) had written to the government last month on the lifting of the export ban as domestic manufacturers had piled up huge inventories for lack of adequate orders from the government. The domestic manufacturers had slowed down production in June on account of unsold inventory, leading to concerns of creation of non-performing assets in the nascent industry. “Now with export of ventilators having been allowed, it is hoped that domestic ventilators would be in a position to find new markets for Indian ventilators in foreign countries,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-decides-to-allow-export-of-indigenous-ventilators-as-covid-19-fatality-rate-falls-to-215-868398.html
01-08-2020||National||Bengal Forest Minister ready to don a disguise to nab wildlife criminals||West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee, on Saturday, decided that if necessary he will don a disguise to directly take the party in operations to curb wildlife crimes in the state. Banerjee known for his passionate and often outspoken approach to work said at a recent Forest Department program in Bankura district said that despite issues such as lack of manpower his department will go to any length to nab wildlife criminals. “I will not think twice to dawn a disguise to take part in operations to curb wildlife crimes. With a shortage of manpower, the odds may be stacked against us. But we will not back down from risking our lives to save forests and wildlife,” said Banerjee. He said that the loss of human lives in conflict with animals was as unfortunate as the death of animals at the hands of humans. As for Bankura district, Banerjee said that deaths due to the man-animal conflict have recently declined and he wants no ensure that no such deaths take place in the state in future. “ Our aim is to ensure that there are no deaths in man-animal conflict in the state and no one loses his or her livelihood. Despite issues such as staff shortage, lack of beat offices and vehicles we are working to the best of their abilities,” said Banerjee. Apart from specially built Airavat vehicles to tackle elephants the Forest Department is planning to provide a large number of motorbikes to its staff for regular patrolling. “ We have already provided state of the art Airavat vehicles to our officials. Now we are planning to provide motorbikes to our staff members for patrolling and to ensure that they can reach a crime scene quickly,” said Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-forest-minister-ready-to-don-a-disguise-to-nab-wildlife-criminals-868403.html
01-08-2020||National||Uddhav, Nitish speak out for first time on Sushant Singh Rajput||Amid a much-publicised tussle on the investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the chief ministers of the two states of Maharashtra and Bihar spoke out for the first time on Saturday even as the actor’s family sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti said that justice must prevail in the case. “I am the sister of Sushant Singh Rajput and I request an urgent scan of the whole case. We believe in India’s judicial system and expect justice at any cost,” she tweeted requesting Modi to look into the issue. “Somehow my heart says that you stand with and for the family.  We are from a very simple family. My brother had no Godfather when he was in Bollywood nor do we have anyone now.  My request to you is to immediately look into this case and make sure that everything is handled in a sanitized way and no evidence are tampered with. Expecting justice to prevail,” she said. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed that the case should not be used to create a friction between the two states. However, he said if anyone has any proof they must bring it to the Mumbai police."If anyone has any proof about the case they can bring it to us and we will interrogate and punish the guilty. However, please don't use this case as an excuse to create frictions between the two states of Bihar and Maharashtra, he said. Thackeray also urged his predecessor and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis not to target the Mumbai police. "Fadnavis should understand that it is the same police whom he has worked within the last five years. It is the same police that has given so many sacrifices during the fight with Covid-19. I would like to condemn those who are raising questions over the efficiency of the police," Thackeray said in a statement. Meanwhile, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the state government is willing to order a probe by the CBI into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death if his family requests the state to do so. Sushant Singh Rajput's father Krishna Kumar Singh had filed a cheating case against his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty in a 6-page long FIR filed in  Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna. In a related development, actor and TV presenter Shekhar Suman said that it was not a suicide but murder – and hence a CBI probe is a must. “It is very very evident Sushant was killed. And killed brutally. A lot of evidence is cropping up. A lot of big names behind it so it seems. For all you know Rhea is but just a small-time player in this. Or maybe she is too clever…. Hanging is just a theory they have spun.  Show me a single photo of him hanging. There isn't one because he was never hanged. He was just strangulated to death on the bed with his dog's leash and left there that's why the ligature mark is a perfect 'O',” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-nitish-speak-out-for-first-time-on-sushant-singh-rajput-868405.html
01-08-2020||National||New Education Policy emphasises on making 'job creators' instead of 'job seekers', says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the new education policy announced by the government emphasises on making 'job creators' instead of 'job seekers' and is an attempt to transform the 'intent' and 'content' of the country's education system. Addressing the finale of the Smart India Hackathon, he said the National Education Policy-2020 facilitates inter-disciplinary study which will ensure that the focus is on what the students want to learn and will mark a shift from the "burden of school bag" to the "boon of learning". The NEP is big on access to education and aims to increase gross enrolment ratio in higher education to 50 per cent by 2035, he said. "India's National Education Policy (NEP) reflects the spirit of new India. We are shifting from the burden of the school bag, which does not last beyond school, to the boon of learning which helps for life. From simply memorising to critical thinking. The 21st century is the era of knowledge, learning, and innovation. For years, the limitations of the system had an adverse effect on the lives of students. No longer. "The new policy reflects the aspirations of young India. It is not process centric, it is people centric and future centric. The NEP is not just a policy but is a compilation of aspirations of all 130 crore Indians," he told the students who participated in the event through video link. The prime minister said that under the pressure of parents, relatives and friends, students tend to opt for subjects that others have selected. "Even today many children feel that they are judged on the basis of a subject in which they have no interest. Due to the pressure from parents, relatives, friends etc children are forced to pursue the subjects chosen by others. This has resulted in a large population which is well-educated, but most of what they have read, is not useful for them. "Despite having a pile of degrees, individuals feel incomplete and lack confidence which affects their whole life. The new policy seeks to change this approach by bringing a systematic reform in education system and attempts to transform both intent and content of education," he said. Elaborating on the emphasis in the new eduction policy on inter-disciplinary study, the Prime Minister said,"this concept has been gaining popularity. And, rightly so." The National Education Policy will make our education: More fruitful. Broad-based. "One size does not fit all. One subject does not define who you are. There are no limits to discovering something new. Human history has many examples of stalwarts who have excelled in diverse areas. Be it Aryabhata, Leonardo da Vinci, Helen Keller, Gurudev Tagore". "Now, we have done away with some traditional boundaries between arts, science, commerce. If someone is interested, they can learn Maths and Music together, or Coding and Chemistry together. This will ensure the focus is on what the student wants to learn. Rather than what the student is expected to, by society. Inter-disciplinary studies gives you control. In the process, it also makes you flexible. "In the new policy, flexibility has been given great importance. There are provisions for multiple entry and exits. No one way streets for a student. The Under-Graduate experience can either be a three or four year journey." he said. Students will enjoy the advantages of an Academic Bank of Credit, which will store all the academic credits acquired. These can be transferred and counted in the final degree. Such flexibility was long needed in our education system, he said. The prime minister said the new education policy will help Indian languages to progress and develop further. "Students will benefit by learning in their own language in their early years. The new education policy will also introduce the rich Indian languages to the world. This will not only promote knowledge and learning in the country, but will also strengthen its unity. "While the policy focuses on local, equal emphasis has been laid on global integration. Top global institutions have been encouraged to open campuses in India. "This will benefit Indian youth in getting world class exposure and opportunities, and help them prepare for global competition as well. This will also help in building world-class institutions in India, making India a hub of global education," he said. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet earlier this week replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Quoting the architect of the Indian Constitution B R Ambedkar that education should be accessible to all, Modi said that the new education policy is also dedicated to this idea. "It emphasizes on creating job creators rather than job seekers. That is, in a way an attempt to bring reform in our mindset and in our approach," he said. Hackathon is a non-stop digital product development competition organised by the HRD Ministry, where problems are posed to technology students to suggest innovative solutions. This year, more than 10,000 students are competing to solve 243 problem statements from 37 central government departments, 17 state governments and 20 industries. Each problem statement carries a prize money of Rs 1 lakh except the student innovation theme which will have three winners, 1st, 2nd and 3rd, with prize money of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 75,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-emphasises-on-making-job-creators-instead-of-job-seekers-says-pm-narendra-modi-868407.html
01-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: BJP demands Kerala CM's resignation||In today's episode,  BJP Kerala legislator Rajagopal began a one-day fast at the party's state committee office demanding the chief minister's resignation over the recent gold smuggling case;  Union Minister of state from Home G Kishan Reddy says states need to emulate “Delhi Model”; An advocate has filed a petition before the Madras High Court seeking the arrest of Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli and actress Tamannaah and BBMP to undertake a major testing programme across several areas of the city.  Here are the top news of today, Saturday: August 1, 2020: The lone BJP legislator in Kerala, O Rajagopal on Saturday began a one-day fast at the party's state committee office demanding the chief minister's resignation over the recent gold smuggling case. The fast is part of the protests by the BJP seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as he was "morally responsible" for the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav inaugurated the fast through video conference and state party chief K Surendran presided over the meeting. The saffron party has also decided to organise a virtual rally in the capital city and it will be inaugurated by former state president Kummanam Rajashekharan. Union Minister V Muraleedharan has also decided to observe a fast at his residence in New Delhi on August 2 seeking the resignation of the chief minister. The state government has been under heavy criticism on the gold smuggling issue after two former employees of the UAE Consulate here were arrested along with a few others. The opposition parties have been alleging that the chief minister's office was involved in the matter, a claim which has been dismissed by the state government. All the states in the country need to emulate the "Delhi model" for controlling the spread of the coronavirus, Union Minister of state from Home G Kishan Reddy said here on Saturday. "I am requesting the state government (Telangana) to focus on testing, tracing and treatment. There is a need to increase the number of tests (in Telangana). The more number of the tests, the faster the containment of the disease. You know, Delhi as a union territory I am personally monitoring. There is 84 per cent recovery rate in Delhi. All the states should emulate the Delhi model," he told reporters. The union minister visited Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), a 14-storey building at the sports complexatGachibowli which was transformed into a hospital. Even in future as part of the fight against coronavirus, the Centre will send required quantities of PPE kits and ventilators to Telangana, he further said. An advocate has filed a petition before the Madras High Court seeking the arrest of Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli and actress Tamannaah for endorsing online gambling sites, which is “taking the lives” of “innocent” youngsters.  A P Suryaprakasam, who is a practising advocate, filed the petition before the Madras High Court on Friday seeking to arrest Kohli and Tamannaah on charges of abatement to suicide for misguiding youngsters on the issue of online gambling and endorsing such sites. The case is likely to be heard on Tuesday. The filing of the case comes close on the heels of a 19-year-old youth taking his own life, blaming his addiction for online gambling for his suicide. The PIL is being filed, according to the petitioner, seeking closure of all online gambling sites and prosecution of film and other personalities who have been appearing on the advertisements of such sites. “…It is just and necessary that authorities have to be immediately directed to close all online gambling sites forthwith and arrest and prosecute Virat Kohli and Tamannaah for their role in abetting the youngsters to gamble online as playing and abatement to play gambling is a criminal offence,” Suryaprakasam said in his petition. In his petition, Suryaprakasam submitted that online gambling was “unethical and immoral” and said prominently personalities are being used by such sites to constantly pressurise and brainwash the youngsters to “fall in the trap of this evil gambling.” Worries about community transmission have prompted the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to undertake a major testing programme across several areas of the city. On Saturday, testing began within the Bommanahalli zone. Captain P Manivannan, IAS, Special officer for the Zone, said that testing activities had begun at two wards: Hongasandra and Uttarahalli on Saturday and would see a total of 500 tests conducted per ward. According to the State Covid War Room, Hongasandra has had 147 total cases up to July 19, while Uttarahalli saw 241 total cases. More importantly, since July 6, there have been at least 80 identified Covid-19 cases reported from Hongasandra in active containment zones. The ward was hit early by the virus in April when several scrap metal workers were infected. Five of the infected here are apartment dwellers.  A senior BBMP official involved in testing said that they plan to cover all city wards and make free antigen testing available to certain eligible portions of the populations. These include contacts of known Covid-19 cases, people with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), plus anyone coming down with easily identifiable symptoms of the disease such fever cough and cold. Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh passed away on Saturday. The veteran politician was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Singapore for many months now. He was 64.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bjp-demands-kerala-cms-resignation-868412.html
01-08-2020||National||RIP Amar Singh: A look at veteran politician's chequered relationship with Amitabh Bachchan||Veteran politician and former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh passed away on Saturday, leaving his well-wishers in a state of shock. The Rajya Sabha MP shared a chequered relationship with Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan, which often grabbed attention for a variety of reasons. Singh's association with the Bachchans started shortly after Big B launched his production house Amitabh Bachchan Corporation Limited (ABCL) and added a new dimension to his career. Several films produced by the banner, including the much-hyped Mrityudata (1997), failed to live up to expectations and this took a toll on the company's standing. Things soon turned from bad to worse, forcing the matinee idol to request the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction to declare ABCL a 'sick company', It was then that Singh reportedly stepped in to help him clear his debt. The two remained family friends and often attended public functions together. In fact, Big B once called Singh his 'younger brother' and indicated that he was a part of the family. The relationship, however, hit a rough patch shortly after Singh was arrested for allegedly trying to bribe three MPs to support the then UPA government during a trust vote in 2008. Big B did not visit him when he was in jail and this did not go down well with the political bigwig. The Pink actor did, however, pay him a visit when Singh was out on a bail but the damage had been done.  "When he came to meet me, I didn’t feel like talking to him because the feelings I had for him, the friendship, had gone. They had got filtered from my mind and the realisation had dawned that mostly people are weathercocks.” (sic) Singh was quoted as saying the popular book Behind Bars: Prison Tales of India’s Most Famous. He later made a few harsh statements about actress-turned-politician Jaya Bachchan, which ruffled a few feathers. Earlier this year, nearly a decade after the fallout, Singh apologised to the Bachchans for his 'overreaction' and requested them to let bygones be bygones. "Today is my father’s death anniversary & I got a message for the same from @SrBachchan ji. At this stage of life when I am fighting a battle of life & death I regret my overreaction against Amit ji & family. God bless them all," (sic) he tweeted. Singh's death is a loss for the political fraternity and his near and dear ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rip-amar-singh-a-look-at-veteran-politicians-chequered-relationship-with-amitabh-bachchan-868418.html
01-08-2020||National||Gujarat: Jignesh Mevani, Cong working President Hardik Patel 'expose' widespread corruption in MNREGA||Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani and Gujarat Congress' working president Hardik Patel on Saturday alleged widespread corruption in Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the state and said that "hundreds of job cards have been fraudulently created in the name of people who never applied for work or even worked." They alleged on the basis of "documentary evidence" that "bogus job cards, bank accounts, ATM cards, fake muster rolls were created and money was embezzled in a planned manner." Mevani and Patel in a joint press conference held in Ahmedabad on Saturday alleged that "at a time when the poor people are suffering the most due to lockdown and economic slowdown, the state government has turned blind eyes to numerous complaints and representations the affected persons have made for justice." They said that there was enough evidence to register FIRs and find people who have "embezzled the funds meant for the poor." "I was living away from the village for three years and returned only after the lockdown. A few days back, I came to know that there existed a job card and bank accounts in my name under MGNREGA. I was surprised as I had never applied for it. I believe that the fraudsters got my documents from the village panchayat where I had applied for loans for various schemes including constructing a toilet," said Kiran Parmar, a resident of Balundra village who had come to Ahmedabad to share his case. Jyotsna Jiba Bhill said that she hardly gets work these days as she doesn't have a job card. She shares a bank account with her widow mother-in-law but that's not under MNREGA. "My husband passed away in an accident. I have a daughter, 10, and a son,5, to feed but I haven't been getting jobs despite repeated attempts. Recently, I came to know that someone was taking money in my name." Mevani, who represents Vadgam Assembly constituency in the district, said, "What we have found in Balundra village is just a tip of the iceberg. There is widespread corruption across the districts in the state. We want the government to probe and file FIRs."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-jignesh-mevani-cong-working-president-hardik-patel-expose-widespread-corruption-in-mnrega-868441.html
01-08-2020||National||Govt move on Jammu and Kashmir has not achieved any stated goals: CCG||As the government is all set to celebrate the first anniversary of revocation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, a group of concerned citizens led by former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday said the region continues to be in a "social, economic, political and communication lockdown" for a year but none of the stated goals of the move has been achieved. In a statement, the Concerned Citizens Group (CCG) said Kashmiris have "lost any faith they had in the Indian political leadership and the judiciary" and they seem to believe that the Indian government wants to "marginalise" them. The group demanded the immediate release of PDP leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti and all Kashmiris who were taken into preventive detention under Public Safety Act (PSA), restoration of 4G communication, lifting of curbs on all peaceful political activity and starting a multi-level dialogue process with all those affected by the August 5 decision. "In early hours of that day (5 August 2019), a complete lockdown imposed and mainstream political leaders, businessmen, lawyers and thousands of others were arrested. A year later, J&K continues to be in a social, economic, political and communication lockdown. None of the stated goals of the government - of bringing Kashmir closer to India, ending militancy, bringing development to the state – have been achieved," the CCG said. Besides Sinha, the statement was signed by former Chief Information Commissioner of India and ex-Chairman of National Commission for Minorities Wajahat Habibullah, Air Vice-Marshall (Retd) Kapil Kak, veteran journalist Bharat Bhushan and peace activist Sushobha Barve. The group accused the Centre of internationalising the Kashmir issue to the detriment of India. They said the government was criticised for human rights violations and stoking Islamophobia while security experts point out that the changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir also prompted Chinese incursions in Ladakh. While the Centre's actions had led to "shock, trauma and humiliation amongst the local citizens" and their "simmering anger at their helplessness still persists", they said, it is "significant" that the Kashmiris through their "display of mature behaviour prevented public violence and chose mass civil disobedience instead to show unhappiness". "The Kashmiris seem to believe that the Indian government wants to marginalise them. This fear is expressed most vividly in the fear of demographic change by creating new settlements for outsiders. That the Union government has used the pandemic-induced lockdown to implement domicile laws for the UT has not helped allay these fears. The media which could have promoted debate on this issue is being harassed and hounded," the CCG said. It noted that the internet ban in Kashmir continues with only 2G connectivity being provided now and this has affected students, job seekers, entrepreneurs, businesses and ordinary citizens alike and created havoc in banking, trade, business and healthcare. The statement also said Kashmir’s economy was also plunged into an abyss with the sudden and mass exodus in early August of tourists and the non-Kashmiri labour force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-move-on-jammu-and-kashmir-has-not-achieved-any-stated-goals-ccg-868446.html
01-08-2020||National||SC rejects bail plea by VHP activist in abduction case||The Supreme Court has rejected a bail plea by VHP and Bajrang Dal activist Khandya Praveen in an abduction case.  The 2016 case has allegedly resulted in the suicide of then deputy superintendent of police Kallappa Handibag in Chikkamangaluru district after charges were made that the officer was a part of the whole conspiracy and paid Rs 10 lakh. Praveen was alleged to be the mastermind of the incident relating to the abduction of Tejas Gowda. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna dismissed his petition against the Karnataka High Court's order of May 26, declining him bail in the case. The petitioner, led by senior advocate R Basant and advocate Shailesh Madiyal, contended that he has been in custody for more than two years and there was no progress in the case, affecting his right to liberty. He also cited prevailing Covid-19 situation to support his plea. After hearing the counsel, the court, however, allowed him to renew his request for bail on examination of the complainant in the matter. The court also directed the trial court as well as the prosecution to ensure that the complainant was examined within a period of two months. The top court also directed for filing of a compliance report in two months in this regard. The petitioner claimed that the case was illegally foisted upon him by the Chikkamangaluru rural police. The police, however, had named 14 persons in the charge sheet and Praveen was named as accused number four. In 2018, Praveen contested unsuccessfully as a BJP rebel candidate from Sringeri constituency and polled 1294 votes which was seen as a major factor for the defeat of three-term MLA from saffron party D N Jeevaraj, who lost by 1989 votes from Congress candidate Rajegowda. In July 2018, the top court had set aside a Karnataka High Court order granting him anticipatory bail in the case, saying such a relief cannot be granted to a person against whom a non-bailable warrant has been issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-bail-plea-by-vhp-activist-in-abduction-case-868456.html
01-08-2020||National||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari takes over as chief of IAF's Western Air Command||Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday took charge as commander-in-chief of the Indian Air Force’s Western Air Command (WAC) which looks after the security of the country's air space in the sensitive Ladakh sector as well as various other parts of north India. He succeeded Air Marshal B Suresh who retired from service. An alumni of the National Defence Academy, Air Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the IAF on December 29, 1982. In a distinguished career spanning nearly 38 years, the officer has flown a wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft in the inventory of IAF. He has a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, including operational flying on MiG-21, MiG-23 MF, MiG 29 and Su-30 MKI fighter jets. Air Marshal Chaudhari held numerous important positions. He was the commanding officer of a frontline fighter squadron and has also commanded a frontline fighter base. As an Air Marshal, he held the position of Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. His appointment as chief of the WAC comes when it is enhancing operational deployment in eastern Ladakh in view of the border row with China. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in the last few weeks. It has already deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in frontier bases in Ladakh as well as in several other places along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Air Marshal Chaudhari was also involved in the Rafale acquisition programme. He was serving as senior air staff officer in Eastern Air Command before assuming the charge of the Delhi-headquartered Western Command. In recognition of his distinguished service, the Air Marshal was awarded Vayu Sena Medal in January 2004 and the Ati Vishist Seva Medal in January 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-marshal-v-r-chaudhari-takes-over-as-chief-of-iafs-western-air-command-868457.html
01-08-2020||National||China deploys troops adjacent to Indian territory recently claimed by Nepal||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has deployed additional troops near Lipulekh Pass, which has been at the centre of Nepal-India territorial dispute and is also close to the communist country’s boundary with its two South Asian neighbours. After Beijing nudged Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s government in Kathmandu to ratchet up India-Nepal dispute over the Lipulekh Pass and the adjoining areas, the PLA’s move to deploy additional troops near the three-nation-boundary point is apparently aimed at sending out a message to New Delhi. It came even as the three-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – has not yet been completely resolved, with the mutually agreed process of withdrawal of troops from the face-off scenes being stalled due to the reluctance of the PLA to vacate the areas its soldiers occupied over the past few weeks on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh. A source in New Delhi told the DH that the Indian Army too had moved troops in “adequate numbers” to reinforce its posts closer to the Lipulekh Pass – in response to the build-up by the Chinese PLA. The source said that the Indian Army had also taken “appropriate measures” in view of the Chinese PLA’s build-up in the middle sector and eastern sector of the disputed boundary between the two nations, adjacent to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh of India. Just days after the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese PLA along the western sector of the disputed boundary between the two nations started in early May, Oli Government in Kathmandu protested against a new 80-kilometre-long road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to the Lipulekh Pass – an India-Nepal-China tri-junction boundary point. Kathmandu alleged that the road passed through Nepal, although the claim was dismissed by India. New Delhi suspects that Beijing had a role in nudging Kathmandu to ratchet up Nepal-India territorial dispute, at a time when the Chinese PLA’s transgression across the LAC in the western sector and the Indian Army’s response to it already drew international attention to the communist country’s expansionist moves. The Oli Government went ahead, published a new map, which showed nearly 400 sq kms of India’s areas in Kalapani, Lipulekh Pass and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. It also got the Nepalese Parliament to amend by the country’s Constitution to endorse the new map. Kathmandu now decided to send its new map to the United Nations, seeking international recognition. The Oli Government is also planning to send it to Google, asking that the Google Map should now depict new inclusions Lipulekh Pass and the adjoining areas as part of Nepal. “We are soon delivering the revised map incorporating Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura to the international community,” Nepal’s Minister for Land Management, Padma Aryal, was quoted by myRepublica, a news portal of the neighbouring country. Nepal also over the past few weeks deployed its armed police personnel in four new border outposts it set up along its boundary with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-deploys-troops-adjacent-to-indian-territory-recently-claimed-by-nepal-868458.html
01-08-2020||National||SC orders status quo on bail to ex-Fortis promoter Shivinder Singh||The Supreme Court has directed for maintaining status quo on a Delhi High Court's order to release former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh on bail in a money laundering case lodged by the Enforcement Directorate. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said that until further orders, status quo with regard to the High Court's judgement of July 23 should be maintained. Acting on an appeal by the ED, the court directed that the High Court's order should not be treated as a precedent in any other case. The court sought a reply from Singh and posted the matter for consideration next week. Singh was arrested in the ED's case on December 12, 2019. It was alleged that he had misappropriated or siphoned off money lent by Religare Finvest Ltd to entities owned and controlled by him. Of which, Rs 2036 Cr went into default. The High Court has granted him bail on a personal bond of Rs one crore and two sureties of Rs 25 lakh each. Among the grounds, it has pointed out that the consequences of pre-trial detention are deleterious and that keeping an undertrial in jail seriously jeopardises the preparation of his legal defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-status-quo-on-bail-to-ex-fortis-promoter-shivinder-singh-868466.html
01-08-2020||National||Bhumi pujan of Ram temple fulcrum of national glory, says VHP||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Saturday said the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is a glorious moment for the country. “With construction of this temple, nationality of Indians cannot be now linked to any foreign invader and it will be defined by the inspiring narratives of the patriarchs and matriarchs of the nation such as Lord Shri Ram," VHP's central joint general secretary Surendra Jain said. Ahead of the August 5 event, Jain at a press conference said "the bhumi pujan for the Ram temple is a glorious moment for the country. No one can tarnish this fulcrum of national glory." "The Hindu society fought continuously for 492 years for the temple of Sri Ram at Ayodhya, and it was the result of this one of its kind cultural freedom struggle that this resolve is going to materialise soon," he said. Jain said, "proponents of divisive, disruptive and discordant politics of pseudo-secularism were trying to frustrate the country's self-esteem, cultural underpinning and bedrock."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhumi-pujan-of-ram-temple-fulcrum-of-national-glory-says-vhp-868492.html
01-08-2020||National||Maintain status quo on employment of accounting assistant: HC to Jamia||The Delhi High Court has directed the Jamia Millia Islamia to maintain status quo regarding the employment of one of its contractual employees whose services were terminated via a WhatsApp message months before her contract was to expire. Justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice to the university and sought its response on the woman employee's petition. The PIL claimed that JMI had terminated the services of all the six employees of the accounting department of the Centre for Distant and Open Learning (CDOL) "without any rhyme or reason". The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 20. "In the meantime, status quo on the services of petitioner, as on July 10, 2020, shall be maintained," it said. According to the WhatsApp message received by the petitioner from the JMI on Monday, she was told that her services had come to an end with effect from July 11. Her lawyer told the court, during the hearing held via video conferencing on Thursday, that the varsity's decision had come as a shock as her contract was valid till November and her termination has resulted in loss of livelihood, especially in the "prevailing adverse circumstances on account of the Covid-19 pandemic". According to her petition, she was selected for appointment as an account assistant against one of the six sanctioned posts created by the JMI executive council after participation in an open selection on November 20, 2017. An offer of appointment issued to her on November 23 and she joined the post the next day, her lawyer told the court. She has contended in her plea that the varsity's decision was "illegal, arbitrary, mala fide and an unjust order/action" and had resulted in virtually closing down of the CDOL's accounting department before even the contractual period of three years had come to an end. The petition has also contended that the decision was taken without any notice to show cause and opportunity of hearing to the petitioner, which it said was a gross violation of the principles of natural justice, equity and good conscience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maintain-status-quo-on-employment-of-accounting-assistant-hc-to-jamia-868495.html
01-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally races past 17 lakh; July alone saw 65% of total cases||While around 7.32 lakh new cases were registered between July 15 and 31, the past month also so 19,111 lives lost due to the disease, which is around 52.34 percent of the total 36,511 deaths recorded so far. According to Union health ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday, the country recorded 57,118 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours taking the tally to 16,95,988, while the death toll increased to 36,511 with 764 people succumbing to the disease during the same period. At the same time, the number of recoveries too surged to 10,94,374. This was the third consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. However, by the evening, a PTI tally of figures showed that India's Covid-19 count has crossed the 17-lakh mark and the number of recoveries has gone past 11 lakh. The tally has been compiled with information provided by respective states and union territories. The health ministry had in the morning reported that there are 5,65,103 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients was recorded at 64.53 percent, while the fatality rate had further dropped to 2.15 percent, the data showed. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), cumulatively 1,93,58,659 samples have been tested up to July 31 with 5,25,689 of them on Friday. Of the new 764 deaths reported on Saturday, 265 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Tamil Nadu, 84 from Karnataka, 68 from Andhra Pradesh, 45 from West Bengal, 43 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Delhi, 23 from Gujarat, 16 from Punjab, 14 each from Bihar and Telangana, 12 from Jammu and Kashmir and 11 from Rajasthan. Ten fatalities have been reported from Madhya Pradesh, eight from Odisha, four each from Assam, Haryana and Uttarakhand, three each from Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, two from Chhattisgarh while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Manipur and Puducherry registered one fatality each. Of the total 36,511 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 14,994, followed by 3,963 in Delhi, 3,935 in Tamil Nadu, 2,441 in Gujarat, 2,314 in Karnataka, 1,630 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,581 in West Bengal, 1,349 in Andhra Pradesh and 867 in Madhya Pradesh, the data showed. So far, 674 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 519 in Telangana, 421 in Haryana, 386 in Punjab, 377 in Jammu and Kashmir, 296 in Bihar, 177 in Odisha, 106 in Jharkhand, 98 in Assam, 80 in Uttarakhand, 73 in Kerala, according to the health ministry data. Chhattisgarh has registered 53 deaths, Puducherry 49, Goa 45, Tripura 21, Chandigarh 15, Himachal Pradesh 14, Ladakh seven, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur and Andaman and Nicobar Islands five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one, the health ministry data showed. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-races-past-17-lakh-july-alone-saw-65-of-total-cases-868496.html
01-08-2020||National||Suspense over invite to LK Advani, Joshi for 'bhoomi pujan' in Ayodhya||Suspense prevailed over whether BJP veterans L K Advani and Murali Manohar Joshi will be physically attending the August 5 groundbreaking ('bhoomi pujan') ceremony for Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5 or whether they will be formally invited. No formal invitation was extended to Advani by Saturday evening, a source close to the party veteran said.  When contacted the national spokesperson of VHP Vinod Bansal said the invitation part for the event is being seen by Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which was set to oversee the Ram Temple construction work after the Supreme Court verdict in favour of the temple in November last year. “We do not have a list of all who are being invited but we know that phone calls are being made by the Trust since Saturday morning to all those who are being invited,” Bansal said. BJP sources in Lucknow said that the message has been conveyed to Advani and Joshi that they are very much welcome if they want to come. They, however, hastened to add that it appears they will be more interested in attending the event through video conferencing owing to factors like their age and security in view of a pandemic situation. Advani, who was the face of the Ram Temple movement in the nineties has turned 92 and appeared along with Joshi and others before a CBI court in Lucknow in Babri mosque demolition case via a video link last week.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will be among those physically attending the event, which will have a limited gathering due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspense-over-invite-to-lk-advani-joshi-for-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya-868509.html
01-08-2020||National||Second sero-survey kick-starts in Delhi; Covid-19 containment zones brought down from 715 to 496||With a steady decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the containment zones have come down to 496 from 715 following a review, providing relief to thousands of people living in these restricted areas, while a second seroprevalence survey kick-started on Saturday in the national capital. The city reported 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 1,36,716. The active cases stand at 10,596. With 26 fresh fatalities, the death toll stands at 3,989. The recovery rate is over 89 per cent. While more restrictions are being eased under Unlock 3, a fresh tussle is on between the AAP government and the lieutenant governor, this time on whether hotels and weekly bazaars should be reopened. A day after LG Anil Baijal rejected the AAP government's decision to allow hotels and weekly bazaars to resume business, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking directions to the LG to reverse his order. In his letter to Shah, Sisodia said the Delhi government will again send its proposal on reopening of hotels and weekly markets to the lieutenant governor on Tuesday. Sisodia accused the Centre of adopting a "dual policy" towards Delhi where Covid-19 situation has been "quite under control" in past one month and "is gradually headed to become normal".  "At such a time when hotels and weekly markets are open in the whole country, even in states like UP, Karnataka etc where the highest number of cases have been reported hotels, it is beyond comprehension as to what the Centre wishes to achieve by keeping hotels and weekly markets shut in Delhi," he wrote. "I request you to ask the LG not to stop the proposal. If traders start their business, jobs will be generated, and that the condition of the economy will improve," Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said. The AAP government has been advocating further easing of restrictions to revive economic activities. After a two-day review, the number of containment zones has been brought down to 496, which affects the movement of 1,06,211 people, according to Delhi Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot. Earlier, there were 715 containment zones affecting 3,48,099 people, he said. In a containment zone, all entry and exit points are completely barricaded to prevent any movement of residents. Police are deployed to keep a watch on it, while necessary supplies are provided to people in such zones at their doorstep. The review to decrease the number of containment zones by Delhi government comes close on the heels of a Health ministry office memorandum earlier this week, allowing all states and Union territories to de-notify a containment zone 14 days after discharge of the last confirmed case which was 28 days earlier, officials said. "As desired by Honble CM @ArvindKejriwal all the containment zones in Delhi were extensively reviewed in the last 2 days with each District DM and surveillance Team," Gahlot said in a tweet. In Delhi, a locality is declared a containment zone by district authorities if three or more persons test positive to Covid-19. In a review of Covid-19 situation in Delhi, on June 29, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed concern over the large size of containment zones in Delhi as it restricted movement of a large population, Gahlot said. "During the last two days, an extensive review of containment zones was carried out with Revenue and Health officials. The result has been quite satisfactory. Against 715 containment zones affecting 3,48,099 people, a number of containment zones are now down to 496 which affect the movement of 1,06,211 people," the minister said in the statement. The Delhi government had been demanding change in containment zone norms as some zones in the city were under complete lockdown for 3-4 months forcing their residents to stay indoors, a senior government official said. There are now 39 zones in the central district, 50 in East, 39 in New Delhi, 59 in North, 24 in North East, 28 in North West, 7 in Shahdara, 50 in South, 30 in South East, 109 in South West, and 61 in West. Meanwhile, a five-day serosurvey, aimed at covering all districts and various demographic segments, began in the national capital on Saturday. An earlier survey from June 27 to July 10 showed 24 per cent of Delhi residents have developed antibodies. “This will aid the govt to tailor its strategy to changing circumstances,” the chief minister's office tweeted. Samples for the serosurvey were collected from four districts, including North Delhi and Northwest Delhi.  A seroprevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection. A senior government official said 15,000 samples would be collected from August 1 to 5 as part of the exercise, spanning different areas and age groups. Representative samples will be taken from all the 11 districts. The last seroprevalence survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The fresh round would follow the same protocol as that was for the last survey, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-sero-survey-kick-starts-in-delhi-covid-19-containment-zones-brought-down-from-715-to-496-868530.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: Sisodia writes to Amit Shah, seeks directions to LG Anil Baijal to allow hotels, weekly markets in Delhi||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking directions to LG Anil Baijal to allow hotels and weekly markets in the city. Sisodia's letter comes a day after Baijal rejected the Arvind Kejriwal government's decision to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in the national capital, saying the Covid-19 situation continues to be "fragile" and the threat is still "far from over". In the letter written in Hindi, the deputy chief minister said that the Delhi government will again send its proposal on reopening of hotels and weekly markets to the lieutenant governor on Tuesday. "I request you to ask LG not to stop the proposal. If traders start their business, jobs will be generated, and that the condition of economy will improve," Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-sisodia-writes-to-amit-shah-seeks-directions-to-lg-anil-baijal-to-allow-hotels-weekly-markets-in-delhi-868415.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Top controversies of late Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh||From facing charges of corruption to allegedly bribing a judge for the desired verdict, the politician had been in the news for varied reasons. Here’s a list of Amar Singh’s controversies: 1. Phone tapping controversy, 2011 Amar Singh was allegedly heard fixing deals with top officials across various professions – politicians, businessmen, bureaucrats and members of the Bollywood industry over phone calls, which was 'exposed' by the media in 2011. Amar Singh had denied these allegations, saying that it was not his voice in the recordings. 2. Deal to fix-a-judge, 2011 A CD claiming to contain the recording of politicians including Amar Singh, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Shanti Bhushan allegedly striking a deal to fix a judge for Rs 4 crore to obtain the desired court verdict was found. 3. Death threats from SP leader Mayawati, 2010 4. Amar Singh and the Big B family, 2009 The Samajwadi Party leader had links with Bollywood, including the Bachchan family. According to Singh, Amitabh Bachchan was like an elder brother and Singh is said to have helped the Bollywood megastar when his career was going through a bad phase. He had taken Jaya Bachchan under his wings during her term as a Samajwadi Party MP. This friendship ended on a harsh note when the SP expelled Singh and wanted Jaya to leave the party, to which she was reluctant. 5. Cash for votes controversy, 2008 Amar Singh was allegedly involved in a cash-for-votes scam when the United Progressive Alliance government was facing a trust vote in Parliament. He was chargesheeted for this alleged act of purchasing votes. 6. Delhi’s Batla House Encounter, 2008 The politician had asked for a judicial enquiry into the Batla House encounter, for he believed that the police shoot-out with the “terrorists” might have been fake or staged. He also gave a cheque of Rs 10 lakh to Mohan Chand Sharma’s family, a police officer who died in the encounter. The cheque bounced. (With inputs from news reports and agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/top-controversies-of-late-rajya-sabha-mp-amar-singh-868431.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Amar Singh was skilful politician, had friends in all parties, say leaders across political spectrum||Leaders across the political spectrum condoled the death of Rajya Sabha MP and former Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Amar Singh on Saturday and said he had friends in all parties. SP president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a photograph of Singh with his father and party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, and paid homage to the departed soul. Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu conveyed his condolences to Singh's family and associates and prayed to god for the peace of the departed soul. Paying homage to Singh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh described him as an energetic leader with a humorous nature and said he had friends in all the political parties. Echoing similar sentiments, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda said Singh was a strategist and a skilled politician with a sociable nature. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said Singh will always be remembered as a valued colleague and a wonderful human being. Patel's party colleague Raj Babbar paid homage to Singh and said may the almighty bless his soul and give strength to his family to bear the irreparable loss. Singh (64) died in Singapore, where he was undergoing treatment, on Saturday. He had undergone a kidney transplant in 2011 and was not keeping well for a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amar-singh-was-skilful-politician-had-friends-in-all-parties-say-leaders-across-political-spectrum-868439.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Tilak's belief in Indian language, culture reflected in new education policy: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak's belief in Indian language and culture is reflected in the New Education Policy recently released by the Narendra Modi government. Inaugurating a two-day international webinar on 'Lokmanya Tilak - Swaraj to Self-reliant India', he also said Tilak's ideas are being promoted through Prime Minister Modi's vision of a 'New India' and 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). The home minister said Tilak's idea of India as a nation, Indian culture and Indian customs are equally relevant today. "Lokmanya Tilak's belief in Indian language and Indian culture is reflected in the New Education Policy of the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Tilak's ideas are being promoted through the prime minister's vision of a New India and Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. New Education Policy, 2020, was approved by the Union Cabinet on July 29 and it proposes sweeping changes in school and higher education. Teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges and common entrance tests for universities are part of the reforms in the NEP. The webinar was organised here by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations on the 100th death anniversary of Lokmanya  Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Referring to Tilak's famous quote that the foundation of true nationhood is laid on the foundations of culture and traditions, Shah said, "Any reform which undermines or disrespects our past cannot help in realising true nationhood." The home minister said Tilak played a key role in the making of the Indian Independence movement complete in letter and spirit and made an unparalleled contribution to the freedom movement. The slogan 'Swaraj is my birthright and I shall have it' given by Tilak, will always be written in golden letters in the history of the independence movement, he said. "This slogan may seem natural to utter in present times, but in the 19th century, very few people could have dared of uttering it and sacrificing their life and working for it to make it turn into reality." The home minister said this slogan of Tilak served to awaken the Indian society and convert the freedom struggle into a mass movement, due to which he came to be known as Lokmanya Tilak. The home minister said despite being an eloquent orator, thinker, philosopher, established writer and social reformer, Tilak was rooted to the ground. If one wants to know the glorious history of India and Indian culture, then Tilak's writings will have to be understood, Shah said, adding reading his literary works will give the youth knowledge about his great personality of Tilak. "By taking inspiration from him, the youth will be able to attain new heights in their lives." Shah emphasised that in the name of social and political reform "we cannot afford to adopt British models for our institutions". Tilak wanted to inculcate the love for the nation amongst the people on the basis of pride for Indian culture. In this context, he set up gymnasiums, arenas, anti-cow slaughter institutions, he said. The home minister said Tilak was a strong opponent of untouchability and he had launched a movement to unite the society divided in caste and sects. Referring to Tilak's significant contribution to connect the working class to the national movement, Shah said Tilak had started celebrating Shivaji Jayanti and Ganesh Utsav to connect the people with the freedom struggle, which changed the direction of the Independence movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tilaks-belief-in-indian-language-culture-reflected-in-new-education-policy-amit-shah-868447.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Amar Singh witnessed some major political developments from close quarters: PM Narendra Modi||Condoling the death of Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described him on Saturday as an energetic public figure, who had witnessed some major political developments from close quarters. Singh (64), a former Samajwadi Party (SP) leader, died in Singapore, where he was undergoing treatment, on Saturday. He had undergone a kidney transplant in 2011 and was not keeping well for a long time. "Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. In the last few decades, he witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise," Modi said in a tweet. Condolences to his friends and family, he added. Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. In the last few decades, he witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his friends & family. Om Shanti. As the general secretary of the SP, Singh was instrumental in saving the Congress-led UPA government from falling after the Left parties withdrew support from it in 2008 over the issue of the nuclear deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amar-singh-witnessed-some-major-political-developments-from-close-quarters-pm-narendra-modi-868448.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Prashant Bhushan moves SC, seeks recall of order issuing contempt notice against him||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan has moved the Supreme Court seeking recall of its July 22 order by which notice was issued against him in a contempt proceeding initiated for his alleged contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. In his plea, Bhushan has sought a direction to declare that the apex court's secretary-general has allegedly "acted unconstitutionally and illegally" in accepting a "defective contempt petition" filed against him, which was initially placed on the administrative side and later on the judicial side. Besides this, Bhushan has sought stay on the July 22 order and also on another order for listing on August 4 the pending separate contempt case filed against him in 2009. He has said in his plea that the top court should "desist" from hearing both these matters by video-conferencing and list them when the physical hearing resumes. On July 22, the apex court had issued notice to Bhushan in the contempt proceeding initiated against him for his alleged tweets, saying his statements prima facie "brought the administration of justice in disrepute". Later, on July 24, the court had said it would hear on August 4 the 2009 contempt case against Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the then editor of the magazine. In his plea, Bhushan has alleged that the contempt petition filed against him by one Mahek Maheshwari regarding a tweet posted by him "was defective" as consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General was not obtained. "It is most respectfully submitted that this court erred in taking suo motu cognizance of a petition that was defective to begin with and therefore, what could not have been done directly was done indirectly," the plea said. It alleged that by taking cognizance on Maheshwari's petition, the court has "dispensed with the requirement of taking consent of the Attorney General or the Solicitor General which is the express and non-derogable mandate of law." While referring to the Supreme Court Rules 2013, the plea said that the "defective contempt petition" ought to have been returned to Maheshwari. "However, it appears from the order dated July 22, 2020 ….. the respondent (secretary-general), in complete disregard for the mandate of law, proceeded to entertain the said petition on the administrative side and thereafter placed the matter on the judicial side before the bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari on July 22," the plea said. Bhushan has claimed in his plea that secretary general's action in "unilaterally" placing the contempt petition before a bench presided over by Justice Mishra was "contrary to the settled law" as laid down by the top court which had categorically held that "Chief Justice of India is the master of the roster and enjoys the exclusive prerogative to constitute benches and assign matters to benches." "It is submitted that the actions of the respondent (secretary-general) amount to a usurpation of the powers of the Chief Justice and are therefore clearly unlawful being contrary to settled law as well as the Supreme Court Rules 2013," the plea claimed. It alleged that actions of secretary-general leading to initiation of contempt proceedings against Bhushan as well as the notice as per which he has been directed to appear in person before the court on August 5 "constitute an infringement of the petitioner's right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-bhushan-moves-sc-seeks-recall-of-order-issuing-contempt-notice-against-him-868454.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||UPA ministers defend Manmohan Singh's legacy; lash out at junior Congress members||Unrest within the Congress over criticism of the UPA government by a Rahul Gandhi confidant spilt out in the open with four former UPA ministers lashing out at attempts by young leaders to divide the party instead of uniting to fight the BJP. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma ticked off the young leaders within the organisation, saying Congressmen should be proud of the legacy of UPA-II and reminded them that “no party disowns or discredits its legacy.” “Nobody expects the BJP to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget,” the former Commerce Minister said after young leader Rajeev Satav claimed at an internal party meeting that the UPA-II led to the downfall of the Congress. Satav’s remarks that Congress should introspect the reasons for electoral defeat should begin from UPA-II when the party’s decline began was seen as an attack on the leadership of Congress President Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Satav made the remarks earlier this week during a meeting convened by Gandhi with Rajya Sabha members where Singh was also present. Besides Sharma, former ministers Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari and Milind Deora strongly defended the legacy of the UPA government contending that it transformed India but fell victim to the “grand political conspiracy and a malicious disinformation campaign of the BJP”. Tewari reminded the young brigade of the Congress that the BJP too was out of power from 2004 to 2014, but “not once did they ever blame Vajpayee or his government for their predicament”. “In Congress, unfortunately, some ill-informed would rather take swipes at Dr Manmohan Singh-led UPA government than fight NDA/BJP. When unity is required, they divide,” Tewari, a former I&B Minister said. Deora, once identified with Team Rahul, recalled the former Prime Minister’s remarks of history being kinder to him than the opposition before demitting office. “Could he have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation & seek to destroy his legacy – that, too, in his presence,” Deora, a former Minister of Communications and Information Technology said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/upa-ministers-defend-manmohan-singhs-legacy-lash-out-at-junior-congress-members-868461.html
01-08-2020||National Politics||Inquiry committee instituted to establish cause behind Visakhapatnam crane mishap: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said a departmental inquiry committee had been instituted to establish the cause behind the collapse of a crane at Hindustan Shipyard in Visakhapatnam that left 11 people dead. "Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to an accident at HSL facility in Vishakhapatnam(AP)," Singh tweeted. "My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly," he said. "Departmental Enquiry Committee has been instituted to establish the causes leading to the accident." Earlier in the day, a massive 70-tonne crane under trial run in the HSL at Vizag in Andhra Pradesh came crashing down, crushing 11 people to death in the first such mishap in the public sector ship-building company's 75-year-old existence. Four of the victims were HSL employees, including a supervisor, while the seven others were workers of three contracting agencies, District Collector V Vinay Chand told reporters after inspecting the accident site. All the deceased who came under the falling iron mass, rail-mounted and known as jetty crane for being on a ramp to handle cargo, were killed on the spot. TV visuals showed the equipment collapsing on the ground with a loud thud after its cabin and base snapped during the trial run. The new crane was erected at the HSL about two years ago but was not yet commissioned for regular operations due to change in contractors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inquiry-committee-instituted-to-establish-cause-behind-visakhapatnam-crane-mishap-rajnath-singh-868518.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||CM Gehlot questions BJP's criticism over defection of 6 BSP MLAs to Congress||Accusing the BJP of adopting double standards over the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress in Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday reminded it about the induction of four TDP Rajya Sabha MPs into the saffron party last year. Six BSP MLAs defected to the Congress in September last year which was initially challenged by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar before the assembly speaker in March this year and now he and the BSP have filed separate writ petitions in the Rajasthan High Court against the merger. "The BJP got four MPs of TDP merged with it overnight in Rajya Sabha. That merger is right and the merger of six MLAs with the Congress in Rajasthan is wrong," Gehlot tweeted in Hindi. He asked what had happened to the BJP's 'Chaal-Charitra-Chehra' (conduct and character) at that time? In Andhra Pradesh, four of the six Telugu Desam Party members of Rajya Sabha had joined the BJP last year. "The merger can take place with 2/3 majority. Here, all the six MLAs had merged so therefore (BSP supremo) Mayawati's complaint is not justified because it was not about two MLAs, it was about all the MLAs," Gehlot had said on Thursday. "This is the game of BJP which the entire country is watching. Some of our colleagues are involved in this," he had said. The high court has issued notices to the speaker, secretary of the assembly and the six MLAs. The merger of six MLAs -- Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha to Congress in September 2019 -- was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of the Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-gehlot-questions-bjps-criticism-over-defection-of-6-bsp-mlas-to-congress-868221.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||DH toon: If united, why Congress MLAs shifted to Jaisalmer, asks BJP Rajasthan chief||BJP Rajasthan president Satish Poonia on Friday questioned why Congress MLAs were camping in Jaisalmer if they were united, hours after the ruling party in the state shifted its legislators to the border district from here fearing "horse-trading".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-if-united-why-congress-mlas-shifted-to-jaisalmer-asks-bjp-rajasthan-chief-868236.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Part of under-construction building collapses in Noida; 2 killed, 3 injured||Two people were killed and three injured after a portion of a multi-storey building collapsed in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Friday, police said. The under-construction building is located in Sector 11 and belongs to a private firm. The incident took place around 7:30 pm, they said. A large number of police personnel along with senior officers and teams of the fire department and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were present on the spot for rescue operations. "Five people have been rescued from the building. Two of them have died while three others have been hospitalised with injuries but they are out of danger," the district police said in a statement. Singh said information was received this evening that a part of the building had collapsed during construction work. "Teams of firefighters, police, district administration and ambulances reached the spot swiftly. The chief minister himself is monitoring the situation and a team of the NDRF has also been deployed for rescue work on his instructions," he told reporters after inspecting the incident site. "Those rescued have been sent to hospital and the NDRF team is continuing the rescue operation. The NDRF has teams of (sniffer) dogs and technical squads on the ground and is highly equipped for the work. They are looking for survivors if any," he added. On the cause of the collapse, Singh said engineers and technical teams from the Noida Authority have reached the spot to ascertain the reason. The front portion of the building collapsed due to the construction work. The office of a solar panel manufacturing firm is located on the floor on which the work was going on, according to senior officials at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/part-of-under-construction-building-collapses-in-noida-2-killed-3-injured-868256.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi extends Bakrid greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended Eid greetings and hoped that the festival inspires us to create a "just, harmonious and an inclusive" society. Eid al-Adha, also called the festival of sacrifice, is being celebrated on Saturday. Eid Mubarak! Greetings on Eid al-Adha. May this day inspire us to create a just, harmonious and inclusive society. May the spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered. "Eid Mubarak. Greetings on Eid al-Adha. May this day inspire us to create a just, harmonious and inclusive society," the prime minister tweeted. May the spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-extends-bakrid-greetings-868262.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Army jawan killed in firing by Pakistan along Line of Control in J&K||An Indian Army jawan was killed when Pakistan opened heavy fire on forward posts along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Saturday, a defence spokesperson said. He said the Pakistan Army violated the ceasefire agreement by opening fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in  Rajouri sector. "Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire," the spokesperson said. In the incident, Sepoy Rohin Kumar was critically injured and he later succumbed to his injuries, he added. Kumar, a resident of Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district, was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier, the spokesperson said. He said that the nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.  Pakistan has been firing and shelling forward areas along the LoC one to two times a day in several sectors for almost the past month. A Hamirpur district official said Kumar, 25, was supposed to get married in November. He was posted in the 14th Punjab regiment in 2016 and his father worked as a halwai in Amritsar. District officials said that he would be cremated with full honours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-killed-in-firing-by-pakistan-along-line-of-control-in-jk-868303.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Muslims in Kashmir Valley offer Eid prayers while maintaining social distancing||Eid al-Adha celebrations in Kashmir on Saturday were a low-key affair as most of the faithful marked the festival of sacrifice by offering prayers in small groups and observing social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. No Eid prayers were offered in major mosques and shrines of Kashmir as police enforced the strict restrictions in most parts of the valley, including Srinagar city, officials said. Concertina wires and barricades were placed at many intersections in the city to prevent free movement of people, they said. People preferred to offer Eid prayers at home -- either individually or in small groups consisting of family members only, the officials said. They said, however, reports of congregation Eid prayers being offered in the mosques located in the interior parts of cities and towns have been received. Police personnel made announcements early in the morning on public address systems, appealing to people not to congregate for Eid prayers as the threat of coronavirus was still prevalent in the valley. Thousands of sheep and goats were sacrificed by the Muslims across the valley to mark the tradition of Prophet Ibrahim, the officials said. They said, however, the number of animals sacrificed this year was much lesser than usual in view of Covid threat. While Eid al-Fitr prayers could not be offered in May this year due to the coronavirus lockdown, Eid al-Azha prayers could not be offered last year in Kashmir as authorities had imposed restrictions in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 and division of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-in-kashmir-valley-offer-eid-prayers-while-maintaining-social-distancing-868306.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Wanted criminal carrying cash reward held in Uttar Pradesh||A notorious criminal, carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, was arrested here, police said on Saturday. Harijeet Singh, who was allegedly involved in cases under the Arms Act and Excise Act, was arrested near Mahrupur Gate here on Friday, a statement issued by the office of Superintendent of Police said. Police seized a country-made pistol and ammunition from his possession, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wanted-criminal-carrying-cash-reward-held-in-uttar-pradesh-868317.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police suspends 36 personnel for reporting late||The Delhi Police on Saturday suspended 36 of its own personnel for failing to join duty on time on the occasion of Eid al-Adha, officials said. The personnel were posted in the northwest district of Delhi Police. "On the occasion of Eid al-Adha, the police officers had to report by 5 am, but they did not report till 6.30 am, following which they have been suspended," Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. The personnel have been suspended till further orders, a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-suspends-36-personnel-for-reporting-late-868330.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Second round of sero survey begins in Delhi||The second round of sero-prevalence survey began in the national capital on Saturday, with the five-day exercise set to cover all districts and various demographic segments. The exercise is being undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. The survey has begun and samples will be collected from four districts, including North Delhi and Northwest Delhi, to start with on Saturday. A senior government official said 15,000 samples would be collected from August 1 to 5 as part of the exercise, spanning different areas and age groups. Representative samples will be taken from all the 11 districts. A sero-prevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on July 22 had announced that after analysing the results of the last survey, it was decided that more such exercises would be undertaken every month to formulate better policies for tackling the Covid-19 situation in the city. The last sero-prevalence survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) from June 27 to July 10. The second round would follow the same protocol as that was for the last survey, officials said. The Delhi health department has prepared a detailed plan under which every district medical officer has been asked to conduct the survey in their respective jurisdictions, they said. All CDMOs have been tasked with carrying out the survey in their districts. Random people will be tested for antibodies. The last sero-prevalance survey had found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had been exposed to the novel coronavirus, the central government had said. The previous study had tested 21,387 samples. The Delhi government had decided to conduct more monthly sero surveys to find a greater percentage of such people who had got infected and recovered so as to formulate better policies for tackling Covid-19, Jain had said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-round-of-sero-survey-begins-in-delhi-868331.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government considering walls, fences to end man-animal conflict||Madhya Pradesh Forest Minister Vijay Shah on Saturday said the state government was considering putting up stone boundary walls and solar power fences to permanently end man-animal conflicts. Speaking to PTI, the minister said the state government was also working to provide land on pattas (lease) to tribals and forest dwellers under the Forest Rights Act. "The biggest problem right now is that (wild) animals enter fields close to jungles for grazing and destroy crops. Animals also attack humans and sometimes lives are lost," he said. The state government is thinking of erecting stone boundary walls and solar power fences, wherever necessary in areas close to forests to protect crops from animals and end man-animal conflicts permanently. Apart from this, the state government was also working to provide land on pattas (lease) to tribals and forest dwellers under the Forest Rights Act, the minister said. Efforts were also underway to generate employment in the tribal-dominated and forested areas to make the state self-reliant, he said. Shah further said he was overwhelmed that Madhya Pradesh had regained its tiger state status and praised forest department officials for the feat. "We have doubled our tiger population to 526 in just eight years instead of the 10-year target that was talked about," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-considering-walls-fences-to-end-man-animal-conflict-868343.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Government focuses on healthcare, employment, ease of governance in Jammu and Kashmir: Officials||A year after the abrogation of special status to the erstwhile state, the focus of Jammu and Kashmir administration has been on ten fields, especially health sector, ease of governance and democratic decentralisation, officials said on Saturday. Listing achievements of the administration, the officials said it adopted the concept of 'Naya Kashmir', ensured social sector development, economic revival, implementation of Swachh Bharat mission and skill development and employment. On August 5 last year, the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state and also announced its bifurcation into two union territories -- Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. The two new UTs came into existence on October 31 last year. The officials said discriminatory and unjust state laws were either repealed or modified, which included the Ranbir Penal Code (substitute of the IPC) and transfer of property act, and more than 170 central laws were made applicable which include progressive laws like the right to protect SC/STs, forest dwellers, juveniles and the aged. The officials claimed that the people of Jammu and Kashmir could now enjoy equal rights like any other Indian citizen who would have the right to fair compensation for the land acquired. The domicile law was implemented to protect people's interest and certificates were issued for eligible people so that the doors to employment in government jobs would be opened to them, including West Pakistan refugees, Gurkhas, sanitation workers and women who had married non-residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The administration, while committed to social equity, removed all undue privileges of ex-ministers besides ceiling pensions for politicians. In the welfare sector, the administration gave utmost priority to social security and in last one year, pension benefits were extended to 7,42,781 beneficiaries besides giving minority pre-matric scholarship to 4,76,670 beneficiaries. Focussing on education, the administration added 50 new degree colleges, the largest in 70 years, besides sanctioning or operationalising of seven medical colleges. During this year, the Centre introduced a unique market intervention scheme under which remunerative prices were paid through DBT, and transportation was by the central procuring agency to help and stabilise the apple market. This move defeated the terrorists who had threatened apple growers against plucking of the fruit from orchid, the officials said. During the year, a global investment summit was organized, seven roadshows held during which 168 MoUs for Rs 13,600 crores were signed. The government has identified 6,000 acres of government land for industry and land has been transferred for setting up 37 industrial estates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-focuses-on-healthcare-employment-ease-of-governance-in-jammu-and-kashmir-officials-868348.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Ram temple is coming up with consent of all: Kamal Nath||A Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya with the consent of every Indian, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said on Saturday, four days ahead of the foundation laying ceremony. Nath's colleague Digvijaya Singh said former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi also wanted the temple to come up. "I welcome the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. People of the country were expecting and wishing for this since long. The construction of the temple is being carried out with the consent of every Indian. It's possible only in India," Nath said in a video message. Singh said Lord Ram is at the centre of everybody's faith. "The centre of our faith is Lord Ram! And today, the country is being run with trust in Lord Ram. That's why we all wish that a grand temple should be built at the birthplace of Ram in Ayodhya. (late PM) Rajiv Gandhiji also wanted the same," he tweeted. Singh, however, questioned "muhurt" (auspicious time) for the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the temple, slated to be held on August, 5 in the likely presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "If we talk about 'muhurt', then more than 90 percent of Hindus in this country will be those who believe in religious science like 'muhurt', 'grihdasha', 'astrology', 'choghadiya' etc. (sic)," he said. "I am neutral to the fact that there is no 'muhurt' for the foundation laying on August 5. This is playing with the religious sentiments and beliefs (sic)," the Congress leader said. When asked about Singh's tweets, MP Home Minister and senior BJP leader Narottam Mishra said, "Some people have a habit of criticising, and whenever they speak, they seek to find evil in the good. (Unknowingly) even in their criticism, they have at least taken the name of Lord Ram". Mishra said it was the Congress that had tried to delay the construction of the temple. "Kapil Sibal and other big leaders of Congress stood against the (construction) of Ram temple in court and kept saying in the supreme court that Lord Ram was an imaginary character. "They said there was no 'Ram Setu'. They should think now. Lord Ram is everywhere in this country," Mishra told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-is-coming-up-with-consent-of-all-kamal-nath-868351.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Three killed, 4 injured in accident in Uttar Pradesh||Three persons of a family were killed and four others injured when a car collided with a truck here on Saturday morning, police said. Superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh said, "Around 10.00 am on the Lucknow-Varanasi road, a car and truck collided head-on. As a result, Radheyshyam Sharma (80) and his son Bharat Bhushan Sharma (55) died on the spot. Radheyshyam's wife Rajpatti (70) succumbed at the district hospital." The injured were brought to the district hospital for treatment. The family, who hails from Pratapgarh, were going to Jaunpur. Police have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination, while the truck driver fled leaving the truck behind. The matter is being investigated, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-killed-4-injured-in-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-868367.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Body of boy recovered from pit in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia||A 15-year-old boy was found dead in a pit at a village here, police said on Saturday. The body of Raghvendra Singh was found on Friday, the police said, adding that they suspect personal enmity behind the killing. On the basis of a complaint filed by the father of the victim, a case of murder has been lodged against Gayaghat village head Vijay Pratap Singh and four others, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. Agitated villagers on Saturday blocked Revti-Sahatvar road for nearly two hours. Later, police sent the body for post-mortem examination. The station house officer of the Revti police station has been suspended for dereliction of duty, the ASP said, without elaborating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-boy-recovered-from-pit-in-uttar-pradeshs-ballia-868370.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab hooch tragedy: Death toll rises to 39, two more arrested||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in Punjab rose to 39 on Saturday, as two more people were arrested in Amritsar for their alleged involvement in selling spurious liquor, a police official said. The deaths took place in Tarn Taran, Batala and Amritsar districts of the state since Wednesday. “Two more people were arrested Saturday morning in connection with the incident,” Inspector General of Police S P S Parmar told PTI over phone. “Raids are still going on,” he said. Five persons have been detained in Tarn Taran for questioning in this connection, the officer said. Meanwhile, officials said 39 people have so far died in the incident. They said one more person died in Amritsar on Friday night. Nineteen people died in Tarn Taran, 11 in Amritsar and nine in Batala after consuming liquor that appeared to have been distilled in Amritsar’s Muchhal village, officials said on Saturday. They, however, feared that the death toll could rise. On Friday, eight bootleggers were arrested in over 40 raids conducted across the three districts. A large amount of spurious liquor, drums and storage cans were recovered from the accused and have been sent for chemical analysis. According to officials, some of the families of the deceased refused to record their statements. Whereas some held protests at Muchhal village, seeking compensation from the government. The family members of deceased Kirpal Singh kept his body at the protest site and demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh while seeking strict action against the liquor mafia. Many also threatened that they would block the Amritsar-Delhi National Highway if their demands were not met. Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny and Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dhaiya reached the spot to pacify the protesters. Dimpa announced Rs 1 lakh compensation to each family of the deceased. The family members, however, demanded higher compensation. The Punjab government has ordered a magisterial inquiry by Divisional Commissioner Jalandhar into the incident. Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner Punjab and SPs (Investigation) of the districts concerned will also be a part of the team. Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal has demanded a judicial probe into the incident, while the Aam Aadmi Party said CM Amarinder Singh should resign, over one of the biggest hooch tragedies in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-rises-to-39-two-more-arrested-868376.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Coronavirus dampens festive mood on Eid al-Adha||The festive spirit of Eid al-Adha was subdued in the national capital on Saturday with the coronavirus pandemic badly hitting livestock sale for the festival of sacrifice and restricting many people to their homes. Despite just around 10,000 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi -- far better than was feared -- and easing of lockdown restrictions, many faithful preferred offering 'namaaz' at their homes than visiting mosques. Those who offered prayers at mosques said a fewer number of people had turned up there, and the mood was not as ebullient as previous years. Outside the Jama Masjid, the Delhi Police put up signboards requesting people to wear masks and ensure physical distancing while offering namaaz.  Imtiaz Ahmad, who offered prayers at the mosque, said the turn out was way less than before when the crowd would spill on the streets too. People wore masks, carried their own mats and avoided hugging each other, he said. Yameen Ansari, a resident of Jamia Nagar who offered prayers at Jamaat e-Islami Hind Markaz in Azu Fazal Enclave, said though some people stepped out of their homes, unlike Eid Ul Fitr in May, the festive spirit was dim. "People could step out as things are under control in Delhi. Still, they were not as cheerful as before," he said, adding friends and family have been avoiding gatherings on the festival. Abdul Noor Shibli, a journalist, who offered prayers at the Jamaat e-Islami Hind markaz, said it was the first time in four months that he went to a mosque. He said the mosque administration had deployed volunteers for thermal screening at the entry gates. "People wore masks and brought their own mats. Stickers were pasted on the floor to help them maintain distance," he said, adding the turnout was half of what it used to be during festivals in normal times. Umar Sheikh Mohammad, the president of the Nizamuddin West Resident Welfare Association, said he offered prayers in a nearby mosque but the crowd was thin. The 51-year-old businessman, however, said offering 'qurbani' was not that easy as business was down. Covid-19 has hit businesses. People who could afford four goats till last year don't have enough money to buy even one this Eid, he said, adding, "It was also not easy to purchase a goat and bring it home, as there are restrictions on the sale of livestock due to the pandemic."  "A large number of people could not buy a sacrificial animal because the pandemic-induced economic crisis has rendered them jobless," Mohammad said. Mohammad Izhaar, a goat seller at the famous sarpine market near Jama Masjid, said Bakr Eid has been insipid. Every year he sold around 15-20 goats on Eid al-Adha. This year, he has sold only four, that too at a loss. "It (the pandemic) has sucked the life out of us," he said woefully. In a world without the coronavirus, sale of goats would have fetched Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000, but this year they were sold at half the price, Izhaar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-dampens-festive-mood-on-eid-al-adha-868380.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Death toll in Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rises to 62||The death toll in the Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rose to 62 on Saturday as 23 more casualties were reported from the state's Tarn Taran district, officials said. Till Friday night, the district had reported 19 deaths. “In Tarn Taran, the death toll has reached 42,” Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh told PTI on Saturday, adding that the maximum deaths took place in the Sadar and city areas of district. Apart from Tarn Taran, the authorities had reported 11 casualties in Amritsar and nine in Gurdaspur's Batala since Wednesday night. A senior police official said families of several victims were not coming forward to record their statements but they persuaded them to do so. “A majority of the families were not coming forward and did not want any action. Some of them are not even getting the post-mortem done,” said a police official. Meanwhile, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said some families have refused to accept that their kin died after consuming spurious liquor. “The wards of some of those who died are not accepting that they died because of spurious liquor. They are saying their family member died of heart attack,” said the DC. Tarn Taran DC Kulwant Singh said some families had even cremated the bodies without informing police. Till now, police have arrested 10 people in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-in-punjab-spurious-liquor-tragedy-rises-to-62-868383.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Will embrace rebels, if party asks, says Rajasthan CM Gehlot||A section of rebel Congress MLAs in Rajasthan have expressed their desire to attend the assembly session from August 14, signalling chances of a truce in the rebellion sparked by Sachin Pilot that pushed Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's government to the brink. Some of Pilot's supporters were expected to attend the assembly session where Gehlot is expected to seek a trust vote, to put an end to the political instability that had set in after Pilot walked out of the government with 18 MLAs. On Saturday, Gehlot said he was ready to embrace the rebel MLAs should the Congress high command forgive their misdemeanours. “Party has given me a lot, entrusted me with several responsibilities. I have been a minister thrice, state unit president thrice, chief minister thrice and AICC General Secretary thrice. What more do I want? I am doing all this as a service,” Gehlot told reporters in Jaisalmer, where MLAs supporting him were ensconced in a fort-turned-resort. Gehlot has a slender majority in the 200-member assembly, which has prompted him to make several overtures to the Pilot camp, asking rebel MLAs to return. Congress has also stepped up the heat on the rebels by issuing them notices for failing to attend the Legislature Party meetings convened from time to time since the instability set in on July 13. The Congress is confident that its government would sail through in the assembly but is unsure of being on a firm footing later. Though Gehlot has been claiming support of 109 MLAs, the actual number of legislators backing him is 102, giving him a wafer-thin majority in the House. Gehlot also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing him of pushing Rajasthan on the brink at a time when the entire world was battling the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Prime Minister should put an end to this political tamasha in Rajasthan,” Gehlot said alleging that the entire Home Ministry and union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal were working overtime to topple his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-embrace-rebels-if-party-asks-says-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-868389.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Heavy rains in Uttar Pradesh affect 331 villages, 1.90 lakh people||A total of 331 villages of Uttar Pradesh's 12 districts have been hit by floods and about 1.90 lakh people affected as water levels of many rivers continue to rise due to heavy rains, a state minister said on Saturday. However, no loss of life was reported due to the floods so far. State's Finance, Parliamentary Affairs and Medical Education Minister Suresh Khanna said 331 villages in 12 districts, including Barabanki, Ayodhya, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Azamgarh, Gonda, Sant Kabirnagar, have been hit by the floods but the situation is under control. Briefing about the flood situation in the state, he said three rivers -- Sharada, Rapti and Saryu-Ghaghra -- were flowing above the red-mark at some places. Sharda at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur, Rapti at Birdghat (Gorakhpur) Rapti barrage (Shravasti), Saryu-Ghaghra at Elgin Bridge (Barabanki), Ayodhya and Turtipar (Ballia) were flowing above the danger mark, Khanna said and assured that all the embankments were safe. But the state has started preparations to deal with any eventuality and ration kits, food packets, tarpaulin are being distributed and boats have been deployed in the affected areas, he said, adding that 647 flood chowkis have been set up and 178 medical teams have already been deployed. The teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have also been deployed, Khanna said. A control room, which would work round-the-clock, has been set up, he said, adding that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked senior officials to tour the affected areas and monitor the situation and has warned against any laxity in the work. Directives have also been issued to use new technology like drones to keep an eye on the flood situation, the minister said. According to a report from Lakhimpur Kheri, the overflowing Sharda river in the upstream has flooded around two dozen villages in Lakhimpur tehsil. These villages of Phoolbehar area are located in low-lying land between Sharda river and the afflux bund. Acres of agricultural lands with standing crops were reported to be submerged in the waters while several villages were reported to have been marooned in the floodwaters. Officials said rescue and relief works had been started and officials were keeping a close vigil on the flood situation. In Gonda, about 250 people of Nakhara village have taken shelter on the embankment after water entered some hamlets. Seventy boats have been deployed for the people in the affected villages in Colonelganj and Tarabganj tehsils and all necessary precautions have been taken to check erosion in the embankments. In Barabanki also several villages have been marooned in three tehsils, following the release of water in Saryu-Ghaghra by Nepal. Light to moderate rains along with thundershowers occurred at many places in western parts of the state and a few places over the eastern parts with heavy rains at isolated places in the past 24 hours. The chief amount of rainfall recorded in cm include Pratapgarh 9; Palliakalan (Kheri), Karhal (Mainpuri) 8 each; Musafirkhana (Amethi) 6 each; Ghazipur, Nagina (Bjinore), Chillaghat(Jhansi) 5 each; Turtipar (Ballia), Elgin bridge and Moradabad 4 each, the Meteorological (MeT) Office here said. The MeT forecast that rains along with thundershowers are very likely at a few places and warned that heavy rains are very likely at isolated places over the state on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-in-uttar-pradesh-affect-331-villages-190-lakh-people-868416.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Home treatment of Covid-19 patients allowed on pilot basis||On a pilot basis, the Chhattisgarh government has allowed asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to undergo treatment in isolation at home, a health official said on Saturday. In a letter to all district collectors on Friday, the state's Health Secretary Niharika Barik Singh said the district administration can allow `C' (asymptomatic) category Covid-19 patients to remain in home isolation, he said. The health department also released a detailed set of conditions and guidelines which will have to be fulfilled before putting any patient in home isolation, he said. Initially, 285 coronavirus positive patients across 28 districts -- 50 of them from Raipur district -- will be allowed to undergo treatment at home. A 24X7 call center and control room will be set up in every district to monitor the treatment of these patients. Before allowing home isolation and treatment, a district administration team will inspect the house. A house where a patient is to be kept should be at least a 3BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) one with sufficient cross-ventilation and separate toilet-bathrooms. But a Covid-19 patient suffering from serious ailments such as heart disease or cancer or those who are living alone shall not be put in home-isolation. A red sticker with required information will be pasted on the front of a house where a Covid-19 patient has been isolated. If the patient develops breathing trouble, constant pain in the chest or head or any other complication, he or she will be immediately shifted to a Covid-19 hospital. A rapid action team will be on stand-by for this purpose. If the patient/family members violate the isolation- protocol they will be shifted to Covid Care Center and will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the official said. As of Friday, Chhattisgarh had reported 9,192 coronavirus cases, including 2,908 active patients and 54 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-home-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-allowed-on-pilot-basis-868434.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Chandigarh: Punjab Police constable shoots self||A Punjab Police constable allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver in his car here in early hours on Saturday, an official said. Simrandeep Singh (23) was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his bullet injuries, said a Chandigarh Police official. Singh, hailing from Jalandhar district, was posted at the Punjab and Haryana High Court and was staying at the barracks of the Punjab MLAs' hostel. No suicide note was found from him, police said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-punjab-police-constable-shoots-self-868437.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Women safety: Noida gets scooter-borne police patrol units||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police on Saturday launched their new all-female scooter-borne patrolling units with an aim to provide safety to women in Noida and Greater Noida, officials said. Police Commissioner Alok Singh flagged off the "SwayamSiddha" patrol units, which would frequent locations like metro stations, shopping malls, schools and colleges, auto stands and other places that witness female footfall in large numbers, the officials said. Fifty such units were flagged off on Saturday and a total of 100 scooters have been made available for the newly-crafted patrol unit. There would be one rider per scooter, which could be a police sub-inspector, a head constable or a constable. The uniformed personnel will be equipped with a body-worn camera, a baton and "hidden arms and ammunition", as they go around crucial spots and road stretches in the district, the officials said. "It's an initiative by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women Safety) Vrinda Shukla. Her department has been coming up with initiatives on women safety in the past also which have shown positive results," Police Commissioner Alok Singh said. "Today, 50 such units have been launched. The initiative has been done after adequate research. About 163 hotspots were identified across the district where women felt need for more police security. Route charts have been prepared accordingly for the patrolling units," he said. Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shriparna Ganguly and DCP Shukla, among other officers, were present during the launch of the all-women patrolling unit. The district police chief said these personnel will carry batons and body-worn cameras along with "hidden" arms and ammunition. Initially, these units will be deployed during daytime but depending on the feedback, changes can be made later both in terms of their duty timings and equipment, he added. He said women safety has been a key focus area for the police commissionerate of Gautam Buddh Nagar ever since its inception in January this year. The police have started initiatives like "mahila chaupal", set up dedicated units for women at each police station in the district and also started a family dispute resolution clinic for providing legal and mental counselling in cases of marital discord, he added. According to the officials, feedback was taken from the public and NGOs working on women's issues over social media and through other medium before rolling the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-safety-noida-gets-scooter-borne-police-patrol-units-868453.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 containment zones down to 496 in Delhi||The number of Covid-19 containment zones has come down to 496 in Delhi after an extensive review by the AAP government, providing relief to thousands of people living in such restricted areas. The number of containment zones was 715 in Delhi by the end of July, affecting nearly 3.5 lakh people. With the number going down to 496, the movement of only about one lakh people will be affected, Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot said in a statement on Saturday. The review of the containment zones by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government comes after a Union health ministry memorandum earlier this week, allowing all states and Union territories to de-notify a containment zone 14 days after the discharge of the last Covid-19 patient, officials said. Earlier such a de-notification could be done 28 days after the discharge of the last patient. "As desired by Honble CM @ArvindKejriwal all the containment zones in Delhi were extensively reviewed in last 2 days with each District DM and surveillance Team," Gahlot said in a tweet.  A locality is declared a containment zone by the district authorities in Delhi if three or more persons there test positive for Covid-19. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the national capital on June 29, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed concern over the large size of the containment zones as it restricted the movement of a huge population, Gahlot said. "During the last two days, an extensive review of containment zones was carried out with Revenue and Health officials. The result has been quite satisfactory. Against 715 containment zones affecting 348099 people, the number of containment zones is now down to 496, which affects the movement of 106211 people," the minister said in the statement. The situation was again re-assessed by the chief minister, who directed such reviews at regular intervals. The Delhi government had been demanding changes in the containment zone norms as some restricted areas in the city were under a complete lockdown for three-four months with a large number of people forced to stay indoors, a senior government officer said. He said the redesigning of the containment zones will affect a lesser number people, while pointing out that the Rajnagar containment zone in southwest Delhi, which affected around 43,000 residents earlier, will affect only about 1,600 people after the exercise. All entry and exit points are barricaded in a containment zone to prevent any movement of the residents. Police personnel are deployed to keep a watch on it, while necessary supplies are provided to the people in such zones at their doorstep.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-containment-zones-down-to-496-in-delhi-868459.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||Indian Army prepares to maintain current strength in eastern Ladakh during winter months||The Indian Army is preparing to maintain its current strength of troops, tanks and other weaponry in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months as a resolution to the border row with China in the mountainous region shows no signs of early resolution, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. They said the Indian Air Force (IAF) will also remain on high alert in the forward air bases along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while the Navy will maintain its aggressive deployment in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep up pressure on China. The Indian Army is making elaborate preparations for the long haul in eastern Ladakh even as it awaits confirmation from the Chinese military for the fifth round of military talks which was earlier expected to take place this week, they said. They said the top military and strategic brass reviewed the overall situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere on Saturday, adding Army chief Gen MM Naravane has been regularly updating Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on matters relating to operational preparedness. Government sources said maintaining the current level of troops and weaponry in the high-altitude region will require extensive preparations as the temperature drops beyond minus 20 degrees Celsius in the region in peak winter months. "We are preparing to maintain the current strength. That is the plan as of now based on the assessment of the current scenario," said a source. Sources said the government has set the ball rolling in procurement of high-altitude clothing and other required equipment for its soldiers posted in the region. They said the armies of the two countries are now expected to hold the next round of Corps commander-level talks next week to thrash out modalities to take forward the disengagement process from the Finger points at Pangong Tso. India despatched thousands of additional troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns to their rear bases in eastern Ladakh following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Subsequently, China has also strengthened its military deployment. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The Chinese military has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso as demanded by India, sources said. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On July 24, the two sides held another round of diplomatic talks on the border issue. After the talks, the Ministry of External Affairs said both sides agreed that an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols was essential for overall development of bilateral relations. The sources said India conveyed a firm message to the Chinese side that it has to implement the disengagement process as agreed to during the four rounds of Corps commander-level talks between the two armies. Three weeks after the Galwan Valley clashes, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a nearly two-hour-long telephonic conversation on July 5 to bring down tension in the region. Both sides commenced the disengagement process from July 6 following the Doval-Wang talks who are Special Representatives for the boundary question. After the fourth round of Corps commander-level talks, the Army said both sides are committed to "complete disengagement" of troops, adding the process is "intricate" and that it requires "constant verification".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-prepares-to-maintain-current-strength-in-eastern-ladakh-during-winter-months-868491.html
01-08-2020||North and Central||CM Ashok Gehlot lacks numbers, does not trust his MLAs: Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday attacked Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, saying he does not trust his MLAs and lacked the numbers to prove majority in the assembly. “The government is in a five star hotel in Jaisalmer. He has no trust in his ministers and MLAs. Therefore, they are holed up in the hotel amid tight security,” Poonia said. This situation would not have arisen if Gehlot had the numbers, Poonia told reporters at the party office here. The BJP chief said it was the infighting within the Congress which was to blame for the situation, rather than his party. Taking a dig at the state government, Poonia said though the law and order situation is deteriorating, its legislators were enjoying the stay at a five star hotel. The MLAs loyal to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had remained confined to Fairmont hotel in Jaipur since July 13 before being flown to Jaisalmer amid a power tussle between the CM and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. They are expected to stay in Jaisalmer till the beginning of the assembly session from August 14. The Congress has accused the BJP of playing a major role in the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and 18 other party MLAs. It has accused the saffron party of indulging in horse-trading to topple the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-ashok-gehlot-lacks-numbers-does-not-trust-his-mlas-satish-poonia-868520.html
01-08-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus lockdowns leading to fewer premature births?||By Andreas Kluth  The trend doesn’t appear to be universal, but where it applies, the data are staggering. In Denmark, the number of babies born after less than 28 weeks of gestation — 40 weeks is the norm — dropped by 90% during the country’s month-long lockdown this spring. In one region of Ireland, the rate of preemies with very low birth weight was down by 73% between January and April compared with averages over the preceding two decades. Somewhat smaller decreases have been observed in parts of Canada, Australia and the Netherlands. Elsewhere, clinics and doctors are now scurrying to examine their own data. One reason to rejoice is, of course, that this means many parents had healthier, happier babies this spring. Premature birth and low gestational weight are associated with various medical complications, ranging from cerebral palsy or death in the worst cases to learning disabilities or visual problems in later life. For example, it’s why Stevie Wonder, an American singer who was born six weeks early, is blind. But the bigger reason to cheer is that this phenomenon could eventually help us understand what causes premature birth in the first place, and thus how to prevent it. For now, we can only speculate, as the researchers behind the Danish and Irish work freely admit — their papers haven’t yet been peer-reviewed. One explanation for fewer premature births may be the decreases in air pollution during the lockdowns, as fewer people drove or flew and factories belched less. Another factor could be that the moms-to-be had fewer infections generally — and thus less inflammation in their bodies — as we reduced contact with people and germs and obsessively washed hands. But the most obvious and plausible reason appears to be that for many expecting moms, though decidedly not all, the lockdowns reduced stress. This may seem counterintuitive because a pandemic is itself a big a stressor. Moreover, the lockdowns deprived many people of their livelihood and thus caused additional financial and even existential anxiety. However, the pandemic and the shutdowns were not stressful for everybody. For the lucky ones, it was instead a time to slow down. People stayed at home, either working remotely or just resting, which is what pregnant women are advised to do anyway. The quotidian stressors of commuting and office life were gone. We had more opportunities to nap. An additional factor lowering stress during pregnancy is feeling supported by partners and families. Studies have shown that the more fathers stay engaged, the better the mothers feel. And during the lockdown, the dads in their home offices had more opportunities to do just that. Again, for some women, this same situation increased stress and anguish, because the lockdowns also led to tragic epidemics of domestic violence. As I’ve said in different contexts, in April and again last month, SARS-CoV-2 isn’t just nasty, it’s also hugely unfair because it treats us all differently. But is stress even a plausible factor with pre-term births? Maternal anxiety and depression certainly appear to hurt fetuses. Some studies suggest that “stress seems to increase the risk of pre-term birth,” while others hypothesize that early labour may even be an evolutionary adaptation in scary situations. That said, the mechanisms and details remain a mystery. Anecdotally, however, there’s always been a link. Just think of Thomas Hobbes, the English philosopher famous for his dark view of life being “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short.” Hobbes was born on a Friday in 1588, when his mother, only seven months pregnant, heard of the Spanish Armada, the fiercest naval war machine ever assembled, appearing off the coast of England. She was so frightened, she fell into labour immediately and, in Hobbes’s words, “fear and I were born twins together.” We have to keep investigating the precise aetiology of pre-term births, of course. But certain insights seem to be no-brainers. Pregnant women should get as much rest, and as much support from their partners, as possible. Because this is a matter of public health, employers and governments should help with generous rules about maternity and paternity leave that starts before birth. And individually, we should apply the lessons we learned during the lockdowns: to simplify our lives, and to decelerate. Because sometimes less really is more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdowns-leading-to-fewer-premature-births-868305.html
01-08-2020||South||From 'Thirukkural' to Jean Plaidy novels: A peak inside J Jayalalithaa's library||Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's library is a testimony to the leader's vast knowledge, command over multiple languages and her lifelong dedication to learn. Jayalalithaa used to talk a lot about books with journalists during her interaction with them before she became Chief Minister in 1991. And she was interested in reading legal books that she even began correcting notes of her lawyers in petitions to be filed before the court. The report also mentioned that there English titles also, including Nehru’s Discovery of India, biographies of Ronald Reagan and Abraham Lincoln, books on law, doctoral papers on Annadurai’s political life, M G Ramachandran and herself. Novels by Agatha Christie and Khushwant Singh were also spotted by the officials, the article said. Her well-wishers say Kahlil Gibran and works of philosopher Hegel were part of her library. The former AIADMK General Secretary, who died on December 5, 2016, following 75 days of hospitalisation, had been vocal about her love for books during interviews with various publications and television media outlets, first as an actor and later as a successful politician. "Right now I have got a whole lot of books, which I haven't had the time to even open... The latest one I read was Malice by Danielle Steel. And before that, Wild Swans... That was a book I was really impressed by," she said to a question on what she was then reading. "I also read books on history, I have read the entire series on the Tudor dynasty written by Jean Plaidy, that was a wonderful series, I like her books very much. I read books on history, geography, science, philosophy, religion, fiction, everything. Practically no subject in which I am not interested. I read books on medicine, books on law, whenever I find time. Even when I was acting in films, there used to be some time in between shots, I always used to carry books with me to the studios, and when I wasn't required, when the lighting was being done for the next shot, I would sit quietly by myself in a corner. Probably all that reading is coming in useful today," she said. Insiders who had direct access to her told IE that she meticulously maintained her books with title stickers and serial numbers. “All these books had markings she made, or bookmarks to chapters she had read or marked for references,” an official said. Describing the library, the officials said that it had two portions—one for bookshelves and another for her collection of journals and a reading corner. They mentioned that apart from the vast library, the house itself wasn’t very extraordinary. There was a lift to the first floor as she had knee troubles. There was also an intercom system to communicate with those on the ground floor. Jayalalithaa’s close aide’s niece, J Krishnapriya, told IE the last book she gave her was Wishes Fulfilled by Wayne Dyer while the late leader was in hospital. Even though Jayalalithaa’s reading became restricted to news after 2000, her love for reading never faded, she added. Apart from the books, 4.37 kg of gold, 601.42 grams of silver, 11 television sets, 38 air conditioners, 10 refrigerators, 653 documents, and 253 stationery items are among the 32,721 items that are part of ‘Veda Nilayam’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-thirukkural-to-jean-plaidy-novels-a-peak-inside-j-jayalalithaas-library-868203.html
01-08-2020||South||51-year-old Hyderabad man passes class 10 after 33 years||In what is a rare story about the positive impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, 51-year-old Mohammad Nooruddin, who had been trying to pass the 10th grade Telangana board examinations for the last 33 years, finally passed.  His success can be partially attributed to the Telangana government’s decision to cancel the board exams and promote all students instead.  It was in 1987, when Nooruddin, then a student of the Anjuman Boys High School,  first gave his class 10 board exams. He managed to pass all subjects except English.  Nooruddin’s daughter, a B.Com graduate, also helped him with English.  Nooruddin runs two Madrassas in the areas with the hope that his efforts prevent others from facing the challenges he faced.  Nooruddin wanted to be a part of the police or army, but could not join either, since he had not cleared his class 10 examination. He currently works at the Anjuman Boys High School, the institution where he himself was once a student. However, he will continue to look for government jobs in the group-D category where age is not a limiting factor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/51-year-old-hyderabad-man-passes-class-10-after-33-years-868223.html
01-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt to liberalise inter-state movement of people||It has not opened its borders fully yet but the Andhra Pradesh government is now liberalising inter-state movement of people in tune with the Unlock 3.0 guidelines issued by the Centre. People coming into AP will now only need to register their details on the government's Spandana portal to obtain an entry pass, according to Principal Secretary (Transport) M T Krishna Babu. The system would be operational from August 2 on spandana.ap.gov.in portal. "An auto-generated e-pass will be sent to the persons mobile as well as email. They can carry the auto-generated e- pass along with valid identity proof to get entry at the border check post," Krishna Babu, who is also the state nodal officer, said in a release. Since it's auto-generated, there would not be any delay in securing the e-pass, he said. "This system is to ensure recording of the people coming to AP so that the local health staff can keep a watch on the health of the concerned," Krishna Babu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-to-liberalise-inter-state-movement-of-people-868308.html
01-08-2020||South||Telangana sees record daily spike of 2,083 Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 64,786||Telangana reported 2,083 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, breaching the two thousand mark for the first time, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 64,786. With 11 more deaths, the Covid-19 toll in the state rose to 530, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 pm on July 31. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the epicentre of the virus spread in the state, continues to report a high number of cases, there has been a sharp rise in the infections being reported from different districts, including Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Warangal Urban and Karimnagar. Out of the 2,083 fresh cases, 578 were from the GHMC, followed by Ranga Reddy (228) and Medchal-Malkajgiri (197) districts, the bulletin said. The other districts which reported a substantial number of cases include Warangal Urban (134), Karimnagar (108) and Sangareddy (101). The case fatality rate in the state was 0.81 percent, while it was 2.18 percent at the national level, it said. As many as 46,502 people recovered from the infectious disease so far, while 17,754 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 71.7 percent in the state, while it was 64.54 percent in the country. The number of individuals in-home/institutional isolation was 11,359. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 21,011 samples were tested on July 31. Cumulatively, 4,58,593 samples have been tested. Talking about age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34.4 percent were female. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant isolation, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,138 and 3,371 and 1,344 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 320 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The government provided a list of laboratories, list of rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, the list of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sees-record-daily-spike-of-2083-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-64786-868323.html
01-08-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: BJP launches protests to seek resignation of Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The lone BJP legislator in Kerala, O Rajagopal on Saturday began a one-day fast at the party's state committee office demanding the chief minister's resignation over the recent gold smuggling case. The fast is part of the protests by the BJP seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as he was "morally responsible" for the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav inaugurated the fast through video conference and state party chief K Surendran presided over the meeting. The saffron party has also decided to organise a virtual rally in the capital city and it will be inaugurated by former state president Kummanam Rajashekharan. Union Minister V Muraleedharan has also decided to observe a fast at his residence in New Delhi on August 2 seeking the resignation of the chief minister. The state government has been under heavy criticism on the gold smuggling issue after two former employees of the UAE Consulate here were arrested along with a few others. The opposition parties have been alleging that the chief minister's office was involved in the matter, a claim which has been dismissed by the state government. The NIA and the Customs have questioned senior IAS officer M Sivashankar, who was also the former principal secretary and the IT secretary in the state in connection with the case. He was suspended after reports about his alleged close contacts with a few of the accused. However, even after being questioned multiple times, Sivasankar is yet to be arraigned as an accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-bjp-launches-protests-to-seek-resignation-of-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-868325.html
01-08-2020||South||Two elderly persons succumb to Covid-19 in Puducherry||Two elderly persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Puducherry while 139 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, a top Health department official said. The 139 new cases took the overall tally in the union territory to3,593, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a press release. The two deaths reported during the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Saturday pushed the coronavirus toll to 51. Both the patients were 75 years old and hailed from the Puducherry region. While one of the patients died at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) hospital of the State government the other succumbed to the infection at the centrally-administered JIPMER. He said while there were 1,357 active cases in the union territory, 2,185 patients had recovered and had been discharged so far. The 139 fresh cases were identified at the end of testing of 945 samples during the last 24 hours, projecting a positivity rate of 14.7 per cent and the fatality rate at 1.4 per cent. Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh accounted for 42 of the 139 fresh cases while Puducherry reported 94 and Karaikal (3) while none was reported from Mahe. There were 223 patients in-home quarantine- 212 in Puducherry and 11 in Yanam. The Health Department Director said 85 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. Of the 39,707 samples tested so far 35,345 samples were found to be negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-elderly-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-868336.html
01-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM announces Rs 3 lakh solatium to 11 families||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday announced a solatium of Rs three lakh to each of the families of 10 people who died of electrocution in separate incidents across the state. Also, the Chief Minister granted the relief of the same sum to the family of a girl in Thanjavur district, who died of snakebite. In a statement here, he expressed grief over the deaths and announced the solatium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-rs-3-lakh-solatium-to-11-families-868358.html
01-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: 11 killed in Visakhapatnam after crane collapses||Yet another industrial mishap took place in Visakhapatnam, taking the death toll in the four incidents in less than three months to 29. In the latest occurrence, on Saturday, 11 workers were killed as a massive rail mounted crane collapsed at the Hindustan Shipyard Limited located in the port city. The accident occurred at about 12 noon when the workers were performing the load test on the newly installed crane of 70 tonne capacity at the ship building PSU, under the ministry of defence. While the operation was on with men in the cabin, the crane suddenly tilted and collapsed on the north side of the Slipway-4 on the crane track. Four of the deceased are permanent employees of HSL and rest are employees engaged with private firms – three from Ms Green Field, two from Ms Lead Engineers and one from Ms Squad-7. “The identity of one more is yet to be known as his body is trapped under the debris. Efforts are on to retrieve his body,” HSL officials said. HSL has initiated a departmental enquiry headed by a director level official to establish the cause of the accident. A case has been registered at Malkapuram Police station. Visakhapatnam district collector Vinay Chand inspected the mishap site, while CM Reddy reviewed the situation from Amaravati. According to the Visakhapatnam collector, the crane was erected two years back but was not commissioned. “HSL has tied up with Green Field to operationalise it under a fresh contract. Two other private agencies were also engaged - Lead Engineers for maintenance and Squad-7 for regular operations.”        Chand also announced that from the government side, a five-member committee of experts is being constituted to bring out the facts in the incident in 3-4 days. "All eleven dead are believed to be from Vizag. We are working out the ex-gratia etc., aspects," the official said. HSL employees stated the Saturday mishap as the gravest incident in the yard that mainly builds and refurbishes the Navy vessels.   Series of mishaps in scenic city     Visakhapatnam, known popularly as Vizag, on the East Coast is heavily industrialised with steel plant, shipyard, refineries, several pharma, and other manufacturing units. The headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command, Visakhapatnam, is also famous for several picturesque locations. The Saturday incident is the fourth industrial mishap in and near Vizag, beginning with the gas leak from the LG Polymers unit at Gopalapatnam on May 7 that killed 12 locals. Three people succumbed later, according to the police. On June 30, Benzimidazole leak in Sainor Life Sciences pharma unit in Parawada caused the death of two employees. A huge blast and fire on July 13 night in Visakha Solvents Limited, Jawaharlal Nehru pharma city at Parawada near Vizag killed one operator and severely injured a chemist. Apart from the above incidents with life loss, on July 27, two containers loaded with chemicals were gutted in a fire that caused property damage at a container yard near the Visakhapatnam airport. At a time when their city is becoming the seat of the government, the series of appalling mishaps has the locals, especially those in the industrial belt, rattled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-11-killed-in-visakhapatnam-after-crane-collapses-868363.html
01-08-2020||South||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil, wife and son-in-law test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Saturday said he and his wife have been under home quarantine after they were tested positive for coronavirus. In a video message posted on Twitter, the Minister said he and his wife Vanaja were asymptomatic and there was no need for anyone to panic. He was confident that both of them would recover and would be back to work soon. Patil had tweeted on Friday night that his son-in-law too has been found infected by the virus. Prior to Patil, Forest Minister Anand Singh and Tourism Minister C T Ravi had tested positive for Covid-19. The independent MP from Mandya Sumalatha Ambareesh recovered from coronavirus recently. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa too was under self- isolation for some time a couple of weeks ago after a few staff at his office-cum-residence-'Krishna' were found infected by the virus. As on Friday, 1.24 lakh people were found Covid-19 positive of which 2,314 people lost their lives and 72,005 are recovering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-agriculture-minister-b-c-patil-wife-and-son-in-law-test-positive-for-covid-19-868369.html
01-08-2020||South||Petition filed against Virat Kohli and Tamannaah for endorsing online gambling sites||An advocate has filed a petition before the Madras High Court seeking the arrest of Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli and actress Tamannaah Bhatia for endorsing online gambling sites, which is “taking the lives” of “innocent” youngsters.  A P Suryaprakasam, who is a practising advocate, filed the petition before the Madras High Court on Friday seeking to arrest Kohli and Tamannaah on charges of abatement to suicide for misguiding youngsters on the issue of online gambling and endorsing such sites. The Petition is likely to be heard on Tuesday. The filing of the Petition comes close on the heels of a 19-year-old youth taking his own life, blaming his addiction for online gambling for his suicide. The PIL is being filed, according to the petitioner, seeking closure of all online gambling sites and prosecution of film and other personalities who have been appearing on the advertisements of such sites. “…It is just and necessary that authorities have to be immediately directed to close all online gambling sites forthwith and arrest and prosecute Virat Kohli and Tamannaah for their role in abetting the youngsters to gamble online as playing and abatement to play gambling is a criminal offence,” Suryaprakasam said in his petition. In his petition, Suryaprakasam submitted that online gambling was “unethical and immoral” and said prominently personalities are being used by such sites to constantly pressurise and brainwash the youngsters to “fall in the trap of this evil gambling.” “After losing heavily and unable to raise any further resources within their house these youngsters are forced to borrow at an exorbitant rate of interest and in some cases, they go to the extent of committing a crime to raise money to gamble. Subsequently, when they are not able to return or repay the debt, they commit suicide,” he said. The advocate said online gambling sites are more dangerous than the blue whale game as by getting addicted to this gambling, the victim not only spends his money but also spends their family members’ money and puts them in financial burden.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petition-filed-against-virat-kohli-and-tamannaah-for-endorsing-online-gambling-sites-868378.html
01-08-2020||South||Former AP Minister P Manikyala Rao dies of coronavirus||Senior BJP leader and former minister P Manikyala Rao died of coronavirus in a private hospital in Vijayawada on Saturday, party sources said. He was 59 and is survived by his wife and a daughter. Rao, who was elected to Andhra Pradesh Assembly from Tadepalligudem in 2014, served as Endowments Minister in Chandrababu Naidu Cabinet till 2018 and resigned when the two allies snapped ties. He contested the 2019 election from Narsapuram Lok Sabha constituency but lost. Rao recently posted a video byte on social media saying he contracted Covid-19, but there was nothing to worry as he was taking good care. He was on ventilator support as he suffered a lung infection, BJP sources said. On July 25, the former minister posted a tweet scoffing at rumours about his health. "There is nothing to worry about. Nobody needs to be disheartened and I am healthy. With Gods blessings and your affection, I will come out hale and hearty," he wrote. However, he lost the nearly three-week battle with coronavirus on Saturday. Rao started off as an RSS karyakarta and later became a member of the BJP. He served the party in various capacities like president of West Godavari district unit and as state general secretary. He earned a livelihood as a photographer in Tadepalligudem town. "In the 20 years I worked with him in the party, Manikyala Rao was a disciplined and committed worker. His sudden death came as a shock. His death is a loss to the party in the state," BJP state vice-president Vishnuvardhan Reddy said in a statement. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over Manikyala Rao's demise and extended sympathies to the bereaved family. He directed that the last rites of the departed leader be conducted with full state honours and asked the West Godavari District Collector Revu Mutyala Raju to make the necessary arrangements. Telugu Desam president N Chandrababu Naidu also condoled the death of his former Cabinet colleague. "As minister for Endowments, Manikyala Rao worked for the development of temples and welfare of the archakas," Chandrababu recalled in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-ap-minister-p-manikyala-rao-dies-of-coronavirus-868404.html
01-08-2020||South||2 key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair sent to judicial remand||Two key accused in the sensational Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, were sent to judicial remand by a court here on Saturday. The accused were produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (Economic Offences) as their five-day custody period granted to the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate probing the case ended on Saturday. In a remand report submitted in the Court, the Customs said that their interrogation was done in accordance with the well-settled principles of law having regard to the human rights of the accused. Swapna Suresh was allowed to meet her children on July 29 and 31 while in custody. Both the accused will be subjected to Covid-19 tests before they are shifted to jails. The duo was formally arrested by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on July 24 when they were produced before the Special NIA Court here as their custody period ended. Suresh and Nair, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Bengaluru on July 11, were subjected to custodial interrogation by the agency earlier. Meanwhile, NIA probing the terror funding angle in the gold smuggling case has extended its investigation to Tamil Nadu. Police sources in Tamil Nadu have confirmed that an NIA team led by a DIG level official was holding enquiries in Chennai in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case. The sources, however, did not elaborate. NIA had earlier said that the accused, arrested in connection with the case, had sourced gold in large quantities from abroad multiple times earlier through various airports and seaports in the country, especially in Kerala. In a report submitted before the NIA special court here last week, the agency had said its initial investigation pointed out the larger conspiracy consisting of highly influential people both in India and abroad behind this case and the racket had already transported bulk quantities of gold from the Middle East and sold it clandestinely to various people. Investigation also disclosed that the accused had earned lucrative profit from the illegal business and proceeds of smuggling could be used for terror funding, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-and-sandeep-nair-sent-to-judicial-remand-868411.html
01-08-2020||South||Rs 5,000 incentive for plasma donors in Andhra Pradesh; Former minster succumbs to Covid-19||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has announced a cash incentive of Rs 5,000 for the recovered individuals donating their plasma for Covid-19 treatment. The state government has also launched a portal where a real-time dashboard displays the availability of ventilators, oxygen beds, general beds, and ICU beds across 13 districts in the state. AP has been recording new cases and deaths in alarming numbers for the past several days. As of Saturday, the state has registered a total of over 1.5 lakh cases out of which 72,188 are active. Total deceased is 1407. In a review meeting on Covid-19 remedial steps on Friday, Reddy directed officials to constantly monitor four aspects in Covid-19 care – medicine availability, good treatment, quality food and hygiene in all the Covid-19 hospitals. Health officials stated that the patients suffering from fever for two or three days and having respiratory difficulties would be admitted in hospitals regardless of a Covid-19 test. The decision is taken considering the few recent incidents in the state where people died suddenly even as they waited for their test report or their report coming negative. The CM reiterated that awareness should be created through hoardings, pamphlets, media campaigns to the extent that no one would be unnecessarily afraid of the virus or stigmatize the patients. Following the CM’s instructions, the health department has initiated a special portal where people can view the live status of beds available in the Covid-19 hospitals. Officials stated that, as of Friday, 36,778 beds were available in the 138 Covid-19 hospitals in the state. A former minister dies of Covid-19 Pydikondala Manikayala Rao, a BJP leader, and former endowments minister in the previous Chandrababu Naidu government succumbed to Covid-19. Rao (59) was taking treatment in a Vijayawada hospital where he breathed last on Saturday. In a tweet on 4 July, Rao revealed that he had tested positive and in a short video, appealed to the public to take precautions like a mask, hand-wash while not hesitating to get tested if they have any symptoms.   Rao hailing from Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district is survived by his wife and daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-5000-incentive-for-plasma-donors-in-andhra-pradesh-former-minster-succumbs-to-covid-19-868463.html
01-08-2020||South||Telangana cabinet meet on August 5 to discuss several key issues||The Telangana Cabinet will meet here on August 5 to discuss several crucial issues, including the proposed construction of the new Secretariat complex, the Covid-19 situation and steps to be implemented in the education sector against the backdrop of the pandemic. The meeting, to be presided by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, is also expected to deliberate on regulated farming suggested by the government and other issues and take decisions accordingly, an official release said on Saturday. TheTelanganaHigh Court had recently dismissed a petition challenging the demolition of the old state secretariat buildings here. Work on bringing down these buildings is underway to pave the way for construction of a new secretariat complex. Rao had recently examined the designs for the proposed new complex and suggested several changes. The state government had earlier indicated that the new secretariat, to come up in about seven lakh sq ft, would cost around Rs 400 crore and had decided to equip it with state-of-the-art connectivity and other features. The cabinet meeting will deliberate on the Covid-19 situation against the backdrop of a surge in cases. As on Friday, the tally stood at 64,786. The government had recently suggested that farmers take up regulated farming, whereby they cultivate crops with high market demand rather than producing the same crop in excess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cabinet-meet-on-august-5-to-discuss-several-key-issues-868464.html
01-08-2020||South||Jayalalithaa’s niece moves Madras High Court against acquiring Poes Garden residence||The battle for the palatial residence owned by former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa seems far from over. A week after the state government acquired the bungalow to convert it into a memorial for the late leader, Jayalalithaa’s niece has now knocked at the doors of the judiciary seeing a stay on the proceedings.  Deepa Jayakumar, the daughter of Jayalalithaa’s only brother Jayakumar, who along with her brother Deepak has been declared as legal heirs of the late AIADMK leader has filed a petition before the Madras High Court against Tamil Nadu government’s decision to acquire the palatial bungalow. Her move comes a week after the Tamil Nadu government deposited Rs 67.9 crore as compensation for acquiring the Poes Garden residence of Jayalalithaa before a civil court. The government is now in possession of the sprawling bungalow spread across an area of 24,322 square feet and plans to convert the residence into a memorial for Jayalalithaa. However, Deepa took objection to the move maintaining that the Poes Garden residence was where her ancestors lived, and she would never allow the property to be acquired. “I am not fighting because it is a high-value bungalow. I would have fought even if it were a hut because that is where our roots are,” Deepa had told DH last week. In the petition, Deepa argued that the Poes Garden property was brought by her grandmother N R Sandhya, also an actress, and was named “Veda Nilayam” by her. “The house warming ceremony was held on May 15, 1972, with the entire family participation. My aunt Selvi J Jayalalithaa has in several interviews expressed her emotional attachment with Veda Nilayam. Selvi J Jayalalithaa spent her entire life in Veda Nilayam that has now turned into a controversial political entity,” she said in the petition. Deepa said her father and mother moved out of the house due to privacy reasons and claimed that Jayalalithaa invited their family almost three times a week, for spending time together at the Poes Garden residence. She also said acquiring the bungalow at this stage would also hamper the inquiry into Jayalalithaa’s death by Justice A Arumughaswamy Commission.  “On one side a Commission was appointed and on the other side, acquisition proceedings are taking place. If the latter persists, the former will fail. The attitude of the State government will definitely affect the course of such inquiry,” she said in the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaa-s-niece-moves-madras-high-court-against-acquiring-poes-garden-residence-868465.html
01-08-2020||South||Shipyard tragedy: Vizag witnesses second major industrial mishap||The accident at Hindustan Shipyard Limited here on Saturday in which 11 people were killed after a crane collapsed is the second major industrial mishap here after the gas leak at LG Polymers that witnessed two dozen deaths in May. In a grave mishap, 11 people were killed when a massive 70-tonne jetty crane collapsed during a load test in the Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) here. The victims were crushed to death on the spot when they came under the massive iron structure that crashed on the ground with a loud thud after its cabin and base snapped during a trial run. The port city hub for many large scale industries in Andhra Pradesh witnessed industrial mishaps earlier also. About 12 people succumbed and hundreds fell ill when styrene monomer stored in a tank in a plant belonging to LP Polymers plant here leaked on May 7. After a committee submitted its report the city police arrested some officials of the company. A fire accident at Hindustan Petroleum Corporations complex here claimed 28 lives including a senior official of the PSU in 2013. As many as 19 people were burnt alive and scores injured in an explosion in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in 2012. The casualties include senior officials of the RINL, the corporate identity of Vizag Steel. "There was an inquiry into that. It found no human error in the incident," a senior official of the RINL told PTI. Last month one employee was killed and another seriously injured in a major fire accident in a pharmaceutical company in the Pharma City at Parawada near here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shipyard-tragedy-vizag-witnesses-second-major-industrial-mishap-868468.html
01-08-2020||South||Cops aged above 50 to be kept off from Covid-19 duties in Kerala||As Covid-19 is spreading rampantly in Kerala, the state police has decided to exempt police personnel about the age of 50 from Covid-19 related field duties. State Police Chief Loknath Behera issued a directive in this regard in the wake of the several police personnel getting Covid-19 infection and one sub-inspector succumbing to the infection. Till Friday 93 police personnel in the state got Covid-19 infection, of which 64 already recovered. Behera directed that those aged above 50 and those who are comorbid would be kept off from Covid-19 related field duties.  The Police Headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram had to be shut for two days on Saturday and Sunday for fumigation as cop was infected, said a police spokesperson. Meanwhile, eight more Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday, while 1,129 more got infected and 752 recovered. The total Covid-19 deaths reached 81 and the number of active patients reached 10,862. Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran's son was also tested Covid-19 positive, while the minister and other family members were tested negative. They were tested after a staff of the minister got infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cops-aged-above-50-to-be-kept-off-from-covid-19-duties-in-kerala-868470.html
01-08-2020||South||Fleecing Covid-19 patient: Tamil Nadu government penalises private hospital||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday temporarily revoked Covid-19 treatment permission granted to a private hospital here for allegedly charging a coronavirus patient Rs 12 lakh for 19 days of treatment. The permission was withdrawn after it came to light during an inspection by the authorities concerned that the hospital had charged Rs 12.20 lakh from the patient for the 19-day treatment. Inspection was carried out at the private facility following complaints of charging far more than the sum prescribed by the government, said a press release from the state Health and Family Welfare Department. Private hospitals have been warned of action if they violated the norms, the release said. According to a government order, Grade-1 and 2 hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs 7,500 in general ward per day while grade-3 and 4 hospitals can charge Rs 5,000 for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fleecing-covid-19-patient-tamil-nadu-government-penalises-private-hospital-868481.html
01-08-2020||South||Kerala: Heavy rains likely in 10 districts as IMD issues yellow alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow alert for ten districts in Kerala for next four days indicating heavy rains in the region. The weatherman has predicted rains ranging from 6 cm to 20 cm at various districts till August 5. The districts of Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts have been issued yellow alert. The IMD website also indicates the formation of a low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal towards the later part of the first week of August and says its likely to intensify over northwest bay of Bengal off Odisha coast at the end of the first week. Earlier, on July 29, a red alert was sounded in the high range Idukki district by the IMD with widespread extremely heavy rains predicted as parts of the state received heavy showers inundating low lying areas and partially disrupting rail traffic. Kerala had been devastated by the worst floods in the last 100 years during August 2018 that claimed over 400 lives and razed several houses. Last year, the state's northern parts were flooded again in August as heavy rains and widespread landslides wreaked havoc, claiming over 120 lives. A large number of people including women and children had lost their lives at Kavalapara in Malappuram and Puthumala in Wayanad alone when landslides rocked the places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-heavy-rains-likely-in-10-districts-as-imd-issues-yellow-alert-868482.html
01-08-2020||South||110-year-old woman from Chitradurga wins battle against Covid-19||In a cause for cheer, a woman, said to be 110 years old, has recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged on Saturday in Chitradurga district of Karnataka. According to health officials, Siddamma, who stays in the police quarters, has five children, 17 grand children and 22 great grandchildren. On July 27, she tested positive for coronavirus along with a few other family members and accordingly she was brought to the Covid designated hospital in Chitradurga where she completely recovered from the disease. The frail woman walked out of the hospital with the support of four people to be greeted by a team of doctors and paramedical staff. When she was asked whether she was scared after testing positive, Siddamma said, "I am not afraid of anyone." She was happy with the treatment and food given to her in the hospital. Later speaking to reporters, District Surgeon Basavaraju said it is a matter of great pride that the oldest woman had recovered from coronavirus and been discharged from the government hospital. "So far as I know, it is a record in itself that a 110-year-old woman has recovered from coronavirus.She is the mother of a policeman who lives in the police quarters," Basavaraju said. He said a 96-year-old woman had also recovered from coronavirus in the hospital. Basavaraju said Siddamma's case has boosted the morale of the medical team to work more enthusiastically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/110-year-old-woman-from-chitradurga-wins-battle-against-covid-19-868490.html
01-08-2020||South||Elderly couple ends life fearing coronavirus||Suspecting that they had contracted Covid-19, an elderly couple allegedly committed suicide here on Saturday, police said. Based on investigation, the police said the couple, aged 63 and 60, had been suffering from health issues for the past few days and thought they had contracted coronavirus. Fearing their children and grand-children would also be afflicted with the disease, the couple consumed pesticide, they said. The two were found lying dead in their house by one of their sons when he went to see them, the police said. On being informed, a police team went to the scene and found a note saying the couple had resorted to the extreme step after suffering from fever and cold, which they thought were due to coronavirus. A case has been registered and the bodies have been shifted for an autopsy, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elderly-couple-ends-life-fearing-coronavirus-868497.html
01-08-2020||South||Meteoric rise in Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh in less than a fortnight||Andhra Pradesh has witnessed a meteoric rise in the numbers related to Covid-19 in less than a fortnight as the state has now climbed to the third spot behind Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in the country. From March 12 when it reported the first coronavirus case, AP took a long time till June 24 to go past the 10,000 mark and July 20 to cross 50,000 total cases, but the aggregate rocketed to 1,50,209 by August 1. In just the last 13 days, the state registered a staggering 96,485 cases with 39,912 coming in only the past four days. By July 20, a total of 13,49,112 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 3.98 per cent. But the infection positivity rate shot up to 7.46 per cent on August 1 with the addition of just 6,63,461 tests in 13 days. The government has maintained that the increase in cases was due to more number of tests being conducted. From July 20 to August 1, the state also saw the Covid-19 toll jump from 696 to 1,407, an increase of 711, while the number of active cases rose by 43,388 after 52,386 patients got cured. The Covid-19 recovery rate improved from 45.10 per cent to 51 per cent during the period while the mortality rate dipped from 1.30 per cent to 0.94 per cent, despite the spurt in number of deaths. Government authorities attributed the exponential surge in Covid-19 virulence in AP to those coming from other states and countries after Unlock 1.0, but the last such cases (10) were reported on July 17.  In all 2,461 people from other states and 434 foreign returnees tested positive for coronavirus after Unlock 1.0. Of the 13 districts in the state, seven crossed the 10,000 mark each in the total number of Covid-19 cases as on August 1, with East Godavari topping the chart with 21,271. Incidentally, East Godavari was the first to cross the 10,000 cases mark on July 23 and has since added 11,233, the largest in the state thus far, though other districts like Anantapuramu, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam are fast catching up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meteoric-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-in-less-than-a-fortnight-868514.html
01-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 5,879 new Covid-19 cases, 99 deaths||Tamil Nadu continued to record a slight dip in number of fresh Covid-19 cases with 5,879 patients contracting the infection on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,51,738, the health department said. Chennai surpassed the grim milestone of one lakh mark with 1,074 new additions, taking its tally to 1,00,877. The number of active cases across the state was 56,738. The death toll rose to 4,034 with the addition of 99 fatalities, a department bulletin said. The number of people discharged stood at 7,010 with cumulative recoveries leading to 1,90,966. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu reported 5,864 new cases while on Friday there were 5,881 new infections. According to the bulletin, 60,580 specimens were tested today aggregating to 26,18,512 till date. With the State capital recording a decline, the number of fresh additions in districts continue to soar with neighbouring Kancheepuram reporting in a jump in cases at 368, Thiruvallur 305, Chengalpet 314 and Theni 327. Other districts like Virudhunagar registered 286 cases, Thiruvannamalai 240, Tuticorin 242, Thiruvarur 240, Kanyakumari 198 and Vellore 197, the bulletin said. Nine of the deceased persons had no comorbid conditions. Among those with comorbid conditions, a 27 year old woman suffering from various ailments died of cardiorespiratory arrest in the city, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, in a separate development, the government on Saturday suspended a private hospital from the city to treat Covid-19 patients following a complaint of overcharging a coronavirus patient, to the tune of Rs 12.20 lakh for a 19-day treatment. The permission to treat the infected patients was 'temporarily revoked' after it came to light during an inspection by the authorities, an official release said. It was found that the hospital overcharged patients and did not follow the pricing cap fixed by the state government. Hence the permission to the hospital was 'revoked temporarily', the release said. Private hospitals have been warned of action if they violated the norms, the release said. According to a government order, Grade-1 and 2 hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs 7,500 in general ward per day while grade-3 and 4 hospitals can charge Rs 5,000 for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-5879-new-covid-19-cases-99-deaths-868516.html
01-08-2020||State||Covid-19 surge continues in DK with 204 fresh cases||Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district continued to surge on Friday with the addition of 204 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. According to Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, the total cases in the district stands at 5,713. 40,706 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the district. As many as 2,929 infected are undergoing treatment in various hospitals or are in home isolation in the district. Of the infected, 75 are primary contacts of those who were already infected, while 63 persons are suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 14 from symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Further, contact tracing of 52 infected persons is underway. On Friday, 70 persons recovered and were discharged from hospitals. After more than 39 people from a private packaging firm tested positive for Covid-19, there is a threat of the virus spreading in Gurpura hobli. As per the direction of the government, the firm has been sealed and sanitised, said MLA Dr Bharath Shetty. There are more than 2,400 workers in the firm and tests have been conducted on more than 500 workers using antigen kits. The remaining tests will be conducted on Saturday. A Covid care centre has been set up at Kompadavu to treat the infected in Gurpura hobli, said the MLA.  Five more fatalities The Covid-19 fatalities too continue to surge in the district with the district administration registering five more fatalities. The total deaths in the district have risen to 155. The deceased include --  a 47-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Mangaluru suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), type 2 respiratory failure, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), type 2 diabetes, hypertension who died on July 30 of sudden cardiac arrest. A 75-year-old man from Bantwal suffering from Acute Coronary syndrome, pneumonia, ARDS, Metabolic Encephalopathy, Acute kidney injury, Systemic Hypertension, type 2 Diabetes mellitus, succumbed to the virus.  A 63-year-old man from Mangaluru with symptoms of ARDS, septic shock, renal failure, secondary bacterial infection who had tested positive for  Covid-19, failed to respond to the treatment and died. An 88-year-old woman from Davangere suffering from septic shock, secondary bacterial infection along with Covid-19, too succumbed to the virus. A 75-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from refractory ARDS, septic shock, renal failure, acute coronary event, arrhythmia, pulmonary thromboembolism, hemoperitoneum along with Covid-19 died in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-surge-continues-in-dk-with-204-fresh-cases-868263.html
01-08-2020||State||Students of NMAMIT develop ‘Auto Please’ App||In line with the mission statement of the institute, NMAM Institute of Technology, NITTE strives to develop skilled manpower to address social needs. In this direction, a team of staff and students from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering has developed an android app named ‘Auto Please’ for the benefit of the local public. The aim of the app is to get a list of auto drivers who are available at a given auto stand of Karkala and NITTE so that the passenger can make a call to them using the information available on the app.  The app does not require any registration from the passenger end. Auto drivers have to register with the app by providing their details like name, licence number, photographs, auto registration number and mobile number. The drivers who have installed the app will get listed in the customers’ app, only if they are available at the auto stand. "The app uses GPS location-sharing mechanism from the driver’s end to list out the available driver in the auto stand," said Chintan R K and Dwanith U, third-year BE in Computer Science and Engineering. The app was developed under the guidance of Dr Venugopala P S, Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, NMAMIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-of-nmamit-develop-auto-please-app-868300.html
01-08-2020||State||Sub-registrar succumbs to Covid-19; his mother dies of shock||A 45-year-old sub-registrar of Manvi taluk died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Hyderabad. On hearing his death news, the 65-year-old mother also died of shock on Saturday. Another brother of the deceased who is a sub-registrar in Bengaluru is undergoing treatment at Hyderabad after he contracted the virus. The family which hailed from Kallur village of Sirawar taluk is staying in Raichur. The sub-register tested positive for Covid-19 on July 24 and was initially admitted to the designated hospital for treatment. As he developed a severe acute respiratory infection, he was shifted to a private hospital in Hyderabad but breathed his last, sources told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sub-registrar-succumbs-to-covid-19-his-mother-dies-of-shock-868400.html
01-08-2020||State||Karnataka's Bidar sees 4 more Covid-19 deaths||The district recorded four more Covid-19 deaths taking the total toll to 79. A total of 88 fresh positive cases were reported from the district on Saturday. According to the district bulletin, the total case count in the district rose to 2263 and as many as 1544 cured people have been discharged so for from the hospital. There are 636 active cases and non-covid cases stood at four in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-bidar-sees-4-more-covid-19-deaths-868408.html
01-08-2020||State||Covid-19 impact: Karnataka's airports see poor traffic||Hubballi airport saw the least number of passengers or flights among the seven airports in Karnataka in June. According to Airports Authority of India report released on their website recently, Hubballi saw only 55 passengers either arriving or departing from the city's airport in 14 flights in the month of June. In the same month last year, Hubballi airport, which was third busiest before the pandemic, had facilitated 45,973 passengers and handled 604 flights. Since April 2020 to June, the Hubballi airport has handled only 18 flights (as against 1,958 during the same period last year) and 122 passengers (1,50,416 between April-June 2019). Belagavi second best Of all the seven airports in State-- Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, Belagavi, Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Vijaynagara (Hosapete)-- it was the Sambra airport which saw the highest number of passengers and flights after Bengaluru. The Sambra airport also outperformed the Managluru international airport in June. As many 10,224 passengers travelled to or from Belagavi airport in June, whereas Mangaluru airport saw a footfall of only 8,608 passengers including 3,726 international and 4,882 domestic passengers. Belagavi airport handled 391 flights whereas Mangaluru airport handled 190 flights. Not just Mangaluru, even the Bengaluru international airport saw a decline in the number of passengers and flights in June. Only 3.69 lakh domestic and 10,654 international passengers arrived or departed from Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru in June as against 27.59 lakh total passengers in June 2019. Between April-June 2020 the Bengaluru airport saw only 4.54 lakh total passengers (domestic and international) as against 84.11 lakh total passenger during the same period last year. The number of flights to and from Bengaluru also saw a huge dip in June with only 731 international (2,582 in June 2019) and 4290 domestic (16,216 in June 2019) flights. Though the Mysuru domestic airport handled a higher number of flights compared to last June, the number of passengers either arriving or departing saw a decline. Last year June 4,775 passengers travelled in 96 flights, whereas in June 2020 the airport handled 3,158 passengers and 330 flights. Speaking to DH, Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakare said the entire aviation industry is bleeding and the June results are a reflection of this. With limited tourism and business activities, the number of fliers has fallen. The quarantine rules in various States, guidelines issued by the MOS for aviation for standard operating procedure and others has also resulted in lesser air-travellers. “We are hopeful that in August when five more flights are expected to commence its service from Hubballi airport, the numbers can improve,” he said and added that the airport is ready for the ‘new normal’ air-travelling. “We have ensured that online boarding passes checking and touchless security check-ups and other safety measures are taken up to ensure safety of passengers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-impact-karnatakas-airports-see-poor-traffic-868445.html
01-08-2020||State||Crop loan waiver not yet over as banks deal with glitches||The ambitious crop loan waiver scheme implemented by the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition may be a closed chapter for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, but not for banks.  Faced with a slew of issues, including technical glitches, banks have turned to the government seeking resolution. In several cases, banks are unable to upload details of farmers who have been left out of the scheme.  Till date, the government has paid Rs 14,753 crore towards 25.65 lakh loan accounts. Top lenders such as SBI, Canara Bank, e-Syndicate Bank, Bank of India, Karnataka Gramin Bank among others are yet to upload data on eligible loan accounts on the Crop Loan Waiver Scheme (CLWS) portal. But the banks have told the government that the portal is unable to authenticate the Aadhaar, ration card and land details provided by farmers despite them being valid documents.  According to data made public by the government, a total of 10.53 lakh loans were eligible for the waiver. of which 9.42 lakh have received the benefit, which is a coverage of about 89%.  The waiver covered loans between April 2009 and December 2017. It  involved crediting Rs 25,000 into the accounts of farmers with regular loans (incentive) and up to Rs 2 lakh in all other loan accounts, including non-performing assets (NPA).  The scheme was designed in such a way that farmers having outstanding loans in commercial banks and cooperative banks would have only their cooperative loan waived. But in several cases, the CLWS portal is wrongly classifying eligible farmers as ineligible, according to banks. Because of this confusion on farmers’ eligibility, banks like SBI, Axis, ICICI, Corporation Bank and others have returned the waiver amount as the particular farmer was found to be eligible only for an incentive. Likewise, the incentive amount was returned in several cases as the farmer was eligible for a waiver.  There are technical glitches, too, with the CLWS portal, with banks complaining that their officials are unable to login or make updates. In the case of Krishna Bheema Samrudhi Local Area Bank, the date of account opening was either not picked up or was incorrectly recorded by the portal in 92 cases - the date was shown as 01.01.1900.  Also, Karnataka Bank has said that it was yet to receive the CLWS amount for 3,725 accounts. All these issues came up for discussion during the recent State Level Bankers’ Committee meeting, where the government assured resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/crop-loan-waiver-not-yet-over-as-banks-deal-with-glitches-868477.html
01-08-2020||State||No colourful show at Independence Day fete this year||There will be no cultural programme, march past or aerial flower show during the official celebrations of the Independence Day this year.  The colourful event is traditionally held for four to five hours at the Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Ground on Cubbon Road, and around 6,000 schoolchildren perform in it. But this year, it will be reduced to between 45 minutes and an hour, said BBMP Commissioner N ManjunathaPrasad.  “There will not be any cultural programmes this year. Soon after the guard of honour, the chief minister will unfurl the tricolour and address the people at 9 am,” he said. There will not be any march past or aerial flower show by the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters, he added.  The celebrations will not be open to the public this time around.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-colourful-show-at-independence-day-fete-this-year-868501.html
01-08-2020||State||Govt school kids' dresses to be anything but uniform this year||Children enrolled in government schools will not be wearing uniforms of the same colour across the state this year.  The department of public instruction has given the freedom of choosing the colour of the uniforms to School Development and Monitoring Committees (SDMCs) at the local level, but only for this academic year. Considering the delay in release of funds for the purchase of the second set of uniforms for the 2019-20 academic year and Covid-19, SDMCs were unable to place the orders. Now, the department has transferred the money for the second set of uniforms to SDMCs’ accounts and allowed them to choose the uniform colour and distribute them as soon as the schools reopen. Currently, the colour of the uniform is the same across the state. For boys, it is light blue shirt with dark blue trousers. It is salwar suit for girls with the same colour combination. “This option has been provided only for the current academic year considering the non-availability of raw material in the market,” said a senior official of the department.  According to officials, this was a long-pending demand by SDMCs, but not fulfilled.   The provision is made with the funds released for the purchase of a second set of uniforms for 2019-20. But this year, there will be only one set of uniforms. “Still there is uncertainty over reopening of schools. We might get very less academic days this time. Providing two sets of uniforms will not be prudent as new uniforms will be given again in June/July 2021 for the next academic year,” the official said.  All these years, SDMCs had the responsibility to supply stitched uniforms. Now, they can choose the colour of the uniforms too.  The government spends Rs 250 per child/per uniform and the total cost comes to around Rs 100 crore each year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-school-kids-dresses-to-be-anything-but-uniform-this-year-868504.html
01-08-2020||State||Citizens can now get additional FAR by paying premium||Three years after it was proposed, Karnataka has decided to introduce ‘premium’ floor area ratio (FAR) that citizens will have to buy to construct additional floors on their plots over and above what is permissible. The premium FAR is expected to bring revenue to the government while also giving a fillip to vertical growth in the real estate sector.  FAR is the ratio of the total plot area to the total building area, and is determined by the size of the plot and width of the road in front of the plot. The government has promulgated the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 that allows civic agencies or planning authorities such as the Bangalore Development Authority to grant permission for premium FAR in areas identified for that in the master plans.  A new Section 18-B has been inserted, which states: “Where an application is made for grant of permission for utilization of premium floor area ratio for the development of a building under Section 15, the Authority may levy premium charges, at such rate, not exceeding one third of the estimated increase in value of land and building as may be prescribed by the government from time to time, for grant of an premium floor area ratio, not exceeding the limits as specified in the zonal regulations of the master plan.” Currently, only Mangaluru City Corporation is selling premium FAR in its limits. According to the existing Bengaluru master plan, the maximum permissible FAR is 3.25.  The premium FAR was mooted in 2017 in the draft common zoning regulations brought out by the Urban Development department. The government’s plan was to make it mandatory for all urban local bodies to use revenue earned through the sale of premium FAR for road development works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/citizens-can-now-get-additional-far-by-paying-premium-868505.html
01-08-2020||State||110-year-old Karnataka woman beats Covid-19; state sees record recoveries||Karnataka reported 5,172 new Covid-19 cases and 98 deaths on Saturday. However, the fast recovery of a centenarian woman from Chitradurga has come as a ray of hope for all those who are affected by the virus. The 110-year-old Siddamma, a native of Burujanahatti and a resident of police quarters, was admitted to the designated Covid hospital on July 27 and discharged on Sunday. She has five children, 17 grandchildren and 22 great grandchildren. “I am not scared of anything. I did not panic when they said I’ve contracted the disease. I don’t know what it means. They brought me to hospital. They gave me warm water and ganji (gruel),” Siddamma told reporters after her discharge. As on August 1, the state has 73,219 active cases. As many as 3,860 patients were discharged, post-recovery, across the state on Saturday. The number of recoveries in the state stood at 53,648. Saturday’s fatalities took the state’s toll to 2,142 A total of 34,760 tests, including 21,075 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in the state on Saturday. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 1,852 tests in the last 24 hours. So far, 13,85,552 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. The virus-hit Mysuru and Ballari districts continued to see a spike in the infections. On Saturday Mysuru reported 365 Covid-19 cases while Ballari added 269 more infections to its fast-growing tally. Ballari is second in the state in terms of cases at 6,672. As many as 12 districts recorded infections in three digits while the remaining 15 districts registered fresh cases in two digits with Kodagu recording the least number of cases at 35. Yelburga MLA  Yelburga MLA Halappa Achar on Saturday became the third legislator from Koppal district to test positive for Covid-19. The BJP legislator revealed to DH that he had contracted coronavirus. “I had recently toured the district along with in-charge minister B C Patil. I don’t know how I got it. I am taking treatment at home. I have asked my office staff to get tested for Covid-19.” On Thursday, Koppal MLA Raghavendra Hitnal tested positive for Covid-19. The Congress MLA is undergoing home quarantine in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, Gangavati MLA Paranna Munavalli has recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/110-year-old-karnataka-woman-beats-covid-19-state-sees-record-recoveries-868506.html
01-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka agriculture minister B C Patil tests Covid-19 positive||Agriculture Minister BC Patil tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Earlier in the day, his wife, brother-in-law and five staff at his Hirekerur residence had tested positive for the virus. "According to the report I received now, I have tested positive for Covid-19. I will be in home quarantine at my Bengaluru residence.  Five staff members who had accompanied me during a recent visit to Koppal are also positive," he said in a tweet. ಇದೀಗ ಬಂದ ವರದಿಯ ಪ್ರಕಾರ ನನಗೆ ಕೊರೋನಾ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಎಂದು ದೃಢಪಟ್ಟಿದೆ. ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಿನ ನನ್ನ ನಿವಾಸದಲ್ಲಿ ಹೋಂ ಕ್ವಾರಂಟೈನ್ ಆಗುತ್ತಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ಕೊಪ್ಪಳ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಗೆ ಇತ್ತೀಚೆಗೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಿದ ಸಂದರ್ಭದಲ್ಲಿ, ನನ್ನ ಜೊತೆ ಆಗಮಿಸಿದ ಐದು ಜನ ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಗಳಿಗೂ ಕೊರೋನಾ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಎಂದು ವರದಿ ಬಂದಿದೆ.1/2 He urged all primary and secondary contacts who met him at Koppal and Davanagere, to get tested for Covid-19 in case of any symptoms.  Earlier in the day, he tweeted that his wife, brother-in-law and five staff at his Hirekerur residence tested positive. "They were shifted to dedicated Covid care centres," he said. ನನ್ನ ಶ್ರೀಮತಿ, ಅಳಿಯ ಹಾಗೂ ಹಿರೇಕೆರೂರಿನ ನಿವಾಸದ ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ ವರ್ಗದವರು ಸೇರಿದಂತೆ ಒಟ್ಟು ಐವರಿಗೆ ಕೊರೋನಾ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಎಂದು ದೃಢಪಟ್ಟಿದೆ. ಅವರನ್ನು ನಿರ್ದಿಷ್ಟವಾದ ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಕೇರ್ ಸೆಂಟರ್ ಗೆ ಸೇರಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. ಅವರೆಲ್ಲ ಬೇಗ ಗುಣಮುಖರಾಗಿ ಬರಲಿ ಎಂದು ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. ನಿಮ್ಮೆಲ್ಲರ ಹಾರೈಕೆಯೂ ಇರಲಿ. It can be recalled that Patil had to quarantine for a week between July 12-17, after one of his relatives has tested positive. He had home quarantined at Hirekerur then. Patil is the third minister of the state cabinet to be infected by the novel coronavirus after Tourism Minister CT Ravi and Forest Minister Anand Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-agriculture-minister-b-c-patil-tests-covid-19-positive-868202.html
01-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Citizens can now buy FAR by paying premium in Karnataka||Three years after it was proposed, Karnataka has decided to introduce ‘premium’ floor area ratio (FAR) that citizens will have to buy to construct additional floors on their plots over and above what is permissible. The premium FAR is expected to bring revenue to the government while also giving a fillip to vertical growth in the real estate sector.  The government has promulgated the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 that allows civic agencies or planning authorities such as the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) to grant permission for premium FAR in areas identified for that in the master plans.   Those who want premium FAR will have to pay “one-third of the estimated increase in value of land and building,” the ordinance states. The permitted FAR carries no fee.  FAR is the ratio of the total plot area to the total building area and is determined by the size of the plot and width of the road in front of the plot. Currently, only Mangaluru City Corporation is selling premium FAR in its limits. According to the existing Bengaluru master plan, the maximum permissible FAR is 3.25.  The premium FAR was mooted in 2017 in the draft common zoning regulations brought out by the urban development department. The government’s plan was to make it mandatory for all urban local bodies to use revenue earned through the sale of premium FAR for road development works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/citizens-can-now-buy-far-by-paying-premium-in-karnataka-868272.html
01-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka human rights commission takes up case||The Karnataka State Human Rights Commission has asked senior Congress leader HK Patil to appear before it on August 3 in connection with a case it has registered based on his complaint over alleged rights violations during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Patil had approached the Commission seeking suo moto cognizance of “negligence” in dealing with Covid-19 patients, referring to the “inhumane” manner in which those who died of the virus were treated in Ballari, Raichur, Davangere and other districts.  “The Commission has asked me to be present on August 3. I will furnish all the details that we have,” Patil said. “The government has completely failed in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. Necessary steps were not taken to stop the spread. So, I complained with the Human Rights Commission, which has registered a case against the government,” Patil said.  Hitting out at the government, Patil said there were cases of deaths caused due to the lack of ambulances. “Last rites weren’t conducted properly. Bodies were treated as per whims and fancies. All these are human rights violations,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-human-rights-commission-takes-up-case-868443.html
01-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Procured RT-PCR test kits at a lower price: Warehousing Society||The Karnataka State Drugs, Logistics and Warehousing Society on Saturday defended the procurement of RT-PCR kits and maintained that their cost was lower than Telangana and Odisha. On Friday, DH had reported that KSDLWS had clubbed the procurement of both RT-PCR kits and RNA extraction kits, leaving little clarity on the price of each kit. According to a clarification issued by KSDLWS director N Manjushree, while the procurement cost of Odisha State Medical Corporation of RT-PCR and RNA extraction kits combined was Rs 1,300 per unit, Telangana had purchased these kits at Rs 1,344 per unit. Attaching a comparative chart of procurement by Karnataka, Odisha and Telangana, Manjushree said that Karnataka had procured them for Rs 63 lakh and Rs 78.4 lakh less than Odisha and Telangana, respectively. Odisha had procured RT-PCR kits and RNA extraction kits separately, with RNA extraction kit from a Hyderabad-based firm costing Rs 200 per unit. Gujarat had procured RNA extraction kits at Rs 179 per unit.  "The procurement was done on the basis of indent received from various labs across the state through MD, National Health Mission. KSDLWS has not clubbed the purchase of RT-PCR kits and RNA extraction kits at its end, but the demand of kits with RNA extraction kit was raised and as such procurement was done," Manjushree said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/procured-rt-pcr-test-kits-at-a-lower-price-warehousing-society-868476.html
01-08-2020||West||Don't use Sushant Singh Rajput's case to create friction between Maharashtra and Bihar, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to people to not use the Sushant Singh Rajput case to create friction between his state and Bihar.  He, however, said that if anyone had any proof related to the case, they must bring it to Mumbai police's notice. "If anyone has any proof about the case they can bring it to us and we will interrogate and punish the guilty. However, please don't use this case as an excuse to create friction between the two states of Bihar and Maharashtra," said Thackeray. Thackeray also urged his predecessor and Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to not target Mumbai police.  "Fadnavis should understand that it is the same police that he has worked with in the last five years. It is the same police that has made so many sacrifices during the fight against Covid-19. I condemn those who are raising questions over the efficiency of the police," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-use-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-to-create-friction-between-maharashtra-and-bihar-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-868235.html
01-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Real estate developer shot dead in Kalyan||A 48-year-old real estate developer was allegedly shot dead by two persons over business rivalry in Kalyan town of Maharashtra's Thane district, police said on Saturday. Jinesh Thakkar was gunned down by two men near a housing complex late on Friday night, the station house officer of Mahatma Phule police station said. The victim sustained four bullet wounds and died on the spot, he said, adding that business rivalry may have been a motive for the killing. A case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC and relevant provisions of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard and a hunt has been launched to nab the accused, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-real-estate-developer-shot-dead-in-kalyan-868265.html
01-08-2020||West||Pune Mayor alleges 400 unaccounted suspected Covid-19 deaths||Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has alleged that at least 400 suspected Covid-19 deaths have gone unaccounted for in the city in July. Mohol said he raised the issue during his meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday when the latter was in the city to take stock of the coronavirus situation. Speaking on Friday, the mayor said that every month there are at least 400 to 500 deaths of suspected coronavirus patients that are going unaccounted for in Sassoon General Hospital and private hospitals in the city. "There are at least 12 deaths of suspected coronavirus patients that are going unaccounted for in Sassoon hospital daily. Similar cases are taking place in private hospitals also," he alleged. "These deaths remain unaccounted for because the patients are either brought dead to the hospitals or they die immediately after being brought there. "As per the guidelines, no test is conducted on a deceased. But when the doctors take the X-ray of these people, they show symptoms of Covid-19," Mohol claimed. He said that while raising the issue with the CM, he sought steps to stop such deaths. "Early tracking of patients should be done so that they can be given timely treatment and such deaths can be stopped," he added. Following the allegations, Collector Naval Kishore Ram said an inquiry will be conducted into it and a report has been sought from Sassoon hospital. "The staff of the district administration keeps visiting Sassoon hospital and goes through the records. It is unlikely that there is any misreporting or under-reporting in Pune," he said. "There might be some issues related to data entry. But the figure mentioned by the honourable mayor looks impossible. But we will conduct a fair inquiry as I have sought a report from Sassoon," the collector added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-mayor-alleges-400-unaccounted-suspected-covid-19-deaths-868277.html
01-08-2020||West||Congress questions appointment of state CEO by Fadnavis government||The Maharashtra Congress has questioned the appointment of Baldev Singh as the state Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), alleging that a probe on the directions of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) was going on for the alleged irregularities in SEEPZ when he was heading it. Singh, however, rubbished the allegations saying that the case referred to is from the period before he took charge at the SEEPZ (Santacruz Electronics Export Processing Zone). Addressing a press conference on Friday, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that Singh was facing an inquiry initiated by the CVC and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce was probing allegations of irregularity in SEEPZ Special Economic Zone (SEZ). "The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) had passed strictures in the case in its June 2018 report tabled in Parliament. The financial scam is related to an appointment of an ineligible agency for the works without having authority," he said. "Despite the ongoing probe, the Devendra Fadnavis government appointed Singh as the CEO of Maharashtra in July 2019 just ahead of the Assembly polls. This has raised serious questions about the role of the Election Commission," he said. Sawant asked why the credentials of the CEO were not cross-checked while appointing him in the post and sought to know if there was any "pressure from the BJP". However, the CEO Maharashtra said on the official Twitter handle, "It is very sad, mischievous and misleading, the way facts are being tried to be presented by the Congress leader. These are absolutely false and untrue and incorrect allegations." "The allotment was done by an earlier development commissioner who was the competent authority during his period. All the payments were released by the predecessor. All this in details have been already been given to the competent authorities in the government," the tweet said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-questions-appointment-of-state-ceo-by-fadnavis-government-868286.html
01-08-2020||West||Don't question Mumbai cops' ability to handle Sushant Singh Rajput's case: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he deplored attempts to question the efficiency of the Mumbai Police in handling the probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. He said the state police were capable of probing the case, an assertion which comes in the backdrop of the growing clamour for a CBI probe in the actor's death here in June. Speaking on Friday, Thackeray lashed out at Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, saying the BJP politician had doubted the credibility of the Mumbai police in handling the case despite being a chief minister for five years. "The opposition can even bring Interpol or followers of the Namaste Trump event into the inquiry. Devendra Fadnavis should understand that it is the same police whom he has worked within the last five years," Thackeray said at an event organised by a Marathi news channel. Earlier in the day, Fadnavis said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) should register an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in connection with the money laundering angle in the death case of Rajput. There is a "huge public sentiment" about handing over the case to the CBI, but the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state has been reluctant to do so, the former BJP chief minister said. Thackeray said the Mumbai police have been "corona warriors" and many personnel in the force have died due to the infection. To question their efficiency is an insult to them and "I condemn this," he added. Thackeray said if anyone has any proof related to the case, he/she can bring it to the Mumbai police. "We will interrogate and punish the guilty. However, please don't use this case as a Maharashtra versus Bihar issue. This is the most deplorable thing to do," he said. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had recently said that the Mumbai Police are capable of handling the matter and that there was no need for a CBI probe into the case. The Mumbai police have recorded the statements of Bollywood personalities, including Sanjay Leela Bhansali, film critic Rajeev Masand, actress Sanjana Sanghi, the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, casting director Shanoo Sharma, filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, and Aditya Chopra of Yash Raj Films. The police have so far recorded statements of around 40 people, including those of Rajput's family and his cook. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. A Bihar police team is probing a separate 'abetment to suicide' case on the basis of a complaint filed by the late actor's father in Patna. Speaking at the event, the CM said he wasn't bothered about the stability of his government as long as he enjoys the support of the people of the state and Shiv Sainiks. "The BJP says our government is against the mandate. Then is destabilising democratically-elected governments a mandate?" he asked. Thackeray, who is also the Shiv Sena president, said his party and the BJP have "divorced" now so the national party need not bother about what his outfit does. "We were in a relationship with the BJP for 30 years, but they did not trust us. But those with whom we had political differences for 30 years trusted us," Thackeray said, referring to the NCP and the Congress, who are part of the Shiv Sena-led government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-question-mumbai-cops-ability-to-handle-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-cm-uddhav-thackeray-868288.html
01-08-2020||West||Chanting of mantras, temple prayers in Goa to fight Covid-19||From chanting of 'Mahamrityunjay' mantra to offering special prayers at temples, people in parts of Goa have started seeking "divine intervention" in a bid to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the state, where the infection count has gone above 5,900 so far. The coastal state, which was declared a Covid-19 green zone on May 1, had started witnessing a spurt in the number of cases a few days after that. The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), the oldest regional political outfit in the state, said it has organised chanting of 'Mahamrityunjay' mantra in temples across Goa against the pandemic. MGP leader and party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar said that this mantra would be chanted one lakh times in each temple across the state. "We started from Vamaneshwar temple at Dhavali village in Ponda taluka in North Goa on Friday," he said. "The Mahamrityunjay mantra, which is a part of Rigveda, has the power to eliminate all the negative energy around us. Covid-19 is one such negative energy which has affected the humans," the former state minister said. In South Goa district, the residents of Netravali village in Sanguem taluka have been offering prayers at the temple of 'Betal Sateri', a local deity. "The local people have been seeking divine intervention by holding special prayers at the temple of Betal Sateri," retired teacher Dayanand Naik said. Priest Kushta Velip, who heads the temple, said, "We believe that divine intervention is necessary to get rid of Covid-19. The pandemic is spreading everywhere." The village had remained unaffected till one of its residents, who worked in capital Panaji, tested positive for the infection after his return. "All the villagers had to be tested after that. Thankfully, it was just one person who was found infected," said Amit Naik, a local resident. The number of Covid-19 cases in Goa reached 5,913 on Friday, while the death toll due to the infection was 45.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chanting-of-mantras-temple-prayers-in-goa-to-fight-covid-19-868292.html
01-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Lockdown in containment zones of Thane extended till Aug 31||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has been extended till August 31 in the containment zones of Maharashtra's Thane district, a senior official said on Saturday. In a video address, district collector Rajesh Narvekar said concessions granted to the non-containment zones and the state government's guidelines will be applicable to Thane rural, municipal council and Nagar Panchayat limits. Containment zones identified by civic authorities of various towns and cities in Thane district will remain in lockdown till August 31, the collector said. Meanwhile, as many as 132 cases of Covid-19 were detected in Majiwada-Manpada locality of Thane city on Friday, deputy commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation Sandeep Malavi said. Of these, at least 86 cases were detected from a construction site of a housing complex, he said. The construction firm had conducted RTPCR tests on 536 employees, of which 86 tested positive for the infection, the official said. As on Friday, the Covid-19 cases in Thane district stood at 85,956, while the toll was at 2,365.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-in-containment-zones-of-thane-extended-till-aug-31-868297.html
01-08-2020||West||Fire reported at pvt hospital in South Mumbai||A fire was reported at a private hospital in Grant Road area of South Mumbai, an official said on Saturday. The incident occurred around 11.44 pm on Friday night on the ground floor of Reliance Hospital located at Khetwadi Back Road, the official said. "The blaze erupted from the kitchen on the ground floor, following which the fire brigade was alerted," he said. At least six fire brigade vehicles were rushed the spot and the flames were doused around 1 am, the official said, adding that no casualty was reported in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-reported-at-pvt-hospital-in-south-mumbai-868310.html
01-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mother-son duo from Baramati conquer SSC exams together||While most parents push their children to study hard for the Maharashtra state board exams, Baramati resident Bebi Gurav led by example, by appearing for the exam along with her son and passing out with flying colours. The 36-year-old secured 64.40 percent marks, while her 16-year-old son Sadanand scored 73.20 percent in the Secondary School Certificate examination, results of which were declared on July 29. "I could not complete my school education because of my marriage at a very young age. But my husband encouraged me to appear for the Class 10 exams with my son," said Bebi, who works for a cloth manufacturing firm. The woman's husband Pradip Gurav and her son helped her study and egged her on the journey to becoming an SSC pass out. "Both my wife and son studied hard together and secured good marks. I am happy and proud of their performance," said Gaurav, a journalist with a regional daily. Bebi would carry her textbooks to work and study during breaks and revise grammar, mathematics and other subjects with her son while cooking meals for the family. With her new-found confidence, Bebi has now set her sights on the Higher Secondary School Certificate or Class 12 examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mother-son-duo-from-baramati-conquer-ssc-exams-together-868329.html
01-08-2020||West||Mumbai hospital devises 'kavach' to move Covid-19 patients||In a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection among its medical staff, the state-run J J Hospital here has developed a transport chamber for contactless movement of Covid-19 patients within the premises. Developed by the general surgery department of the hospital with the help of engineers of a firm named Indomed Devices, the patient transport 'kavach' aims to reduce the risk of infection among the hospital staff, visitors and other patients. Sanskrit word 'kavach' literally means an armour. "The cost-effective glass transport trolley has a HEPA filter at the head end, which filters out particles as small as 0.02 microns," said Amol Wagh, assistant professor of surgery at J J Hospital. "Everyday thousands of health care workers test positive for the infection and have to be quarantined. This results in a shortage of medical staff," he said. Hence, innovation in protective devices is the need of the hour as the medical staff has to spend long hours in PPE kits, making it difficult for them to provide required patient care and treatment, Wagh added. Speaking about the innovation, head of surgery, Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, who came up with the concept, said the trolley will not only prevent transmission of coronavirus, but it also protects Covid-19 patients with low immunity from contracting other infections from their surroundings. Patients can be incubated in the trolley and tests, such as sonography, can also be done when the patient is inside the chamber, Wagh said, adding that engineers and experts are working on ways to install the chamber in ambulances and make it compatible for CT scans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hospital-devises-kavach-to-move-covid-19-patients-868349.html
01-08-2020||West||Dahej Boiler blast: NGT junks compensation review plea||The National Green Tribunal has junked a plea filed by a company seeking review of its order directing payment of compensation for displacing people, after a huge fire caused by a boiler blast at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat on June 3 resulted in the death of eight workers. The NGT had on June 8 slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd and asked it to pay Rs 25,000 per person for displacement. It said there is no merit in the prayer of the company seeking review and that its order was passed after hearing the parties, and not based on media reports alone. "The facts mentioned in the order remained undisputed after opportunity to the applicant before passing interim order, pending giving further opportunity in due course. The order is not based on media report alone, as wrongly submitted. The order was passed after preliminary verification of facts and after notice to the present applicant. "Even now, neither the incident is disputed nor lack of adequate safeguards as per statutory mandate are disputed. Statutory onsite and offsite plans and their compliance are not shown. Liability of the applicant is absolute and compensation payable has to be deterrent," the bench said. The tribunal said it is wrong to assume that there is no liability for displacement for 10-12 hours. "It is also wrongly assumed that nothing is to be spent for restoration of the environment. The applicant has filed a certificate from Panchayat that the displaced persons were brought back to their residence late night. "While the authenticity of the certificate is yet to be examined, the affected persons certainly faced trauma, stress and inconvenience in being displaced from their respective houses on account of hazardous activities of the unit in question for which liability cannot be disowned," the bench said. The green panel said the incident took place at 12 noon and displacement at least till late night for at least 10-12 hours, even as per the company. "During this period, the affected persons faced trauma, displacement from their houses and all consequential problems. It is too much to contend that they are not to be paid any compensation and such displacement does not cause any physical or mental harm to a person. "In our view, such displacement is certainly actionable wrong and any commercial establishment engaged in the hazardous activity for a commercial purpose is certainly liable to compensate such displaced persons. Displacement was at large-scale creating anxiety, fear, trauma, and misery," the tribunal said. It said some families may have minor children or senior citizens, females who certainly are bound to greatly suffer by such large scale and sudden displacement from their houses. "Exact damage is to be fully ascertained but even as per conservative estimate, the amount of compensation of Rs 25,000 to each displaced person cannot be held to be excessive, even on further consideration," the tribunal said. "There is no golden scale to measure such loss and a reasonable estimate has to be the basis. Moreover, the applicant does not deserve any indulgence as it has not moved this Tribunal with clean hands," the NGT said. It said the plea filed by the company is patently absurd as the order clearly and specifically required deposit even if the amount was not to be disbursed. The green panel said it has gone by conservative estimate and liability of the applicant is expected to be more than the said amount. It is against the interest of justice to further delay deposit and disbursement of the amount to the victims of the tragedy as almost two months have passed from the date of the incident, the NGT said. The NGT also constituted a six-member committee headed by former High Court judge Justice BC Patel and sought a report in a month. The committee also comprises representatives of the environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, National Institute of Disaster Management and Head of the Chemical Engineering Department of IIT Gandhinagar. The tribunal's order came on a plea filed by NGO Aryavart Foundation through its president alleging that the company failed to follow requisite precautions and safety protocols. The NGO said the company is strictly and absolutely liable for the damage caused to the human lives, human health, property and the environment in violation of environmental norms. At least 50 workers of the chemical factory were injured while eight died on June 3 in the fire caused by a blast in the boiler at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat. About 4,800 inhabitants of the nearby villages had to be moved to safer places on account of the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dahej-boiler-blast-ngt-junks-compensation-review-plea-868350.html
01-08-2020||West||Ram temple not political issue, but matter of pride: Shiv Sena leader||Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde on Saturday said that the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya was not a political issue, but a matter of pride and faith for lakhs of devotees. Shinde, who is scheduled to visit Gadchiroli district, of which he is the guardian minister, was talking to reporters at the Nagpur airport. When asked about a Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) functionary's recent statement that those opposing the Ram temple and subjects linked to it were doing so to achieve their political goals, Shinde said, "Ram temple is not a political issue. It is a matter of pride and faith for lakhs of devotees of Lord Ram." "Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray went to Ayodhya when he was not a chief minister and later when became the CM. It is a matter of faith, devotion and pride," he added. Replying to a query over MNS chief Raj Thackeray's statement that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will not survive for a long time, Shinde said, "In a democracy, everybody has the right to speak and express themselves." "But the MVA government is doing good work under the leadership of CM Uddhav Thackeray. It has been working hard to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the state," the minister said. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had on Friday said that the three MVA allies- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- were not a family, but were in a live-in relationship and the government will collapse on its own.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ram-temple-not-political-issue-but-matter-of-pride-shiv-sena-leader-868353.html
01-08-2020||West||WHO suggests Ahmedabad Covid-19 measures as case study: Gujarat Government||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has appreciated the management of Covid-19 in Gujarat's Ahmedabad and suggested to take up various measures being implemented in the city as a case study for rest of India and other countries, the state government said on Saturday. WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has appreciated the Covid-19 management in Ahmedabad, it said. The WHO has suggested to take up initiatives in Ahmedabad like 'Dhanvantari Rath', 104 fever helpline, Sanjivani Van; and active participation of private hospitals in control and treatment as a case study for other cities in India and abroad, it said. Meanwhile, Gujarat has also steadily ramped up testing for Covid-19 diagnosis from 64,007 in April to 3,91,114 in July, which the government said is thrice the rate suggested by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The patient recovery rate in Gujarat has improved to 73.09 per cent, "which is much higher than other states", while the Covid-19 mortality rate has declined to 3.97 per cent, an official release said. The government under Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has been working on the formula of "testing, tracking and treatment" ever since the first Covid-19 case was detected in Gujarat on March 19, 2020, it said. The number of tests for coronavirus has increased steadily. At the rate of 410.83 tests per day per million tests as on July 31, the government has achieved a rate that is nearly thrice the rate of 140 suggested by the ICMR, it said. Till July 31, Gujarat had tested a total 7,64,777 samples including 3,91,114 in July, which is the highest in a month since the outbreak of the virus on March 19, the release said. A total of 64,007 samples were tested in April, 1,47,923 in May, and 1,61,733 in June, it said. "The patient recovery rate in Gujarat is much higher than other states at 73.09 per cent while the death rate has dropped to 3.97 per cent," the release said. The CM has suggested house-to-house health check-up be made available in cities through municipal authorities to detect infected patients, it said. As of July 31, Ahmedabad district contributed 26,517 Covid-19 cases in the total count of over 61,000 in Gujarat, as per health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-suggests-ahmedabad-covid-19-measures-as-case-study-gujarat-government-868384.html
01-08-2020||West||Mevani alleges multi-crore scam in MNREGS in Gujarat village||Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani on Saturday alleged that a multi-crore scam has surfaced in a village in Banaskantha district of the state, in which bank accounts were opened in the name of around 500 villagers without their knowledge for the transfer of money under the MNREGA scheme, in order to siphon off the funds. The Independent MLA said that the scam in Balundra village in Amirgadh tehsil came to light after some villagers, who were financially hit due to COVID-19, went to seek work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), but were told that their names were already registered under the scheme. Mevani alleged that similar scams were taking place in many other villages of Gujarat, including in his constituency Vadgam in Banaskantha district, wherein money was being siphoned off by others although villagers were shown as its beneficiaries. "Around 500 people never went for MNERGS daily wage jobs in Balundra village. However, they were shown as working. Their job cards were made and bank accounts were opened in their names. Bank passbooks and ATM cards were obtained and money was siphoned off," he told reporters here. "This scam in Balundra has been going on for the last eight to nine years. Some government officials and others swindled over Rs 9 crore to 10 crore by showing villagers as the beneficiaries," he said. The modus operandi of the fraudsters was that the villagers would be asked to give their signature or thumb impressions saying that they would get the benefit of different government schemes. They would then open the bank accounts in the villagers' names, Mevani alleged. "The scamsters would then carry out the work allotted under the MNREGS using JCB machines, which would cost a fraction of what needed to be paid to the villagers for their labour," he said. Stating that he has got the documentary evidence to prove his allegations, Mevani said that he would soon register a complaint with the police in this connection. "When the villagers went to seek work under the MNREGS but were told that their names already existed as the beneficiaries, they complained about it to authorities. After that their names as workers were deleted from the website. However, it still shows the past records and the payments made in their names," he said. Gujarat Congress's working president Hardik Patel was also present at the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mevani-alleges-multi-crore-scam-in-mnregs-in-gujarat-village-868388.html
01-08-2020||West||More relaxations for Surat diamond units, textile markets||Textile markets and diamond units in Gujarat's Surat have been allowed greater flexibility to operate from Saturday on the condition that they will adhere to a set of norms that include mandatory Covid-19 tests for traders and staff, officials said. Restrictions were imposed on the functioning of the two sectors last month as Surat witnessed a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks. As on Friday, Surat has 13,663 coronavirus positive cases. "As per the SOP till July 31 declared by Surat Municipal Commissioner BN Pani, diamond units in Mahidharpura, Mini Bazar and Choksi Bazar localities could open between 2pm-6 pm, and only one worker was allowed on a polishing mill," said Dinesh Nevadiya, regional chairman, Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). From August 1, the markets are allowed to open from 12 noon to 6 pm, and an additional worker is allowed to sit on a polishing mill provided he tests negative in a rapid antigen test conducted at the expense of the diamond units, or has recovered from the infection, Nevadiya said. Textile markets have been allowed to remain open from 10 am to 6 pm from Monday and Saturday, while they had to follow an odd-even shop number formula with timings set from 10am to 5pm all through July, a Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) functionary said. "The Surat Municipal Corporation has asked all traders and market staff to compulsorily get themselves tested for Covid-19. Markets also have to set up camps for antigen tests at discounted rates," said FOSTTA general secretary Champalal Bothra. All traders and workers will have to download Aarogya Setu app, and follow norms like wearing face masks etc, he added. There are 65,000 textile shops in 185 markets in Surat, employing around 3.5 lakh workers, but hardly 20 per cent shops are currently open as 70 per cent of labourers have not returned after leaving for their home states during the lockdown, Bothra said. "Many power looms and textile processing units are also closed for want of labourers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-relaxations-for-surat-diamond-units-textile-markets-868406.html
01-08-2020||West||Five killed in boiler explosion in Nagpur||At least five workers were killed after a boiler exploded in the Manas Agro Industries and Infrastructure Ltd at the Bela village in Umred tehsil of Nagpur district on Saturday. The incident took place around 2.30 pm. The deceased are identified as Mangesh Prabhakar Naukarkar (21), Liladhar Wamanrao Shende (42), Vasudeo Ladi (30), Sachin Prakash Waghmare (24), Prafulla Pandurang Moon (25), all residents of Wadgaon village. Sachin was working as welder while others were helpers, police said.  Superintendent of Police of Nagpur-Rural, Rajesh Ola rushed to the spot to take a stock of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-killed-in-boiler-explosion-in-nagpur-868410.html
01-08-2020||West||Heavy to very heavy rains likely in Mumbai between August 3 to August 5||Mumbai and some other districts in Maharashtra are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in a few places from August 3 till August 5, said the India Meteorological Department on Saturday. The places likely to get heavy to very heavy rainfall during this period, apart from Mumbai, are Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts. Places in Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, Jalna, Sangli and Aurangabad are likely to receive light to moderate rain till August 5, the IMD forecast added. As per IMD classification, "heavy to very heavy rainfall" means precipitation ranging from 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm in a period of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-to-very-heavy-rains-likely-in-mumbai-between-august-3-to-august-5-868421.html
01-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Mob hits doctor after woman dies, 10 booked in Gujarat||A case was lodged against 10 persons, six of whom were detained, on Saturday for allegedly attacking a doctor after the death of a suspected Covid-19 patient in Veraval in Gujarat's Gir Somnath district, police said. The incident took place late Friday night at a government Covid-19 hospital after a 20-year-old woman died a few hours earlier after being shifted in a critical condition from a private facility, a Veraval City police station official said. "Ten people attacked the doctor and damaged property like the gate and cabin of the Covid-19 hospital. Those detained are Akram Siraj, Hamin Siraj, Moin Siraj, Aijaj Siraj, Arif Siraj and Mohammad Sohel Siraj," he said. Dr Akash Shah, who has a private practice in Veraval and was deputed at the Covid-19 hospital for a week as per the order of the district magistrate, said in his complaint that the suspected Covid-19 patient was brought to the hospital in critical condition on Friday afternoon after being referred from a private hospital. The patient was immediately shifted to the ICU ward where she died a few hours later, after which some people started arguing with him and then assaulted him, the complaint added. They have been charged under a section pertaining to violence against health care personnel of Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, apart from IPC, the Disaster Management Act, the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act for unlawful assembly, rioting, voluntarily causing hurt etc, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mob-hits-doctor-after-woman-dies-10-booked-in-gujarat-868450.html
01-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: 1,059 new coronavirus cases in Mumbai, 45 deaths||Mumbai recorded 1,059 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the city's case tally to 1,15,346, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). With 45 new fatalities, the death toll due to the pandemic in the city rose to 6,395, it said. 832 patients recovered and were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 87,906. The recovery rate in the city is 76 per cent while the doubling rate of cases is 77 days, the BMC said. As of Friday, 5,37,536 coronavirus tests had been conducted in Mumbai, the civic body informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-1059-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-45-deaths-868485.html
01-08-2020||West||Maharashtra adds 9,601 Covid-19 cases in day, 322 die||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally spiked by 9,601 new cases to 4,31,719 on Saturday, the state health department said. With 322 fatalities, the toll went up to 15,316, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. A total of 10,725 patients were discharged in the day, raising the count of recovered cases to 2,66,883. Maharashtra now has 1,49,214 active cases. Mumbai city reported 1,047 new cases, taking the tally to 1,15,331 while suburbs added 2,995 new cases. The death toll in Mumbai now stands at 6,398.  The number of cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region reached 2,42,778 with 9,766 fatalities, it said. A total of 21,94,943 people have been tested so far in the state for COVID-19, the department said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-adds-9601-covid-19-cases-in-day-322-die-868486.html
01-08-2020||West||Beware of 'virtual kidnapping', Maharashtra Cyber advises parents||Maharashtra Cyber, the police's specialised wing keeping a tab on online activities, has said that internet crooks have devised a modus operandi in which they make parents fall prey to technological and psychological tricks to make them believe their child has been kidnapped, and force them to pay a ransom. Officials, however, added that no case of this kind of "virtual kidnapping" has been reported here so far. They are using technology to spoof calls and morph images to carry out such crimes and target children who are alone at home as their parents are working, an official explained. "They befriend the child online and employ social engineering tricks to make him or her not attend phone calls or to go incommunicado. The image of the child, downloaded from social media usually, is then morphed to pull off a fake kidnapping for ransom," the official said. "Parents, who are unable to contact their kids, get convinced about the kidnapping claim made by these criminals and give in to their demands," he added. Parents must keep a tab on their child's online activities, report anything untoward to the nearest police station, check if the 'kidnapping' calls are from their child's phone, the Maharashtra Cyber official said. He asked people to not blindly trust any individual who claims he represents a legal body or embassy or the like.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/beware-of-virtual-kidnapping-maharashtra-cyber-advises-parents-868493.html
