02-08-2020||Comment||The matter of a movie audience||The culture of moviegoing will doubtless be among the features of public life that are likely to be deeply altered even with success in reining in the coronavirus. The new hygiene regulations will probably disallow many practices that movie audiences in India took for granted, and close down the curtains perhaps on an entire mode of enjoying cinema. Luckily, sociologist Lakshmi Srinivas has captured this threatened culture of movie viewership with great care and detail. Titled House Full: Indian Cinema and the Active Audience, her study of movie audiences in Bengaluru discloses the layered cultural realities making up the great love affair of Indians with cinema. Among the few scholars to study movie audiences, Srinivas argues that a full understanding of a movie needs to also engage the world outside the movie as it were, including the expressive conduct of the audience, the ritual festivity of the fans, the inner décor and the spatial location of the movie theatre, all of which add up to make cinema a “collective act.” In other words, the audience’s experience of cinema is inevitably a localised affair. Most of Srinivas’s research, which included over a hundred interviews with directors, producers, actors, distributors, theatre managers and, of course, the moviegoers, took place in Bengaluru in the 1990s, before the arrival of multiplex cinema. Her observations on the “active” movie audience are derived from watching close to 150 movies -- both “superhits” and “flops” -- in single-screen cinemas. Besides, her “mobile ethnography,” which took her to film sets, music recording studios, offices of movie producers and distributors, among others, enabled a meticulous capture of the minutiae of social realities that inhere in the movie experience. How is the movie audience “active”? Besides mattering for how movie scripts themselves are written, Srinivas notes that their “overt engagement makes visible the collaborative ‘finishing’ or reworking of the film in the theatre”: “Embodied practices such as singing or humming along with the songs and providing ‘sound effects’ to accompany visuals allow audiences to move closer to the film…” The audience’s vocal expressions of boredom or excitement matter for how the film is experienced. Further, Srinivas argues that the environment inside the theatre proves crucial for the audience’s experience of the movie: “Sweating and scratching in the theatre, the smells of urine and of bodies in close proximity, uncomfortable seats and noises from fans…and the inhabitants of theatres – rats, bats, bugs, fireflies and pigeons – point to the ‘liveness’ of the space…the particularities of various theatres shape the cinema-going experience for audiences along with the memories, nostalgia filled accounts, stories and debates about cinema that are place based.” House Full doubles up as an exciting slice of the history of Bengaluru. It conveys the multilingual world of movie-watching in the city where movies in English, Kannada, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu were screened all the time. Srinivas’s descriptions of some of the landmark theatres to show how the inner décor mattered for the moviegoers’ choice of theatre venue, her superb account of how queues outside cinema theatres, which can seem a way of “passing time,” for some and “a tedious chore” for others, stayed vulnerable to disorder, among many other rich vignettes she excavates from the social milieu of cinema, offer a graphic index of the pulsating movie culture in Bengaluru. Srinivas is acutely aware of the threat that the phenomenon of multiplex cinema poses to the long-standing conventions of making and watching movies in India. Its expensive tickets keep out the poorer classes; its stiff inner décor dissuades audiences from actively interacting with the movie on the screen as well. The multiplex though has remained largely a big city phenomenon. And, even here, the pre-multiplex realities haven’t been swept away: the film magazines and fan clubs thrive in new online spaces; and the audience participation has found newer outlets in social media. Might the culture of movie-watching that House Full has excavated with such nuance and insight find a new avatar for itself?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-matter-of-a-movie-audience-868556.html
02-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Dakshina Kannada records 139 new Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada saw a slight decline with the district administration recording 139 fresh cases including that of former MLC Ivan D’Souza and a one-month-old baby from Puttur, thus taking the total tally to 5,852. Six more Covid-19 fatalities were reported, taking the district's death toll to 159. According to officials, of the positive cases, Mangaluru has recorded the highest with 91 cases followed by Bantwa (19), Belthangady (14), Puttur (9) and other places (6). Moodbidri, Mulki, Kadaba and Sullia taluks did not record any cases in the last 24 hours. On a positive note, 54 persons have been discharged from hospitals. The district has 3,008 active cases undergoing treatment at various hospitals and under home isolation. The total number of discharges in the district has reached 2,685. Meanwhile, two persons who were arrested by the Ullal Police in connection with the illegal transportation of cattle have been tested positive for Covid-19. They were arrested two days ago and hail from K C Road under the Ullal police station jurisdiction. Ivan tests positive Former MLC Ivan D’Souza and his wife Dr Kavitha have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been admitted to a private hospital in the city for treatment. In his Facebook post, Ivan said, “Myself and my wife Dr Kavitha have been tested Corana positive. There are no symptoms, but, we have voluntarily gone and given our samples and were tested. There is no anxiety or concern. We request all our friends and well-wishers not to visit us. Your prayers, blessings and good wishes are our strength.” In fact, Ivan had taken part in the meeting held on Friday when KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Working President Saleem Ahmed had visited the district. Ivan had accompanied Shivakumar when the latter visited former MLA Vijaykumar Shetty. He had also distributed kits to auto drivers along with Ahmed in Mangaluru. DC visits hospitals Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V visited K S Hegde Medical College Hospital and Yenepoya Medical College Hospital at Deralakatte on the outskirts of Mangaluru on Saturday. He collected information on Covid-19 treatment, Ayushman Bharath-Aarogya  Karnataka scheme beneficiaries from the hospital heads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dakshina-kannada-records-139-new-covid-19-cases-868593.html
02-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa's continuance more beneficial for us: KPCC working president||The Karnataka Congress on Sunday said B S Yediyurappa's continuation as the Chief Minister would benefit the party. "Whether Yediyurappa continues or not, in any case it will not minimise our advantages. His continuation will benefit us more," state Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi told reporters here, without elaborating. He was replying to queries on speculations about leadership change in the state government, which have already been rejected by the state unit of the BJP. Jarkiholi claimed he had heard that Yediyurappa was supposed to stay as Chief Minister only for six months but the term had been extended for a year because of coronavirus. There have been social media posts allegedly by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi's supporters, projecting him as the next chief minister in the backdrop of his recent visit to Delhi after meeting Governor Vajubhai Vala. However, Savadi himself has dismissed such speculations, saying Yediyurappa is his leader and will continue for the rest of the three years of his term as the Chief Minister. Apparently referring to Savadi, Jarkiholi said some people in the BJP were made deputy chief minister and ministers to 'counter' Yediyurappa||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappas-continuance-more-beneficial-for-us-kpcc-working-president-868785.html
02-08-2020||National||Doctors, lawyers, CAs added to MSME Covid-19 loan scheme||The government Saturday included more businesses and individuals facing Covid-related stress into its Rs 3-lakh crore loan guarantee scheme announced for MSMEs in May, without increasing the size of the pie. The ambit of the MSME loan scheme was expanded to include individual loans as well, benefiting professionals like doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and others. The scheme was announced in May as part of the government’s Atmanirbhar package to provide liquidity support to such firms. Under the scheme, the government provides full loan guarantee to incremental loans given to borrowers. “The ambit of the scheme has been increased to include individual loans for working capital purposes. As of July 29, Rs 1.4 lakh crore had been sanctioned under the scheme while Rs 87,227 crore worth of loans disbursed,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. To help large firms avail the loan facility, the government also increased the annual turnover ceiling of companies that could avail loan under the scheme to Rs 250 crore from the current Rs 100 crore. “Now, businesses/micro, small and medium enterprises with turnover of up to Rs 250 crore will get credit under the scheme,” Financial Services Secretary Debashish Panda said. The maximum loan that can be availed under the scheme has also been increased to Rs 10 crore from Rs 5 crore and, individual loans have been brought under its ambit too. The expansion of the loan guarantee scheme comes a day after Sitharaman firmly told the industry to lodge a complaint with her if banks refuse to give loans to MSMEs struggling under the pandemic impact. The minister on Saturday reassured that the government will do everything to help businesses stand on their own feet again. The RBI too is expected to come up with one-time restructuring of loans for stressed sectors like tourism and hospitality in its monetary policy review due next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-lawyers-cas-added-to-msme-covid-19-loan-scheme-868537.html
02-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 2||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 17 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  17,98,337  as of August 2   790+9509                                                                                               Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.                               No. of people discharged: 10,57,805                               While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-2-868568.html
02-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Ram Mandir’s time has come||The narrow and cramped lanes of Ayodhya have always reverberated with hymns and couplets from Tulsi Das’ ‘Ram Charit Manas,’ but there seems to be a discernible change in the atmospherics of it all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-ram-mandir-s-time-has-come-868577.html
02-08-2020||National||DH Toon | But Ram Rajya remains a distant dream||A grand Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is set to become a reality soon, but ‘Ram Rajya’, or the goal of ideal governance, still remains a distant dream for Uttar Pradesh. This is all the more ironic since UP, India’s most populous state has been crucial in determining the country’s political destiny in the aftermath of the Ram temple movement of the late 1980s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-but-ram-rajya-remains-a-distant-dream-868579.html
02-08-2020||National||India insists on 'early and complete' withdrawal of Chinese PLA troops as commanders meet||As senior military commanders of the two nations held the fifth round of talks on Sunday, India insisted on “early and complete” withdrawal of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers from the new areas they occupied on the bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) since May 5. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, held talks with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC. They earlier had four meetings to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations – on June 6, June 22, June 30 and July 14. The meeting between the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA took place amid growing concerns in New Delhi over Beijing’s intransigence and its latest move to officially claim the entire area between “Finger 5” to “Finger 8” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso as part of the territory of China. The Indian Army is also learned to have asked the Chinese PLA to completely withdraw its troops from the face-off scenes at Gogra Post, Depsang Y junction and other face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – to restart and expeditiously conclude the “disengagement process”. The two sides had mutually agreed upon the “disengagement process” or withdrawal of the front-line troops. It started early last month but remained stalled for the past couple of weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas. The fifth round of meeting between Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu is taking place three days after China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, for the first time officially asserted the communist country’s claim on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. The meeting continued till late in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-insists-on-early-and-complete-withdrawal-of-chinese-pla-troops-as-commanders-meet-868596.html
02-08-2020||National||RAW had recruited three warlords in Afghanistan, says book||The Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) had recruited three powerful warlords, including Ahmad Shah Massoud, in Afghanistan during the Soviet invasion and the US-Pakistan proxy war there, a new book on India's external spy agency has said. The book 'RAW: A History of India’s Covert Operations' by investigative journalist Yatish Yadav, however, did not disclose the identity of the two other warlords, as they still occupy positions in Afghanistan politics. At least three RAW spies involved in covert action in Afghanistan have claimed that Afghan armed forces were "demoralised and divided, remained practically inactive" during the Soviet army’s December 1979 invasion, the book, which will be released on Monday, said. The book, which provides details of RAW operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere, said that the mujahideen sought to fill this gap aided by the Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agents. The US' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)'s partnership with the ISI was a "serious concern" for India and the RAW needed allies to counter the unlikely partnership of the mujahideens and the Pakistani spy agency. “In training the mujahideen, Pakistan planned to kill three birds with one stone: first, show its irreconcilable enemy, India, that it could use the Islamic block as global leverage to achieve its long-held desire to annex all of Kashmir; next, acquire arms and funds to strengthen itself against India and Afghanistan; and finally, threaten Moscow and entertain China,” the book said. It claimed that the RAW helped Afghanistan’s fledgling security apparatus to fight back the ISI agents operating in the region and behind the scenes with its network providing accurate inputs on arms smuggled from Pakistan to insurgents in Kandahar. Sometime in April 1980, the Indian government was pressured by the United States to openly criticise the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, but the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had refused to yield. “India’s concerns related to Afghanistan were manifold but at least two issues agitated the spies: the training of mujahideen that could be used by Pakistan against India and the unhindered arms supply by the US to the Pakistan army, which was virtually part of its intelligence unit, the ISI,” the book said. The book also claims that the US knew about the Indian activities in Afghanistan and the Americans launched propaganda against the RAW with stories appearing with Washington dateline, which said that the US supply of arms was a "sort of punishment" to India for failing to oppose the Soviet Union on Afghan soil and the Soviet-Vietnam interference in Cambodia. Around September-October 1989, the book claims, the RAW officers armed with evidence of terror training camps confronted US officials. The Americans were told by the Indian spies that Pakistan was not preparing holy warriors for Afghanistan but terrorists who would haunt the Western powers in the future. The Indian spies, however, were rebuffed. RAW also feared, the book said, that the Taliban would not waste time in killing former President of Afghanistan Mohammad Najibullah Ahmadzai once they gained dominance in the war. An Indian spy recalled the message the RAW sent to Najibullah, who was staying at the UN mission in Kabul, to leave the country but he refused outrightly. Another effort was made through a reluctant Massoud, but Najibullah rejected the offer once again, arguing that the Taliban may not attack him. “Despite our insistence and warnings about the Pakistan-Taliban trickery, Najibullah waited for some kind of miracle to happen. It did not happen and he was brutally executed by the Taliban,” the book quotes an ex-spy as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raw-had-recruited-three-warlords-in-afghanistan-says-book-868599.html
02-08-2020||National||Akshaya Patra raises $950,000 in US to feed mid-day meals to school children in India||An Indian nonprofit organisation Akshaya Patra has raised USD 950,000 through a virtual event hosted by its Texas chapter in the US to feed mid-day meals to school children in India. The event, Virtual Gala - Technology for Change, was attended by over 1,000 businesses, non-profits, government officials and philanthropic leaders from around the world, supporting the organisation's dual mission of addressing childhood hunger and promoting education for underserved children in India. The Texas gala, hosted by the cities of Austin, Dallas and Houston, was held on July 25. The evening celebrated volunteers and chapter teams from Austin, Dallas, and Houston who continue to work towards alleviating classroom hunger. The event included conversation with Narayana Murthy, co-founder of software giant Infosys, by Siva Sivaram, president of Western Digital, who was recently appointed Chairman of Akshaya Patra Foundation USA along with Vice Chairman Srivatsan Rajan. It also included a musical rendition by Carnatic musician Jayashri Ramnath. Akshaya Patra is the world's largest (not-for-profit run) mid-day meal programme serving wholesome food every school day to over 1.8 million children from 19,039 schools across 12 states & 2 Union territories of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akshaya-patra-raises-950000-in-us-to-feed-mid-day-meals-to-school-children-in-india-868601.html
02-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 17 lakh mark; recoveries more than 11 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 17-lakh mark on Sunday, just two days after it went past 16 lakh, with 54,735 cases being reported in a day, while the recoveries crossed the 11-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   The total coronavirus cases surged to 17,50,723, while the death toll due to the Covid-19 climbed to 37,364 with 853 people succumbing to the disease in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have mounted to 11,45,629, while there are 5,67,730 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently. The recovery rate among Covid19 patients has risen to 65.44 per cent, while the fatality rate has further dropped to 2.13 pc, the data stated. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000 According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,98,21,831 samples have been tested up to August 1 with 4,63,172 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-17-lakh-mark-recoveries-more-than-11-lakh-868615.html
02-08-2020||National||Self-medication with borrowed prescriptions adding to Covid-19 crisis: Doctors||The very thought of contracting Covid-19 and the possibility of social ostracism making people hit the panic button, quite a few with symptoms of the disease are resorting to self-medication, relying on peer advice and borrowed prescriptions, despite doctors warning against it. A teacher at a private institute in Barasat near Kolkata admitted that he refrained from undergoing a test despite symptoms of the viral disease, and instead collected a prescription from a friend, a Covid-19 survivor, and bought medicines. "Two of my neighbours were ostracised by locals after they tested positive for the disease. I did not want to go through the same. A friend of mine, who is a Covid-19 survivor, shared his prescription with me after I told him that I have lost my sense of smell and taste. I got the medicines from a local pharmacy, and hopefully, I will be fine in a few days", the man in his early 50s said. Noted virologist Dr Amitabh Nandy said he recently received one such prescription on Whatsapp and insisted that most of these doing the rounds on social media are fake. Talking to PTI, Nandy stressed on the fact that there is no drug for Covid-19 cure as yet, and individuals were being treated on a case-to-case basis. Covid-19 psychosis or fear of the disease is probably spreading at a faster rate than the disease itself. People are governed by community members and relatives. They fail to understand that there cannot be a single protocol applicable for all. One biological unit (human) differs from another, the former consultant at the World Health Organization said. Medical science in our country is not scientifically governed, he deplored. Without a diagnosis, medication can be harmful. Physical examination by doctors is necessary before writing a prescription. Unfortunately, the pandemic has not been handled well. There has been no mechanism to address peoples fears. And that's adding to the woes. Even pharmacies are selling medicines without proper verification, Nandy said. Many are sceptical about visiting government hospitals for Covid-19 tests, as is the case with a clerk at a civic body here, who said that hygiene is not maintained at some of these facilities. I have seen patients flouting social distancing norms at these hospitals. Also, the premises are not always very clean. I consulted a nurse, who is a relative, and she asked me to take certain medicines, after learning about the symptoms I have. I am doing better than before, she said. Dr Diptendra Sarkar, professor of surgery at state-run SSKM hospital, said self-medication is a reason why the mortality rate in Bengal is on the rise. Patients, who could have otherwise recovered without much ado, are rushing to doctors only when the situation has got out of hand. They are visiting doctors with respiratory distress after their self-medication attempts have failed. Arup Sen, a senior manager at a top medical retail chain on Lindsay Street, admitted that his store executives are getting enquiries on immunity boosters, and medicines to treat Covid-19 symptoms. He said he has asked the executives not to entertain customers who do not furnish a proper prescription. Senior TMC leader and Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen, when approached, said those that have been hiding symptoms and not undergoing tests are doing a disservice to themselves and the society by putting everyone at risk. "People have been told to consult doctors even if they experience mild symptoms. The government has been conducting surveys to check on people and create awareness. Those not following guidelines and hiding symptoms or indulging in self-medication are causing harm to themselves as well as the society, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/self-medication-with-borrowed-prescriptions-adding-to-covid-19-crisis-doctors-868617.html
02-08-2020||National||All you need to know about the One Nation, One Card Scheme||The Covid-19 outbreak in India and the ensuing lockdown threw spotlight once again on the rung that became the face of the compounding misery – the migrant labourers. One scheme that promised easing at least some of their agony was the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ plan. What is the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme?  The ‘One nation, one ration card’ was undertaken by the Department of Food and Public Distribution launched to ensure nationwide portability of the ration card. Part of the larger picture of the Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IMPDS), the aim was to ensure that the beneficiaries get their share of benefits regardless of their geographical location as per the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013 that covers about 75 crore people. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries could buy subsidised foodgrains from any of the 5,00,000 odd Fair Price Shops (FPS) across the country with the same ration card. Launched by the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2019, the scheme was supposed to be implemented at part of Modi government’s 100-day agenda.  Paswan had claimed that the scheme would mostly cover migrant labourers and daily wagers. The project started off on pilot mode in four states  --  Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (cluster 1) and Gujarat and Maharashtra (cluster 2) --  in a phased manner from August  1, 2019. Alongside those four states, seven other states -- Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tripura – began testing intra-portability of the ration card, meaning ration could be collected from any PDS located within these states. So far, ration card portability has been enabled in 20 states and UTs -- Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Punjab, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh, with Odisha, Sikkim and Mizoram joining the list on June 1. How the scheme works: Paswan had told the Lok Sabha in December 2019 that the scheme, applicable through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) initiative, would be made available after biometric/Aadhaar authentication on ePoS (electronic Point of Sale) devices that would be set up at the Fair Price Shops. The initiative would be available only through the FPSs having fully online ePoS devices, he added. This makes e-biometric authentication of beneficiaries and state-level portability important for the scheme to work. The beneficiaries can then access their entitled quota with the help of either their ration card number or the Aadhaar number at any FPS dealer in India. This would eliminate the need to share the ration or Aadhaar card with dealers for the benefits making fingerprints or iris-based identification for Aadhaar authentication sufficient at the shops. "This system would largely benefit the numerous migrant beneficiaries such as labourers, daily wagers, blue-collar workers etc. who frequently change their place of dwelling in search of employment or for other reasons across the country," he had said.  Covid-19 rears its ugly head Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said that the scheme had not yet picked up due to the lack of awareness and suspension of biometric machines with Covid-19 in the picture now. “Public distribution system (PDS) shop owners have been asked to keep hand sanitizer which the beneficiary can use, after and before using their finger for biometric identification," Pandey said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-one-nation-one-card-scheme-868618.html
02-08-2020||National||New Education Policy: Breakfast for school children besides mid-day meals||The mid-day meals provided to students in government or aided schools should be supplemented by breakfast, the new National Education Policy (NEP) has proposed. The policy which was approved by the Union Cabinet earlier this week has noted that morning hours after a nutritious breakfast can be particularly productive for the study of cognitively more demanding subjects and hence recommended expansion of the mid-day meal scheme to include provisions for breakfast in schools. "Children are unable to learn optimally when they are undernourished or unwell. Hence, the nutrition and health (including mental health) of children will be addressed, through healthy meals and the introduction of well-trained social workers, counsellors, and community involvement into the schooling system," the policy said. "Furthermore, research shows that the morning hours after a nutritious breakfast can be particularly productive for the study of cognitively more demanding subjects and hence these hours may be leveraged by providing a simple but energising breakfast in addition to mid-day meals," it added. In locations where hot meals are not possible, a simple but nutritious meal-- groundnuts or chana mixed with jaggery and local fruits may be provided. "All school children shall undergo regular health check-ups especially for 100 percent immunisation in schools and health cards will be issued to monitor the same," the policy said. The revised policy has proposed that prior to the age of five every child will move to a "preparatory class" or "balavatika". "The learning in the preparatory class shall be based primarily on play-based learning with a focus on developing cognitive, affective, and psychomotor abilities and early literacy and numeracy. The mid-day meal programme shall also be extended to the preparatory classes in primary schools. "Health check-ups and growth monitoring that are available in the anganwadi system shall also be made available to preparatory Class students of anganwadi as well as of primary schools," the policy document said. The National Programme of Mid-Day Meal in Schools, popularly known as the Mid-Day Meal Scheme (MDMS), is an on-going centrally-sponsored scheme which covers all school children studying in classes one to eight of government, government-aided schools, special training centres including 'Madarsas' supported under 'Samagra Shiksha'. "As per the provisions of National Food Security Act, 2013, children studying in classes one to eight or within the age group of 6-14 years are entitled to one mid-day meal free of charge, every day except on school holidays, in all schools run by local bodies, government and government-aided schools so as to meet nutritional standards specified in the Act," a senior HRD Ministry official said. "However, some States and Union Territories provide additional items such as milk, egg and fruits to students from their own resources," the official added. At least 11.59 crore elementary school students are beneficiaries under the mid-day meal scheme of the Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry, while nearly 26 lakh cook-cum helpers are employed for the same. The Ministry also advised states during lockdown to provide mid-day meals or food security allowance to students till schools are closed due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. The NEP replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-breakfast-for-school-children-besides-mid-day-meals-868638.html
02-08-2020||National||Saddened by demise of Uttar Pradesh minister Kamal Rani Varun: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday condoled the death of Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister Kamal Rani Varun, noting that she was well respected for serving people at the grassroots. The 62-year-old minister for Technical Education succumbed to Covid-19 at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow. “Saddened by the untimely demise of Smt Kamal Rani Varun, Cabinet Minister in the Uttar Pradesh Government. Well respected for serving people at the grassroots, she had also served as an MP in the Lok Sabha twice. My condolences to her family and followers,” Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saddened-by-demise-of-uttar-pradesh-minister-kamal-rani-varun-president-ram-nath-kovind-868642.html
02-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Activists warn of sharp rise in human trafficking in near future||Tarannum (name changed) has many cut marks on her wrist, scars that constantly remind her of the several years she spent in a brothel where she was sexually exploited countless times. "Three years of hell," she recalls. Daughter of a fisherman from a cyclone-prone area of the Sundarbans, 13-year-old Tarannum was trafficked by a local shopkeeper in 2012. He tricked her into believing that he would get her a job as a domestic worker with a good salary. Once in Delhi, he sold her to a woman at a brothel. After three years, she was rescued by a local NGO with the help of police. But even after she returned home, the trauma of the past haunted her and she turned suicidal, trying to slit her wrist multiple times. Slowly recuperating now, Tarannum hopes no one ever goes through what she did. Another trafficking survivor Reema (name changed) does not remember her parents. She only faintly recalls her father. At a very young age, a brothel owner had trafficked her and forced her into prostitution. She was finally rescued from a brothel in Sonagachi, West Bengal, in 2013 at the age of 21 after enduring many years of sexual abuse in different cities across the country. Both Tarannum and Reema are among thousands of children and women who get trafficked in different parts of the country every year. This year with the outbreak of the coronavirus, activists and researchers are worried that an exponential increase in human trafficking cases will take place in the coming times. Roop Sen, an anti-trafficking researcher and gender rights activist, said it's "undeniable" that those on the margins of society are vulnerable to trafficking. "The reasons are manifold like debt trap, closing down of factories, restaurants and retail shops, probable rise in demand of young girls and women in red light areas," he said. According to Sen, among the steps the government can take to combat human trafficking are cash transfer support to more vulnerable families and communities, cash transfer to children and adolescents attending schools and creating safe migration services. He further suggested that anti-human trafficking units can gather intelligence on trafficking in hotspots. Sambhu Nanda, an activist from West Bengal who coordinates an NGO-network called Partners for Anti-Trafficking claimed that multiple reports of missing and trafficking of girls have been received in the past two months. "Even when parents reported the cases to local police stations, the officers pleaded helplessly since all their energies were focussed on Covid-19 prevention," he said. "The pandemic, the lockdown, and in parts of our country devastating natural calamities (floods and cyclones) are now accentuating these vulnerabilities and have brought them out in the open, visible enough that they can no longer be ignored by the law enforcement and politicians," Banerjee said. N Rammohan, an anti-trafficking activist from Andhra Pradesh who runs NGO HELP, claimed that many sex workers, who are the earning members for their families especially for their children, have been driven to take loans under exorbitant interests during the lockdown period. "The local loan sharks who are not registered under the Money Lenders' Act, especially operating in red light areas, are poaching women with adolescent girls and encouraging them to take loans under high interest. When they would be unable to repay their loans, the sex workers would be forced to prostitute their daughters," he said. Priti Mahara, Director, Policy Research and Advocacy at CRY – Child Rights and You said separated and orphaned children are also particularly vulnerable to trafficking and other exploitation like forced begging and child labour. "The state needs to be prepared to provide enough child care homes/facilities, improve the quality and safety standard of childcare homes, child sponsorship and foster care. There are increased chances of many children getting separated from families, becoming orphans or falling out of the safety net," she said. She further said the government and civil society need to activate local self-governance units like panchayats to keep the records of families and children entering and exiting villages and slums to help keep track of children and expedite follow-ups. Prabhat Kumar, deputy director of child protection for NGO Save the Children said whenever there is a disaster, there is a rise in trafficking cases due to the crisis that follows as it becomes easier to recruit people and send them for trafficking, forced labour or sexual exploitation. The economic crisis, lack of enforcement mechanisms and migrant crisis might lead to a rise in trafficking in the coming times, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-activists-warn-of-sharp-rise-in-human-trafficking-in-near-future-868645.html
02-08-2020||National||India Meteorological Department plans to use AI in weather forecasting||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) is planning to use artificial intelligence in weather forecasting, especially for issuing nowcasts, which can help improve 3-6 hours prediction of extreme weather events, its Director-General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Sunday. He said the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning is not as prevalent as it is in other fields and it is relatively new in the area of weather forecasting. The IMD has invited research groups who can study how artificial intelligence (AI) be used for improving weather forecasting and the Ministry of Earth Sciences is evaluating their proposals, Mohapatra said. He said the IMD is also planning to do collaborative studies on this with other institutions. The IMD uses different tools like radars, satellite imagery, to issue nowcasts, which gives information on extreme weather events occurring in the next 3-6 hours.       The IMD issues forecasts for extreme weather events like thunderstorms, dust storms. Unlike cyclones, predictions of thunderstorms, which also bring lightning, squall and heavy rains, are more difficult as the extreme weather events develop and dissipate in a very short period of time. Last month, over 160 people died due to lightning alone in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The IMD wants to better the nowcast predictions through AI and machine learning. "Artificial intelligence helps in understanding past weather models and this can make decision-making faster," Mohapatra said. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the US announced new strategies this year to expand the agency's application of four emerging science and technology focus areas -- NOAA Unmanned Systems, artificial intelligence, Omics, and the cloud -- to guide transformative advancements in the quality and timeliness of NOAA science, products and services. Omics is a suite of advanced methods used to analyse material such as DNA, RNA, or proteins. With regards to AI, it said the overarching goal of the NOAA Artificial Intelligence (AI) Strategy is to utilise AI to advance NOAA's requirements-driven mission priorities. The NOAA said through this, it seeks to reduce the cost of data processing, and provide higher quality and more timely scientific products and services for societal benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-meteorological-department-plans-to-use-ai-in-weather-forecasting-868646.html
02-08-2020||National||NIA searches arrested DU Professor Hany Babu's residence||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted searches at the residence of Delhi University professor Hany Babu, who was arrested in connection with Bhima Koregaon case, in Uttar Pradesh's Noida and claimed that he was in touch with banned Manipuri outfit Kangleipak Communist Party (MC). The NIA team, including two women personnel, arrived at Babu's residence in Noida, near Delhi, at around 7:30 AM and left at around 10:30 AM. The NIA had accused Babu of propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and was a co-conspirator with other arrested accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Earlier, human rights activists and academicians including Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale, P Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira were arrested. In a statement, the NIA said it recovered an account ledger, a receipt book of the Committee for the Defence and Release of Dr GN Saibaba, several documents as well as electronic items such as hard disk and USB pen drive. Jenny Rowena, a lecturer in Miranda House College in Delhi and Babu's wife, said the investigating team told her that they were conducting the searches to collect evidence in the case against Babu (54), who was arrested on July 28 in Mumbai. She said some pamphlets of G N Saibaba Defence Committee of which Babu was part of, pen drives and a computer hard-disk. "We are getting shocking reports that the house of Dr Jenny Rowena, who teaches in Miranda House, and is wife of recently arrested Prof Hany Babu, is being raided right now. I strongly protest and urge the Government to desist from these illegal, strong-arm tactics and immediately stop this witch hunt against academics and scholars," Delhi University Teachers Union (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said in a statement as the searches were proceeding. After the searches, the DUTA said the NIA was in Hany and her house under the pretext of evidence collection. "Now they have left, friends and colleagues are with her but the harassment continues under one pretext or other," it said. In the statement, NIA claimed that Babu was in contact with Paikhomna Meitei, Secretary (Information and Publicity and Military Affairs) of  Kangleipak Communist Party (MC), who had shared an interview of top CPI (Maoist) leader Ganapathy with him. Communications of Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved, it claimed. The statement also said that Babu along with Wilson took the initiative to help CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty financially by raising funds after his release from jail. It also said that Babu along with Wilson, Teltumbde, P Varavara Rao and Gadling formed a Committee for the release of Saibaba. The NIA had taken over the Bhima Koregaon case from Pune Police and registered a case on 20 January this year. The Pune Police had filed an FIR in 2018 – and a Special Investigation Team was formed. Pune Police had last September conducted searches at the residence of Babu in Noida, near Delhi, in connection with the case. Police had taken away three books, laptop, phone and hard disks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-searches-arrested-du-professor-hany-babus-residence-868652.html
02-08-2020||National||Kerala gold smuggling case: Union minister sits on hunger strike, demands Kerala CM's resignation||Minister of State for External Affairs and BJP leader V Muraleedharan on Sunday sat on a hunger strike here demanding the resignation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, alleging that he sheltered anti-nationals by helping them in gold smuggling. Muraleedharan's fast came a day after the Kerala BJP unit held protests in connection with the case of gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage in which accused were linked to former Principal Secretary M Shivasankaran. The protest was inaugurated by BJP National General Secretary P Muralidhar Rao who alleged that Vijayan has become "don of corruption". "The whole country is witnessing the corruption in the Left government in Kerala. The Chief Minister is acting as if he is not aware of anything. Like in Tamil and Telugu films, the Chief Minister will emerge as the villain in the climax," Rao alleged. Rao also claimed that the Chief Minister's Office was aware of the gold smuggling. "The gold smuggling case is linked to both terrorism and corruption. The case is of indulging in economic terrorism. The funding of protests like those against Citizenship Amendment Act were funnelled through gold smuggling," he claimed. Muraleedharan said one of accused Swapna Suresh had submitted fake degree certificates for the job in the government. "The Chief Minister has betrayed the country by allowing space for those indulged in gold smuggling and anti-national activities. Vijayan should resign," he added. The Kerala government had denied helping any accused in the gold smuggling case. It had also said that Shivasankaran was suspended and removed from the posts of Chief Minister's Principal Secretary and IT Secretary soon after his links with the accused emerged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-union-minister-sits-on-hunger-strike-demands-kerala-cms-resignation-868658.html
02-08-2020||National||ICMR to set up registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients||A registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients across the country is being mooted to collect real-time data which will help improve treatment outcomes, analyse trends in the progression of the pandemic and calibrate response, officials said. The ICMR in collaboration with the Health Ministry and the AIIMS is planning to set up the National Clinical Registry which will help researchers and policymakers understand the effectiveness of investigational therapies, adverse effects taking place and generate evidence for improving the treatment of Covid-19 patients. "The aim is to collect data of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients like clinical and laboratory features, their demographics, comorbidities, treatment outcomes, complications in all age groups among others," officials said. The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 and the illness it is causing have so many unknown parameters that are a barrier to the proper understanding and management of the disease, they said. "A systematically collected, comprehensive database covering different regions of the country will enable both researchers and policymakers to generate pertinent hypotheses, to inform crucial understanding of Covid 19, to detect trends in the progression of the pandemic and to accordingly calibrate the response to the pandemic," an official said. Fifteen institutions of national repute including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru and Armed Force Medical College in Pune will connect with the hospitals and medical colleges to get them on board. These 15 institutions would be the registry sites and would be mentoring around 100 Covid-19 hospitals which would be called satellite centres from where the data would be collected as part of the exercise. The proposal has been sent for approval to the Central Ethics Committee on Human Research (CECHR) of the ICMR.  "The data will help improve the clinical management protocols as the repository would help us know which drug is working better in which age group, the effectiveness of investigational therapies and adverse effects taking place. The idea is to generate evidence for improving the treatment of Covid-19 patients," another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-to-set-up-registry-of-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-868659.html
02-08-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi discharged from Ganga Ram hospital||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted to a private facility here on July 30, was discharged on Sunday, hospital authorities said. "Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted on July 30, 2020, evening at 7 pm, to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, has been discharged today at 1 pm. Her condition at the time of discharge was stable," Dr D S Rana, Chairman (Board of Management), SGRH, was quoted as saying in a health bulletin. On Friday, the SGRH bulletin said, "Her investigations are being carried out and she is showing satisfactory improvement."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-discharged-from-ganga-ram-hospital-868667.html
02-08-2020||National||High tax on liquor fails to bring more revenue for states, says Industry body||High cess on liquor imposed by some states to increase their tax revenue was counterproductive as the sale of booze was down by half during relaxation in lockdown, according to industry body Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC). CIABC, the apex industry association representing Indian liquor manufacturers, said that data collected by it revealed that the states, union territories which imposed no or moderate Covid-related taxes (0-15%) saw their sales falling by just 16% while those which levied over 50% taxes saw their sales dip by 59%. Comparing May and June data, when liquor sale was opened up after six weeks of complete shutdown, CIABC categorized states into three categories based on the corona cess levied by various state governments. The first group, which levied up to 15% Corona tax include Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Telangana, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and Punjab. The second group of states with 15-50% Corona tax comprise Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Kerala and Jharkhand. While the third group of states, UTs with above 50% Corona cess are Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, J&K, Pudducherry and Delhi (though some states like Delhi later reduced tax from 70% to 5%). “Comparing data for the month of May and June vis-a-vis previous fiscal clearly shows the sale of alcohol in the first category of states fell by 16%, in the second by 34% and in the third by 59%. This, in effect, conveys that tax increases most likely did not lead to an increase in tax collection in absolute terms. This clearly indicates that levying of hefty Corona tax did not lead to an increase in total tax collection. In fact, the trend in sales recovery in June, when unlocking began, was stronger in states that imposed lower tax increases,” said CIABC Director General  Vinod Gir in a statement. "We believe that tax increases that push consumer price up by more than 10-15% are counterproductive and lead to a reduction in total tax collections despite higher tax rates,” Giri added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-tax-on-liquor-fails-to-bring-more-revenue-for-states-says-industry-body-868673.html
02-08-2020||National||AIIB in discussion with India for financing of ambitious $ 8-bn health infra scheme||The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is in discussion with the Indian government for financing a USD 8-billion scheme for improving health infrastructure at the district level to make the country better prepared for the future healthcare challenges. The Beijing-based multilateral funding agency had earlier approved a financial assistance of USD 1.2 billion for India to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Government of India has discussed about its ambitious scheme of strengthening the health infrastructure. It entails building health infrastructure in every district including upgrading of testing facilities with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," AIIB Vice President D J Pandian told PTI in an interview. It is a USD 8-billion project, he said, adding that the World Bank and Asian Development Bank are also involved in the discussion with the Health Department of the Government of India. The Finance Ministry is trying to put up a financing plan for this ambitious scheme and the minute details are being worked out, he said. If things work out, the financing by the AIIB can be cleared this year itself on a fast-track basis, he added. With regard to Covid-19 assistance, Pandian said the AIIB has approved two loans of USD 500 million and USD 750 million, respectively. The first loan of USD 500 million sanctioned in May was towards building a resilient health system that can effectively treat Covid-19 patients and prevent its spread, he said A USD 750 million loan was approved in June to help the government strengthen its battle against the adverse impact of Covid-19 on poor and vulnerable households. For AIIB, India is the largest borrower, which accounts for 25 per cent of the total lending by it so far. As of July 16, 2020, AIIB has approved up to USD 19.6 billion for 87 projects in 24 economies. Since its inception in 2016, AIIB has approved loans to the tune of USD 4.3 billion across 17 projects in India. India is a founding member of the multilateral funding agency with the second-highest voting share. Currently, India has 7.65 per cent vote share in the AIIB while China holds a whopping 26.63 per cent stake in the organisation that was set up in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiib-in-discussion-with-india-for-financing-of-ambitious-8-bn-health-infra-scheme-868674.html
02-08-2020||National||BCAS issues security guidelines for drone operating systems||Aviation security regulator BCAS has issued guidelines for drone operating systems, which act like cockpits on the ground to remotely pilot the unmanned aerial vehicle. The BCAS has listed out rules that should be followed for cybersecurity, storage facility, training and background check of staff for drone operating systems or remotely piloted aircraft systems. A remotely piloted aircraft (RPA), its associated remote pilot station, its required command and control links and any other components constitute a remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS). "Ensure that CCTV cameras are installed inside RPAS and the storage facility. The capacity to retain a recording of minimum 30 days shall be in place for all categories of RPAs except for mini and micro," said the guidelines of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS). An RPA or drone is in nano or mini category if it has a weight less than 250 grams. If its weight is between 250 grams and two kg, it is in the micro category. "Ensure access control of RPAS and RPA storage area. As RPAS is similar in purpose and design to a cockpit, it is understood that it must likewise be secured from sabotaged or unlawful malicious interference," the guidelines, accessed by PTI, said. According to BCAS, the remote pilot station in the RPAS is of "fixed and exposed" nature as opposed to the "restricted nature" of a commercial plane where the intrusion and use of heavier weapons are less likely. Therefore, further consideration must be given to the "potential vulnerability" of the premises of the remote pilot stations against unlawful interference, it added. "The aircraft (drones) itself shall be stored and prepared for flight in a manner that will prevent and detect tampering and ensure the integrity of vital components," it noted. Safety and security of data and communication links and services are equally important as those for the drones and their remote pilot stations, as per the guidelines said. "Accordingly, it shall be ensured that they (links and services) are free from hacking, spoofing and other forms/interference or malicious hijack," the guidelines said. Moreover, the drone operator must ensure that all of its staff are provided one-day aviation security awareness training online as recommended by BCAS, they said. "Background check of remote pilots and support personnel (visual observer, launch crew and recovery crew) shall be carried out following due procedure," the guidelines added. If there is any security incident or accident, it must be reported to the local police, the BCAS control room and the regional director of BCAS without any "unnecessary delay", they added. Each RPA and RPAS operator must establish, implement and maintain a security programme, based on the aforementioned guidelines, and it must be submitted to BCAS before its operation, according to the guidelines. The operator of RPAS must obtain relevant permissions from the local administration and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) before operating the RPAS, the guidelines said. From June 8, the Civil Aviation Ministry has started the registration process for non-compliant drones which were not registered with the DGCA and have not been granted the drone acknowledgement numbers (DANs). It gave a similar one-time opportunity for voluntary disclosure of such drones between January 14 and January 31. A total of 19,553 non-compliant drones were registered during that period. On June 5, the ministry had issued draft rules for manufacturing and use of drones in the country wherein it has proposed that an authorised drone manufacturer or importer can sell its devices only to an individual or entity approved by the DGCA. It will issue the final rules once it deliberates on comments received from all the stakeholders on draft rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcas-issues-security-guidelines-for-drone-operating-systems-868675.html
02-08-2020||National||I do! Love blossoms in redefined arranged marriages||Love actually! A necessary, non-negotiable step even in a marriage made not in heaven but ‘arranged’ in drawing rooms, coffee shops or sundry other social places by matchmakers, parents and sometimes distant relatives. As arranged marriages, inextricably woven into India’s societal fabric, come under the scanner with a new Netflix show “Indian Matchmaking”, more and more couples are making sure love happens before they finally say “I do”. The times are changing, but slowly. While the concept is still built on caste, religion and looks, arranged marriage, for most women, no longer means welcoming prospective in-laws with a tray of tea and sweet treats, and sitting quietly while the groom’s side judges away. “It is very important to fall in love, otherwise there is no meaning of a relationship. It’s true that when you start living with each other, you fall in love deeply but there has to be some spark, attraction, chemistry and compatibility in terms of understanding each other to move ahead,” said Pratibha Singh, a 28-year-old who went along with an arranged marriage. Singh, who works at a government regulatory organisation, had one non-negotiable condition. She would not give up her job. Her parents were keen on the caste factor but soon gave in to what she wanted. So, Singh met and interacted with at least 10 men, some for even a few months, before zeroing in on Aditya Fogat, now her husband. They got married within 10 months of meeting but not before falling in love with each other. While “Indian Matchmaking” does hold up a mirror to the regressive traditions associated with arranged marriages (without calling them out), others who went that way to find a life partner also feel the idea has evolved over time. For many men, the focus has shifted from wanting a wife like “my mother” to desiring a partner who is an equal — socially and financially.  Delhi-based business consultant Mudit Varshney got married last month. The 30-year-old said he met his wife on a matrimonial site, fell in love and married her in a matter of “few months”.  "I don't understand why people view arranged marriages with a negative mindset, and honestly, our marriage can also be called love marriage. We initially connected over the fact that both of us have twin siblings. It was a very quick decision for us, perhaps because we were brutally honest with each other from the very first day, and had fallen in love just after knowing each other for a few days,” Varshney said. Treading the fine line between tradition and modernity, people like Singh and Varshney are among those who believe emotional and intellectual compatibility take precedence over social factors like caste, and aligned goals and ambitions are a priority over physical attributes like complexion and height. A 2020 survey by Viacom 18 noted that 60 percent of over 25,000 youngsters (15-25 years) across more than 400 Indian cities said arranged marriage was “acceptable” to them. But that does not necessarily mean submitting to parents’ criteria unconditionally. Parents know best, but when it comes to choosing their better halves, the brides and grooms know better. And while the process might begin clinically, almost like a business deal, falling in love, whether it takes a few days or a couple of years, is mandatory. “The preferred characteristics might be subjective but we have seen that educational background, employment, nature of the job, compatibility of personalities, interests and passions have become increasingly important,” Rohan Mathur, business head, Jeevansathi.com, a matrimonial portal, told PTI. According to relationship expert Shahzeen Shivdasani, the difference between love and arranged marriage is merely that of what comes first — “love” or “discovering an alignment in goals” and, for a successful marriage, the sequence is inconsequential. “For any relationship, it is very important that the two individuals are in love, and that their goals are aligned.  “While in a love marriage, you fall in love and then discover your goals together, in an arranged marriage you decide what your ambitions are and if you share them with the other person, and then subsequently fall in love,” she said.  Shivdasani, however, noted that while there were couples who would get married within a few months of having known each other, it was best to wait at least a year before tying the knot. “Most people are on their best behaviour in the initial period. People should wait until at least a couple of flaws of the other person surface, and then decide how tolerant they can be of those flaws,” she said.  As the concept of arranged marriage is being redefined, so is the matchmaking process, with new platforms that allow individuals, instead of their parents or relatives, to take the lead.  Using technology to their advantage, these platforms bring together like-minded individuals. Sirf Coffee, for instance, is an application-based service, where a suitable match is picked not by an algorithm (like in dating apps, or matrimonial sites), but by a team of “expert matchmakers” who interview every client offline. “Our service falls in the sweet spot between dating apps and the traditional dot coms/aunty matchmakers… We offer a pressure-free, personalised approach to dating,” Sirf Coffee founder Naina Hiranandani said. Hiranandani said they’ve set up almost 10,000 dates in the last six years, with about 2,400 setups in 2019.  “Our growth is 50 percent year-on-year over the last three years (tripled our user base in the last three years),” she added. Some popularly sought after qualities in a prospective partner on Sirf Coffee include fitness, education, international exposure and sense of humour. Another platform that works on a similar principle is ‘and we met’ that caters to urban Indians between the age of 25 and 60.  “It is an online matchmaking service for those seeking a meaningful relationship, inclusive of marriage, live-in or just companionship. The sign-up process provides clarity on what the two individuals are seeking, including topics like living with parents, as well as one’s sex drive, which we feel are important to discuss before connecting real-time,” said Shalini Singh, 'and we met' founder. Though there is an evident progression from a time when parents steered their children’s marriages, some traditions continue. Women are still bound by dos and don’ts before they meet their prospective in-laws and are expected to relocate because they are told that’s the right thing to do. For instance, Shivani Joshi Kalia, who has been happily married for a couple of years, and recently gave birth to a daughter, said her parents “instructed” her not to not speak loudly or laugh when her prospective in-laws would be visiting. “We met through an online wedding portal… I didn’t come with a tea tray obviously, but the feeling was quite the same,” she recalled. The times, they are 'A-changing’, just not as fast as some would like.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-do-love-blossoms-in-redefined-arranged-marriages-868680.html
02-08-2020||National||Death toll in Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rises to 98||The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 98 on Sunday with 12 more people reported dead in Tarn Taran district after drinking spurious liquor. “In Tarn Taran, the death toll is now 75,” Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said over the phone. He, however, said the administration put the figure at 75 on the basis of the information “received from the field” as the victims’ last rites have already been performed by their families in the past a couple of days. Some of them even didn’t come forward for autopsy, he said. Apart from Tarn Taran, 12 deaths have been reported from Amritsar and 11 from Gurdaspur’s Batala, in a tragedy unfolding since Wednesday evening. Officials said some of the families were not even coming forward to report the death of their kin after drinking spurious liquor. A senior police official said they have been persuading them to report the death of their family members. Meanwhile, the Opposition AAP held protests at several places, including Patiala, Barnala, Pathankot and Moga, against the Punjab government. The protesters accused the government of “negligence”, leading to the death of people, mostly belonging to poor families. Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann also went to Tarn Taran and met families of the deceased. Mann sought a probe by a sitting judge into the matter. The Punjab government has ordered a magisterial probe into the case. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday had announced the suspension of seven excises and six police officials. He had described the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as “shameful". The state government has announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for each of the families of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-in-punjab-spurious-liquor-tragedy-rises-to-98-868682.html
02-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recovery rate in India rises to 65.44%, case fatality rate drops further to 2.13%||Recoveries among Covid-19 patients in India crossed the 11 lakh-mark on Sunday with over 51,000 patients recuperating in a 24-hour span, the highest recorded so far, pushing the recovery rate to 65.44 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. There are 5,67,730 active cases of the coronavirus infection, which is the "actual caseload" of Covid-19 for the country presently and account for 32.43 per cent of the total cases, it said. All active cases are under medical supervision either in hospitals or in home isolation. With 51,225 patients cured and discharged in a day, India's total recoveries have surged to 11,45,629 and exceeded active cases of Covid-19 by 5,77,899 as on date, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.13 per cent. "Coordinated implementation of Covid-19 management strategy by the Union and state and UT governments and selfless sacrifice of all frontline healthcare and other workers and Covid-19 warriors across sectors have ensured that the recoveries are continuously on the rise," the ministry said. "The gap between the recoveries and the active cases has seen a steady rise. On June 10, for the first time, the total number of recovered patients exceeded the active cases with a difference of 1,573, which has increased to 5,77,899 as on today," it said. The successful and coordination implementation of the effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive standard of care framework, have resulted in a consistent trend of rising recovery rate and progressively reducing case fatality rate (CFR).   "India has one of the lowest case fatality rate at 2.13 pc as compared to the global average," the ministry said.     India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 17.50 lakh with 54,735 cases being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 37,364 with 853 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-india-rises-to-6544-case-fatality-rate-drops-further-to-213-868688.html
02-08-2020||National||Kerala-based parents, son share joy as they pass class 12 exams together||It was a joyous occassion for Malappuram-based Muhammed Musthafa and Nusaiba, who passed their class 12th equivalency exams in March. Their joy was only amplified when their son, Shammas, cleared his own regular class 12 examinations four months later. While the couple decided to pick up where they left off, they didn’t know how to go about re-starting their education. A poster for Kerala Literacy Mission’s equivalency exams led them to the world of evening lessons and weekend classes. “Both of us are working in the business together, so that’s all the time we could take out for studying. Our son was excited to know about our enrollment. He would help us with our doubts and ask us questions too. He has always been good at studies, getting A+ in all subjects both in Class 10 and 11. This year, when there was a break in classes due to the coronavirus, there was some difficulty and he missed A+ only for one subject by three marks,” Musthafa told TNM. The family also later realised that they had a common teacher. While Nusaiba scored 80% marks, Musthafa got first-class grades too. All three members of the family studied in the commerce stream. The couple were hesitant to discuss the fact that they had just cleared their class 12th examinations with friends and family. “But we understood there was no reason to be embarrassed when all the calls that came were congratulatory. We even managed to inspire some people who realised that it is never too late to study more,” Musthafa told the source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-based-parents-son-share-joy-as-they-pass-class-12-exams-together-868689.html
02-08-2020||National||Union Home Minister Amit Shah tests positive for coronavirus||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19, the first leader in the Narendra Modi cabinet to contract the virus. The day also saw Uttar Pradesh Minister Kamal Rani Varun, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, breathing her last in Lucknow while Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, senior JD(U) MP RCP Singh, UP BJP President Swantantra Dev Singh and 14 staff of former Bihar Chief Minister Rabri Devi tested positive. Shah (54) himself announced on Twitter about being admitted to hospital after the tests returned positive results for the virus infection and appealed to asked people who came in contact with him in the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested. A diabetic, Shah was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, near Delhi. "After symptoms of Covid-19 surfaced, I got myself tested. The samples have been tested positive. My health condition is fine. But on the advice of doctors, I am being admitted to a hospital. I request that all who have come in contact with me in the past few days, please isolate yourself and get tests done," he tweeted. Sources said he showed Covid-19 symptoms in the past 24 hours and samples were taken for testing and the results came on Sunday. The Home Minister's hospitalisation comes at a time he was scheduled to fly to Ayodhya with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5 for the 'bhumi pujan' for the Ram temple construction. August 5 also marks the first anniversary of the revocation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir. With Shah in hospital and his meeting Modi on Wednesday have raised speculation about who all will attend the function in Ayodhya. However, government sources said social distancing norms were strictly followed in the Cabinet meeting, which was chaired by Modi, with all Ministers and officials wearing masks. They said there is a "strict protocol" at the Prime Minister's residence since the outbreak of the pandemic and the measures taken include frequent temperature checks, use of Aarogya Setu, not using internal cars to ferry people. Physical meetings are avoided to the extent possible and video conferences are preferred instead, they added. The Ministers who attended the Cabinet meeting are likely to go for Covid-19 tests very soon, sources said. Shah has been holding both official and political meetings in the past few days. On Wednesday, Shah attended a meeting of the Cabinet while he also received delegation of BJP leaders from West Bengal, including Union Minister Babul Supriyo, last Friday. Supriyo said he is going in for self isolation as advised by doctors. He attended regular official meetings in his North Bloc office, which were attended by Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla among others. Sources said Bhalla will go in for home isolation and get himself tested. Shah has also chaired a few Group of Ministers in the past few days besides meeting President Ram Nath Kovind on July 20 for the first time since the national lockdown was imposed to fight the pandemic. Earlier, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had tested positive for Covid-19 and is presently under treatment while Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain recovered from the virus infection after undergoing plasma therapy at a private hospital in the national capital. In Maharashtra, five ministers and three MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 while in Tamil Nadu, 21 MLAs and three ministers had contracted the virus infection. In Delhi, three AAP MLAs also recovered from Covid-19. Soon after Shah’s announcement, 'get well soon' messages poured in with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh saying, "Amitji, your perseverance and willpower has been an example for every challenge. You will definitely win over this big challenge of coronavirus, I believe so. You return healthy as soon as possible, this is my prayer to God." Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh among others also tweeted their wishes to Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-minister-amit-shah-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-868700.html
02-08-2020||National||Pondicherry University extends last date for applications||Pondicherry University has announced extending the last date till August 17 to apply for the admission into various postgraduate and PhD programmes for the academic year 2020-2021. The university said the last date is being extended due to the situation arising out of Covid-19 lockdown. "The Entrance Examinations will be held during the third week of September 2020," the university said. The central university attracts students from across South India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pondicherry-university-extends-last-date-for-applications-868704.html
02-08-2020||National||Covid-19 digital push: Railways moves over 5 lakh files, 12 lakh documents online||In the past four months when the entire country was in various stages of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Railways has digitised over 12 lakh documents like letters, bills, office orders, project drawings and more than four lakh files, scrapping their manual handling and reducing not just physical contact between officials but also operational costs. The use of Railways' e-office has grown manifold since the pandemic hit the country -- the number of e-receipts increased from 4.5 lakhs during March 2019 to March this year, to 16.5 lakhs in April-July this year; the number of e-files increased from 1.3 lakhs to 5.4 lakh during the same periods respectively. The e-office platform provided by RailTel is a cloud-enabled software developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and aims to provide reliable, efficient, and effective ways of handling office files and documents. “Due to availability of e-office, majority of file work in Railways can continue smoothly without a physical presence in offices which is a boon in a time of crisis like this," RailTel CMD, Puneet Chawla told PTI. He said it was a big challenge for the team to complete the work during the lockdown phase as resource movement was restricted. "We couldn’t visit the division offices and the implementation work needed to be done remotely and it was very time consuming as well. The crucial part of implementation is the training of officials to handle the platform," Chawla said. The official said since the physical presence of RailTel officials and Railway users were not possible, the entire training was also done remotely using video conferencing and on-call support. Training videos were prepared so that users could watch them again and again to get a grip on the e-office usage procedure. As of July 31, there are 1,04,3,32 users in 106 units of Indian Railways of the e-office platform. There are 16,55,748 e-receipts and 5,47,681 files which have been created, according to RailTel data. The work of the remaining 60 workshops has been sanctioned. RailTel also provided Virtual Private Network connections to around 9,500 railway officials for enabling them to process the file works remotely. The system, officials said, promises absolute transparency as anything once written on the file cannot be changed or undone and there is also a monitoring mechanism to check where the files are held up, thus accounting for delays. “Even the big drawings including project drawings are being prepared and being sent for approval to the various departments on the e-platform. This e-drawing approval system has ensured quick approvals of drawings and transparency resulting in faster project implementation,” Chawla said.  The Railways’ push to promote contactless communication between its officials have geared momentum through the Covid-19 pandemic, primarily with two things in mind -- to reduce the spread of the disease and also to cut costs. In circulars issued through these months, officials have been asked to rely on video-conferencing for meetings, emails for communication and special applications for procurements and tendering. On Sunday, in a first, the Railways held a virtual retirement function for 2,320 superannuating officials connecting all Zones/Divisions/Production Units which was attended by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-digital-push-railways-moves-over-5-lakh-files-12-lakh-documents-online-868705.html
02-08-2020||National||Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal clears the air on new education policy||The Centre will not impose any language on any state through the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Sunday. Nishank's clarification, through a tweet in Tamil, comes in the backdrop of opposition to NEP in Tamil Nadu on the grounds that the policy allegedly imposed Hindi and Sanskrit. In his tweet to former Union Minister from the state Pon Radhakrishnan, Nishank said he was looking forward to the guidance of the ex-central minister in implementing NEP in Tamil Nadu. "I once again like to insist that the Central government will not impose any language on any state," he said. The M K Stalin-led DMK and many opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have opposed NEP and want a review of the sweeping reforms it has proposed. On Saturday, the DMK chief said the policy was an attempt at alleged imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit and vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and Chief Ministers of other states. The reforms were not a new education policy but "a glossy coat on the old oppressive Manusmriti," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-clears-the-air-on-new-education-policy-868711.html
02-08-2020||National||Why Ankita Lokhande did not attend Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral||Late bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral was held on June 15th. Several Bollywood celebrities, friends, and well-wishers including Rajkummar Rao, Shraddha Kapoor, Randeep Hooda, Prateik Babbar, and Kriti Sanon among others, attended it. However, one name that was conspicuously absent was Ankita Lokhande’s, Sushant’s ex-girlfriend, whom he dated for almost six years. Fowever, the actor did visit Rajput’s family to check up on them. “Apart from that, I had to meet his family. I wanted to make sure that they are okay,” she added.  Lokhande has accused people of sharing images of the late actor’s dead body with her. “I saw a video of Sushant in which they were putting a sheet over his body. And it was everywhere, people were sending it to me. I don’t know how it leaked or what happened but it happened and I saw it,” she told the source. The two met on the sets of television show Pavitra Rishta. The couple parted ways in 2016. According to reports, they had not been in touch since separating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-ankita-lokhande-did-not-attend-sushant-singh-rajput-s-funeral-868716.html
02-08-2020||National||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit tests positive for Covid-19||Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Since he is asymptomatic and 'clinically stable', the Governor had been advised home isolation by his doctors. Purohit underwent tests at Kauvery Hospitals here on Sunday after which he was asked to quarantine at home. "As the infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation and will be monitored by a team of doctors from Kauvery Hospitals," the hospital said in a statement here. Purohit testing positive comes close on the heels of 87 staff at the Raj Bhavan who were found to be infected with coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-governor-banwarilal-purohit-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868718.html
02-08-2020||National||SER to regulate trains on total lockdown days in Bengal||The South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to regulate the movement of special trains on seven days in August when total lockdown will be imposed across West Bengal to check the spread of coronavirus. While some trains will remain cancelled, some others will be operated on curtailed routes on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31, an SER spokesman said here. Howrah-Yesvantpur Special leaving Howrah on August 5, 8, 16 and 23 and Yesvantpur-Howrah Special leaving Yesvantpur on August 7, 10, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30 will remain cancelled. Howrah-Barbil Special leaving Howrah on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31 and Barbil-Howrah Special leaving Barbil on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31 will remain cancelled, the spokesman said. Patna-Shalimar Special leaving Patna on August 4, 15, 22 and 29 and Shalimar-Patna Special leaving Shalimar on August 5, 17, 24 and 31 will also remain cancelled, he said. The SER has also decided to cancel Bhubaneswar-Howrah Special leaving Bhubaneswar on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31 and Howrah-Bhubaneswar Special leaving Howrah on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Special leaving Bhubaneswar on August 4, 7, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 30 and New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Special leaving New Delhi on August 4, 7, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 30 will not stop at Purulia and Hijli in West Bengal, the SER official said. Similarly, Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Special leaving Bhubaneswar on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31 and New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Special leaving New Delhi on August 4, 7, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 30 will not stop at Hijli. Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special scheduled to leave Mumbai CSMT on August 14 and 21 will be short terminated at Rourkela, instead of Howrah, he said. Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special scheduled to leave Howrah on August 5 will be short originated from Rourkela on August 6. Howrah-Secunderabad Special scheduled to leave Howrah on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31will be short originated from Bhubaneswar, the spokesman said. Secunderabad-Howrah Special leaving Secunderabad on August 4, 7, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 30 will be short terminated at Bhubaneswar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ser-to-regulate-trains-on-total-lockdown-days-in-bengal-868722.html
02-08-2020||National||Farooq Abdullah calls for probe into exodus of Kashmiri Pandits||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Sunday demanded a probe by retired Supreme Court judges into the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the valley in the early 1990s. Replying to questions during a webinar, Abdullah said he was of the firm belief that Kashmir is incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits and that he would support any mechanism to bring them back honourably. Nearly 60,000 Kashmiri Pandit families are registered as migrants after the onset of militancy in the Kashmir Valley in the early 1990s. Abdullah, a member of Lok Sabha and President of the National Conference, chose to blame then former Governor Jagmohan for the exodus and said that he "took them away" on the false promise of ensuring their return within three months. During the webinar hosted by Jammu-based Epilogue News Network on the theme, "Discerning old order delineating new order – a year after neutralization of Article 370 and abrogation of Article 35 A", Abdullah was asked whether he would support a genocide bill being floated by the Panun Kashmir, a Kashmiri Pandit organisation demanding a separate homeland for the migrants. He said he would have to go into the details of the bill first. Abdullah, a three-time chief minister, said, "A sincere and honest judge of Supreme Court, a retired judge of Supreme Court, a team of judges...let them investigate and come out with their report. It will clear many minds around the globe, among the younger Kashmiri Pandits, that it was not Kashmiri Muslims who threw them out. There are still many Kashmiri Pandits who never left and they are living here." The National Conference leader narrated many instances where Muslims had stood by the Pandit community since 1947 and said "do you think we were happy when they (Kashmiri Pandits) were taken away," he said, adding "we always believe that Kashmir is never going to be complete unless the Hindu brethren come back and live in peace with all of us". Abdullah said he would continue to uphold his party's ideology of treating all the people, irrespective of their religious belief, equally. "My father never believed in the two-nation theory. He never believed that Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists and all other religions are different. We believe all are the children of Adam and Eve. Everybody's needs are the same and so he worked hard for unity. We will continue to stand on the same path and to my last breath, I will work for the unity of all,” he said. In December last year, the Panun Kashmir adopted the Panun Kashmir Prevention of Genocide and Atrocities Bill, highlighting its various demands including permanent rehabilitation based on principles of non-refoulment. Among other things, the bill recommends the creation of a Board and a Commission to look into the aspects of cultural genocide and all the criminal aspects which include investigation, the procedure of trial, fixing of responsibility for the crime of genocide, punishment to the perpetrators and compensation to the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farooq-abdullah-calls-for-probe-into-exodus-of-kashmiri-pandits-868726.html
02-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Amit Shah tests Covid-19 positive||In today's episode, Union Home minister Amit Shah has said that he had tested positive for coronavirus; Senior military commanders of India and China start the fifth round of talks; The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted searches at the residence of Delhi University professor Hany Babu on Sunday; The mid-day meals provided to students in government or aided schools should be supplemented by breakfast, the new National Education Policy (NEP) has proposed; Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said people may seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resignation if problems like job losses are not resolved and The BBMP is ready to issue certificates to residents of containment zones should they need them to take leave from work, the civic body's chief N Manjunatha Prasad has said.  Here are the top news of today, Sunday: August 2, 2020: Union Home minister Amit Shah has said that he had tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to hospital. "I request all of you who came in contact with me in the last few days to isolate yourselves and get tested," Shah said in a tweet. As the senior military commanders of India and China started the fifth round of talks today, India is likely to insist on “early and complete” withdrawal of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers from the new areas they occupied on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) since May 5. The meeting between the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA is taking place even as New Delhi is worried over Beijing’s latest move to claim the entire area between “Finger 5” to “Finger 8” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.       The Indian Army will also ask the Chinese PLA to completely withdraw its troops from the face-off scenes at Gogra Post, Depsang Y junction and other face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – to restart and expeditiously conclude the “disengagement process”, which the two sides had agreed upon and started early last month, but remained stalled for the past couple of weeks. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, is holding another round of meeting with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC. They earlier had four meetings to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations – on June 6, June 22, June 30 and July 14. The fifth round of meeting between Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu is taking place three days after China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, for the first time officially asserted the communist country’s claim on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. The Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) had recruited three powerful warlords, including Ahmad Shah Massoud, in Afghanistan during the Soviet invasion and the US-Pakistan proxy war there, a new book on India's external spy agency has said. The book 'RAW: A History of India’s Covert Operations' by investigative journalist Yatish Yadav, however, did not disclose the identity of two other warlords, as they still occupy positions in Afghanistan politics. At least three RAW spies involved in covert action in Afghanistan have claimed that Afghan armed forces were "demoralised and divided, remained practically inactive" during the Soviet army’s December 1979 invasion, the book, which will be released tomorrow, said. The book, which provides details of RAW operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere, the mujahideen sought to fill this gap aided by the ISI agents. The CIA's partnership with ISI was a "serious concern" for India and RAW needed allies to counter the unlikely partnership of mujahideen and the Pakistan spy agency. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today conducted searches at the residence of Delhi University professor Hany Babu, who was arrested in connection with Bhima Koregaon case, in Uttar Pradesh's Noida. The NIA team, including two women personnel, arrived at Babu's residence in Noida, near Delhi, at around 7:30 AM and left at around 10:30 AM. Jenny Rowena, a lecturer in Miranda House College in Delhi and Babu's wife said the investigating team told her that they were conducting the searches to collect evidence in the case against Babu (54), who was arrested on July 28 in Mumbai. She said some pamphlets of G N Saibaba Defence Committee of which Babu was part of, pen drives and a computer hard-disk. The NIA had accused Babu of propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and was a co-conspirator with other arrested accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Earlier, human rights activists and academicians including Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale, P Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira were arrested. The mid-day meals provided to students in government or aided schools should be supplemented by breakfast, the new National Education Policy (NEP) has proposed. The policy which was approved by the Union Cabinet earlier this week has noted that morning hours after a nutritious breakfast can be particularly productive for the study of cognitively more demanding subjects and hence recommended expansion of the mid-day meal scheme to include provisions for breakfast in schools. "Children are unable to learn optimally when they are undernourished or unwell. Hence, the nutrition and health (including mental health) of children will be addressed, through healthy meals and the introduction of well-trained social workers, counsellors, and community involvement into the schooling system," the policy said. "Furthermore, research shows that the morning hours after a nutritious breakfast can be particularly productive for the study of cognitively more demanding subjects and hence these hours may be leveraged by providing a simple but energizing breakfast in addition to mid-day meals," it added. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said people may seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resignation if problems like job losses are not resolved. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, 10 crore people have lost their livelihood and the crisis has affected 40 crore families, Raut claimed in his weekly column 'Rokthok' in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Salaried middle-class people have lost their jobs, while the trade and industry have suffered losses to the tune of about Rs four lakh crore, the Rajya Sabha member said. "There is a limit to people's patience. They cannot just survive on hope and assurances. Even the prime minister will agree that even though Lord Ram's 'vanvas' (exile) has ended, the present situation is difficult. No one had ever felt so insecure about their lives," Raut said. "Israel is witnessing protests against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and there are demands for his resignation over the failure to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and economic crisis. India, too, could witness the same," he said. Taking a dig at the Centre, Raut listed its "measures" to contain the coronavirus situation and the "economic crisis". The BBMP is ready to issue certificates to residents of containment zones should they need them to take leave from work, the civic body’s chief N Manjunatha Prasad has said.  At a meeting of workers from the Radhakrishna Temple ward on Saturday, Prasad said booth-level teams would issue the certificates that employees of government and private companies can submit to take leave from work.  The BBMP will also survey zones and provide essentials to the residents. Prasad instructed booth-level committees to conduct a household survey to identify patients suffering from SARI, ILI, having co-morbidities as well as senior citizens. These committees will monitor patients in home isolation as the home-quarantined primary contacts of patients||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-amit-shah-tests-covid-19-positive-868728.html
02-08-2020||National||My good fortune that Ram temple will be built in my lifetime: Chirag Paswan||BJP ally and Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan said on Sunday that it is his "good fortune" that Ram temple is going to be constructed in Ayodhya in his lifetime. Paswan also described himself as a "descendant" of Shabri who, he claimed, belonged to a deprived section of society. "As a descendant of mother Shabri, who hailed from a deprived section, was a disciple of saint Matang and was an ardent devotee of Shri Ram, it is my good fortune that the temple is being constructed again in my lifetime," he said in a tweet. According to the epic Ramayan, Shabri had offered berries already tested by her to Lord Ram during his stay in the forest and he accepted her offerings with affection. Paswan said Lord Ram had no prejudice against her and with the temple being constructed, these values should be embraced to build a society where there is no discrimination. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the temple at a ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-good-fortune-that-ram-temple-will-be-built-in-my-lifetime-chirag-paswan-868729.html
02-08-2020||National||Anganwadi workers key to ECCE implementation under NEP; training soon||State governments are expected to take the lead in implementation of the National Education Policy with a focus on training more than a million Anganwadi workers to impart early childhood care and education (ECCE) to pre-school students. The Centre is expected to move ahead with the establishment of the National Academic Credit Bank nudging IITs and central universities to allow transfer of academic credits and setting up of the Higher Education Commission of India, the single regulator for higher education. The Anganwadi system under the Women and Child Development Ministry will be harnessed for the preparatory class which would also ensure health check-ups and growth monitoring of the child. The government proposes to train the current Anganwadi workers into high-quality ECCE teachers as per the curricular framework developed by the National Council for Education Research and Training. “Anganwadi workers/teachers with qualifications of 10+2 and above shall be given a 6-month certificate programme in ECCE; and those with lower educational qualifications shall be given a one-year diploma programme covering early literacy, numeracy, and other relevant aspects of ECCE,” the Policy document outlined. The state governments are expected to prepare cadres of professionally qualified educators for ECCE through stage-specific professional training, mentoring mechanisms, and career mapping. Necessary facilities will also be created for the initial professional preparation of these educators and their Continuous Professional Development (CPD). The ECCE will be implemented jointly by the ministries of Education; Women and Child Development; Health and Family Welfare and Tribal Affairs. The Centre would soon set up a special joint task force for continuous guidance of the smooth integration of ECCE into school education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anganwadi-workers-key-to-ecce-implementation-under-nep-training-soon-868732.html
02-08-2020||National||Indira Rasoi Yojana to start in Rajasthan from August 20||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot directed officials on Sunday to start the Indira Rasoi Yojana in urban areas of Rajasthan from August 20. Reviewing the preparations for the scheme, named after former prime minister Indira Gandhi, Gehlot said the state government would spend Rs 100 crore per year on it. He said the poor would get quality nutritious food for just Rs 8. The chief minister said the scheme should be implemented with the spirit of public service, transparency and public participation so that it becomes an example in the direction of providing food security to the poor in the country. Gehlot directed that participation of service-oriented institutions and voluntary organisations should be ensured in the operation of the scheme. He has instructed the district collectors to select such institutions as soon as possible. The chief minister also directed to constitute a committee at the state and district levels to ensure the quality of food. Urban Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal, who participated through video conference in the meeting, said the state government would give a grant of Rs 12 per plate. The scheme will be run in all 213 urban local bodies of the state. Giving the presentation of the scheme, Local Self Government Department Secretary Bhawani Singh Detha said 4.87 crore people would be provided food every year. A menu of 100 grams of pulses, 100 grams of vegetables, 250 grams of chapati and pickles has been set in the food, according to Detha. He informed that necessary measures would be undertaken as prevention against the novel coronavirus pandemic. IT-enabled monitoring of the scheme will be done. The beneficiary will get the information through SMS on the mobile as soon as he takes the coupon. Kitchens will be monitored through mobile apps and CCTV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-rasoi-yojana-to-start-in-rajasthan-from-august-20-868739.html
02-08-2020||National||Ram temple will give a boost to tourism, create jobs: UP minister||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will not only give a boost to tourism but generate employment opportunities as well, Uttar Pradesh minister Shrikant Sharma said here on Sunday. The minister said the news of the August 5 "bhoomi pujan" (ground-breaking ceremony) of the Ram temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has delighted devotees of Lord Ram across the globe. The grand temple will not only give a boost to tourism but create jobs as well, he said. The Uttar Pradesh government has started work to give a facelift to Ayodhya to draw in international tourists in large numbers, he said. After a protracted legal battle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. Sharma expressed his gratitude to the Apex Court for delivering the long-awaited judgment on the Ram temple. Since Prime Minister Modi could pave the way for a conducive environment, the judgment was delivered by the Apex Court, he claimed. The minister also appreciated the maturity of people of the country, especially residents of Uttar Pradesh, for maintaining harmony after the court verdict. He also accused opposition parties of trying to create hurdles on the way of construction of the temple. "The Ram temple in Ayodhya is being constructed as per the positive thinking and faith of the prime minister," Sharma, the minister for energy, additional sources of energy, said. He said special programmes will be held in several parts of the state, including Mathura, to mark the Ram temple "bhoomi pujan" ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-will-give-a-boost-to-tourism-create-jobs-up-minister-868746.html
02-08-2020||National||Providing equal opportunities to women a priority: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday spelt out the initiatives taken by his government for the empowerment of women, saying providing equal opportunities to them was a priority. The CM said this during a webinar attended by women belonging to various fields. The participants included teachers, sarpanches, students and those involved in self-help groups. During the interaction, Khattar was asked a question on women safety by Archana Chaudhary from Karnal's Shamgarh village, who said he has been living in California for five years and driving a truck there. “I drive a truck in the United States. When I drive at night, I feel equally safe as I do during the day. Can women get such an atmosphere in Haryana? Can they feel equally safe if they go out during late nights? What steps the state government have taken to make sure that women feel safe and secure,” she asked. Responding to it, the CM said his government has opened 31 women police stations in the state and claimed of making tough laws with zero tolerance towards crimes against women. He said the government has been laying a lot of emphasis on women's education and providing them equal opportunities to progress. “We hope that situation is created (when women across the state can freely go out during late night hours), let us see how it goes,” he said. A student from Mewat’s Nuh, Shaheen Khan, drew Khattar's attention towards the need for doing more towards women education in the district. Khattar said the state government has taken several steps to uplift education standards in Mewat, identified as among 115 districts lagging on specific development parameters by the Centre. “Education, health and employment have been our focus for the district for the past few years,” he said. Khattar expressed concern that the school dropout rate was particularly high among girl students in Nuh district. He said parents will have to take more interest and send their children to schools in the Mewat region. “There are still some parents who send their children to madrassas alone and not to schools. There is no objection to sending children to madrassas but at the same time, children need modern education, they have to study English, mathematics, science,” he said. He said Nuh district abuts Gurgaon but has the lowest per capita income in the state. The government is committed to the Mewat region's development, he said. Khattar further said if the coronavirus situation prolongs, the government will contemplate giving smartphones or tablets to some schoolchildren. Khattar said on Monday, he will lay the foundation stone of 10 colleges through video conferencing on Raksha Bandhan, which will be set up in far-flung areas of various districts. Replying to a question, he said steps are being taken to promote women, self-help groups. He said the state government is also taking steps to raise awareness towards menstrual hygiene. He said the Departments of Education and Women and Child Development have purchased an adequate number of sanitary pads, which will be distributed in targeted schools and colleges once these institutions reopen. On a question asked by a Jind village sarpanch, Amrit Kaur, Khattar said the decision to have a minimum education qualification to contest the panchayat elections in Haryana had shown encouraging results. Now, the state government is moving towards reserving 50 per cent seats for women in panchayats, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/providing-equal-opportunities-to-women-a-priority-haryana-cm-868753.html
02-08-2020||National||Liquor sales decline up to 60% in May-June in states with high Covid cess: Report||States which imposed more than 50 per cent Covid-cess on liquor after the resumption of retail trade post lockdown witnessed an average 59 per cent decline in sales in May and June due to higher tariffs, a report by trade association CIABC claimed. States as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, J&K and Pudducherry, which had imposed a Covid-cess of 50 per cent and above reported a decline of 66 per cent in May and 51 per cent in June compared to the year-ago period, the report by Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) said. While, states as Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Kerala and Jharkhand, which had imposed a Covid-cess between 15-50 per cent reported an average decline of 34 per cent in sales, the report stated. However, states where up to 15 per cent additional cess was imposed, witnessed only 16 per cent decline in May and June, which includes Uttarakhand, UP, Telangana, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Assam, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and Punjab. While pan India, there was a decline of 25 per cent and 15 per cent respectively in May and June this year, totalling to 4.37 crore cases. It was 5.87 crore cases in 2019 in the same month. After the retail sales of liquor were resumed after six weeks of closure in May, several state governments facing shortage of financial resources imposed a higher tax on alcoholic beverages. "However, it has repeatedly pointed out that taxation, beyond a point, becomes counterproductive,” said CIABC. States, which were lower-taxed, have a stronger sales recovery in the month of June. "The idea of various state governments to quickly make up for revenue deficit due to lockdown through heavy taxation on sale of liquor has backfired. Latest data shows that states which imposed heavy Corona cess on liquor saw sale of booze going down by more than half during relaxation in lockdown," it added. According to CIABC Director General Vinod Giri: “Liquor industry contributes around Rs 2.5 lakh crore in tax revenues to state governments, but this fiscal this collection is likely to see a fall and sales are going to see a downfall of 25-30 per cent”. High taxation in some states has led to steep fall in sale of liquor, while the delay by the government in opening bars and restaurants, which account for up to 10 per cent of liquor sales, will further aggravate the situation, he added. “This in effect conveys that tax increases most likely did not lead to an increase in tax collection in absolute terms. This clearly indicates that levying of hefty Corona tax did not lead to an increase in total tax collection. In fact, the trend in sales recovery in June, when unlocking began, was stronger in states that imposed lower tax increases,” he said. He also pointed out that the liquor industry was subjected to a longer lockdown compared to most other consumer products. It was permitted to restart trade by the central government after six weeks of total closure. Many state governments, Odisha, Punjab, Kerala, restricted sale from retail outlets due to local lockdowns even after it was permitted by the central government. Further, bars, restaurants and other on-premise shops which contribute up to 10 per cent of liquor and much more of the beer and wines sales have remained shut. "We hope that the governments take note of the data and bring tax increases down to moderate and sustainable levels, ideally below 10 per cent. That will not only bring relief to consumers, it will also help the industry sell more and the government collect more taxes. The governments should also consider the impact of price increase on sales before applying tax increases in annual excise policy as well,” Giri added. CIABC is an association of the Indian alcoholic beverage industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-sales-decline-up-to-60-in-may-june-in-states-with-high-covid-cess-report-868757.html
02-08-2020||National||Envoys welcome inclusion of foreign languages in NEP, but Twitterati question removal of Mandarin||The envoys of Moscow, Seoul and Bangkok to New Delhi welcomed inclusion of Russian, Korean and Thai as the examples of foreign languages the new National Education Policy cited for the students can be taught at the secondary level. The move to drop Mandarin Chinese from the list of the foreign languages suggested by the NEP, however, drew flak on social media. Chinese was among the foreign languages in the draft NEP, which was put out last year, listed as examples of the ones the students could be offered at the secondary levels. But it was dropped when the NEP was finally approved by the government last week. "In addition to high quality offerings in Indian languages and English, foreign languages, such as Korean, Chinese, Japanese, Thai, French, German, Spanish, or Russian will also be widely offered at the secondary level, for students to learn about the cultures of the world and to increase their global knowledge and mobility according to their own interests and aspirations,” the NEP, which the Union Cabinet cleared last Wednesday, stated. The NEP, with Mandarin Chinese dropped from the list of recommended foreign languages, was approved by the government at a time when India-China relations hit a new low due to the continuing military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. “While the NEP is laudable, omitting ‘Chinese’ from elective languages would be a blunder. India must create a cohort of Mandarin & (and) Cantonese linguists & (and) encourage in-depth study of Han culture / history & (and) psyche. We don’t need Sun Tzu to tell us about need to know the enemy,” tweeted former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash. Sun Tzu was a military strategist and in ancient China. He is believed to be the author of the “Art of War”, a book on military strategy written around 5th or 6th century BC. Several other Twitter users too questioned the rationale of dropping Mandarin Chinese from the list of the foreign languages recommended for being offered to the students. The government, however, said that list only referred to certain foreign languages as examples and it neither recommended or barred teaching or learning of any language. The ambassadors of Russia, Thailand and South Korea, however, noted that the inclusion of Russian, Thai and Korean in the NEP’s list of foreign languages would contribute to strengthening India’s relations with their countries. “Happy to see Russian language listed in the New Education Policy among the electives that students can take up to learn about cultures of the world and enrich global knowledge. It will further strengthen bilateral people-to-people ties,” Nikolay Kudashev, Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, tweeted. “Thai is taught in places like Australia & (and) Viet Nam, but in India, it’s an additional honour,” Bangkok’s envoy to New Delhi, Chutintorn Sam Gongsakdi, posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/envoys-welcome-inclusion-of-foreign-languages-in-nep-but-twitterati-question-removal-of-mandarin-868758.html
02-08-2020||National||Medical aspirant seeks NEET exemption for overseas course, HC asks MCI to consider plea||A medical aspirant who wishes to pursue studies abroad has approached the Delhi High Court seeking to direct the authorities to grant her an eligibility certificate without the pre-requisite NEET qualification, as the course is scheduled to commence soon in Uzbekistan. According to a March 2019 gazette notification by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)--the common level entrance exam conducted for admission to medical courses--has been made mandatory for pursuing MBBS courses abroad. Noting that the student has not approached the authorities with her grievances before moving the high court, Justice V Kameswar Rao directed the MCI in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to consider the petition as a representation and decide it in three weeks. “Appropriate shall be, for this court to dispose of the writ petition directing the Medical Council of India/respondent No 1 in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to consider the writ petition as a representation and dispose of the same within a period of three weeks from today and communicate the decision to the petitioner,” the court said. It took on record the submission made by MCI’s counsel T Singhdev and Ankit Raj, who appeared for the Centre, that the authorities shall expeditiously comply with the court’s order. The woman student, in her plea, said she intends to pursue the undergraduate medical course from Bukhara State Medical Institute, Uzbekistan, and the last date of admission for the course is August 20. According to the petitioner, the eligibility of possessing NEET qualification is a pre-requisite for an Indian citizen who undertakes a medical course in a foreign country. The plea said as the NEET examination in India is scheduled for September 13, it may not be possible for her to meet the eligibility. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the NEET exam has been deferred twice and is now scheduled for September 13. The plea sought to direct the authorities to grant her one-time exemption as an exception from the requirement of having to clear NEET for admission to overseas medical courses in a foreign university for the current academic session 2020-2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-aspirant-seeks-neet-exemption-for-overseas-course-hc-asks-mci-to-consider-plea-868762.html
02-08-2020||National||Women from northeast tie rakhi on jawans posted in J&K||In a show of solidarity and bonding, women from the northeast tied rakhi on jawans of the armed and paramilitary forces, who are deployed in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, on Sunday. The programme was organised at the initiative of Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Jitendra Singh on the eve of Raksha Bandhan on Monday. Self-help groups (SHGs) from the eight northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim also sent rakhis, tricoloured bands and face masks to the Army and paramilitary personnel posted in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, an official statement said. The initiative will strengthen the inherent bond among the various cultures, states and people of the country, it added. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said Jammu and Kashmir is "my parliamentary constituency and the northeast is my official constituency". Since the northeastern region is a part of his assigned responsibilities, he looks at it as a rare opportunity to be able to connect the two peripheral regions of the country, the minister added. A rakhi from the northeast for a soldier in Jammu and Kashmir or Ladakh is a message that sisters across the country are praying for the safety of their brothers in the security forces, who are in turn guarding the borders day and night for their safety, the minister said. "If we are able to celebrate our festivals in the manner we wish to celebrate, it is because our brothers on the line of defence stay awake day and night to ensure this for us," he added. Lauding the talent and commitment of the women from the northeast, Singh said the women SHGs in the region have been making face masks since March-April. On the eve of Raksha Bandhan, they had worked hard in an extremely limiting environment of the lockdown to make the face masks for the jawans, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-from-northeast-tie-rakhi-on-jawans-posted-in-jk-868764.html
02-08-2020||National||J&K records 444 new coronavirus cases, death toll rises to 396 with 8 more fatalities||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 444 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of infected persons past 21,000, even as eight Covid-19 patients died in the last 24 hours in the union territory, officials said. "Eight persons, who were Covid-19 positive, have died over the past 24 hours in Jammu and Kashmir," an official said, adding all the deaths were reported from the Kashmir Valley. With the fresh deaths, the Covid-19 death toll in the union territory has risen to 396, of which 368 were from the valley and 28 were from the Jammu region, they said. Meanwhile, the union territory recorded 444 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of infected persons to 21,416, the officials said. While 206 of these new cases were from Jammu region, 238 persons were from the valley, they said. There are now 7,893 active cases in the union territory, while 13,127 patients have recovered from the infection, they added. The cases detected on Sunday included 84 persons who had returned to the union territory recently. The officials said Udhampur district in Jammu region recorded the highest number of 69 new positive cases, followed by 65 in Jammu district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-records-444-new-coronavirus-cases-death-toll-rises-to-396-with-8-more-fatalities-868768.html
02-08-2020||National||5% reservation for more backward classes in Rajasthan judicial service||The Rajasthan government has approved five per cent reservation to the 'more backward classes', including Gurjars, in the state judicial service, according to a statement. The government has amended the Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules, 2010, through the state cabinet on the initiative by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to provide five per cent reservation in place of one per cent, an official statement said. Candidates belonging to the more backward classes have been demanding amendment in the judicial service rules for a long time so that they can get five per cent reservation in the state judicial service instead of one per cent. The more backward classes include Gurjars, Raika-Rabari, Gadiya-Lohars, Banjara and Gadariya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-reservation-for-more-backward-classes-in-rajasthan-judicial-service-868769.html
02-08-2020||National||Coronavirus: Ministry of Health issues revised guidelines for international arrivals||International air travelers arriving in India can now skip the mandatory institutional quarantine by submitting a negative RT-PCR report on arrival, said the revised guidelines issued by the Health Ministry on Sunday. “Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise,” the guidelines said. The test report could also be produced upon arrival at the point of airport entry in India, the guidelines said. However, travelers without the negative RT-PCR report should also give an undertaking on the portal that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days i.e. 7 days paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by 7 days isolation at home with self-monitoring of health, the order stated, the guidelines said. “Only for compelling reasons/ cases of human distress such as pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) with children of the age of 10 years or below, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days,” the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ministry-of-health-issues-revised-guidelines-for-international-arrivals-868777.html
02-08-2020||National||Stalin questions PM's assertion on NEP ensuring all-round coverage||Mounting yet another attack on the Centre's new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, DMK President MK Stalin on Sunday alleged if it was implemented, education in a decade will be confined among a few. He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's assertion on NEP ensuring all-round coverage vis-a-vis providing education and wanted the ruling AIADMK to oppose it. "The Prime Minister has said this (NEP) ensures job creators than job seekers. It is not. I say the government has shied away from its duty of creating jobs for people," he said at a virtual interaction with some educationists and others to discuss the reforms. On Saturday, Modi had said the new education policy announced by his government emphasised on making 'job creators' instead of 'job seekers' and was an attempt to transform the 'intent' and 'content' of the country's education system. Stalin said contrary to Modi's assertions, "education will not be available to all." "If this education policy is implemented, in 10 years, education will be confined to a select few," he claimed. Villages will 'collapse' and "poor will become poorer," he added. Assuring his party's opposition to the reforms, Stalin, also Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, wanted the AIADMK government also to follow suit. "The Tamil Nadu government should deny the NEP; reject it," he added. It should especially not accept the three-language formula suggested in NEP, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stalin-questions-pms-assertion-on-nep-ensuring-all-round-coverage-868782.html
02-08-2020||National||Rafales will provide major advantage in case of aerial combat with China: B S Dhanoa||The Rafale aircraft will give India a strategic advantage in case of any aerial combat with China in the mountainous Tibet region as the fleet will be able to use the terrain to its advantage, destroy enemy air defence and incapacitate the surface-to-air missiles, former Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (retd) BS Dhanoa said on Sunday. Dhanoa, known as the architect of the Balakot strikes, said the Rafale jets along with S-400 missile systems will give the Indian Air Force a major combat edge in the entire region and that India's adversaries will think twice before starting a war with it. In case of Pakistan, he said the purpose of the S-400 and Rafale is to hit Pakistani aircraft inside Pakistani air space and not when they come inside Indian territory, adding the neighbouring country would not have responded on February 27 last year to the Balakot air strikes if India had the French-manufactured jets then. In an interview to PTI, Dhanoa said the Rafale, with its fantastic electronic warfare suite and manoeuvrability, will be able to use mountainous terrain in Tibet to its advantage and blind the enemy before India's strike aircraft penetrate hostile airspace to carry out their missions. The former Chief of Air Staff also said that the Rafales being supplied to the IAF are much more advanced than the ones being used by the French Air Force as India had asked for something "more" due to the requirement to operate in unique conditions like operations from Leh. Five Rafale jets out of 36 arrived in India last week at a time India is in the midst of a bitter border row with China in the high altitude eastern Ladakh region. "Rafale has got a fantastic Electronic Warfare (EW) suite (SPECTRA), fantastic weapons and therefore are capable of protecting themselves electronically besides being able to use the terrain to their advantage," Dhanoa said. "So they (Rafales) can play an important role in doing DEAD (Destruction of Enemy Air Defence) on the Surface-to-Air Missiles that the Chinese have put on Tibet. "Once you take out those surface to air missiles, then other aircraft like Su30, Jaguars, even Mig 21s can go out and drop the bombs on the Chinese forces. The strike aircraft carrying bombs can put tonnes and tonnes of bombs on the enemy troops, freely carrying out their mission. But if you do not do DEAD then you will suffer a lot of casualties," he said. The leading air forces globally carry out Suppression of Enemy Air Defence (SEAD) or DEAD using their top of the line aircraft or weapons before launching any major operation in hostile territories. As the Chief of Air Staff, Dhanoa had strongly defended the Rafale deal when the opposition parties ramped-up attack on the government alleging massive irregularities in the procurement. The top IAF brass led by Dhanoa played a key role in the implementation of the mega-deal. "Against China, there are big Himalayan mountains in between us which create a serious line of sight issues. You can put a missile with a range of 300-400 km on the ground in Tibet or in India. But it will only work within the line of sight," he said. He said the Rafales, with terrain following capability, will give India a major capability enhancement. "In air combat, the first thing that is important is information dominance, you get information and deny the enemy the information. The key role the Rafales will play in Tibet is information dominance and in the case of Pakistan, it is a major deterrent. Of course, there will be other roles too," he said. Asked about the comparison between the Rafales and J-20 fighter jets of China, he said the Chinese aircraft is not stealthy and presently, with its current engines, cannot supercruise, unlike the newly-acquired Indian fleet. In a beyond visual range (BVR) combat, he said Indian missiles are far superior to theirs. The French avionics onboard the Rafale is "far superior" than the Chinese systems in J-20s, he said. "Hence in a BVR environment the Rafales are superior to the J-20s," he added. "With the induction of the Rafales, we will have a tremendous jump in capability. That's why I called both (Rafale and S 400) of them game-changers. Both these platforms will give the IAF a tremendous capability jump. The Rafale in the air and S-400 on the ground. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal to buy the S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia to bolster the IAF's air defence mechanism. The 'Triumf' interceptor-based missile system can destroy incoming hostile aircraft, missiles and even drones at ranges of up to 400 km. The delivery of the missile systems is scheduled to begin next year. "Both S-400 and Rafales are critical game-changers. Rafale is a deterrent. The purpose of deterrence is not to fight a war. Purpose of deterrence is to make the other person think twice before he starts a war or a skirmish with you," he said. He said the Pakistanis would not have responded on February 27 last year to India's Balakot strikes if India had the Rafale jets. In this context, he also mentioned an operation by the IAF to drop bombs on a Pakistani post along the LoC in Kel sector in 2002, and how Pakistani Air Force never dared to respond to it. "On August 2, 2002, we did the bombing of a Pakistani post as the Pakistanis had intruded about 600-700 metres inside the LoC in our area and set up a post. We bombed with four Mirage 2000s and after that, the Pakistanis never came back," Dhanoa said. "The Pakistanis never ever dreamt of bombing an Indian post in retaliation because we had Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missiles on Mirage 2000, MiG 29 and the Su-30 Ks and they did not have any BVR missiles on any of their fighters," he recalled. "They just kept quiet about it and just didn't acknowledge that something had happened and later on played it low key when the news did break in the international media! That is what is called deterrence," he added. Asked whether India should consider procuring two more squadrons of Rafales as it makes operational sense, Dhanoa called it a good idea and said that it will be the "cheapest option" of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force. "We already have an infrastructure for two squadrons. We do not need additional infrastructure for the next two squadrons. They will come, in my assessment, at 60 to 70 per cent of the cost of the current ones," he said. "The cost of research and development for all India-specific enhancements have already been covered. The next two squadrons of Rafales will be the cheapest option of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force," he added. Dhanoa, who retired as the IAF Chief on September 30 last year, said having two more squadrons of Rafales will give the force a lot of strength. "If you have 72-80 aircraft, it will match whatever F-16s the Pakistanis have got. It will be good for deterrence," he said adding it will make economic sense. Dhanoa also thanked all the people who stood by the Rafale deal, including the defence minister, the civil servants, the then defence secretary, the director-general (acquisition) and many others in the government. "You have to give them full marks because they stood by it despite many apprehensions. Normally everybody gets scared that this deal may be termed later as a scam and they may be hauled up by the investigation agencies after their retirement, or some other roving inquiry that may happen which may implicate them in the future. These people stood by it; we signed and executed the deal," he said. Dhanoa said the political leadership also stood their ground and did not dump the deal. "They were going into an election. You could have always opted for a soft option of setting up a committee. Everybody stood their ground. The national leadership, the bureaucracy. That is why you have the aircraft," he added. Dhanoa also expressed happiness that the first squadron of Rafales will be part of the Number 17 Squadron, also known as 'Golden Arrows', based in Ambala. "I am very happy...I was the last Commodore Commandant of 17 squadrons. It got number plated in March 2012. It stopped flying in December 2011. Having celebrated our Diamond Jubilee in October 2011. Last year the Squadron has been resurrected and this year aircraft have finally come to the Squadron," he said. "Golden Arrows have a very rich tradition. The Squadron has fought in all the wars. It participated in the Liberation of Goa, 1965 war, 1971 war, and it fought in Kargil," he added. Dhanoa commanded the squadron during the Kargil war. "In case, there is fighting in Eastern Ladakh, we will not miss it," the Air Chief Marshal (Retd.) said in a lighter vein.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafales-will-provide-major-advantage-in-case-of-aerial-combat-with-china-b-s-dhanoa-868786.html
02-08-2020||National||Have requested PM to declare locust attack national disaster: Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to declare the locust attack a national disaster. "The locust outbreak in the state is very fierce. Barring two or three districts, all 33 locusts have been attacked by locusts. The crops are getting damaged," Gehlot told reporters in Jaisalmer. He said he has requested the Prime Minister to declare the locust outbreak a national disaster. Locusts come to India via Africa and other countries including Pakistan and they are breeding at a large scale here. Gehlot reached Jaisalmer from Jaipur on Sunday after meeting state Congress MLAs holed up in a resort in tight security. "How long can the farmer tolerate crop damage? They should get full compensation from the government. I hope the Prime Minister will pay attention to this," Gehlot said He said in the video conference of chief ministers with PM Modi too, he had raised the issue of the loss to farmers due to the locust attack. Gehlot said Prime Minister Modi had taken interest in it and asked about the affected districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-requested-pm-to-declare-locust-attack-national-disaster-rajasthan-cm-868787.html
02-08-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: HC asks man to get 'rakhi' tied by woman he had 'molested'||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has asked a married 26-year-old man, accused of molesting a woman, to get a 'rakhi' tied by her on the day of Raksha Bandhan is celebrated on Monday. The court also asked the man to give Rs 11,000 to the woman as part of a customary offering made by brothers to sisters on the occasion and seek her blessings. The single bench of Justice Rohit Arya passed the order on July 30 while giving conditional bail to the accused, Vikram Bagri. In the order, the court said, "The applicant, along with his wife, shall visit the house of the complainant with rakhi thread/band on August 3 at 11 am with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come." Bagri is accused of entering the 30-year-old woman's house in Ujjain, around 55 km from here, on April 20, and was charged under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC. "Bagri would tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters on the occasion and shall also seek her blessings," the court said. Bagri has also been ordered to give Rs 5,000 to the complainant's son to buy clothes and sweets. The high court also directed Bagri to furnish personal bonds of Rs 50,000 and solvent surety of equal amount in the lower court for his release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-hc-asks-man-to-get-rakhi-tied-by-woman-he-had-molested-868794.html
02-08-2020||National||'Shiv Sena has contributed Rs 1 cr for Ram temple as promised'||The Shiv Sena has honoured its commitment by transferring Rs 1 crore to the trust overseeing the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, a senior party leader said on Sunday. The Sena's clarification came amidst reports quoting Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust, as saying that no money was received from the Shiv Sena as promised, he said. The foundation laying ceremony for the construction of Ram temple is scheduled on August 5 for which the trust has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The amount was transferred in the bank account of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on July 27, the 60th birthday of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, Rajya Sabha MP Anil Desai said in a statement. "We have received confirmation and acknowledgement of the amount transfer from the trustee and treasurer (of the trust)," he said in a statement. We were surprised at reports of Nritya Gopal Das Maharaj saying that no money has been received from the Shiv Sena, Desai said. During his visit to Ayodhya in March this year, Thackeray had announced Rs 1 crore from his trust for the construction of a Ram temple. "Today, I want to announce that not from the state government, but from my trust, I offer an amount of Rs 1 crore for the construction of Ram Temple here. It is just a small contribution from our part," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-has-contributed-rs-1-cr-for-ram-temple-as-promised-868813.html
02-08-2020||National||Those commenting on Twitter should stand unitedly behind Congress: Surjewala||After sparring on Twitter over the party's legacy during the UPA regime, the Congress on Sunday advised those commenting on the microblogging website to unitedly stand behind its leadership in fighting the BJP government's "weak response" to the Covid-19 pandemic and its "oppressive" policies. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged both the young and the old guard in the party to stop commenting in public about each other and focus on unitedly fighting against the crisis that has gripped the country. "I would like to suggest to all those colleagues who are making comments on Twitter to raise issues at the party platform under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, as there is democracy in the Congress and leaders are not forcibly retired," he said when asked about the public comments made by some party leaders. Surjewala, however, did not reply to a question on whether the party had taken cognizance of such comments made on Twitter. He said the country is passing through a difficult time with around 18 lakh people infected with the coronavirus, adding that experts are saying the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing in India but the Narendra Modi government is "silent" about it. "The prime minister and health minister have left the people to fend for themselves. People are losing their livelihoods, there is an economic crisis and factories are being shut. Indian territory is being captured by China and those claiming to show red eyes to the neighbouring country are scared to even name China," the Congress leader said. He said in such a situation, the country is looking towards the Congress, its leadership and workers. "In such times, the responsibility of senior Congress leaders is more, as they have the experience of being both in the party and the government. It is their biggest responsibility to stand by the Congress leadership and work together with Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Manmohan Singh to fight the pandemic, the economic crisis and China, and show the mirror of truth to the government," Surjewala said. He added that it is a key responsibility of senior Congress leaders to guide their young colleagues. "I would urge all old, middle-aged and young Congress leaders to unitedly stand against the oppressive policies of the Modi government in such trying times, where people are losing their jobs due to the economic crisis and the government's weak response in fighting the coronavirus, formulating policies, taking the country out of this crisis and quelling the Chinese. This united fight is true patriotism," Surjewala said. His comments came amid an ongoing tussle between the young and old guard in the Congress, with veteran leaders urging their colleagues not to discredit their own legacy. Advising restraint in airing grievances in public, several former Union ministers have cautioned their party colleagues, saying such tendencies divide the Congress at a time when unity is needed. They have also said that one needs to learn from past defeats and revive the party rather than play into the hands of its "ideological enemies".  Surjewala also dismissed as "motivated" and "false" some reports in the media that said AICC Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav had made disparaging remarks about former ministers P Chidambaram and Kapil Sibal at a recent meeting of the party's Rajya Sabha MPs. Satav reportedly asked for a review of the performance of the ministers in the UPA era and whether that had led to the Congress's electoral loss in 2014. Responding to Satav, several former ministers, including Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, took to Twitter to say Congress leaders should take pride in the legacy of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, led by former prime minister Manmohan Singh. Satav took to Twitter on Saturday to claim that the media had twisted his remarks while noting that bringing Singh into the debate was "malicious and reprehensible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-commenting-on-twitter-should-stand-unitedly-behind-congress-surjewala-868829.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||People may seek PM Narendra Modi's resignation if woes not resolved: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said people may seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resignation if problems like job losses are not resolved. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, 10 crore people have lost their livelihood and the crisis has affected 40 crore families, Raut claimed in his weekly column 'Rokthok' in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Salaried middle-class people have lost their jobs, while the trade and industry have suffered losses to the tune of about Rs four lakh crore, the Rajya Sabha member said. "There is a limit to people's patience. They cannot just survive on hope and assurances. Even the prime minister will agree that even though Lord Ram's 'vanvas' (exile) has ended,the present situation is difficult. No one had ever felt so insecure about their lives," Raut said. "Israel is witnessing protests against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and there are demands for his resignation over the failure to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and economic crisis. India, too, could witness the same," he said. Taking a dig at the Centre, Raut listed its "measures" to contain the coronavirus situation and the "economic crisis". He said Section 144 (prohibitory orders) was imposed around the Ambala Air Force station to protect the five Rafale jets (on their arrival from France recently). Before Rafale, Sukhoi and MiG aircraft have come to India, but such a "celebration" was never done, he said. "Will Rafale jets with the bomb and missile-carrying capacity be able to destroy the crisis of unemployment and economic challenges?" Raut asked. Hitting out at the Centre, he said attempts were made to destabilise the (Congress-led) Gehlot government in Rajasthan, and there is a possibility of imposition of President's rule in that state. Raut noted that BJP leader Pragya Thakur has said reciting 'Hanuman Chalisa' daily will rid the world of the COVID-19 pandemic. He also pointed out that gold prices have reached Rs 51,000 per 'tola' (one tola is 10 gm). Raut further noted that BJP president J P Nadda has said his party "will come to power on its own in Maharashtra". "Nobody is talking about the crisis, employment. It is easy to say crisis gives rise to the opportunity. But, nobody knows how people are dealing with the crisis," the Shiv Sena leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-may-seek-pm-narendra-modis-resignation-if-woes-not-resolved-sanjay-raut-868622.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||High time Mehbooba Mufti is released, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday demanded the release of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, saying India's democracy is damaged when the government illegally detains political leaders. The Peoples Democratic Party leader has been in detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) since Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 was revoked in August last year and the state was bifurcated into the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. "India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released," Gandhi said on Twitter. India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released. The Jammu and Kashmir administration last week extended Mehbooba's detention under PSA by another three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/high-time-mehbooba-mufti-is-released-says-rahul-gandhi-868694.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||MHA seeks 3 additional months for framing Citizenship Amendment Act rules||After missing the six-month deadline, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has now sought an additional three months' time for framing rules for the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The MHA has now written to the Department Related Standing Committee for Subordinate Legislation seeking more time, as stipulated in the Manual of Parliamentary Work, officials said. The CAA, passed in December last year and came into force on January 10, provides citizenship to six non-Muslim minorities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who entered in India before 31 December, 2014. Only after notifying the rules, the Act can be implemented. "In case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension; such extension being not more than for a period of three months at a time. The request should be made after obtaining the approval of the Minister," the manual said. The Opposition had protested against the Bill when it came for passage in Parliament late last year, accusing the government of introducing religion as criteria for citizenship. It also resulted in huge protests across the country, amid accusations that it was aimed at targeting Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mha-seeks-3-additional-months-for-framing-citizenship-amendment-act-rules-868706.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||NEP great on content, but lacking on roadmap, clarity for implementation: Congress||Congress on Sunday said the newly unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) was great on content and form, but lacking in terms of roadmap and clarity of resources for implementation. Addressing a press conference here, former HRD Minister M M Pallam Raju, former Rajya Sabha member M V Rajeev Gowda and Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala also slammed the Modi government for unveiling the NEP in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic and without adequate debate in Parliament. The three leaders flagged concerns such as lack of transparency in consultations, record of the union government’s public spending on education and increasing the digital divide for the less privileged. Gowda accused the Modi government of doing a U-turn while proposing a four year degree programme in the NEP, pointing out that it had forced the Delhi University to scrap a similar programme soon after coming to office in 2014. Gowda claimed that the new NEP skirted around the issues related to affirmative action and support to disadvantaged sections of the society in terms of education and related job opportunities. “Certainly the advances that we have made over the decades in terms of inclusion, in terms of affirmative action, in terms of reservation, are most likely going to be reversed, if they are not given centre stage in this policy,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nep-great-on-content-but-lacking-on-roadmap-clarity-for-implementation-congress-868756.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Sometimes silence is louder than words, says Union Minister Shekhawat on Vasundhara Raje||The "silence" of senior BJP leader Vasundhara Raje Scindia on the political developments in Rajasthan can be a "strategy", her party colleague and Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat said on Sunday. In an interview to PTI, Shekhawat, who has been accused by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot of trying to topple his government, also alleged that it was the Congress leader who had orchestrated the political “drama” in the state to target his rivals in the party and outside. “He has been unable to digest that I defeated his son in Lok Sabha elections and is trying everything against me, by hook or by crook to avenge his defeat,” said Shekhawat, who represents Jodhpur and had defeated Vaibhav Gehlot in the 2019 Lok Sabha election by more than 2.74 lakh votes. Underlining that the BJP has nothing to do with the political crisis in Rajasthan, Shekhawat maintained that it is the fallout of the infighting in the Congress involving Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. “With this ongoing drama in the state, he (Gehlot) wants to eliminate Sachin (Pilot) and others from the party. He is blaming the BJP for this entire crisis and trying to tarnish the image of its leadership,” Shekhawat said. When asked about former chief minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia being largely silent on the issue, Shekhawat said, ”Well Vasundharaji’s silence can be a strategy and sometimes silence is louder than words.” He, however, refused to elaborate. When the Gehlot-Pilot feud spilled into the open, Raje, a two-time chief minister, maintained a conspicuous silence though all other BJP leaders from the state were speaking on the issue and attacking the Congress. A week later, she had posted a couple of tweets saying some people were trying to create confusion on the political developments in the state and insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Her remarks came in the backdrop of Nagaur MP and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convener Hanuman Beniwal accusing her of having an “internal alliance” with Gehlot. Beniwal has been a critic of Raje and had left the BJP in 2018 before assembly elections. Differences between Raje and the party’s central leadership over the appointment of BJP’s Rajasthan unit chief in 2018 had delayed it for more than two months and eventually a consensus was reached on the name of Madan Lal Saini. After the party lost the last Rajasthan assembly elections, Raje was appointed as vice-president of the BJP. Shekhawat alleged that the chief minister shifting the MLAs to Jaisalmer shows that he does not trust them and the government lacks majority. Asserting that there was a “vertical spilt” in the state government since the Congress came to power in the state in 2018, he said, ”When the CM himself had said that he and Sachin were not talking to each other for more than a year and half, then it tells you the entire story.” “With MLAs being shifted to Jaisalmer in a fortress, it clearly shows that the chief minister doesn't trust his own MLAs and rather than tackling the coronavirus crisis, he is battling to keep his house in order. It also shows that the government lacks majority,” he said. Unfortunately, innocent people of the state are paying the price for the infighting in the Congress, the BJP leader said. Gajendra Shekhawat, a second-time MP from Jodhpur, is the Union Jal Shakti Minister. He started his career as a student leader from Jodhpur University in 1992 and thereafter was associated with various RSS-backed organisations. He closely worked with former chief minister and late BJP leader Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in the 1993 assembly polls in Rajasthan. He came into prominence for his work as general secretary of Seema Jan Kalyan Samiti, a Sangh-backed outfit working in border areas of Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sometimes-silence-is-louder-than-words-says-union-minister-shekhawat-on-vasundhara-raje-868766.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Liquor tragedy: 'Mind your own business', Punjab CM Amarinder tells Delhi CM Kejriwal on demand for CBI probe||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday hit back at Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for the demand of a CBI probe into the state’s hooch tragedy, saying the AAP leader should "mind his own business". Amarinder Singh further asked the Delhi chief minister “not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party's stake in the state”. Kejriwal in his tweet on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the Punjab hooch tragedy, which has claimed 98 lives so far. Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State govt needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias. The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local police Slamming Kejriwal, the CM in a statement said, “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident. Don't you have any shame.” Asking the AAP leader to "mind his own business", the Punjab CM said his Delhi counterpart should concentrate on maintaining law and order in his own state, which was “notorious for the brazen manner in which criminals and gangs were roaming the streets without fear”. Trashing Kejriwal's claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by the local police”, the Punjab CM asked the AAP leader to verify his facts “before shooting through his mouth”. Citing that an illicit liquor factory was busted in Khanna on April 22, the CM said eight accused were arrested and a manhunt was launched for seven others. In another case, two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, a challan was filed in the court, the Punjab chief minister said. Expressing full faith in the Punjab police, the CM said Kejriwal's demand for a CBI probe was nothing but a “political gimmick”, aimed at “regaining lost foothold” for his party, which had “completely lost ground” in Punjab despite being the principal opposition party. The CM said despite the cases of targeted killings in Punjab being handed over the CBI, it was eventually the Punjab Police that had solved the same. Even in the sacrilege cases, the CBI failed to deliver and it is the Punjab Police which is unravelling the case, he claimed. Rather than delaying the investigation and allow the trail to go cold even in the present spurious liquor case by handing over the probe to CBI, he was more interested in ensuring swift action against all those whose greed had cost the state around 100 lives, the CM said in the statement. The CM asked Kejriwal to check out his facts before making “unsubstantiated and wild allegations” against his government, whose track record in curbing crime of all kinds was “exemplary”. “Why don't you ask your Punjab unit for data and figures first and then comment on our working,” he told the Delhi CM. Singh also advised his Delhi counterpart to concentrate on his state's “horrendous” Covid-19 situation. “Rather than worrying about Punjab's affairs, why don't you take care of the health and lives of Delhiites,” the CM said. Saying that strict action is being taken against all those found guilty in cases of illicit brewing and smuggling, Amarinder Singh said in the hooch tragedy, too, 30 people have already been arrested in three districts. Moreover, 13 officials from the police and excise and taxation departments had been suspended for negligence while investigations are on to ascertain their complicity in the case, he said. A magisterial inquiry had ordered with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he further said, asking what was the need for CBI to take over the case when the local police was handling it so effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/liquor-tragedy-mind-your-own-business-punjab-cm-amarinder-tells-delhi-cm-kejriwal-on-demand-for-cbi-probe-868771.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Gehlot writes to PM, urges him to hold meeting with CMs on Covid-19 management||Since the last meeting with the chief ministers on June 17, the indicators of Covid-19 and the economic scenario of states have changed a lot due to the long-term lockdown, Gehlot said in a letter to Modi. The chief minister said the country's battle with the pandemic has reached a decisive phase. All states have tried to stop the spread of Covid-19 with their full strength and resources. At the same time, he said, financial support has also been provided to those who have lost their means of livelihood in the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. Apprising the prime minister of the Rajasthan government's efforts to tackle Covid-19, Gehlot said 15.26 lakh samples had been collected in the state till August 1. The recovery rate of infected people is 77.29 percent, the death rate is 1.62 percent and the testing capacity is 45,000 per day, he said. Rajasthan's Covid-19 case count rose to 43,804 on Sunday as 561 fresh infections were recorded. The disease has so far claimed 703 lives in the state, a health department official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gehlot-writes-to-pm-urges-him-to-hold-meeting-with-cms-on-covid-19-management-868774.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Congress cracks whip on warring leaders||Congress on Sunday cracked the whip as the internal discord in the party over successive electoral losses came out in the open with party veterans and young leaders jousting over social media. Young leaders of the Congress rallied behind Rajeev Satav who had kicked off a storm on Thursday last by calling for introspection over UPA’s 10-year-rule when the party organisation was neglected, leading to its present condition. A Twitter war broke out among Congress leaders with a group of former UPA ministers calling for “educating” the young leaders about the party legacy. Satav also made it clear that he had never questioned the legacy of Singh or UPA and had termed reports suggesting to the contrary as “malicious”. “I will advise friends who are playing twitter-twitter to stop making comments on social media. We have internal democracy. Present your views at appropriate party fora,” Randeep Singh Surjewala, chief spokesman of the Congress told reporters here. He also reminded the senior leaders that it was not the tradition of the Congress to forcefully retire anyone. “The senior leaders of the Congress have a greater responsibility. They have excelled within the government as well as the organistation and were are keen followers of them,” Surjewala said. The seniors have a greater responsibility of holding a mirror to the government at a time when it falters in dealing with challenges posed by Covid-19, Chinese transgressions and the economic crisis. “This is of utmost importance and senior leaders have the responsibility to guide the young leaders, encourage them to move ahead and make way for them,” Surjewala said. Satav, newly elected to the Rajya Sabha, had called for introspection on the decimation of the Congress in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, which was seen by senior leaders as raising questions on the UPA legacy. Former union ministers Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora had rallied behind Singh and slammed those questioning the UPA legacy. But Satav hit back calling the reports “malicious” as he slammed the senior leaders for dragging the name of Singh into the debate, Satav was supported by Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore, Mahila Congress President Sushmita Dev and AICC Secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-cracks-whip-on-warring-leaders-868781.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||'Get well soon' wishes pour in after Union Home minister Amit Shah tests Covid-19 positive||'Get well soon' wishes started pouring in for the Union home minister in Jharkhand as the news of Amit Shah having tested positive for Covid-19 surfaced. Governor Droupadi Murmu, Chief Minister Hemant Soren and political parties wished him good health and recovery In a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan, the governor said, she has faith that the Union home minister will soon win the battle against Covid-19. The chief minister took to Twitter and wished Shah a fast recovery from Covid-19. "Got the information that @AmitShahji (tested) corona positive. I pray to the almighty for your speedy recovery," Soren said. State unit president of the saffron party and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash, BJPs Legislature Party Leader Babulal Marandi, former chief minister Raghubar Das, Union Tribal Affairs minister Arjun Munda, party general secretary (Organisation) Dharampal Singh and other leaders also wished him quick recovery, a party release said. Spokespersons of the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) Alok Kumar Dubey and Rajesh Gupta said in a press release, "The whole country is united in the fight against novel coronavirus and the party wishes you speedy recovery." The Union home minister said on Sunday that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and is getting admitted to a hospital following the advice of doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/get-well-soon-wishes-pour-in-after-union-home-minister-amit-shah-tests-covid-19-positive-868784.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Hooch tragedy: SAD seeks CM's resignation, says Congress leaders involved in spurious liquor trade||The Opposition in Punjab on Sunday attacked the state government over the hooch tragedy that has killed 104 people with the SAD asking Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to step down and demanding action against "Congress leaders patronising spurious liquor trade". The SAD also rejected the magisterial inquiry ordered by the state government and sought a probe either by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanded an investigation by the CBI with its state chief Bhagwant Mann indicating that political leaders might be involved in it. AAP also held a statewide agitation against the government over the tragedy, unfolding since Wednesday evening in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur’s Batala. Both parties demanded that a murder case be registered against those behind it. “There should be a probe by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court into this incident,” SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, describing the investigation ordered by the state government as “farce and mere eyewash”. He also accused the state government of suppressing the actual number of casualties. “Murder charges should be slapped against all those responsible for the man-made tragedy,” said Majithia while addressing the media. Holding the CM “directly responsible” for this tragedy, the SAD asked Amarinder Singh to own the moral responsibility for it and step down as he held the charge of the excise and home departments. Majithia also demanded immediate action against the “Congress legislators patronising spurious liquor trade”. “Congress legislators, police officials and liquor mafia are responsible for the hooch tragedy. Action should be taken against all them, instead of targeting lower rank officials,” said Majithia. He also demanded that former Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya be booked for murder. He claimed that many people in the area had approached the then SSP and complained about bootleggers and their alleged Congress “kingpins”. “Despite this, the then SSP turned a blind eye to the entire racket,” he alleged. Meanwhile, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann demanded a CBI probe into the deaths. “Nothing will happen with the transfer of some officers. The problem is deep rooted and there is a big nexus. People are openly taking names of leaders. There should be a probe by the CBI,” said Mann, who met families of the victims in Tarn Taran. He said a murder case be registered in connection with the episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hooch-tragedy-sad-seeks-cms-resignation-says-congress-leaders-involved-in-spurious-liquor-trade-868789.html
02-08-2020||National Politics||Local BJP leader Shivcharan Lahre killed in Chhattisgarh village, accused held||A local BJP leader and former sarpanch was allegedly killed by his neighbour following an argument in Janjgir-Champa district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Sunday. The accused, identified as Shivcharan Lahre (30), was arrested after he surrendered before the police after committing the crime on Saturday night, a local official said. Jangir-Champa, a neighbouring district of Korba, is located around 250 km away from capital Raipur. "As per the preliminary information, victim Gopichand Karsh (52) went to the Lahre's house in Virra village on Saturday night after he came to know that he was creating nuisance in an inebriated state and using foul language," he said. Karsh tried to pacify the accused, but soon an argument broke out between them. In a fit of rage, Karsh slapped Lahre in front of his family members, the police official said. "Sometime later, as Karsh started returning to his house, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving him dead on the spot," he said. After committing the crime, the accused reached Virra police station and surrendered, he said. Karsh was a local BJP leader and had been sarpanch of his village in the past, he said. He was booked under IPC section 302, the official said, adding that further investigation into the case was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/local-bjp-leader-shivcharan-lahre-killed-in-chhattisgarh-village-accused-held-868836.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Ex-JNU student leader Umar Khalid questioned by police in connection with northeast Delhi riots||The Delhi Police has questioned former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid in connection with an alleged conspiracy behind the February riots in the northeastern parts of the city, officials said on Saturday. "Khalid was questioned by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police on Friday in connection with an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police," a senior officer of the force said. Earlier, Khalid was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case. In the FIR, the police had claimed that the communal clashes were the result of a "premeditated conspiracy", which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to people to come out on the streets and block roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread the propaganda at the international level about how minorities are being treated in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-jnu-student-leader-umar-khalid-questioned-by-police-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots-868589.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Kamal Rani Varun, under treatment for Covid-19, passes away||The Uttar Pradesh minister, who had been admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on July 18 after she tested positive for coronavirus, breathed her last on Sunday morning, according to the official sources. The doctors said that her condition had worsened a couple of days ago and she had to be put under ventilator support. Sources said that the minister, who held the technical education portfolio in the UP ministry, suffered from diabetes, hypertension and also had thyroid problem. 58-year-old Kamal Rani was a legislator from Ghatampur assembly constituency in Kanpur Dehat district of the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath cancelled his visit to Ayodhya following the minister's demise. So far, as many as five UP ministers have tested positive for coronavirus. Before Kamal Rani, UP ministers Jai Pratap Singh, Chetan Chauhan, Upendra Tewari, Rajendra Pratap Singh and Dharma Singh Saini had also tested positive. UP has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few days and around 3,000 cases were reported almost on a daily basis. So far 1,677 people have died from Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-minister-kamal-rani-varun-under-treatment-for-covid-19-passes-away-868609.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Kamal Nath to host 'Hanuman Chalisa' recital on Ayodhya event eve||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath will host a recital of 'Hanuman Chalisa' at his residence here on Tuesday, a day before the ground-breaking ceremony for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. All Covid-19 protocols will be strictly followed during the event, Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said on Sunday. "'Hanuman Chalisa' recital has been organised at Nathjis residence on Tuesday. He is an ardent devotee of Hanumanji. He has asked the party cadre and leaders to recite 'Hanuman Chalisa' at their homes on Tuesday, Gupta said. On Saturday, Kamal Nath said a Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya with the consent of every Indian. Asked about the reason behind the event being organised by the former state chief minister, Gupta said Tuesday is an auspicious day. "Nothing should be read into it. It is purely a spiritual event," he said. On 'Hanuman Jayanti' in April, Nath could not hold a grand annual religious event in his constituency Chhindwara in the wake of the fall of his government, he said. Some years ago, Nath, who was then a member of Parliament, got a 101-feet-tall statue of Lord Hanuman installed in Chhindwara district, he added. In March this year, 22 rebel Congress MLAs, loyalists of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, resigned from the party, leading to the fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in the state. Following the rebellion, Kamal Nath resigned as chief minister on March 20, paving the way for the BJP to return to power in the state. Since March, 25 MLAs have so far resigned from the Congress as well as the state Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-to-host-hanuman-chalisa-recital-on-ayodhya-event-eve-868631.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab hooch tragedy: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal demands CBI probe||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the Punjab hooch tragedy which has claimed 86 lives so far. Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party is in the Opposition in the state, claimed that none of the cases pertaining to illicit liquor in the last few months has been solved by the local police. "Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State govt needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias," Kejriwal tweeted.  "The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months has been solved by local police," he said. On Saturday, the death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 with 48 more people reported dead after drinking spurious liquor,  prompting the state government to suspend seven excise and six police officials. The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening in three Punjab districts. Sixty-three of the deaths were reported from Tarn Taran district, 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala, officials said. Twenty-five people have been arrested so far amid opposition criticism and demands for the resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who has warned of strict action against anyone found complicit in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-hooch-tragedy-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-demands-cbi-probe-868655.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Indian police begin crackdown on illegal liquor suppliers after 86 die in Punjab||Indian police raided rural hamlets and made arrests to break up a bootlegging cartel on Sunday, after 86 people died from consuming illegally-produced alcohol this week in Punjab, officials said. "We have conducted raids at more than 30 places today and we have detained six more persons," Dhruman H. Nimbale, a senior police officer in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, told Reuters. Nimbale said the first death occurred on Wednesday but police were only alerted on Friday, and then launched an investigation to determine whether the fatalities were linked. Punjab police have so far arrested at least 25 people and conducted more than 100 raids across three districts, seizing hundreds of litres of liquor from villages and road-side eateries, the state's police chief Dinkar Gupta said on Saturday. A government official said some of the seized liquid was denatured spirit, which is typically used in the paint and hardware industry. Deaths from illegally-produced alcohol, known locally as "hooch" or "country liquor", are a regular occurrence in India, where many cannot afford branded spirits. Recent coronavirus-related lockdowns have also made it difficult for consumers to enjoy a regular tipple. On Friday, 10 men died in southern Indian states after consuming sanitizer derived from alcohol, as local liquor shops were closed, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-police-begin-crackdown-on-illegal-liquor-suppliers-after-86-die-in-punjab-868661.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Bihar cops look for Sushant Singh Rajput's flatmate Pithani, city SP leaves for Mumbai: IG Patna||Bihar Police are looking for Sushant Singh Rajputs flatmate Siddharth Pithani to record his statement in the actor's death case but has failed to locate him so far, a top state police officer said on Sunday. Pithani is a creative content manager and flatmate of the late actor who was found dead at his Bandra apartment in Mumbai on June 14. Bihar Police are looking for Siddharth Pithani to record his statement as he used to stay with the actor. Efforts to contact Pithani have been futile. He has not come forward before the police...Notice will be served if he does not appear, Inspector General, Patna Zone, Sanjay Singh told PTI. Pithani had alleged in an email to Mumbai police two days ago that he was being pressured by Rajput's family to record a statement against his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. Pithani had said that he shared a professional relationship with the late actor. Singh said that IPS officer Vinay Tiwary, who is posted as City SP (Central) Patna, has already left for Mumbai to lead the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey had Saturday said, if needed, an IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai to join the investigation. Pandey had also said that Bihar police team had failed to locate Rhea Chakraborty, whom Rajput's father has accused of abetting the actor's suicide. Rajput's father has also accused Chakraborty of wrongful confinement of the actor, spiriting away Rs 15 crore from one of his bank accounts, and having him undergo treatment for mental illness without keeping his family informed. A four-member team is already in Mumbai to probe the Bollywood actors death case after his father K K Singh lodged a police complaint in Patna on July 25, more than a month after his demise. Mumbai police are also parallelly probing the case. Several political leaders including Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi have alleged that Mumbai police was not cooperating with their Patna counterparts in the investigation. "Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra CM) is under pressure from the Congress-funded Bollywood mafia. So it's bent on saving all the elements responsible in the case," the BJP leader had tweeted in Hindi on Saturday and accused the Mumbai police of creating hurdles before the Bihar police team. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, meanwhile, said the state police team in Mumbai had not yet got any documents from the metropolitan police. "Apart from the FIR that we have registered, we have nothing. We have not received the inquest report, postmortem report, video footage of the building.....That the investigation moves forward and the truth is unravelled is the responsibility of both Mumbai and Bihar police. Sushant's death is not a simple matter," he told a TV news channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-cops-look-for-sushant-singh-rajputs-flatmate-pithani-city-sp-leaves-for-mumbai-ig-patna-868664.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Pollution in Ganga: National Green Tribunal directs UP Jal Nigam to complete sewer work expeditiously||The National Green Tribunal has directed UP Jal Nigam to expeditiously complete the work of sewer connectivity to households at Narora town in Bulandshahr district to ensure that no untreated water is discharged into the Ganga. The green panel slammed the Jal Nigam over non-functional sewage treatment plant at Narora and discharge of untreated sewage in a pond adjacent to the river. "UP Jal Nigam must perform its responsibility and cannot take the plea that fault was of the contractor. The work of sewer connectivity to households be completed expeditiously which may be reviewed by the principal secretary, Urban Development, UP," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. It said the Jal Nigam is held liable to pay Rs 5 lakh for their default which may be deposited with the state pollution control board within one month to be spent for restoration of the environment. The NGT was perusing a report filed by an oversight committee headed by former high court judge which said the chief engineer of the Jal Nigam had informed it that the Naraura Project was sanctioned in 2015 and as per the project, it was proposed that treated water shall be discharged into river Ganga. "The sewage treatment plant was installed in 2018 but became operational since February 2. As per the inspection report submitted by UPPCB, the capacity of Naraura STP is of 4 MLD (million litres per day), but current total utilisation is of 2 MLD. Despite having excess capacity, still, 5 MLD untreated sewage is being discharged in river Ganga through drains," the committee said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by residents of Nodai Wagar village in Narora town, alleging that the STP unit was discharging untreated wastewater in the Ganga. There was no pipeline for discharging treated effluent, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pollution-in-ganga-national-green-tribunal-directs-up-jal-nigam-to-complete-sewer-work-expeditiously-868668.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Nepal water release inundates 61 villages in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich||Over 60 villages in the Bahraich district here have been inundated following the release of water by Nepal from its three barrages into rivers, a district administration official said on Sunday. The release of water has affected over 1.50 lakh people and damaged 171 houses, he said, adding National Disaster Response Force personnel have been deployed in the area to rescue people. "Following the release of lakhs of cusec of water by Nepal, at least 61 villages in the district have been inundated. The administration is providing relief to the affected people," Additional District Magistrate Jai Chandra Pandey said. He added that 61 villages located in Kaisarganj, Mahsi and Mihipurva tehsils, with a population of over 1.50 lakh, have been affected. "The condition is very bad in seven villages. As many as 131 kutcha houses have been damaged. Twenty-three flood posts have been made. Apart from this, one motorboat, 179 boats, one platoon of flood PAC and NDRF have also been pressed into service," Pandey said. He also said 48 medical teams along with veterinary teams have also been deployed for relief work. Medical facilities, vaccination of animals, tarpaulin sheets and food packets are being distributed, he added. "About 3.15 lakh cusec water was released into rivers from Sharda, Girijapuri and Saryu barrages. The levels of rivers at these places were below the danger mark, but Ghagara was flowing 108 centimetres above the danger mark at Elgin bridge. Along with the barrages, the embankments are also being constantly monitored," said Executive Engineer (Flood) Shobit Kushwaha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nepal-water-release-inundates-61-villages-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-868669.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Raigarh police to distribute over 14L masks on Raksha Bandhan||Police in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district will distribute over 14 lakh face masks to people on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on Monday, to urge the public to make efforts towards containing the spread of Covid-19. As part of the drive, titled Ek Rakshasutra Mask ka (one safety string of mask), the police with the support of volunteers will offer masks to people in every police station area of Raigarh, a senior official said on Sunday. "Right from when the coronavirus outbreak began in March, the Raigarh police have been running several awareness campaigns to sensitise people about the viral infection. The district witnessed a spurt in cases in the last one month," Raigarh Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh told PTI. "In view of the present situation, we decided to take up the initiative on Raksha Bandhan, celebrated as the bond of protection, since a mask is also a tool for the safety of people," he said. Till Saturday, Raigarh reported 223 Covid-19 cases and out of these, nearly 100 came to light in the last one month. Under the drive, the target is to distribute around 14.5 lakh masks door-to-door in each police station area on Monday with the support of local people, Singh said. We have appealed to social and non-government organisations to support the police in the cause, and help in the distribution of masks in their localities while complying with all the precautionary protocols," he said. People can also click pictures while distributing masks in their area and share it with police on social media platforms, he said. On this 'Raksha Bandhan', the police also have urged people to enjoy the festival at home and offer masks as gifts to each other, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raigarh-police-to-distribute-over-14l-masks-on-raksha-bandhan-868683.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||40-year-old woman, minor daughter gang-raped in Madhya Pradesh's Burhanpur||A 40-year-old woman and her 12-year-old daughter were abducted and gang-raped by six people in Shahpur area in Madhya Pradesh's Burhanpur district, police said on Sunday. As per the complaint, six armed men, after holding the woman's watchman husband hostage, abducted her and their daughter from their home near a stone crushing site in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday and raped the two in the fields nearby, said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Khargone Range) Tilak Singh said. "The incident took place in Bodarli village on the border with Maharashtra. The accused also looted cash and a mobile phone from the house. Police teams have been sent to Buldhana and Jalgaon in the neighbouring state to nab the culprits," the DIG informed. Shahpur police station in-charge Sanjay Pathak said a case has been registered under sections 376D (gang-rape), 347 (wrongful confinement), 363 (kidnapping) and provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-year-old-woman-minor-daughter-gang-raped-in-madhya-pradeshs-burhanpur-868685.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Two minors among three Naxals held in Dantewada||Three Naxals, including two minors, were held after an exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district, police said on Sunday. A 15-year-old girl was among the two minors who were taken into custody, they said. The face-off took place on Saturday evening in a forest near Tetam village under Katekalyan police station limits when a joint team of security forces was out on an anti-Naxal operation, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. A joint squad of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and local police launched the operation based on a specific input that senior Naxals had convened a meeting of villagers from Tetam, Tela, Jiakorta and other villages in the area in a bid to pressurise them to observe the 'Martyrs' week', he said. Naxals are observing the 'Martyrs' week' from July 28 to August 3 in the memory of their slain leaders, he said. When the patrolling team was near Tetam, located around 400 km from the capital Raipur, Naxals triggered IED (improvised explosive devise) blasts and opened fire on security forces that led to the gun battle, he said. On finding that the security personnel were zeroing-in on them, the rebels escaped into the dense forest, he said. Three Naxals, including a 15-year-old girl and a boy aged 16, were detained from the spot. Later, one of them, identified as Hidma Madvi (23), who was active as a jan-militia member, was arrested, he said, adding detonators, Maoist banners, fire crackers, medicines and items of daily use were also seized from the spot. The detained girl was part of the Chetna Natya Mandli (cultural wing of Maoists), while the boy was active as a militia member, he said. "All the three were allegedly tasked with arranging commodities of daily use for senior cadres, spreading Maoist propaganda, damaging roads and conducting reconnaissance on police," Pallava said. The two minors were sent to a juvenile home, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-two-minors-among-three-naxals-held-in-dantewada-868686.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Dogs gnaw at newborn's corpse near Madhya Pradesh hospital; cops begin probe||A probe has begun after stray dogs were spotted devouring the corpse of a newborn near a government hospital in Ashok Nagar district in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Sunday. Local health authorities said the child may have been stillborn and dogs may have dug it out after kin buried it. The incident took place on Saturday, officials said. "A 22-year-old pregnant woman was admitted here with complications like profuse bleeding and it was a stillbirth. The corpse was handed over to the family and they informed that the burial was carried out near a local pond. Dogs may have dug up the body," said District Hospital Civil Surgeon Himanshu Sharma. Kotwali police station in charge PP Mudgil said details of the child or from where the dogs got the corpse were not yet clear, and a probe was underway after a case was registered. "On getting information, an assistant sub-inspector visited the spot for probe. We have re-buried the stillborn with proper care," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dogs-gnaw-at-newborns-corpse-near-madhya-pradesh-hospital-cops-begin-probe-868695.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Centre asks states, UTs to allow hospitalised Covid-19 patients use smartphones to interact with kin||Though mobile phones are allowed in hospital wards, the missive was issued following some representation from the kin of patients alleging otherwise. Director-General of Health Services (DGHS) in the Health Ministry Dr Rajiv Garg in the letter to the principal secretaries of health and medical education of states and Union territories said appropriate protocols for disinfecting devices and allotting timeslots can be developed by the hospital concerned to facilitate contact between patients and their family. He underlined that administrative and medical teams should be responsive to the psychological needs of patients admitted in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of various hospitals. "Social connection can calm down patients and also reinforce the psychological support given by the treating team. Please instruct all concerned that they should allow smartphones and tablet devices in patient areas so that the patient can video conference with their family and friends," stated the letter issued on July 29. "Though mobile phones are allowed in the wards to enable a patient stay in touch with his or her family, we received representations from the patient families from some states stating mobile phones are not being allowed by hospital administrations because of which they were not being able to stay in contact with the patient," said Dr Garg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-asks-states-uts-to-allow-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-use-smartphones-to-interact-with-kin-868697.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court restores dismissal of Army doctor for touching women patients inappropriately||Thirty six years after a doctor in Indian Army misbehaved with two women patients, the Supreme Court has restored the order dismissing him from the service, saying his reprehensible conduct of abusing a position of trust is not condonable. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat set aside the Armed Forces Tribunal's order which has confirmed the conviction of Lt Col S S Bedi by the General Court Martial but reduced his sentence from cashiering from service into a fine of Rs 50,000. The apex court passed its judgement on cross appeals filed by the Union government as well as by Bedi. During the hearing, his counsel Sridhar Potaraju, contended physical examination of the two complainants was necessary due to their ailments as one suffered from bronchial asthma and another with duodenal ulcer. He also said Bedi was 78-year-old and had deposited the fine. Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee, however, said conversion of sentence was unwarranted as there was no necessity for him to touch private parts of the complainants. Going through the evidence, the court said it was in agreement with the General Court Martial that Bedi was guilty of using criminal force against two women patients. The bench, however, directed the authorities to consider the entire record of service and advanced age of the appellants while taking a decision to initiate proceedings under the Army Pension Regulations. After being commissioned into India Army Medical Corps in 1966, Bedi was posted at Base Hospital, Lucknow. A complaint was made by two women on May 15, 1986 that during check up, he misbehaved with them, touching their private parts inappropriately. He was held guilty by the General Court Martial on December 9, 1986. He was sentenced to cashiering on January 14, 1987. He moved the Delhi High Court, which transferred the matter to the Armed Forces Tribunal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-restores-dismissal-of-army-doctor-for-touching-women-patients-inappropriately-868702.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to recommend CBI probe into lab technician kidnap, murder case||The Uttar Pradesh Government has decided to recommend a CBI inquiry into the kidnapping and murder of a lab technician in Kanpur, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, said on Sunday. He said the recommendation is being made on the demand of the family of the 27-year-old technician S Yadav. According to the police, five people, including a woman and two friends of Yadav, have been arrested in connection with the case. Later, the lab technician's sister, Ruchi, "After getting to know from the police that a CBI probe has been recommended, we feel satisfied. We had demanded a probe by the central agency." The lab technician in Kanpur was kidnapped in June and killed within a week of being held captive. His family has claimed that Rs 30 lakh ransom was paid for his release in the presence of police, but police say that it was not true. Eleven police personnel, including two senior officers, were suspended for laxity in the investigation. Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu had said a police probe confirmed that Yadav was murdered by his abductors. He said that several suspects were detained and grilled intensively, and two of them confessed to the crime. The official said the accused initially tried to mislead the police, but later they disclosed that they kidnapped Yadav, and strangled him to death with a rope either on June 26 or June 27 when he attempted to escape. They further confessed that they disposed of Yadav's body in Pandu river, the SSP said, adding that the accused had worked together with Yadav in another pathology lab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-recommend-cbi-probe-into-lab-technician-kidnap-murder-case-868712.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab liquor tragedy survivors troubled by low vision, uneasiness||I have not been able to see properly ever since I drank spurious liquor, says Tilak Raj, one of the survivors of the Punjab hooch tragedy that has killed 98 till Sunday. The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening and has claimed 75 lives in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala. Tilak Raj, a contractual employee of the Batala Municipal Corporation, says he felt uneasy after drinking spurious liquor, which he had bought for Rs 60 from Triveni Chauhan and Darshana Rani, alias Faujan, outside the Hathi Gate locality in Batala. Both accused have already been arrested by the police. “After I drank it, I was not able to see properly and felt uneasiness,” says Tilak Raj. He survived as his family immediately took him to the doctor. “Now, I am feeling slightly better but my vision has not improved and I am feeling giddy,” says 50-year-old Tilak Raj. Another Batala survivor, Ajay Kumar, says he started shivering after consuming spurious liquor. “I am still feeling weak,” says 32-year-old Kumar, who is admitted to the local civil hospital. Kumar blamed both Trivani and Darshana for the supply of spurious liquor. Many Batala residents alleged that illicit liquor was being openly sold in the Hathi Gate locality but no action was taken by the authorities. Another survivor in Amritsar's Muchhal village said he felt uneasiness after drinking spurious liquor. He said he could not see properly after consuming it. According to a top excise official, though the reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in police raids were yet to come, a superficial check showed that the material was a denatured spirit, generally used in the paint or hardware industry. Meanwhile, some families of the deceased in Amritsar flayed police for not taking any action against those indulging in the illegal liquor trade. Charan Kaur, who lost her 65-year-old husband to spurious liquor in Amritsar’s Muchhal, said accused Balwinder Kaur had been selling liquor for more than two decades in the village. Whenever police would come, she would hide liquor or throw it away, said Kaur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-liquor-tragedy-survivors-troubled-by-low-vision-uneasiness-868723.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief tests positive for Covid-19||Singh made public this information on Sunday in a tweet in Hindi. "I had been experiencing initial symptoms of Covid-19 and underwent a test for it. I was found positive for Covid-19,” said Singh in his tweet. मुझे कोरोना के शुरुआती लक्षण दिख रहे थे जिसके चलते मैंने अपनी कोविड-19 की जाँच कराई। जाँच में मेरी रिपोर्ट कोरोना पॉज़िटिव आई है। मुझसे संपर्क में आने वाले सभी लोगों से मेरा निवेदन है कि वह गाइडलाइन के अनुसार स्वयं को क्वारंटाइन कर ले और आवश्यकता अनुसार अपनी जाँच करा ले। The leader also requested his acquaintances who came in his contact recently to get themselves tested for the infection. “I request every person who came in my contact to get themselves tested for infection and quarantine themselves as per the guidelines," he added in his tweet. "On the advice of doctors, I have quarantined myself at my home. I request all the residents of UP to exercise caution and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the government," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-chief-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868740.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Lowest single-day Covid-19 deaths reported in Delhi since July 1||Delhi registered 15 deaths due to the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the lowest number of fatalities in a single day since July 1. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 1,37,677, while the death toll mounted to 4,004 on Sunday. On July 26, there were 21 deaths due to the pathogen, the previous lowest fatality count since July 1. The corresponding figures on successive days were -- July 27 (26), July 28 (28), July 29 (25), July 30 (29) and July 31 (27) and August 1 (26). On June 23, Delhi had recorded the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases so far. There were 613 Covid-19 cases on July 27, the lowest in the last two months. It, however, increased to 1,056 the next day and slightly declined to 1,035 on July 29, only to rise to 1,093 and 1,195 on July 30 and 31 respectively. The Delhi government has been asserting that a multi-pronged strategy of aggressive testing, home isolation and other factors had helped keep the cases from surging, as it was happening in June. However, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has asked people to not be complacent and take adequate precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lowest-single-day-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-delhi-since-july-1-868760.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||BSF conducts physical efficiency test for officers in Delhi||The Border Security Force (BSF) conducted on Sunday a physical efficiency test of its officers posted in Delhi as part of a drive to keep the force combat-read The ground exercise named 'field physical efficiency test' was conducted at a camp of the force in southwest Delhi's Chhawla area in presence of BSF Director General S S Deswal. The test, as per a force spokesperson, is a combination of physical activities like running, ropework and clearing obstacles. "All BSF troops undergo this testing process twice every year and the results are reflected in the annual performance appraisal report of individuals," he said. The spokesperson said during the event, the DG "emphasised on the importance of physical fitness especially during the COVID-19 pandemic scenario as well as the onerous task BSF needs to perform." "The physical efficiency test is designed in a manner that the personnel and officer test themselves at each step. The endurance needed for pushing oneself further and accomplishing the task provides much-needed satisfaction and self-confidence," he said. This physical test has helped officers take their confidence level to newer heights. It would help them set an impressive precedent to keep all ranks combat-ready and fit at all places of deployment, the spokesperson said. The around 2.5 lakh personnel strong force is primarily tasked with guarding India's frontiers with Pakistan and Bangladesh. These fitness courses are the idea of DG Deswal who has ordered that all obese personnel in the border guarding force should be identified and sent for physical training.  Deswal is heading the BSF in additional capacity for over four months now. He is the full-time chief of the ITBP. He has ordered conducting fitness courses at BSF and Indo-Tibetan Border Police training centres and attended the closing day events of a number of such courses where he himself takes part in a 42-km long walk along with the participants. He has recently directed a 10-km route march for Deputy Inspector General (DIG) and above ranking officers of the BSF at a camp in Bhondsi in Haryana on August 16. The DG also recently ordered an inquiry to find out how a jawan weighing 160 kg was "declared fit" to take a physical fitness course during which he died. Constable Vinod Singh, 45, died on July 17 after he "felt giddiness in the evening hours near his barracks" at the BSF subsidiary training centre in Rajasthan's Jodhpur. The jawan, a water carrier of the 114th battalion, was sent for a similar fitness course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-conducts-physical-efficiency-test-for-officers-in-delhi-868761.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||One dead, 7 injured in group clashes over entry of cow in neighbour’s field: Police||A 40-year-old man died while seven other persons, including an elderly woman, were seriously injured in a clash involving firing and stone-pelting between two groups of a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district on Sunday, police said. The clashes broke out on Sunday in Chanaura village under Nigohi police station following simmering tension between two groups of villagers over a cow of Rajpal venturing into the fields of his neighbour Balbir on Saturday. Following the tension between the two sides over the incident, the police had reached the village on Saturday and had brokered peace between them. "Members of Balbir's group, however, beat up Rajpal on Sunday afternoon. This led to people from both sides pelting stones at each other and opening fire, in which Dhirendra, 40, died,” Superintendent of Police Yash Anand on Sunday told PTI. Seven others, including Rajpal and his 75-year-old mother, suffered serious injuries in the clashes, said SP. Most of the injured suffered pellet wounds as well those from the stone pelting and lathis, the SP said. The injured have been admitted to the district hospital for treatment. “After firing in the village, the situation is tense, but under control,” the SP added. The body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-7-injured-in-group-clashes-over-entry-of-cow-in-neighbour-s-field-police-868790.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Amar Singh's mortal remains brought to Delhi from Singapore||The mortal remains of Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh were brought to the national capital on Sunday evening from Singapore, where he breathed his last, sources close to the family said. His mortal remains were brought to Delhi in a chartered aircraft, the sources said, adding that Singh's wife Pankaja was also on the plane. The cremation will take place at the Chhatarpur crematorium on Monday morning. Due to Covid-19 protocols, Singh's last rites will be performed in the presence of a limited number of people, the sources said. The former Samajwadi Party leader had undergone a kidney transplant in 2011 and was not keeping well for a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amar-singhs-mortal-remains-brought-to-delhi-from-singapore-868793.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||China's PLA fortifies position on India's territory it transgressed into on north bank of Pangong Tso||With China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) fortifying its positions in India’s territory it recently transgressed into on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), Beijing has signalled its reluctance to even acknowledge the area as a face-off scene and a subject of dispute to be resolved through discussion with New Delhi. The Chinese PLA thinned out troops from the “Finger 4” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso early last month after it agreed with the Indian Army to withdraw front-line troops from the scenes of the face-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. It, however, did not restore the status quo ante and held on to the area between “Finger 5” and “Finger 8” – an eight-kilometre-long stretch it took over after the stand-off with the Indian Amy started in early May. The PLA rather brought in more troops, built bunkers and observation posts, dug trenches, pitched tents and set up new prefabricated huts to accommodate additional soldiers, apart from deploying its navy unit with more speed-boats for patrolling on the lake, a source told DH on Sunday. The Chinese Army not only fortified its position in the entire stretch from “Finger 5” to “Finger 8”, but also occupied the ridgeline overlooking the “fingers” – thus effectively controlling an area of nearly 30 sq. km, denying access to the Indian Army to places it regularly patrolled before the stand-off started three months ago. That China dug in its heels in the ‘finger’ areas on the bank of the Pangong Tso was evident when its envoy to India, Sun Weidong, recently asserted the communist country’s claim on the entire stretch. “On the northern bank of Pangong Lake, China's traditional customary boundary line is in accordance with the LAC. There is no such (thing) as China expanded its territorial claim,” Sun said, while responding to a question during a webinar hosted by Institute of Chinese Studies in New Delhi. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like a palm with the protrusions looking like fingers. They are in fact demarcated on the maps as ‘Fingers’, with the “Finger 1” at the end and the “Finger 8” at the eastern end. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the Pangong Tso, goes through the “Finger 4”. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the “Finger 8”. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a scuffle in “Finger 4” area on May 5. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area, thus denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops in response to the PLA build-up and the stand-off started. After the Chinese PLA pulled back its troops from the scene of the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley early last month, the Indian Army too withdrew troops 1.5 kilometres away from the spot, in keeping with the disengagement understanding reached between the senior military officials of the two nations to resolve the stand-off. The two sides also withdrew troops from Hot Springs and some other face-off scenes. The process, however, stalled since middle of the last month, primarily due to the PLA’s reluctance to completely pull back troops from the north bank of the Pangong Tso, Depsang 'Y' junction and Gogra Post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chinas-pla-fortifies-position-on-indias-territory-it-transgressed-into-on-north-bank-of-pangong-tso-868795.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: No free travel for women in Haryana roadways buses on Raksha Bandhan||The government's decision, which came on the eve of Raksha Bandhan, drew criticism from senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda. He said instead of using the pandemic as an excuse, the government should run more buses to ensure social distancing. "The free (travel) service has been discontinued (for women) on Monday this time in view of the Covid-19 situation as a limited number of people are allowed to travel in a bus," Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said. "In a 52-seater bus, only 30 passengers are allowed to travel," he said. Sharma also appealed to people to maintain social distancing, wear face masks and sanitise their hands before boarding the buses. Hitting out at the government over the decision, Hooda alleged it will put undue burden on a large number of families facing financial distress due to months of lockdown and an economic slowdown in the country. "This will be the first time in 14 years that the government will collect fare from women on Raksha Bandhan. Our government started this free bus service giving women of the state a gift on Raksha Bandhan," the former Haryana chief minister said. He said the government should reconsider its decision. Hooda said the government should not give the excuse of  Covid-19 to discontinue the free travel service on Raksha Bandhan and instead run more buses to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing and safety of women who will visit their brothers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-no-free-travel-for-women-in-haryana-roadways-buses-on-raksha-bandhan-868805.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Noida toddler's kidnapping: Third accused arrested||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police on Sunday arrested one more person allegedly involved in kidnapping a two-year-old boy last week in Uttar Pradesh's Noida, officials said. Police arrested 20-year-old Mukul Rana from near Sector 50 metro station on Sunday, a police spokesperson said, adding he is the third accused in the crime. Two others, Piyush Yadav, the toddler’s cousin, and his friend Zubair (18), were arrested on July 30 for their alleged role in the crime. The toddler was playing outside his home in Sarfabad village on July 28 morning when he had gone missing. His father Sandeep Yadav later got a ransom call but he alerted the police. The kidnappers had abandoned the child near a metro station from where he was found safe around 12.30 pm, within an hour of the police swinging into action, officials said. Two days later, the police revealed that the kidnapping was planned and executed by the child's 20-year-old cousin along with his two friends, who all were jobless and wanted to “quickly make easy money”, the officials said. Rana, who hails from Mahoba district in UP, was staying in Noida. He was a friend of Piyush and had agreed for the kidnapping plan, the spokesperson said. The motorcycle used by Rana and Zubair in the crime has also been impounded and further proceedings are being carried out, the police said. An FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction) and 34 (act done by multiple people with common intention), the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-toddlers-kidnapping-third-accused-arrested-868825.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Apple growers of Himachal Pradesh face challenge in absence of labour from Nepal||The apple growers of Himachal Pradesh are currently facing a labour shortage. Almost three-fourths of the migrant labour force that traditionally works in the orchards of Himachal Pradesh comes from Nepal. The movement of labour begins from April and goes on till  the end of September.  The average worker usually takes a bus from Nepal into Uttarakhand and moves towards Himachal. However, this year, this mass movement of workers did not take place. At the apple orchard, Nepali workers are usually deployed to do the task of plucking, packing, and transporting the fruit. They are considered essential in carrying out demanding and strenuous tasks like transporting the produce from the fruit plantation to the closest road. Others have tasked immediate and extended family to lend a helping hand in these trying times. “Labour was unavailable, so the whole family got involved and we’re done with the work already. The yield this time was also only half of last year, so it was easier for us,” Prakash told IE. Earlier, the Himachal Pradesh government had sanctioned the movement of workers towards orchards, even allowing them to home quarantine at the sites where they were to work. But due to a sharp rise in Covid positive cases, suspected to be caused by workers, it has now made institutional quarantine mandatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/apple-growers-of-himachal-pradesh-face-challenge-in-absence-of-labour-from-nepal-868832.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||Noida: Missing man found dead in drain; unidentified body recovered from Yamuna||The body of a 45-year-old man, who had been missing for four days, was found in a drain, while a 35-year-old unidentified man was found dead in the Yamuna river in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday, police said. Nawab alias Babloo (45) had gone missing on July 29 and his body was spotted during the day by locals in a sewer line in Sector 80 under Phase 2 police station area, on Sunday, officials said. "The police were not informed about him going missing. The body was found on Sunday with its face disfigured. The identity was ascertained and the family of the deceased informed,” an official from the local police station said. In another incident, a body was found on the banks of the Yamuna river near Yakootpur village under Expressway police station area, the police said. The body of the man, in his 30s, appears to have reached here after flowing from some other location, Expressway SHO Yogesh Malik said, adding the identification process was underway. Both the bodies have been sent for post-mortem and further proceedings were underway in both the cases, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-missing-man-found-dead-in-drain-unidentified-body-recovered-from-yamuna-868834.html
02-08-2020||North and Central||11 armed forces personnel among 69 Covid-19 positive in Himachal Pradesh, tally crosses 27k||So far, 13 people have died of the infection in the state. Among the fresh cases, 27 were reported from Solan, 11 from Mandi, 10 from Shimla, eight from Kangra, six from Hamirpur, four from Chamba, two from Bilaspur and one from Sirmaur, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. In Mandi, five Army jawans and a 15-year-old girl of Samkhetar are among the fresh eleven cases, a district official said. Four Army and one Navy personnel besides a five-year-old girl were among those who contracted the infection in Kangra, Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. In Hamirpur, a 30-year-old Army jawan who had recently returned from Leh is among the fresh cases, chief medical officer Dr Archana Soni said. Besides a 26-year-old man of Badsar's Bairi village and a 29-year-old woman of Ropri village in Bhareri area also tested positive, she said, adding they had recently returned from Visakhapatnam. Similarly, two men of Uttap and Jhareri villages and a woman of Sujanpur also tested positive, she added. In Shimla, eight labourers tested positive at Dakolar in Rampur subdivision, SP Omapati Jamwal said. Besides two Nepali labourers of an apple orchardist tested positive at Shallan village in Shimla's Rohru, Rohru Sub-Divisional Magistrate Babu Ram Sharma said, adding that they were quarantined at Shallan village since their arrival here on July 21. Till now, 1,559 people have recovered from the infection while 15 migrated out of the state. Fifty-seven patients -- 23 in Sirmaur, 17 in Solan, seven each in Una and Kangra, two in Shimla and one in Bilaspur-- recovered from the infection on Sunday, Dhiman said. There are a total of 1,115 active Covid-19 cases in the state now, Dhiman said. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 396, followed by 167 in Sirmaur; 130 in Kangra; 134 in Mandi; 93 in Shimla; 60 in Una; 38 in Chamba; 36 in Bilaspur; 31 in Hamirpur; 19 in Kullu; and 11 in Kinnaur, Dhiman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-armed-forces-personnel-among-69-covid-19-positive-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-crosses-27k-868835.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Heard of the goat that scratched an itch on a sword and got beheaded?||Sanskrit literature, even in its most technical genre of philosophical commentary, is filled with lively laukika nyayas or popular maxims that draw from life experience. These maxims are often used to illustrate the opponent’s errors in reasoning, or to simply draw a comparison to the situation on hand. In a grim world filled with depressing news about the pandemic and fake news that is often funny, I figured we could use some popular maxims ourselves. Some maxims are well-known, like the one about six blind men who try to decide what an elephant looks like and end up with completely different views when they each touch its trunk, legs, and so on. Others, although very witty, are virtually unknown. Our first anti-fake news maxim is about a goat and a sword. There was once a goat tied to a post with a sword hanging before it. The poor goat stretched out its neck to scratch an itch and ended up beheaded by the sword. Another similar one about a crow on a branch. A crow, which weighs very little, happens to sit on a branch, and the branch breaks at that very moment. This does not mean that the crow broke the branch; only that it was a coincidence. Moral? Coincidences need not be mistaken for miracles, divine intervention, or for deep cosmic causal patterns. The maxim of the Ashoka grove tells us about randomness. When Ravana kidnapped Sita, he could have confined her in any grove in his kingdom. Why did he confine her in an Ashoka grove? There is no accounting for why someone picks one out of many options, and it’s best not to waste time explaining why x and not y. This is for the few not taking the coronavirus seriously, because they don’t personally know anyone affected by it. “It can’t be that bad, because no one I know has contracted the virus.” Let us hope it stays that way, but we need to take precautions anyway. If you want to explain the stance of all our politicians on any issue when they are in the opposition party versus when they are in the ruling party, think of the maxim of the mother-in-law and the mendicant. When a mendicant comes begging to the front door, the daughter-in-law sends him away, refusing to give him alms. The mother-in-law invites the mendicant back, simply to contradict her daughter-in-law, and then, guess what, she turns him away herself! Whether the mother-in-law is in charge or the daughter-in-law, the poor mendicant does not get any alms, but the two still choose to vocalise their disagreement on every issue. Do you know someone who always tries to find shortcuts and ends up expending more money and effort than if they did the thing properly in the first place? You can tell them the maxim of the miser making his daughter-in-law measure out grain. The story goes that there was once a miserly man who hated all forms of charity. Unfortunately for him, the scriptures dictate that one must give a certain number of handfuls of grain to anyone who asks for food at the front door before one can sit down for a meal. The miser’s wife completed this task every day, and the miser was always unhappy with how much grain he had to give away. He was delighted when his son married a young woman with small hands! Now, she could measure out the handful of grains, and his loss would be lesser. He entrusted her with the task. Predictably, plenty of men who needed no alms came along dressed as beggars simply to meet the young daughter-in-law. The miser had to give away much more grain than before! We can come up with plenty of maxims ourselves. If I might make a suggestion, how about the maxim of Prathap and the drone? It could be shorthand for: Don’t take your lies so far that you get enough media attention to expose them as lies!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/heard-of-the-goat-that-scratched-an-itch-on-a-sword-and-got-beheaded-868553.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Desacralising Indian history||The latest excisions (now withdrawn) from Karnataka school textbooks, in the name of ‘lightening the burden’ of students who are facing a Covid-truncated year, have drawn justified criticism for the topics that were proposed to be dropped. But that is hardly the most important problem with those textbooks. The distinguished committee of historians and literary scholars under whose watch the new textbooks were written in 2016 also “deleted unnecessary dates and data that are burdensome to the students” in order to give “attention to the historical understanding and the process.” One wishes this had indeed been the case, i.e., that the books had focused on building a ‘historical temper’, on the historical method, and that the students had been asked more questions about ‘why’ than ‘what’ or ‘when’. Then the attempt of successive governments, assorted linguistic and community groups to exclude this or that figure, this or that event, in a tiresome cycle of competitive sacralisation of history, could have been made redundant. For a long while now, the mandated textbook, whether at the state or the national level, has been the ground of bitter battles. These battles are driven by political, rather than pedagogical, concerns. Is it any longer possible to have a single, usable, teachable past, whether at the state or national level? Can we produce a textbook that reflects the heterogeneities and conflicts of our social existence? Yes, we can, if the focus is truly on historical method. For this, emphasis on context, rather than content, is paramount. The Karnataka history textbooks made a brave attempt at introducing students to primary historical sources: the Std VIII textbook introduces students to an inscription in a Belur temple which “advocates communal harmony,” but since there is no discussion of the context, it is simply another instance of sacralisation, this time of secularism. We are told that Basaveswara wrote his vachanas in simple Kannada that resembled the “spoken language of the people,” but not a single example of that rich 12th century heritage is included as illustration (Std IX). Nor is there a sample of Shishunala Sharif’s brilliant songs from the 19th century. Instead of asserting that “temples were built in Hampi, Shringeri, Tirupati” in the Vijayanagara period, could we use at least one –- say, the Hazara Rama temple at Hampi –- to ask: what do temples tell us about state patronage of religion? What can they tell us about tolerance/intolerance? About the wealth of donors? And worshippers? About artistic styles and skills/virtuosity? About cultural borrowings? The new (2019) Kerala Std X textbook does a better job of introducing students to the historical method. Literary sources have been used to show how the events discussed (such as the American and French Revolutions) retain their importance and meaning over centuries: Kumaran Asan (a late 19th- early 20th century poet) is cited on the importance of liberty and freedom. A poem by Avaiyyar (3rd century BC) and what it means for the history of Tamilakam is a subtle bow to the wider geographies and histories to which the relatively new linguistic state (Kerala) belongs. Maps are used to build skills in interpreting space through historical time. The Kerala state –- and one might add the Ekalavya (Hoshangabad) textbooks -- succeed where the Karnataka textbooks fail, because they have emerged out of a collaboration between historians, school teachers and those who understand both ends of the spectrum: on the one hand, how historians think, and on the other, how the introduction of history in middle school aligns with the cognitive abilities of children in Classes 8-10. The emphasis is on building concepts and questions, and even skills (such as map reading) and not flinching from introducing continuities and discontinuities, conflicts and contradictions. Rather than presenting a bland, sacred, or even incorrect reading of the past, the texts produced by Ekalavya (Hoshangabad) for example, simply decentre the discussion around content. In our information-rich age, we must be less worried about content than method. So, we must be unafraid of discussing Tipu Sultan (or even Gandhi) in order to introduce children to how historians think. The textbook is neither the space for producing retributive justice, nor unexamined pride. Rather than testing unthinking quickness and recall, in the questions, can we make students reflect on what they read? For example, following our discussion of the national movement, could we ask the question that is essential for our times: can we be Indian without being nationalist? Could the Std X student give two examples each of Tipu Sultan’s administrative successes and two failures (and explain why they think so)? Why did Tipu Sultan give his government the name ‘Khudadadi Sarkar’ or ‘God-given Government’? This may not have a ‘right’ answer but will involve some creative thinking about how all rulers seek legitimacy. All this requires not just courage but imagination, on the part of teachers, textbook writers, and students alike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/desacralising-indian-history-868554.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Vexing problem of South Asian protohistory||Rakhigarhi’s skeletal finds, and the promise of the 4,500-year-old woman giving up the secrets of the Indus people, have created renewed interest in the Indus Valley civilization. At the centre of the debate is the script associated with Indus sites from Mohenjodaro to Dholavira, Lothal and Rakhigarhi. What’s highlighted by the reporting on the DNA analysis of the Rakhigarhi skeletons is the issue of lack of scientific freedom. The headlines never match the content of the narratives, the government version never matches the scientific evidence, and the scientists provide cloudy statements bowing to political pressures. The 2019 paper by Vasant Shinde, et al, in the journal Cell, finally articulates a conclusion with the title “An ancient Harappan genome lacks ancestry from Steppe pastoralists or Iranian farmers.” Over decades, European researchers, of whom Finnish Indologist Asko Parpola is pre-eminent, have made several attempts to decipher the Indus script based on the syntactic, semantic, phonetic and phonological properties of current Dravidian languages. There have also been several attempts, primarily by Indian researchers such as the late SR Rao, to link the Indus script to Sanskrit. However, neither group has provided an authoritative and comprehensive solution. Each group has attempted to decipher a small subset of the available specimens based on several assumptions. Extending their results outside this subset does not result in any intelligible decipherment. It can be safely said that to date, there is no accepted solution to the problem. It must also be said now that, based on the Rakhigarhi findings, there is very low likelihood for a Sanskrit-based decipherment of the Indus script. A renewed effort is needed with innovative approaches to decipher the Indus script to provide an authoritative solution to the most vexing problem in South Asian protohistory. The difficulty in deciphering the Indus script is three-fold: One, the specimens of the Indus script that survive are mainly seals with a small string of symbols, which probably represent isolated words. Hence the context of a sentence, which would aid/validate the deciphering process, is unavailable; two, there are no known translations of the script into other languages of the time; and three, there is no consensus on the language or even the family of languages to which the script belongs. This is tied, of course, to the lack of consensus on the protohistory of the region. The method for solving the Indus puzzle will be a lot of data science and a little bit of serendipity. Today, there is too much of a socio-political-religious positioning on it even before the data has been tabulated. The government’s role should be to protect the Indus sites, document the Indus script, and make it easily and widely available to researchers. The decipherment of what they mean should be left to scientists who have the discipline of data science. Shinde, et al, conclude that Iranian-related ancestry in South Asia split from Iranian plateau lineages over 12,000 years ago. Hence, there is a case for prioritising proto-Dravidian as a hypothesis for the language of the Indus valley and not allow unscientific distractions to slow down the potential decipherment. Proto-Dravidian culture, mythology and language should be studied to evaluate the Indus script hypothesis: Are they astronomical symbols or religious motifs or monetary units; does the majority of the script represent names of towns or names of gods, or those of kings? Do they describe a divine act or a royal edict? Unfortunately, there is scant research and documentation of proto-Dravidian aspects of India. The stories that belong to the proto-Dravidian culture have been appropriated, absorbed, modified and made indistinguishable from a later mainstream culture. In the interest of scholarly work, there is a need to roll back and extract the essence of a proto-Dravidian culture to begin solving the Indus puzzle. There is also a need to have clear metrics to evaluate the outcomes of the decipherment efforts. As some researchers have sagely pointed out, there is the initial rush to draw conclusions that is eventually replaced by the knowledge of the difficulty of cracking the Indus Script. As of today, the Indus script remains a known unknown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vexing-problem-of-south-asian-protohistory-868555.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Privatisation of banks is a great idea, and will remain so||The proposed new policy of the central government to not own more than four companies even in strategic sectors has led to speculation that public sector banks (PSB) might be privatised. Currently, there are 12 PSBs. The idea of privatising them is a good one at multiple levels, despite the recent troubles at Yes Bank. Private banks tend to be more productive. As former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Urjit Patel writes in his new book Overdraft—Saving the Indian Saver: “Revenue per employee and cost per employee between government banks and private banks imply that net revenue per employee of private banks is 50% higher compared to government banks.” While the general impression is that private banks pay better, that is only true at middle and higher levels and not on the whole. As Patel writes: “A back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests that if government banks paid their employees on an average what private banks do, they would save Rs 38,000 crore per year.” Clearly, PSBs are overpaying for talent. Also, PSBs have to report to two bosses -- the Department of Financial Services of the Finance Ministry, and the RBI. As the PJ Nayak Committee on governance in banks had pointed out: “For instance, in the period October 2012 to January 2014, the Finance Ministry issued 82 circulars to PSBs.” The private banks had 82 fewer circulars to deal with during that period and hence, not surprisingly, they are better run, more service-oriented and more profitable to boot, given that there is less bureaucracy at work. The private banks are also disciplined by the stock market. Take the example of Yes Bank. The stock price of the bank was close to Rs 400 some two years ago. Once the shenanigans of its Managing Director, Rana Kapoor, started to come out in the public domain, the stock price was hammered down. It is currently at Rs 12. While the system will take its time to punish Kapoor, the market already has. Again, as Patel writes: “A private bank CEO’s primary concern is whether s/he will be able to raise capital when the need arises.” And for this to happen, the bank needs to be properly run, with proper checks and balances so that the stock price keeps going up and whenever there is a need to raise capital, it can be done. Once its stock price was hammered, Yes Bank simply couldn’t raise capital and, ultimately, RBI had to arrange a rescue. Alternatively, let’s take the example of Aditya Puri, the long-serving boss at HDFC Bank, who is set to retire in October. He recently sold a bulk of the shares he owned in the bank, for a cool Rs 843 crore. This was basically a reward for running the bank properly for 26 years. This is not to say that private banks do not have their share of problems. Take the cases of ICICI Bank and Axis Bank, where there were issues. The CEOs of both banks were eased out. As Patel says: “The point is that they could be readily cautioned through their boards and even replaced by the RBI in case of large or persistent irregularities.” The RBI doesn’t have similar control over the managing directors of PSBs or their boards. The PSB boards are largely a “placeholder for sinecure to political supporters” of the party that happens to be in power. This is also not to say that the stock market doesn’t punish PSBs for their bad performance, in terms of higher non-performing assets, the huge losses they have incurred over the years and the constant need for recapitalisation by the government. It does. Take the case of State Bank of India (SBI), the largest PSB and, by far, the largest bank in the country. The market capitalisation of the bank currently stands at Rs 1.71 lakh crore. The market capitalisation of Kotak Mahindra Bank, which is puny in comparison to SBI, is Rs 2.7 lakh crore, because the private bank is much better run. Clearly, there is a lot of value being destroyed in the case of SBI. But given that it is owned by the government -- and hence, by everybody -- nobody is bothered about it. This lackadaisical attitude can be seen in the fact that 90% of the banking frauds occurred in PSBs and only 8% in private banks. Finally, given that the government owns PSBs, time and time again it expects them to lend more money quickly and stimulate higher economic growth. This creates problems of high non-performing assets. All these problems can be avoided if the government owns fewer banks or tries to act like an investor in these banks rather than as the owner. As Raghuram Rajan wrote in I Do What I Do: “I have a simple metric of progress here: We will have moved significantly towards limiting interference in PSBs when the Department of Financial Services (which oversees public sector financial firms) is finally closed down, and its banking functions taken over by bank boards.” But that is unlikely to happen. The reason for that lies in the fact that the incentives are misaligned. To turn to Patel again: “Where is the fun in owning banks if control over operations, managing them and determining their regulation is not possible?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/privatisation-of-banks-is-a-great-idea-and-will-remain-so-868557.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Are we secure from cyber attacks?||Since the beginning of the pandemic, multiple cases of cyber attacks have been reported around the world. Organisations such as The National Cyber Security Centre, United Kingdom, The US Health and Human Services Department have recorded an increase in the number of cyber-attacks during the ongoing situation. Even in India, multiple attacks have been observed during “Zoom” calls and ultimately, the government had to issue a warning against the usage of the application.  During this critical time, when digital infrastructure and applications are supporting a number of activities, an attack on them can put unnecessary burden on the already stressed nations and cause unsolicited repercussions. With more and more systems getting digitised and automated, the scope of cyber-attacks increases. One recalls an episode of popular TV soap Grey’s Anatomy, in which hackers attack the entire hospital infrastructure, from patient care monitors to machines for tests such as MRIs, for financial gains. Although it was a fictional show, the slightest possibility of any such incident happening in the present scenario is spine-chilling.   As per a study published by Harvard Business Review, Cybercrime alone costs nations more than $1 trillion globally, far more than the record $300 billion of damage due to natural disasters in 2017. The study ranks cyber attacks as the biggest threat facing the business world today – ahead of terrorism, asset bubbles, and other risks. As a large amount of personal information of citizens, patient information, research findings and intellectual property, and information of national importance are at stake, there is a need to ensure the safety of the entire cyberspace and thus prevent any unwanted circumstances.  The big question is, are we secure, and are we prepared to handle such an attack? Over the past five years, multiple attacks have been reported in India –  the phishing attack on Union bank, data theft at Zomato, ransomware attack on infrastructure container handling operations at JNPT, Agent Smith malware attack that infected 15 million android devices, cyber-security breach at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant.  Dealing with cybercrime  It is high time that we evaluate our current exposure and embark upon a holistic approach to bridge the gaps in cybersecurity and make cyberspace safe and secure. A multi-pronged approach focusing on self-reliance, awareness and preparedness can help in improving cybersecurity. India is largely dependent on imports for Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and cybersecurity hardware, which makes India more vulnerable to cyber-attacks. Hence, there is a need to promote manufacturing of ICT equipment under the “Made in India” program to increase our self-reliance. This will also prepare India for situations like Covid-19, when the entire global supply chain is wrecked.  More investments in cyber-security R&D will also help in improving the situation. Some amount from funds such as Start-up India Fund could be earmarked for start-ups that focus on development of Indian Cybersecurity capabilities. Development of domestic capabilities would also be in line with Prime  Minister Narendra Modi’s desire for the nation to become “atma nirbhar”.  Awareness will also play a very important role in mitigating these cyber-attacks. It is critical for us to build a culture of transparency and awareness. Veiling our own shortfalls will lead to further deterioration of the system overall. Awareness not only about good cyberspace hygiene needs to be spread, but also about reporting of cyber-crimes. Although the National Cyber Crime Portal exists, very little, next to zero, awareness exists among people. Hence, people should be made aware about the portal and the procedure to report a crime. Even law enforcement agencies should be trained properly to handle cyber-crimes.  Apart from this, there is a huge need to create a system of transparency around cyber-attacks for quick learning. The affected organisations should share the details of such attacks so that other organisations can prepare themselves for any potentially similar attack. A nodal agency could be designated that compiles this data and shares it on a public portal, maintaining anonymity about the impacted company.  In current times, when a large part of the population is already working from home, the risk of cyber-attack increases manifold as the home networks are not as secure as the institutional networks. In such a situation, even though the current scenario is forcing companies to cut down costs, the companies should try to maintain the required security levels, to protect their data, thus to protect their company. Not only that, but the companies should constantly upgrade their security infrastructure. Cybersecurity audits should be mandated for firms. The country faces a shortage of cybersecurity auditors.  Lastly, a large number of experts in the field suggest adoption of the Public Private Partnership model for National Cyber Security. In Europe, the member states follow different PPP Models for cybersecurity- some use it for spreading awareness, some for policy formulation, some for using technological capabilities of the private sector.  Hence, it is important to think about the modalities of the model. What would be the role of the private sector, what kind of information could be shared with the private sector, would it expose National Security to a greater risk? If deemed fit, inspiration can be taken from the existing PPP Model in the USA and the EU. However, if the partnership leverages the private sector for its technical capabilities, modalities should focus on non-disclosure of security measures, thus ensuring greater safety.  In the current world, it is important to build infrastructure to fight not only biological viruses, but also digital viruses. Both have the potential to devastate nations. Though the New National Cyber Security Policy is expected to be launched soon it would be helpful if the policy is properly implemented in a timely manner, so as to secure citizens, enterprises and the government.  (Pranjal Chugh is a Young Professional at Digital Communications Vertical, NITI Aayog.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-we-secure-from-cyber-attacks-868588.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||In India, marriages are limited within caste boundaries||By Shruti Rajagopalan,Even as the Netflix show “Indian Matchmaking” has grown into a global hit, it’s incensed many Indians. The issue isn’t that most couples don’t go for goat yoga on their first date. Critics accuse the show of stereotyping and commodifying women, lacking diversity and promoting a backward vision of marriage where astrologers and meddling parents are more influential than the preferences of brides and grooms. They complain that the series, which follows matchmaker Sima Taparia as she jets between Mumbai and the U.S. to arrange marriages, perpetuates an outdated, offensive and regressive marriage market. In fact, the real problem may be their discomfort with the way marriage works in India, with social stability prized over individual happiness. It’s true that India’s 1.35 billion citizens occupy different centuries simultaneously. A small fraction still practices child marriage, with some communities holding betrothal ceremonies as soon as a girl is born. At the other end of the spectrum, there is growing acceptance of queer relationships, divorce and even avoiding marriage altogether. But most Indian marriages are still arranged. That’s because, for the most part, the purpose of marriage in Indian society is not love but family, children and social stability expressed by confining marriage within caste boundaries. According to the 2011-12 India Human Development Survey, only about 5% of Indians marry outside their caste. The share has remained remarkably stable over the decades since independence, even though India’s economy and society have progressed in many other ways.   Studies show that the education levels of the prospective bride or groom don’t make marriages across castes more likely. Even college-educated, urban, middle-class Indians show a strong preference to marry within caste. This isn’t only a matter for Hindus either. Muslims in South Asia marry within their biradari or jaat — a stand-in for Hindu caste. Indian Christians differentiate between those who converted and those who came to India centuries ago; they marry based on whatever one’s caste was before conversion. The reason Guyanese-born Nadia faces a limited set of options in the show is not because of her South American birth, but because Indians who were shipped as indentured laborers to the New World were mostly lower castes, or so perceived. American-born Indians are almost always upper caste and are highly valued in the Indian marriage market, despite or maybe because of, their “foreign” status. The fact that “Indian Matchmaking” packages women as slim, tall, fair, presentable, likable, flexible and so on is, once again, a consequence of using marriage to preserve caste lines. When the purpose of marriage is to find love, companionship and compatibility, then the focus is on the characteristics of the individual. The marriage market is akin to a matching market, similar to Tinder or Uber. But, in a world where marriage exists to maintain caste lines, the nature of the marriage market more closely resembles a commodity market, where goods are graded into batches. Within every batch, the commodity is substitutable — as in wheat or coffee exchanges. This is why reading matrimonial ads or listening to Sima going over biodatas — a kind of matrimonial resume — is triggering for many Indian women. Once caste, family, economic strata, looks, height, etc., are graded, all women within a particular grade are considered substitutes for one another, primarily to continue the family line. As for outrage over the show’s heterosexual focus, some of it is performative. Caste pressures are also present in the LGBTQ community in India. Indeed, one hot-button issue is whether, if same-sex marriage were made legal, regressive caste endogamy would permeate an otherwise progressive queer movement. When gay activist Harish Iyer’s mother posted a same-sex matrimonial ad for her son, she added, “caste no bar, (though Iyer preferred)” (Iyer refers to a sub-caste of Tamil-speaking Brahmins). Even queer upper-caste Indians set up first dates at vegetarian restaurants to signal caste preferences. Indeed, much of the angst over these issues of caste, lack of diversity and misogyny has nothing to do with the kinds of problems most Indians actually face when getting married. It reflects the adoption of progressive Western ideas by elite Indian Netflix viewers and critics. The problem is also that unlike other regressive trends, the emphasis on caste has not weakened even though more and more Indians today have received modern educations. Indian elites are mostly frustrated with the slow pace of change in a society they otherwise dominate and thrive in. That, however, cannot be completely blamed on Sima Taparia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-india-marriages-are-limited-within-caste-boundaries-868606.html
02-08-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 vaccine will confront humanity with next moral test||The coronavirus pandemic has stress-tested the world. Beyond challenging human fortitude, national health services and international rivalries, it has forced a series of moral choices. Many have provoked impassioned disagreement — over whether governments can force businesses and schools to close, over sacrifices for the sake of the elderly and, most bitterly and surprisingly, over whether being asked to wear a simple face mask infringes individual liberty. The toughest moral test lies ahead. The biomedical industry and research facilities around the world are progressing toward creating a vaccine that would offer the best chance to end the pandemic and return life to normal. But the moral dilemmas provoked by the development and distribution of a vaccine will drive ever deeper debates. The issues strike at profound divisions between schools of ethics. The newly published "Ethics and Pandemics," an anthology edited by philosophy professor Meredith Schwartz of Ryerson University in Toronto, presents contrasting views of academics, doctors and commentators along with a series of impossibly difficult case studies. The scientific, economic and political choices involve moral issues that have divided ethicists for centuries: How to Develop It? The US government says the Covid-19 vaccine will be developed “at warp speed.” But vaccines take years to develop, for good reasons, and none of the benefits can be realized if they are released before they are safe. A failed Covid-19 vaccine could even compromise confidence in other vaccinations, threatening a return of measles, polio and other plagues. Testing shortcuts are available but fraught. The first rule of deciding when they’re justified, explains Arthur Caplan, the head of bioethics at the NYU Langone hospital system in New York, is that risks can be balanced against the prospect of better data. Thus, skipping animal testing may pass muster since the data from testing humans is better. That leads to the issue that divides teams at Moderna Inc. in Boston and at Oxford University in England who are working on the two most promising attempts to find a vaccine. How much risk of harming humans can they justifiably take? The best way to accelerate the process could fall afoul of the long-established obligations of medical ethics, from the Hippocratic oath to “do no harm.” That pledge is as old as ancient Greece, it aligns with Christian teaching, and with the powerful school of rights-based philosophy identified with the 18th-century German philosopher Immanuel Kant, which holds that people should never treat humanity as a means to an end. Whatever the ultimate positive consequences, Kantians argue, there is no right to harm anyone. Virtuous ends do not justify unethical means. In "human challenge trials," which have been used to test cholera and dengue vaccines, volunteers are injected with a vaccine and then deliberately infected with the germ that researchers are hoping to neutralize. The subjects are tightly monitored, and results are available within weeks. Researchers at Oxford are developing strains of the coronavirus in preparation for such a trial, as are the National Institutes of Health in the U.S. Such a study will require 150 volunteers at the most. Moderna opted against human challenge trials, and instead started a conventional trial with 30,000 test subjects in July. Volunteers are given either the vaccine or a placebo, and then go about their daily lives as the pandemic rages. Moderna hopes to have scientifically reliable results by the end of the year. Tal Zaks, Moderna’s chief medical officer, said he expects this approach to reveal how the vaccine behaves with different groups of people and in different regions. By testing in the real world, he said, results can be superior to the outcome of challenge tests, which are held in laboratory conditions. But the conventional approach is slower, and leaves much to chance. Oxford’s attempt to hold such a study in London and Oxford earlier this year came just as the epidemic was beginning to decline in the U.K., making it hard to draw firm conclusions. A rival research team at Imperial College, London, has the same problem and is looking to hold a trial in another country. Further, doctors are morally obliged to tell volunteers how to avoid getting infected. They cannot tell them to go maskless, or to seek out crowded spaces, even though from a narrowly scientific point of view this would improve their test results. It’s also impossible to monitor so many volunteers closely enough to determine if they are reporting their experiences inaccurately and skewing the results. Rutgers University bioethicist Nir Eyal says that coronavirus challenge testing in the U.S could simultaneously “maximize utility and respect rights.” Researchers would use only “informed, willing, low-risk volunteers” from a population that is already in high-risk areas, he said. Volunteers are abundant. An advocacy group called 1 Day Sooner has found 32,000 volunteers in 140 countries, all between the ages of 20 and 30, (old enough to consent but much less exposed to serious harm from Covid-19 than their elders) with no relevant underlying medical conditions. Strongly believing in effective altruism, Josh Morrison, who heads 1 Day Sooner, voluntarily donated one of his kidneys to a stranger, as did others helping with the campaign. But Kantian objections are serious. Michael Rosenblatt, a Harvard Medical School professor and former chief medical officer of Merck Inc., objects that human challenge studies should only be contemplated when some lifesaving treatment, such as an antiviral medicine, is available for a candidate who gets sick. There is no such cure for Covid-19. Then there is the problem of the unknown. Vaccines must pass muster with libertarians, descended from figures such as the enlightenment philosopher John Locke and the founding fathers of the U.S., who build morality around individual freedom. To counter libertarian objections, researchers must obtain “informed consent.” Rosenblatt argues that when it comes to Covid-19, “It’s pretty hard to have informed consent when we barely know anything about this yet.” There are fears that the virus can cause lasting damage even in twentysomethings, for example, but little clear evidence. Can volunteers really consent to expose themselves to such poorly understood risks? Finally, there is the appalling possibility of a volunteer dying. In 1999, this happened to Jesse Gelsinger, a healthy 18-year-old with a rare metabolic genetic disorder who volunteered for a conventional safety trial (not a challenge trial) of a virus-based gene therapy. His death was both a personal tragedy and a scientific disaster that “set the field of gene therapy back by at least two decades,” Rosenblatt said. “That hiatus deprived a generation of patients with genetic disorders of treatments.” Morrison, of 1 Day Sooner, defends the right to volunteer for testing. Estimates at present are that the risk of death from Covid-19 for people in their 20s with no pre-existing conditions is under one in 10,000 — less than the risk of dying in childbirth while soldiers (whether volunteer or conscripted) face a far higher chance of dying on the battlefield. How to Pay for It? “A vaccine is meaningless if people are unable to afford it,” said John Young, the chief management officer of Pfizer Inc. Nobody asserts that drug companies should be able to charge whatever the market can bear for a Covid-19 vaccine. But private companies like Pfizer have a responsibility to shareholders. Moreover, anyone who develops a successful coronavirus vaccine will have performed an immense service to humanity and will deserve to be rewarded. And so Pfizer defends its right to make a profit. Pfizer has a $2 billion deal with the U.S. government to supply as many as 600 million doses of the vaccine it is developing. Many of its competitors are in collaborations with public universities, or receive state funding. That raises an intensely ideological issue: Should a private company be free to set prices for a public good developed with government aid? “We have to make a profit out of the first product,” Moderna chief executive Stephane Bancel told Yahoo Finance. “We have invested $2 billion of our shareholder capital since we started the company. We need to get a return.” But Moderna has also received some $955 million in government funding to finance its big test. According to the Financial Times, Moderna is planning to price its vaccine at $25-$30 per dose, significantly above the $19.50 at which Pfizer is selling each of 100 million doses to the U.S.. Meanwhile, AstraZeneca PLC says it will sell the vaccine it is developing with Oxford to European governments at no profit, while Johnson & Johnson says it will sell its vaccine at a “not-for-profit price” for emergency use. The issue is already very political. Five pharma industry leaders have had to testify on their pricing plans before a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives, and Democratic-sponsored bills are in Congress to stop price gouging. They have some Republican support. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who is sponsoring one such bill, told Politico that “a drug company’s claim that it’s providing a vaccine at cost should be viewed with the same skepticism as that by a used car salesperson.” Once governments have bought the vaccine, should they require patients to pay for their own shots? Most people with money would happily pay much more than $30 to free themselves from the coronavirus. But in the many developed countries with nationalized health systems, the question doesn’t arise: taxpayers pay, and the vaccine is free for patients. The U.S., however, has a political issue on its hands. Senator Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat, now backs a bill to ensure that every American has a right to a free vaccine. Meanwhile, the deal with Pfizer will result in free immunizations. Having established the principle of taxpayer-paid vaccines, it could be hard to retreat. These are issues decided within countries. When it comes to international cooperation, poorer countries complain about “vaccine nationalism.” In the U.K., Prime Minister Boris Johnson pulled out of the EU’s so-called Inclusive Vaccines Alliance in a move attacked for playing to his Brexit-friendly political base. Wealthy countries have little incentive to collaborate with poor ones. Costa Rica led an effort with the World Health Organization to set up a new “Covid-19 Technology Access Pool” that would share research and then coordinate production – and also share the vaccine once it was ready. But the list of countries that responded is telling. The U.S., China, Canada and Japan are all absent, while the only European countries to sign up have been Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Norway. A group of much smaller developing nations has been left to build a collaboration — even though the virus knows no boundaries, and it is in all countries’ interest to stamp it out everywhere. Meanwhile, rich countries are prospectively buying up vaccines before they have even been cleared for use. The U.S.-Pfizer vaccine deal, and a similar deal with Glaxo PLC and Sanofi AG, uses American buying power to avoid excessive prices. Britain has done four separate deals with providers for 250 million doses. What about the poorer countries who may have to pay more for the vaccine? For now, attempts at “vaccine justice” have been left to philanthropies such as the Gates Foundation’s Vaccine Network. How to Ration It? The pharmaceutical industry cannot produce enough vaccine for the entire global population of almost 8 billion all at once. Therefore, rationing is inevitable. Some people will have to wait. Who gets to make these decisions, and by what criteria? Within the U.S., various medical bodies and government agencies claim authority to draw up the guidelines. No one seems empowered to adjudicate. “The principle is to protect those most likely to be harmed,” said Caplan of NYU Langone. That leads to one point of clarity: Medical workers go first. They’re obviously at risk, and have a duty to put themselves in harm’s way. But after this, following his criterion leads to prioritizing some of the least privileged in society – not because they are underprivileged and deserve help, but because they are most at risk. Statistically, prisoners follow doctors and nurses on the list of people most likely to be harmed. As prisons are Covid-19 incubators, Caplan suggests that vaccinating inmates would limit the disease’s spread. Within the U.S., Native-American communities are grievously affected, and therefore have a case for priority. The same is true of some other ethnic minorities, largely because they tend to live in crowded communities, and because higher rates of poverty make them more likely to suffer the underlying conditions that make Covid-19 more deadly. People are also more at risk if they cannot work from home. Anthony Skelton, a philosophy professor at the University of Western Ontario, makes a case for sending those in work-at-home professions to the back of the line.” To the extent that racial minorities might live and/or work in conditions that make them less able to avoid coming into contact with infected individuals, the case for giving them priority over people who can work from their home office seems strong,” Skelton said. All of these proposals spring from prioritizing people according to risk, but might in practice look like the kind of redistributionist social-justice crusading that provokes controversy, particularly in the U.S. Rationing could also be affected by where the vaccine was tested. In the case of AIDS, experimental treatments were assessed in Africa, where testing was cheaper, but the treatments then went to developed countries. Severely affected African countries had to pay prohibitive prices as the disease took hold. Africa could become a Covid-19 test site if regulators do not permit human challenge tests elsewhere.  If large-scale testing does happen there, justice will demand that early supplies of the vaccine are made available to Africans, even at the expense of people in the researchers’ home country. How to Roll It Out? Vaccinations work best when everyone receives them, since germs that can’t infect people tend to wither away. But all vaccines come with risks. That creates a “free-rider” problem. The best option from a self-interested point of view is that everybody else has the shot (eliminating your personal risk of catching Covid-19) – but that you don’t (avoiding any personal risk of side-effects). Taxes have the same problem. Taxes are compulsory. Does that mean vaccination should be compulsory, too? The public-health case for compulsion is strong. But libertarians have a problem with forcing a potentially harmful vaccine on someone without the “informed consent” that’s hard to procure in societies skeptical of experts and low on social trust. How can the vaccine reach a critical mass without compulsion? Caplan suggests leaving compulsion to private entities. An employer might demand vaccination as a condition of reporting for work. A university might impose the same requirement on faculty and students. A vaccine might be dangled as a golden ticket to return to theaters, cinemas, night clubs or sports events. Governments or foundations could even pay people to receive a shot. By this thinking, those who assert their right not to be vaccinated would be free to work from home and home-school. They would be voluntarily narrowing their own freedom of movement and assembly. Yet societies would pay a price. The virus has divided humans in countless ways already. If many citizens opt to stay unvaccinated, the virus and the messy ethics of compelling vaccination will have helped to create another permanent division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-vaccine-will-confront-humanity-with-next-moral-test-868613.html
02-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,891 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||As many as 1,891 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths were reported in Telangana, taking the tally to 66,677 and the toll to 540, the state government said on Sunday. Out of the fresh cases, 517 were reported from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Ranga Reddy district 181, Medcha l46, Warangal Urban 138, Nizamabad 131 Sangareddy district 111, followed by others, a bulletin said, providing data as of 8 PM on Saturday. It said 1,088 people were discharged, taking the cumulative recoveries to 47,590 so far, while 18,547 were under treatment. A total of 19,202 samples were tested on Saturday and cumulatively, 4,77,795 samples have been examined. The bulletin said the recovery rate was 71.3 percent in the state, while it was 64.53 percent in the country, while 12,001 people were in home/institutional isolation. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent. The bulletin said 66.3 percent of the Covid-19 patients were male while 34.4 percent were female. The percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent, while that due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant isolation, oxygen and Intensive Care Unit beds was 11,099 and 3,365 and 1,346 respectively, the bulletin said. A total of 16 government laboratories and 23 in the private sector are conducting the tests for Covid-19. There are also a total of 320 government rapid antigen testing centres. The bulletin said elaborate arrangements have been made to treat COVID-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. the call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1891-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-868643.html
02-08-2020||South||200 new coronavirus cases reported in Puducherry||The Covid-19 case tally in the Union Territory rose to 3,806 on Sunday with 200 people testing positive for the virus, while one death took the toll to 52. The total number of active cases was 1,445, while 2,309 patients had been discharged from various hospitals so far, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. The positivity rate in the Union Territory was 22.6 percent, while fatality rate was 1.4 percent, he said. During the last 24 hours ended at 10 AM, 200 fresh infections were reported after 886 samples were tested. The overall number of Covid-19 cases in the UT stood at 3,806, the release said. A total of 111 patients were discharged during this period. A 65-year-old man, having comorbidities, died at the JIPMER hospital here, taking the toll to 52. A total of 40,652 samples had been tested so far, out of which 36,142 were negative. The results of the others are awaited, it said there are also 242 patients in home quarantine of whom 231 were in Puducherry and the other 11 were in Yanam, Kumar said. Puducherry had 161 cases, while its enclaves Karaikal and Yanam had seven infections and 32 respectively. Mahe, another enclave, has not reported any Covid-19 case as of date. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, elected from Yanam constituency, has been camping there and reviewing the situation, He is making arrangements to utilise the services of several institutions, schools and government hostels there to accommodate patients in case the present increasing trend continued, official sources said. They said Yanam region is situated close to the limits of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and bears the impact of the infections there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/200-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-puducherry-868644.html
02-08-2020||South||3-year-old dies after swallowing coin in Kerala; kin allege treatment denied in 3 hospitals over Covid-19||A three-year-old child died in Kerala on Saturday after swallowing a coin and subsequently, being allegedly denied treatment over Covid-19. The child's parents have alleged that though the child was taken to three government hospitals, they were sent back without proper treatment citing that they were from a Covid-19 containment zone. Prithviraj, the son a Raju and Nandini from Aluva, about 20 kilometres from Kochi, died on Saturday night following discomfort from swallowing the coin. The child's family said that the incident occurred on Saturday morning and he was rushed to the Aluva District Hospital. The doctors referred him to Ernakulam General Hospital and from there the child was referred to the Alappuzha Medical College Hospital. The doctors reportedly advised the parents to feed the child plantain, rice and water in plenty so that the coin would go out through excretion and they were sent back home. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja has ordered a probe into the incident and directed the health principal secretary to submit a report on it at the earliest. Stringent action would be taken if there were any lapses on the part of the doctors, the minister said in a statement. The child's body would be subjected to postmortem examination. Normal procedures followed, says doctor A doctor at the Alappuzha Medical College Hospital told DH that the coin was found in the child's stomach and he had no other discomfort. It was a normal practice and advisable in such cases to take plenty of plantain and rice so that the object would go out through excretion. Many such cases of children swallowing parts of toys, button cells and bottle caps keep coming in and a similar procedure is generally followed. Hence, the cause of the death of this child needs to be examined in detail. Authorities at the Aluva District Hospital maintained that the child was referred to the Ernakulam General Hospital owing to the unavailability of a pediatric surgeon. They also denied the allegation that proper care was denied as the child was from a Covid-19 containment zone. Meanwhile, the Ernakulam General Hospital authorities said that the coin was found to be in the intestine of the child and the gastro surgery facility was not available in the hospital. Hence, he was referred to the Alappuzha Medical College Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-year-old-dies-after-swallowing-coin-in-kerala-kin-allege-treatment-denied-in-3-hospitals-over-covid-19-868648.html
02-08-2020||South||Elephant tramples mentally deranged man to death in Tamil Nadu||The body of a middle-aged man said to be mentally deranged was found lying on the road near Mettupalayam, some 45 km from here, in the early hours of Sunday, police said. He was reportedly trampled by a stray elephant when he was roaming around the area at night, the police said. On information about the body, police, along with forest officials, shifted it to the government Mettupalyam hospital for a postmortem. Preliminary investigation revealed the man to be mentally unsound, the police said. Further probe is on, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elephant-tramples-mentally-deranged-man-to-death-in-tamil-nadu-868696.html
02-08-2020||South||Covid-19: Hyderabad International Airport receives Mass Fever Screening System||The new thermal scanner, which will be used by the airport health officials, is a ceiling-mounted Mass Fever Screening System, a release from GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), the company that operates the city airport said. This system is capable of scanning, detecting and tracking febrile persons with elevated skin temperature. The system automatically adjusts and adapts to the surrounding ambient temperature without any human intervention, it said. With its Intuitive User Interface and Dual-Displays (Day Camera + Infra-Red), it provides easy identification of passengers with elevated temperature, while simplifying operations and minimising handling, it said. The new thermal scanner imparts more control to the Hyderabad Airport Health Organisation, along with the existing thermal scanners at the International Arrivals, the release said. GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker said: "We are thankful to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in having this modern equipment installed at the Hyderabad International Airport. With this facility, it makes the task of the health officials who serve at the airport round-the-clock, a little easier."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-hyderabad-international-airport-receives-mass-fever-screening-system-868699.html
02-08-2020||South||Complete lockdown in Machilipatnam from August 3-9, says RDO||Speaking to reporters here, he said there were numerous Covid-19 cases in the Machilipatnam revenue division. "So, we have decided on imposing the week-long full lockdown in Machilipatnam constituency and Challapalli and Nagayalanka mandals from August 3-9," he said. He urged the public not to step out of their houses unless there is an emergency. People can shop for essential commodities between 6 am and 9 am. He said a decision has been taken to ramp up testing of asymptomatic and suspected Covid-19 patients with the help of ward/village volunteers. The RDO said 250 beds would be arranged at the district government hospital here along with a triage centre. Besides, he said, four additional ambulances would be added to the existing fleet and private school buses would be utilised for sample collection in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/complete-lockdown-in-machilipatnam-from-august-3-9-says-rdo-868719.html
02-08-2020||South||A year after calamity, many Kerala families still in relief camps; heavy rain alerts keep state in high alert||A year after the second consecutive natural calamity in Kerala, 27 odd families were still remaining in relief camps and construction of houses for over hundred families were only in the initial stages. With above normal rainfall being forecast in Kerala for the coming days, the state is keeping fingers crossed as the state witnessed major calamities during the month of August in the last two years, claiming  around 500 live in 2018 and around 130 in 2019, including many bodies that are yet to be even recovered. This time the scenario is more grim owing to the Covid-19 scenario. At Kavalappara in Malappuram district, about 125 families lost their houses in the landslides on August 8 last year. While 44 houses were fully devastated in the landslide, scores of other families were vacated from the landslide pone area. Of this, around 30 families so far got houses set up with support of voluntary organisations. For 67 families, the government allotted funds for buying land and building houses hardly a week back. In the case of 27 families of a Scheduled Tribe colony in the locality, suitable land for rehabilitation was yet to the identified and the families are still staying at relief camps over the last one year. At Puthumala in Wayanad, construction of houses for 56 families began only in June, while 43 families were already provided land and house with support of voluntary organisations. Revenue department officials maintain that the rehabilitation got delayed mainly due to reluctance shown by the beneficiaries toward land identified by the government earlier. Dileep, a social worker at Kavalappara, who approached court against the delay in rehabilitation, said that even as the government announced funds for land and houses earlier also, it had not materialised. The present announcement regarding fund allocation for 67 families could be in the wake of court interventions. Meanwhile, in the view of the experiences during the previous two years around 3,000  families from disaster prone areas were already shifted to safe places.  All the local self government institutions have got disaster management plans ready. Over 25,000 vacant homes and buildings were also identified by the district administrations as those in quarantine due to Covid-19 and those in high risk groups need to be kept separately in case of a major calamities. Water level of dams are also constantly reviewed as there were allegation that improper dam water management aggravated the situations in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-year-after-calamity-many-kerala-families-still-in-relief-camps-heavy-rain-alerts-keep-state-in-high-alert-868724.html
02-08-2020||South||1,169 more Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala||Kerala continued to report a spike in Covid-19, with 1,169 more testing positive on Sunday, while 688 recovered. One more death was reported taking the Covid-19 death toll to 82, whereas at least five more deaths were pending confirmation. State capital Thiruvananthapuram was facing an alarming situation with 377 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total active cases to 3,472, while the total active cases all over the state was 11,342. Over 50 persons in a slum in the city got infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1169-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-kerala-868730.html
02-08-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling: PFI member among six held by NIA||A member of Popular Front of India was among six more persons held by the NIA in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case using UAE diplomatic baggage. Muhammad Ali of Muvattupuzha in Ernakulam district, who was held on Saturday, was a member of the PFI and was earlier charge-sheeted in a case pertaining to chopping the palm of a professor in Kerala, but was later acquitted by court. Ali was also part of the conspiracy in the gold smuggling, NIA said in a statement in Sunday. The fresh development assumed significance at the NIA special court in Kochi had asked NIA to produce the case diary on Tuesday to look into the terror links of the accused as part of a bail plea of one of the key accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Swapna's lawyer Geo Paul had stated before the court that the NIA had no evidence to link her with any terrorist activities. Apart from Ali, Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Jalal A M of Muvattupuzha, Said Alavai, Mohammed Shafi and Abdu P T, all hailing from Malappuram, were held during the last three days. Some of them where held from parts of Tamilnadu. Ramees K T, who was arrested earlier, was suspected to be the kingpin of the racket. NIA statement also seized two hard disks, one tablet PC, eight mobile phones, six SIM cards, one digital video recorder, five DVDs and various documents including bank passbooks, credit and debit cards, travel documents and identity documents of the accused in searched conducted at their residences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-pfi-member-among-six-held-by-nia-868731.html
02-08-2020||South||Kin of victims in Andhra Pradesh crane mishap to get Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia||The public sector Hindustan Shipyard Ltd on Sunday announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh each to the kin of those killed in the crane collapse accident on its premises here, even as a probe is underway. The toll in the mishap, which was put at 11 on Saturday could actually be 10 as only that many bodies were retrieved so far, police and officials said adding however a clear picture would emerge only after the debris is cleared. "We have also retrieved a severed hand and no other body was found yet. The debris removal is still going on," HSL Additional General Manager Lt Col (retd) Sundeep Parija told PTI on Sunday. A senior police officer, however, said of the 10 bodies recovered on Saturday, soon after the mishap, one was only in part. "There is a half body inside the (crane) cabin that is still stuck under the debris. We have to match them once the debris is fully cleared," the police officer said. Harbour sub-division Assistant Commissioner of Police T Mohan Rao said post-mortem on the bodies was still being carried out and so far three have been handed over to the kin. Of the ten deceased, nine belonged to Visakhapatnam district while one was from Kothagudem in neighbouring Telangana. As all the staff involved in the trial operation of the ill-fated crane were inside the cabin and consequently killed, the exact cause of the accident could not be ascertained yet. The safety officer of the yard and his team were conducting the examination of the accident scene and trying to establish if any mechanical failure or some other factor caused the crash. State Tourism Minister M Srinivasa Rao, who visited HSL and interacted with the workers' unions and also family members of the deceased, said the PSU management agreed to pay an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh each to the victims kin. HSL Chairman and Managing Director Rear Admiral (retd) L V Sarat Babu said employment would also be provided to eligible family members depending on the educational qualification. "This was the first major accident in HSL. We are investigating how the new crane crashed. Our committee is investigating the cause of the accident and we will take appropriate action once it submits its report," Sarat Babu said. Workers unions, on the other hand, blame the management for the accident, alleging that the Safety Workload procedures were not being followed. Most of the cranes in the yard were decades old, some dating back to 1975, and most of the works were being outsourced to private contractors. In a grave mishap, at least 10 people were killed when a massive 70-tonne jetty crane collapsed during a load test in the Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) here. The victims were crushed to death on the spot when they came under the massive iron structure that crashed on the ground with a loud thud after its cabin and base snapped during a trial run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kin-of-victims-in-andhra-pradesh-crane-mishap-to-get-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-868742.html
02-08-2020||State||Mandya school where CM Yediyurappa studied cries for makeover||The Mandya district administration has chalked out plans to renovate the Municipal High School where Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa studied, at a cost of Rs 4 crore. But the Government Higher Primary School, where he studied classes 7 and 8, lies in neglect. Yediyurappa had completed his primary education at Bookanakere (KR Pete taluk) and continued his studies in Mandya. He had stayed at his grandfather's house on Anekere Beedhi. He took part in the RSS activities at the Kempegowda building on Pete Beedhi. He studied class 10 at the Municipal High School. Former minister K V Shankaregowda, former MLA H D Chowdaiah too studied in the same school. The premises also housed the tahsildar and sub-registrar offices. After these offices were shifted, the whole building was handed over to the school. The school which had more than 800 students once upon a time has only 20 students now. While the Municipal High School is being developed as a model school at a cost of Rs 4 crore, complete with a laboratory, library, total renovation of the ground floor and construction of first floor, the higher primary school is in a shambles. The City Municipal Council had constructed 160 shops, adjoining the school compound, to shift the vegetable market of the city. But the vendors did not shift, citing lack of basic facilities. As a result, these shops turned into a safe haven for illegal activities for miscreants, which spread to the school campus also. This led to a decline in admissions. Cracking walls  Though there are 10 classrooms in the school, classes are conducted in just one room. The walls of the classrooms have cracked, posing threat to the students and the teachers. The roof tiles of the main building, which houses the head master's room, have come away. The stagnant water behind the school building has turned into a breeding place for mosquitoes. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh promised that he would visit the school and prepare a plan to convert it into a model school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mandya-school-where-cm-yediyurappa-studied-cries-for-makeover-868798.html
02-08-2020||State||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi flies to Delhi||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Sunday, became the third minister to travel to Delhi ahead of the Cabinet expansion. According to his travel programme, Ramesh Jarkiholi is expected to meet Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Prahlad Joshi and others, to discuss irrigation projects and to get clearance from Ministry of Environment for them. Last week, the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi to Delhi - which according to sources was to secure his Cabinet berth - had set tongues wagging regarding Cabinet expansion and change of leadership in state. Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle had also travelled to Delhi last week, following rumours that she could be dropped from the Cabinet during the reshuffle in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-resources-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-flies-to-delhi-868799.html
02-08-2020||State||Covid-19 loot reduced after Oppn raised queries: Siddaramaiah||Contending that the loot by those in the government had reduced after the Opposition raised questions on irregularities, Congress leader Siddaramaiah said that the government had withheld several procurement orders. “Govt has withheld procurement orders worth thousands of crores of rupees. They are angry that I am not allowing them to loot. Hence, they are trying to target me,” he said in a tweet. Lashing out at the B S Yediyurappa-led government over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Siddaramaiah alleged that there are regular reports of patients suffering from lack of beds, medicines, ambulances and ventilators. “However, the BJP government is blind to the problems faced by the people. They can only eye the money in procuring medical equipment,” he said. Recalling that Yediyurappa had assured to send all procurement details to him within 24 hours, Siddaramaiah said that it has now been 24 days, but nothing had come his way “I have not received a single sheet of information from the government,” Siddaramaiah said. Commenting on the legal notice issued to him and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, he said that BJP had only made the Congress’ job easy. “We wanted to approach the court anyway,” he said, adding that the government will now be under compulsion to submit the documents, at least to the court. The Congress was silent about the state handling the Covid-19 crisis initially, as the number of cases were low compared to other states. Now, Karnataka is set to surpass Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra in the number of cases and deaths, he said, adding that being silent at such a juncture would be against the interests of the people of Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-loot-reduced-after-oppn-raised-queries-siddaramaiah-868802.html
02-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Faulty safety gear puts Hubballi KIMS medical staff at risk||Faulty safety gear supplied to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (KIMS) in Hubballi, which is the District Covid-19 Center, is attributed to be one of the main reasons for the majority of medical staff contracting the virus. More than 50 medical staff, including staff doctors and postgraduate students working in the 250-bed Covid-19 ward of the KIMS have been infected with coronavirus over the last two months. For the last month or so, all the 30 beds that have been reserved for the Corona warriors at the KIMS have remained occupied on all the days. As many as 18 PG students, and three senior doctors, who have worked in the Covid-19 wards, confirmed to DH that over the last month-and-a-half, the safety gear, especially the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, and N-95 masks, provided by the district administration to the medical staff, were of substandard quality. Low-quality kits While the medical staff working in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid-19 ward are being provided with superior quality safety kits, the doctors and PG students, resident doctors, and nurses working in general wards are provided with second and third-grade safety gear, they said. The photographic evidence provided by the student union members of the KIMS shows PPE kits being torn at multiple places, N-95 masks cut right at the centre, and filters of high-grade mask missing. “Initially, the safety gear were good. However, of late, the safety gear, especially the N-95 masks and PPE kits, are of substandard quality. This is risking our lives,” said one of the PG students who did not wish to be named. The lady PG student also stated that some of the PPE kits provided to them were as thin as tissue paper, while some were so thick that it was becoming impossible for them to work in them for six to eight hours at a stretch. A senior doctor, requesting anonymity said, he was forced to bring his own N-95 masks as the one provided to him was stinking, and breathing through it was becoming difficult.  'Very few such cases' Meanwhile, KIMS In-charge Medical Superintendent Rajashekar Dyaberi said, “I would not deny that there were some faulty safety gear supplied to us. But, they were one or two among thousands. The KIMS and the district administration are ensuring that the best of facilities are provided to our doctors and students.” Till July 29, the KIMS has procured 22,316 PPE kits (including 3,938 donated kits) of which only 1,000 kits are remaining, while it has also used 49,633 N-95 masks, and others. However, it has not recorded the total number of faulty gear, he noted. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said an inquiry will be set up regarding the supply of substandard protective gear. Instructions have been issued to KIMS officials to return an entire lot of protective gear even if one item is found faulty, and withhold the payment to the supplier. Sources also said that a few of the faulty gear were donated by a private company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-faulty-safety-gear-puts-hubballi-kims-medical-staff-at-risk-868628.html
02-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa has tested positive for Covid-19. Yediyurappa in a tweet posted at 11:29 pm confirmed the same.  "I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine," he said. I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self quarantine. In a bulletin, the hospital also said that Yediyurappa's condition was 'clinically stable'. Yediyurappa was scheduled to have a meeting with senior officials of the government on Monday. While he had no official engagements on Saturday and Sunday, he had met senior scientist Dr K Kasturirangan, along with DyCM Ashwath Narayan and BJP general secretary N Ravikumar. Medical education minister Sudhakar wished the CM BSY a speedy recovery. Opposition leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah wished Yediyurappa a speedy recovery. "I wish Shri. B S Yediyurappa a speedy recovery & to return with good health to continue his work for the people," he tweeted. Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan too wished the CM a speedy recovery.  ನಮ್ಮ ಜನನಾಯಕ ಶೀಘ್ರ ಗುಣಮುಖರಾಗಲಿ ಎಂದು ನನ್ನ ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥನೆ. The infection was detected during a routine weekly test and the CM is said to be asymptomatic. The CM has been admitted to Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road for observation. "He is doing well, is clinically stable and will be monitored closely by our team," the hospital said in a bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868843.html
02-08-2020||West||Lady in red: Mumbai gets female figure signage at traffic signals||In a first-of-its-kind initiative towards gender equality, Mumbai has started using the female figure signage at traffic signals. As of now, the project has been launched in the G/North ward of Mumbai in the Shivaji Park area at Dadar.  The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to make changes in 240 signals at 13 junctions in G/North ward that covers Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim. Various places of importance like the iconic Siddhivinayak temple, St Michael's Church, Mahim Dargah, Chaityabhoomi would be covered under the project. The oldest fisherfolk colony of Mahim and the newest marvel of Bandra-Worli Sea Link also make a part of this. The initiative of the BMC and Mumbai Police has earned them a lot of praise on social media. Maharashtra Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray appreciated the move. “If you’ve passed by Dadar, you’d see something that will make you feel proud. BMC  is ensuring gender equality with a simple idea- the signals now have women too,” said Aaditya, the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. He also praised Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, MLA Sada Sarvankar, Shiv Sena’s Leader of the House in the BMC Vishakha Raut and BMC’s assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Digavkar. Architect, urban planner and co-founder of The Urban Project, Vijayshree Pednekar, thanked Thackeray and the BMC for accepting her idea. “Many thanks for accepting my ideas and suggestions to implement this….the women gender has gained some more presence and acceptance as the new normal,” she said. Women’s rights activist and Shiv Sena legislator Dr Neelam Gorhe said, “We, who believe and are committed to gender equality and social justice, appreciate your efforts as dynamic, sensitive leader. You understand the direction in which exactly Mumbai, state, and nation needs to go. That is the direction of equal status and equal opportunity for women,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lady-in-red-mumbai-gets-female-figure-signage-at-traffic-signals-868630.html
02-08-2020||West||Rains lash Aurangabad, Solapur, Pune in Maharashtra||Aurangabad district in Marathwada region recorded the highest rainfall in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. In the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, Aurangabad received 86 mm downpour, Solapur-42 mm, Pune-26 mm, Ahmednagar-23 mm and Hingoli-17 mm, it said. The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts from Monday to Wednesday. Places in Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, Jalna, Sangli and Aurangabad are also likely to receive light to moderate rain till Wednesday, the IMD said in its forecast on Saturday. As per IMD's classification, "heavy to very heavy rainfall" means precipitation ranging from 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm in a period of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rains-lash-aurangabad-solapur-pune-in-maharashtra-868633.html
02-08-2020||West||G N Saibaba's mother dies, his wish to see her unfulfilled||Former Delhi University professor G N Saibaba, who is serving a life term in a jail here in Maharashtra for links with Maoists, has lost his ailing mother even as his lawyer made an unsuccessful last attempt to get him to see her through video-conferencing. On Tuesday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rejected the bail application of Saibaba, who had sought release for 45 days on medical grounds so that he could get treatment outside and also meet his 74-year-old mother, who was suffering from cancer, in Hyderabad. She died in Hyderabad on Saturday, Saibaba's wife said in a statement. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound with over 90 per cent physical disability, is currently lodged in the Nagpur Central Jail. His advocate Akash Sarode told PTI on Sunday that he informed the Nagpur jail authorities through e-mail on Friday that the condition of Saibaba's mother was serious and it was her wish to see her son. The lawyer said he requested the jail authorities to arrange a video-conferencing facility for Saibaba to see his ailing mother. However, he did not receive any reply from the jail authorities even after he called them up over the phone. After Saibaba's mother died on Saturday, Sarode again called up the jail authorities to arrange for a phone call with the family, but he did not get any reply for it also, the lawyer said. Saibaba's wife Vasantha said her mother-in-law Gokarakonda Suryavathi died at 1:40 pm on Saturday. She was undergoing cancer treatment at NIMS, Hyderabad, and her health was progressively getting worse. She was "desperately waiting to be reunited with her eldest son, Dr G N Saibaba, currently languishing in prison under unfair charges", she said in the statement on Saturday. The court rejected his bail petition and parole, where he expressed his desire to see his mother in her final moments. Her son could not see her for the past four years since his incarceration, Saibaba's wife said. "I feel extremely saddened by the loss of this kind and caring woman and even deeply disappointed in myself that I could not fulfil her final wish of letting her meet her son," she said, adding that the deceased had tested negative for coronavirus. In March 2017, a sessions court in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district convicted Saibaba and four others, including a journalist and a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student, for Maoist links and engaging in activities amounting to "waging war against the country". The court held Saibaba and others guilty under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/g-n-saibabas-mother-dies-his-wish-to-see-her-unfulfilled-868681.html
02-08-2020||West||Amitabh Bachchan discharged after testing negative for Covid-19||Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan, who went through a Covid-19 scare, has been discharged and is back home. Bachchan’s actor-son Abhishek Bachchan, however, is still in the Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle. Abhishek took to social media to announce that his father has been discharged from the hospital after being tested negative. “My father, thankfully, has tested negative on his latest Covid-19 test and has been discharged from the hospital. He will now be at home and rest. Thank you all for all your prayers and wishes for him I, Unfortunately due to some co-morbidities, remain Covid-19 positive and remain in hospital. Again, thank you all for your continued wishes and prayers for my family. Very humbled and indebted. I’ll beat this and come back healthier! Promise.,” Abhishek tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amitabh-bachchan-discharged-after-testing-negative-for-covid-19-868707.html
02-08-2020||West||Bihar police widens probe in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Bihar police team, that is camping in Mumbai to investigate the alleged suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput, on Sunday widened the probe by seeking details into the death of actor’s ex-manager Disha Salian. Disha Salian, who stayed in Dadar with her parents, had travelled to Malad with some of her friends for dinner at the 12th-floor apartment of the actor Rohan Rai who resides in Jankalyan Nagar, Malad West. The Malvani police station has registered the case. The Bihar police. that has claimed that there is no co-operation from the side of Mumbai police, now have also sought details on the case of Disha Salian. Meanwhile, an officer of the rank of superintendent of police, who is an IPS officer, is joining the four-member team that is camping in Mumbai for nearly a week’s time.The Bihar police is also expected to record the statement of Vasanti Salian, the mother of Disha Salian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bihar-police-widens-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-868708.html
02-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: 4 dead, 1 injured as truck hits car in Buldhana||Four persons were killed and one seriously injured on Sunday evening after a container truck hit their car on national highway 6 in Maharashtra's Buldhana, police said. The car was going towards Akola when a container truck heading towards Khamgaon hit it near Kolori village at around 6pm, said an official. "Four people died on the spot and one person suffered grievous injuries. Such was the impact that the bodies had to be taken out using gas cutters," said the Khamgaon Rural police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-4-dead-1-injured-as-truck-hits-car-in-buldhana-868792.html
