03-08-2020||Davangere||Engineers, lecturers turn to rural employment scheme after layoffs||It is an understatement to say Covid-19 pandemic has hit many a lives and livelihoods. In these testing times, many job losers, on return to their natives, have turned to Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee scheme works to sustain themselves and their families. “I was working with the civil engineering department of a company in Bengaluru. I lost my job during the coronavirus-driven lockdown. Now, I have taken up NREG work to support my family,” Girish Naik, a civil engineer from HG Halli tanda in Honnali taluk, told DH. The story of Ganesh, a civil engineer from Tolahunuse, is no different. After having lost his job, Ganesh returned to his native and enrolled himself under NREG scheme. Ganesh was well-placed with a job at a reputed company in Tumakuru. He’d no option but to return to his native after he was laid off in April. Similarly, a guest lecturer from Jayantinagar in Channagiri taluk, who had been rendered jobless due to theclosure of educational institutes, has enrolled himself under the NREG scheme. “I was working as guest lecturer at a private college in Bhadravati. I am rendered jobless since the outbreak of coronavirus in March. I have taken up works under rural job scheme to sustain my family. The scheme has helped many like us in these testing times,” Ravi Naik poured his woes to DH. Chandan, information, education and communication (IEC) officer for MGNREG scheme, told DH, “In Davangere district alone more than 400 graduates, professional degree holders and those rendered jobless in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, have taken up the NREG works that are mostly done by unskilled labourers in rural areas.” Those who had returned to their natives from Bengaluru, Tumakuru and other citiesafter the outbreak of coronavirus had enrolled for NREG works. The surge in graduates and postgraduates enrolling for works has served as a good publicity for the rural job scheme, said IEC officer Chandan. The NREGA scheme aims to provide at least 100 days of wage employment every year to adults willing to do unskilled manual labour work like digging ponds and laying rural roads. How to enrol for NREG Any one above 18 years can apply for a job card, which is a must to work under the scheme. Household as a unit is entitled to register under the scheme. The eligible can walk to local gram panachayat along with Aaadhar card and bank passbook and get themselves enrolled for the work, said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/engineers-lecturers-turn-to-rural-employment-scheme-after-layoffs-868859.html
03-08-2020||First Edit||Retain top cops at least for 2 years||The transfer of Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao within one year of assuming office is another grim reminder of how the government, irrespective of the party in power, views top positions as a game of musical chairs with utter disregard to the morale of the officer concerned or the police force in general. The Commissionerate system was introduced in Bengaluru in 1963 and the average term of the city’s top cop has remained at 1.8 years. However, in the last decade, Bengaluru has seen a dozen commissioners, with Rao’s predecessor Alok Kumar holding office for less than 50 days. Such frequent transfers have a telling effect on day-to-day policing and crime prevention because by the time a commissioner becomes familiar with the city’s underbelly and draws up an action plan, it is time to pack his bags. The next police commissioner too goes through the same rigmarole due to which no major reforms have been possible in Bengaluru police for decades. Recommendations of the National Police Commission and at least six other high-power committees, besides several orders of the Supreme Court to insulate transfers from political interference in order to protect the functional autonomy of the police, have been thrown to the wind. The Police Establishment Board headed by the DGP which is charged with deciding on transfers and postings is virtually defunct with politicians calling the shots, even after several reprimands from the courts. With many police officers openly flaunting their loyalty to their political masters and arbitrariness becoming the cornerstone of transfers, Karnataka police which was once a professional body, has over the years been reduced to a highly politicised, casteist and demoralised force. Though Bhaskar Rao endeared himself to the public by his easy accessibility, provided the much-needed leadership to the city police and transformed a lathi-wielding force into frontline Covid warriors, with over 500 personnel contracting the virus in the line of duty, his more-loyal-than-the-king attitude drew ire from different quarters. Invoking prohibitory orders to curb anti-CAA protests and the arrest of historian Ramachandra Guha, forcibly implementing the prime minister’s call to voluntarily observe a Sunday bandh, and police highhandedness in enforcing the subsequent lockdown, attracted court censure and embarrassed the political leadership. Kamal Pant, the new commissioner, is known to be proactive and a no-nonsense officer, but unless the government retains him for a minimum of two years, he will be unable to contribute meaningfully in reforming the city police. As long as officers are treated like pawns by politicians, it will be a tough call for the state police to regain its lost credibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/retain-top-cops-at-least-for-2-years-868865.html
03-08-2020||First Edit||Article 370 abrogation: Silencing Kashmiris can’t be our strategy||It is a year since the Narendra Modi government announced its decision to revoke Article 370 and 35A of the Indian Constitution. Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was stripped of its autonomy and the state was bifurcated into two Union Territories: J&K and Ladakh.  The revocation of J&K’s special status and autonomy, its proponents said, would remove the main obstacle in the way of the state’s full integration into the Indian Union. It would correct a “historical blunder,” they said. An impediment to investment into J&K would be eliminated, thus ushering in economic development. Importantly, Kashmiri separatism, which fed on J&K’s ambiguous status in the Union, would be weakened as would the anti-India militancy. However, a year later, few of these promises have materialised. Of course, the BJP has been able to claim that with its revocation of Article 370, it has fulfilled a long-standing election promise of the party. And yes, with the enactment of the J&K Reorganisation Act, J&K’s constitutional integration into the Indian Union has happened. All central laws apply to J&K, too, and since it is a UT, the Centre’s control over J&K has tightened as well. However, has the constitutional integration narrowed the emotional distance between Srinagar and New Delhi? Over the past year, we haven’t seen unrest or protests. Indeed, with almost all of J&K’s politicians and activists in some form of detention, political activity in the Valley has been at a standstill.  Kashmiris have been living under lockdown for over a year now, denied access to Internet and mobile connectivity or even their right to free movement and association. Their civil and democratic rights have been stamped out. Their economic condition has worsened. J&K’s first year as a fully integrated state of the Indian Union has not been pleasant. The BJP government’s integration of J&K may have been successful on paper, but otherwise, it has been disastrous. This is because its approach is authoritarian and relies on force. It appears determined to keep a lid on normal democratic political activity until Kashmiri politicians accept the abrogation of J&K’s autonomy as fait accompli and agree to play by its rules. It is evident, too, that the Modi government is prioritising the BJP’s electoral interests over the country’s long-term interests. Thus, while it is moving forward on the domicile issue to alter J&K’s demographics, which impact delimitation of electoral boundaries, it appears clueless, and disinterested, in winning the hearts and minds of the Kashmiri people. Silencing Kashmiris cannot be the strategy of a democratic India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/article-370-abrogation-silencing-kashmiris-can-t-be-our-strategy-869205.html
03-08-2020||In Perspective||New Education Policy: States’ stance crucial||The Union Cabinet has finally given its approval for the New Education Policy (NEP). To arrive at it, the government had constituted a committee under the Chairmanship of former chief of ISRO, G Kasturirangan. Let me first focus on the impact of the NEP on school education. The decision to impart education from standard 1 to 5 in mother tongue is a recognition of the feeling among vast sections of the people, especially the underprivileged who have clear disadvantages in learning if it is in English as is done in many parts of the country.  The government’s decision can also be seen as bowing to the demands of groups who have for long favoured teaching in mother tongue at the elementary level. There is a hint that this decision may be revised in course of time to include learning in mother tongue up to 10th standard. As of now, the government has towed a cautious line, which is welcome.  The announcement that this will be followed by both public and private schools sets at rest fears that it may be opposed by the latter. However, it remains to be seen how the ‘public’ international schools which have mushroomed in the country are going to respond to the government’s decision.  Senior officials of the government have struck a note of realism and caution by saying that since education is in the Concurrent List, and with most states having their own School Boards, the state governments will have to be brought on board for the actual implementation of the decision. How the whole thing unfolds needs to be seen. The government seems to have handled the language issue in a mature way. The original draft which had called for mandatory teaching of Hindi to all school students, which had drawn widespread protests from South India, has been rightly dropped. The policy document makes it clear that there will be greater flexibility in the three language formula and that no language would be imposed on any state.  The three languages to be taught to children would be left to the decision of the state governments. A recognition of the federal principle indeed. The move to offer Sanskrit as an optional language was expected and is a wise decision. In any case, Sanskrit is being learnt by students in many states as one of the three languages.  Let us turn to the details regarding higher education. One of the key elements of the NEP is to introduce four years’ undergraduate degree courses with multiple entry and exit options. This is a welcome move, though the four-year courses are already in vogue in some parts of the country. The same is going to be a norm now.  Entry, exit options Exit and entry options now introduced is a pattern in vogue in many western countries where students largely finance their education themselves, unlike in India where parents take upon themselves the burden of financing children’s education. The government’s move will impart self-reliance on students to take decisions appropriate their circumstances.  More than this, the four-year programme would allow a certain level of higher learning to students, who, along with the right skills, may not require postgraduate degrees to take up jobs. And those who feel the need for postgraduate degrees will opt for such courses. The five-year integrated programmes functional in many universities need to be continued. The decision to move away from the existing affiliation system - a relic of the British Raj - in a phased manner is very much in order. In fact, the timeline of 15 years fixed is far too long. If anything, such a process should be speeded up, with accent on promoting more and more autonomous colleges, with power to chart out their own courses and examination system. The affiliation system has been largely misused in our higher education eco system. With the postgraduate programme likely to be one year - though the government says it could be for two years if decided by states - the decision to do away with M Phil programme seems to be wise. Additionally, now that entry into teaching positions are based on national and state level entrance examinations (NET and SLET), the professional utility of the M Phil programme already stands eroded.  The most notable and welcome aspect of the NEP is the decision to enhance public spending on education to 6% of the GDP, something which is long overdue. With this, there will be an enhanced prospect for higher education to be more productive to serve the needs of the country. The decision to create a separate technology unit to develop digital education resources, specially in the wake of the prolonged Covid-19 pandemic, is the need of the hour. The move to abolish UGC and the AICTE were doing rounds and the same has now been announced. The new body which will take over its functions, probably the Higher Education Council, will have onerous responsibilities in promoting and regulating higher education in the country. What shape will it take and with how much of functional autonomy, remains unclear as of now. The decision about medical and legal education being continued under separate regulatory authorities is pragmatic. The proof of the pudding is in eating. The country would watch keenly how professionally the NEP is going to be implemented. (The writer is former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/new-education-policy-states-stance-crucial-868892.html
03-08-2020||In Perspective||English phobia will ruin India’s economic prospects||The New Education Policy (NEP) brings welcome change on some fronts: It has envisioned multidisciplinary learning in higher education, mooted a common college entrance test in place of today’s cacophony of exams, and promised spending on education at 6% of GDP. But the policy has taken a controversial stand on the medium of instruction: The government has said that it would like the medium of instruction to be in the student’s mother tongue (or regional language) until at least Class 5. This is not new. India has been seeing a long-running battle against English on misplaced sentimental grounds, including national pride and anti-colonial fury. More recently, the war on English has become a cornerstone of populist politics. Even as early as the 1950s, English was a bone of contention. Against much resentment at the time, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru fought to include English as one of India’s official languages. In the decades that followed, that policy reaped dividends. As much as people hate the British Empire, English is today the only really global language; it dictates global business, politics and even knowledge creation. And knowledge of English put India in a unique position. While most other developing countries made their wealth through the manufacturing sector, India’s late economic bloom depended on the export of high-end services, such as information technology, pharmaceuticals, and even retail and hospitality. In the 1990s and 2000s, India’s equivalent of Chinese factories were call centres, which pulled in hundreds of thousands of young English-speaking graduates from cities and second-tier towns. Heavy investment in technical education through the early decades of independence also created a rich pool of engineers, who attracted foreign investment from multinational companies that were looking for inexpensive, quality labour. Indian scientists created the developing world’s most accomplished space agency – ISRO. The role of English in all this was heavily underplayed but integral: English made it possible for Indians to access knowledge from around the world more easily. It allowed Indians to collaborate with businesses everywhere and sell services to global markets more competitively. As Jack Welch, the late chairman of General Electric put it, “India is a developing country with a developed intellectual capability.” English also spawned the growth of a remarkably influential diaspora: Indians assimilated quickly and easily wherever they travelled, lived and worked – in large part, due to their multilingual capabilities and knowledge of English. Countries that run on manufacturing can, to some extent, afford linguistic nationalism. People working in factories don’t need to transact with – or speak to – people from foreign cultures on a daily basis. But India is likely never going to develop a manufacturing sector; its geography and polity are simply too complex to provide easy allocation of land resources and efficient bureaucracy – the pre-requisites for manufacturing. Yet, a services-fuelled boom – albeit against historical odds – is not beyond India’s reach. India has already shown the ability to send people several rungs up the social mobility ladder within a generation. ISRO Chairman K Sivan, for instance, is the son of a farmer. The primary reason India hasn’t been able to scale up its services-fuelled growth story so far is that it hasn’t managed to deliver quality education – including in English – to the masses, which would have enabled them to compete globally. It makes no sense today to deprive future generations of English proficiency. By waging a war on English, India is squandering away its demographic dividend and depriving its youth of global opportunities. Some people argue that children learn better in their mother tongues. But in truth, mother tongues are not genetically transmitted; languages are learnt around the ages of 3-4 and beyond. That means, in order to develop English proficiency, children should be instructed in English at the preschool level. The NEP’s insistence on regional languages through primary school flies in the face of science. As children get older, they find it progressively harder to pick up new languages – and that puts such students at a significant disadvantage in university, where they must spend more time figuring out English than on learning the subject that they are there to learn. Worse, as students graduate out of university, they will find it harder to compete for jobs in the global market or pursue higher education abroad. The result of all this can be foreseen: Class-based inequality will widen, as those who are able to afford posh English-medium education in the cities pull further ahead of talent from the hinterland. In recent years, even the Chinese have begun to agree. For most of history, China has been among the most culturally protectionist countries on earth – and its attitude towards English was no different. Yet, a 2017 report pointed out that China now leads the world for the number of English-medium international schools, with over 800 of them. And that market continues to grow: Studies have found that the demand for English education is high amongst the Chinese, even at the primary school level, owing to the global opportunities that it opens up. Some would argue that the emphasis on regional languages is useful because it is difficult to find quality English teachers to teach other subjects. But countries like China have been filling that gap by engaging young graduates from the West, who travel and teach across China for a year or two out of college. This is a policy worth replicating in India. India is already well ahead of the rest of Asia in this regard and can engage young teachers from within its own urban middle class for the purpose. The government should be looking to develop a programme to involve them. The war on English might make political sense, but it betrays India’s natural economic strengths. And that’s bad news for India’s demographic dividend. (The writer is Editor-in-Chief of Freedom Gazette and a former adviser to the Indian delegation to the UN)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/english-phobia-will-ruin-india-s-economic-prospects-869208.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||After a break, monsoon picks up in Kodagu, north Karnataka||After a brief lull, monsoon revived as state received widespread showers on Sunday. Kodagu and parts of north Karnataka experienced heavy showers while old Mysuru region, Malnad and coastal districts witnessed a few sporadic spells of moderate rain. Kodagu district recorded heavy showers through the day on Sunday. The water level at Triveni Sangam in Bhagamandala has gone up drastically following the downpour in Talacauvery. Harangi reservoir is seeing good inflows owing to copious rains in its catchment. Madikeri, Siddapur, Chetnalli, Ponnampete, Srimangala, Sampaje and Shantalli have experienced good rains on Sunday. The district had received below par rain in July. With monsoon picking up momentum at the start of August, the farming activities in the region have intensified. The district is likely to receive heavy rainfall till August 7. After a two weeks lull, many parts of Belagavi district, including Belagavi city, received heavy rains on Sunday. According to revenue department sources, Londa recorded 2.6 cm, Kanakumbi forests 1.6 cm, Jamboti 1.04 cm and Khanapur 1.2 cm. Intermittent showers lashed Hubballi-Dharwad cities, Gadag, Hosapete town and UNESCO world heritage site Hampi. Uttara Kannada, including Karwar town, Bhatkal, Honnavar, Yellapur and Kumta taluks received spells of rain through the day. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi received a few sporadic spells of rain on Sunday. Dakshina Kannada received an average of 42.6 mmrain. Mysuru city and many parts of the district witnessed a wet weather on Sunday. Maraluru in Nanjangud taluk received 3.5 cm of rain while Mysuru city recorded 2 cm. Intermittent moderate rain is likely to continue in the district on Monday, according to KSNDMC sources. The inflow into Tungabhadra reservoir in Hosapete of Ballari district has come down significantly. However, the storage in the dam is satisfactory compared to last year. Though 1,850 cusecs of water is being released from Tunga reservoir, that entire quantity does not reach the Tungabhadra dam. There had been no rain in the catchment areas of the reservoir also.  Tungabhadra dam can store up to 133 tmc of water. However, the storage capacity has come down by 32 tmc due to huge deposit ofsilt. Orange alert for coast Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy showers, coupled with thunder activity, for Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts till August 7. The IMD has declared orange alert for the coastal districts for five days, starting August 3. With the wind speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph, the IMD has warned the fishermen not to venture into sea. The weather department has declared yellow alert for Monday in eight north interior districts and three Malnad districts including Kodagu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/after-a-break-monsoon-picks-up-in-kodagu-north-karnataka-868882.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Surge in Covid-19 cases, deaths continues in Dakshina Kannada||According to officials, the district has been recording Covid-19 fatalities daily since July 1 and in a majority of the cases, it is the comorbid conditions along with the virus causing the deaths. The total deaths in the district have risen to 169. The deceased were in the age group of 20 to 80 and were suffering from hypertension, diabetes mellitus, asthma, breathlessness, chronic kidney disorder and others. Among the fresh cases, 107 are from Mangaluru taluk, followed by 19 from Belthangady, 13 from Bantwal, 11 from Puttur and 1 from Sullia taluk. Nine persons from outside the district and three from outside the state to have been confirmed with Covid-19. On a positive note, 45 people have recovered and were discharged on Sunday, thus taking the total discharges to 2,730. The total positive cases in the district is 6,015. As many as 3,116 infected are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and in home isolation in Dakshina Kannada district. MLA in self-quarantine After former MLC Ivan D’Souza along with his wife were tested positive for Covid-19, Mangalore MLA U T Khader has gone into self-quarantine. Posting on Facebook and Twitter, Khader said, “Have gone into self-quarantine with immediate effect after receiving the news about #Covid_19 positive test of former MLC Ivan D’Souza & his wife Dr Kavitha. Being Covid In-charge of DK District Task Force Committee, I am one among Ivan’s primary contacts. I am going to discharge my duties from home for the next few days. You can reach out over the phone at any point of time. I appeal to all my colleagues and friends who may have come in contact with us in the last few days to get tested for Covid-19.” Further, he wrote, “Wishing a speedy recovery to Ivan D’Souza and Dr Kavitha and all those who are infected with Covid-19. My humble appeal to the people ‘say no to panic, yes to precaution!’ Early detection is the best prevention! Let us together defeat Covid-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surge-in-covid-19-cases-deaths-continues-in-dakshina-kannada-868921.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu sees 15 new Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 487||With 322 discharges, 68% of the total coronavirus cases reported have been discharged so far, said DC Annies Kanmani Joy. Among the fresh cases on Monday morning, 10 infected are the primary contacts of the already infected persons from Vaddaramadu in Virajpet. A 47-year-old woman health care worker from Vaddaramadu in Virajpet too has been tested positive for Covid-19. Three infected persons have a travel history to Bengaluru. A 64-year-old man, suffering from the symptoms of SARI, tested positive for Covid-19.  Following fresh Covid-19 cases, the district administration has notified five more containment zones—College ground in Beerangada layout in Chickpet, Vaddaramadu village in Virajpet, Yelkanoor Abboorkatte in Somwarpet, Charmudi Kakotuparambu in Virajpet, and Abdul Kalam Layout near AV School in Mahadevpet. The district administration also denotified the containment zones at Karagunda Kadiyathur and Thotheri in Virajpet, after no fresh Covid-19 cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-sees-15-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-487-868928.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gurmatkal MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Sharanagouda Kandkur, son of the MLA, tweeted that his father and brother Mallikarjun Reddy tested for Covid-19. However, they are asymptomatic and they have been admitted to the hospital. Kandkur has requested that those who have come in their contact to isolate themselves and get tested for novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gurmatkal-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868952.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||100 trainees, staff test positive for Covid-19 at Dharwad Police Training School||The spike in cases here has sparked panic among other trainees. The present batch has 380 trainees from different districts of the state. The school provides basic training to the newly-recruited police constables.  Trainees are provided accommodation in the hostel, which has common bathrooms, toilet and mess. The trainees stay in dormitories. The training for the batch had commenced in March this year and it was stopped soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23 and the trainees were sent back to their native places. However, they were summoned back to the school about a month ago as the training had resumed. Some of the retired police officers who are visiting faculty at the school have refused to go to the training school and conduct classes fearing infection. However, the training had continued with the help of regular instructors.  Meanwhile, Covid-19 test was conducted on those who had developed symptoms and test results confirmed that they had been infected. “The training had continued even after a few trainees and staff members had tested positive for the virus. When there was a spike in the number of positive cases, the training was stopped", said staff at the training school. Fearing that the infection may spread to others, the higher-ups at the training school have shifted the remaining trainees to a Kalyan mandap on outskirts of Dharwad city. Meanwhile, the sanitisation of the training school is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/100-trainees-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-dharwad-police-training-school-868958.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress MLC Prasanna Kumar tests positive for Covid-19||In a press note issued here on Monday, he said he has no symptoms. But he is under home quarantine following the advice by doctors. He participated in the party programme held in Bengaluru on July 27. He has asked people who came in contact with him over the last one week to undergo Covid-19 test immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-mlc-prasanna-kumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868977.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu sees 1 more Covid-19 death, district toll at 10||One more Covid-19 fatality was reported in Kodagu district on Monday thus taking the death toll to 10.  DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that a 64-year -old man from Abdul Kalam Layout in Mahadevapete was suffering from thyroid issues and developed cough three days ago. When he visited the private hospital for treatment, he was advised to undergo the Covid-19 test. He was also suffering from a weakness for the last two days. He was admitted to Covid-19 hospital on August 2 evening, where he was tested using a rapid antigen kit and was confirmed with Covid-19. He failed to respond to the treatment and died on Sunday night. The last rites were performed as per the guidelines of the government, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-sees-1-more-covid-19-death-district-toll-at-10-869000.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Madara Chennaiah seer to fly to Ayodhya ||Madara Chennaiah Gurupeetha Seer Basavamurthy Madara Chennaiah has been invited for Sri Ram Mandir foundation stone ceremony slated to be held on August 5 in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh.  Sri Ram Janmabhumi Teerthakshetra Trust General Secretary Champath Roy has invited the seer.  The seer would fly to Lucknow from Bengaluru on Tuesday at 4:00 pm. He would reach Ayodhya by road.  Reacting to it, the seer said he would participate in Ram Mandir foundation stone ceremony. "I am happy that I am representing Chitradurga. Ram Mandir trust members invited me through phone call. "||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/madara-chennaiah-seer-to-fly-to-ayodhya-869167.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||JSS Hospital for Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has selected the city-based JSS Hospital and Medical College to conduct a clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine. Dr H Basavanagowdappa confirmed it and said the process is yet to commence. The trials will be conducted in association with the Serum Institute of India, Pune. The trial will be conducted on a healthy individual and not on Covid infected person. The vaccine acts as an antibody and protects the individual from Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jss-hospital-for-covid-19-vaccine-clinical-trial-869172.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Land Reforms: Farmers launch protest against amendment||Farmers launched a protest against the Amendment to Karnataka Land Reforms Act here, on Monday, by displaying banners that read ‘Nammura Bhoomi Namagiriali’ (let our village land be with us) at H D Deve Gowda Circle of Ring Road on Bannur Road. Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Sangha (State Sugarcane Growers Association) president Kuruburu Shanthakumar said that similar protests were held simultaneously at 180 villages across Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. “On the occasion, farmers also posted post cards, expressing their disagreement to the Amendment. Farmers will put up boards or banners reading ‘Nammura Bhoomi Namagiriali’ on their lands, to keep away buyers,” he said. “The movement against the Amendment will go on till August 7 and 8, farmers will take out semi-naked protest rally in all district headquarters, across Karnataka, to draw the attention of the government,” he said. However, not all farmers are with the protesters. They differ with the protesters and their organisations on some counts. Thimmegowda, a farmer of KR Nagar, said that farming should be treated like industry. “There is a need to bring investment and also competition in agriculture. If a farmer thinks that he gets good price for his farmland, he should have the freedom to sell it and invest the money in whatever he deems fit. May be, if he can get lands at a lower price elsewhere, he can buy more lands and become a better farmer,” he said. Gangadhariah, a farmer of Nanjangud said that if a person from his village whose parents have given up farming, wants to do farming again, the red-tapeism in the government departments will not allow him to buy lands. “The Amendment will ease the bureaucratic process for such persons, who do not get current or live RTC in the name of one’s father or blood-relative,” he said. Shanthakumar said, “The ceiling of 250 acres is only in the interest of corporates. It seems to be a conspiracy of the government to promote the corporates. If the intention is to encourage new and young farmers, to buy lands, no individual will buy 250 acres. It could be below 10 acres.” “For those who do not have current or live RTC, in a family member’s name, as per the earlier rules also, registration is possible, if a RTC even before 1973 is produced,” he said. If corporates enter the scenario, the price of lands will go up and individual buyers will not get affordable lands. It is not just about the interest of individual farmers, it is about the whole society. If lands get concentrated in the hands of corporates, the price of farm produce will be dictated by them, Shanthakumar said. He said, “The limit on buying lands should be reduced, to check corporate investment. Even for individual buyers, there should be a rider, to ensure that the land is not used for commercial purpose. The buyer should be mandated to cultivate on the land, one proposes to buy, for a certain period.” “Only after the farmer credentials are proved, the land should be registered in one’s name and the RTC should be issued,” he said. The protests are spearheaded by State Union of Farmer Associations, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene and Mysuru-Chamarajanagar District Sustainable Organic Farmers Federation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/land-reforms-farmers-launch-protest-against-amendment-869173.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid infected sleeps on floor; shifted to care centre||More than 135 employees of Himat Singh Ka Linens have tested positive for Covid-19, over the past two days. Following this, the district administration directed the company to open a Covid care centre at its hostel, to treat its employees. But, the company admitted some of the employees to Dharmasthala Ayurveda Hospital. As there is shortage of beds, more than 30 employees are staying in the rooms of the factory, and they were seen sleeping on the floor, spreading carton boxes. The video clip of this was circulated widely on the social media. Taluk Health Officer Dr Vijay said that he visited the spot after learning about it. Arrangements have been made to shift all infected persons to the Covid Care Centre at the Agriculture University, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-infected-sleeps-on-floor-shifted-to-care-centre-869174.html
03-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ch’nagar DC says no to night halt at MM Hill||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has put a brake to the decision of MM Hill Development Authority, to open the hill temple for the public from 4 am to 10 pm and also resuming bookings for accommodation, after the lockdown was relaxed. The DC has rejected the plan to resume bookings for rooms, and has limited the temple timings from 7 am to 7 pm. The authority had written a letter to the DC on August 1, seeking permission to resume bookings for the rooms and also to extend darshan timings of the deity, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines. Replying to this, on Monday, the DC stated that the orders, issued on June 6, will continue until further intimation, in view of the rise in Covid cases in Kollegal and Hanur taluks. It has to be noted that several police personnel at MM Hill station are infected of the virus. Authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy has clarified that there will be no accommodation available atop the hill for devotees, willing for a night halt. There will be no dasoha (mass feeding). But, laddu prasada will be available at the counter between 7 am and 7 pm. There will be no entry for vehicles from Talabetta to the temple after 5.30 pm and the devotees will not be allowed to climb the hill. Mudi seva (tonsure) and utsavas will not be held, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ch-nagar-dc-says-no-to-night-halt-at-mm-hill-869179.html
03-08-2020||Main Article||Abrogation of Article 370: Wounds need to heal||On August 5 last year, I was called by a national TV channel for a debate on the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The move came as a sudden blow. The Amarnath Yatra was in full swing. Under the subterfuge of tightening the security of the state, several companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) had been flown in.  In the studio, a Kashmiri youngster seated to my right, appeared quite upset and agitated. As the debate progressed, I could gauge his anger. While I maintained my composure, he was seething with anger and vociferously opposed the abrogation of Article 370. In him, I could perceive the whole J&K being in a state of turmoil. The manner and haste in which the state was divested of its special status was mindboggling. According to intelligence reports received and aired by security agencies, the terrorists were planning a massive attack and hence the need to vacate the Valley post-haste.  Pilgrims and tourists were directed to leave the state by first available means. There was a mad rush at the airports, bus stands and railway stations. With rising demands, cost of tickets skyrocketed. The CAPFs, that is the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Border Security Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Indo Tibetan Border Police, positioned themselves in every nook and corner of potential trouble spots of the state. All political leaders including three former chief ministers were put under house arrest thereby leaving the state rudderless while two Lt Governors were appointed to take over the now-bifurcated and downgraded Union Territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir.  Those arrested were in for a shock as they had a day earlier been assured by the state Governor that all was well and that Article 370 would not be revoked. A sense of betrayal again.  The bifurcation and reduction of the status of erstwhile state of J&K to that of the Union Territories was necessitated by the need for the Centre to have direct control over the state. To add to their woes, all internet channels were severed. With curfew imposed, people were confined to their houses. None dare stir out.  With the revocation of Article 370, the people were assured that the state will be on road to development and progress which had been impeded by terrorism and corruption for several decades in the past. A clean and progressive administration was assured. The people were not so naïve to lap up all that was doled out by verbal rhetoric. Wait and watch was their cool response while they fumed inwards. With all political leaders incarcerated, their voices were stifled.  Confined to their homes, all they could do was to peep out of their windows as paramilitary personnel patrolled the streets.   A year has gone by. Situation has worsened. While releasing J&K High Court Bar Association President Mian Abdul Qayoom recently, the apex court commented that it hoped the government would ensure that normalcy is restored in Kashmir. “Kashmir has been a troubled area. Nature has been very kind to the place. It is the human race that has been unkind. It is time for all wounds to be healed and look to the future within the domain of our country,” the court remarked. Behind bars Wounds cannot be healed when a large number of leaders are behind bars. While the father-son duo of Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah have been set free, Mehbooba Mufti continues to languish in detention. When Saifuddin Soz was seen on a television channel apprising the cameraman that he was not being allowed to go anywhere by the police guards at his home, the state government had on the same day (July 29) filed an affidavit in the top court that he had not been detained and that there was no restriction on his movement. A false narrative is being woven from time to time and the people can see through the design. With tourism badly hit, those in the profession have been reduced to penury. Though tourists are now permitted, the Covid-19 situation makes it near-impossible to carry on with their trade. Due to low tourist inflow, nearly 1.5 lakh people have lost jobs. From 3,26 lakh tourists who visited the Valley in 2018,  the figure slid to 43,059 in 2019. Overall 4,96,000 jobs were lost.  Commercial loss was Rs 15,000 crore. Priority therefore has to be to normalise the situation to facilitate tourist inflow lest the youth take to terrorism and crime. Employment opportunities need to be explored. Thankfully, there has been a 40% decline in the number of youths taking to terrorism this year. Intensive operations against the terrorists in recent months by the CRPF, Army and the J&K Police have yielded good results leading to a sharp decline  in terrorist attacks. Over 130 terrorists were killed in the last seven months, 26 of whom were from Pakistan while 35 security personnel were martyred in these attacks. Guns and grenades cannot provide a military solution for return of peace. Political solution has to be worked out on priority to meet the aspirations of the people. Of the 7,357 people who were taken into preventive custody soon after the abrogation, 451 are still incarcerated. They need to be released to calm the tempers. Since the report of the Delimitation Commission is likely to be delayed, restoration of its past status as a state immediately will have a soothing effect.   Kashmiri Pandits have demanded that and long to return to the Valley. Holding elections could to a great extent see the return of peace to this state which has borne the brunt of terrorism for too long though there can be no gainsaying that Pakistan would persist in its mischief of fanning terrorism. The security forces can be relied upon to handle that aspect.     (The writer is retired IGP, CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/abrogation-of-article-370-wounds-need-to-heal-868867.html
03-08-2020||Main Article||Risks to financial stability||This past week saw the near-simultaneous publication of two books by senior former central bankers. Former RBI Governor Urjit Patel published his book called “Overdraft” which is dedicated to the Indian saver. It was much awaited from someone who was otherwise extremely reticent even while in office. Within a week of its publication it became one of the top-ranking non-fiction books. There was much buzz about its content, since Patel had chosen to be silent and almost invisible to the public eye since he left the Reserve Bank of India abruptly in December 2018. The other book is by former RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya, who left six months later, without completing his full tenure. His book is titled "Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India”, and is actually a collection of his writings and speeches, with a newly written long preface. Together, Patel and Acharya were known as hawkish, but determined to clean up the banking system. In many ways, they were continuing a clean-up tradition established by former Governor Raghuram Rajan. Patel had served as Rajan’s deputy. In some ways, this trio had an image of being too academic, strongly intellectual, and outsiders to the system, who were “inflexible” and not pragmatic. Whether these adjectives were unfair is a debate for another day. Acharya was in the eye of a storm due to a strongly-worded speech he gave just a couple of months before Patel’s abrupt departure. In that speech, he emphasised the importance of nurturing the autonomy of the central bank. He famously concluded his speech with this ominous warning, “Governments that do not respect central bank independence will sooner or later incur the wrath of financial markets, ignite economic fire, and come to rue the day they undermined an important regulatory institution.”  In the preface to his new book, too, he reiterates that excessive monetary and credit stimulus during the earlier part of this decade had endangered financial stability. Acharya also says that Governor Patel had quit prematurely because of attempts to undermine RBI’s autonomy. One of the key issues described in some detail in Patel’s book is the dilution of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code process that he instituted to tackle the problem of rising bad loans. Rather than depend on a case-by-case approach and negotiations between banker and borrower, wherein both parties had incentives to “evergreen” loans, the RBI insisted on transferring bad debt cases to the IBC process, even with one day of default. This was the famous February 2018 circular, which created quite a stir. The strict rule meant that defaulting promoters risked losing control of their companies to new owners or to liquidation. It also put pressure on banks to prevent such cases landing up in the IBC process. The circular was challenged and eventually struck down by the Supreme Court. After this, the banking system is back to a case-by-case approach and this has been a setback to the speedy resolution of non-performing assets (NPA) cases. This means that if the NPA is not resolved, the provisioning will keep mounting, and more and more capital will get stuck on the balance sheets of banks. Hence, unless extra capital is injected into the bank, its capacity to make fresh loans for new borrowers and new projects gets constrained. Also, a larger NPA ratio means that the bank needs to reap profits from a smaller portion of the loans, which means that it has to charge higher interest rates. Thus, the non-resolution or tardy resolution of NPAs has implication for the banking system as a whole, and for financial stability, too. As if in tandem with the two books by these central bankers comes the report by RBI on financial stability. One of the most sobering conclusions of this report is that the gross NPA ratio in India’s banks will rise by a full 4% from 8.5% in March 2020 to 12.5% in March 2021. That means, an estimated Rs 4 lakh crore of loans are going to turn bad this year. Of course, this is the year of the pandemic and recession. Despite measures like easy liquidity, monetary easing, and generous moratoriums for loan repayments, the RBI expects a surge in the gross NPA ratio. If the downturn is more severe, the stress test conducted by RBI officials indicates that the ratio may rise to 14.7%. Such a high NPA ratio will seriously endanger financial stability. Since nearly three-fourths of Indian banking is in the public sector, a rise in NPAs will call for the need to recapitalise banks. This has to come from the Centre’s fiscal resources, which are already stretched due to falling GST and income tax revenues, and a shrinking base of nominal national income. There are also other competing demands on the fiscal system, for clearing pending payments to enterprises, tax refunds, direct cash payment to poor households and GST compensation to be paid to states, as per the agreed formula.  As bank balance sheets get stretched, it can make depositors nervous, and they may make a run on the bank. This can put severe stress on bank liquidity, and the panic can spread like a contagion. Similarly, non-bank finance companies, which also face rising NPAs, may find it unable to inject fresh capital, causing the NPA problem to worsen. This can have a domino effect, as was seen in September 2018 with the failure of IL&FS. Systemically large banks and non-banks need extra vigilance and supervision from the bank regulator, RBI, to prevent such spill-over alarms. The solution to restoring financial stability and earning the confidence of depositors and savers is spelt out in both Acharya’s and Patel’s books. It calls for instilling market discipline (i.e. IBC process for NPA resolution), early recognition and disclosure of defaults, refusing too much forbearance in diluting treatment of defaulting borrowers, and to keep adequate ammunition in the RBI balance sheet to deal with sudden shocks, abrupt reversals of capital flow, or emergency rescues. The two books and the RBI report are timely and cautionary reminders about paying attention to the financial stability of the Indian economy. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/risks-to-financial-stability-869206.html
03-08-2020||Mysuru||Archaeologist mines memories, treasures Ayodhya excavations of 2013||A retired deputy superintending archaeologist of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) fondly recalls his experience of excavation in Ayodhya in 2013, as part of a 30-member team.  N C Prakash Nayakanda, who was in the team deputed to excavate the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute site on the orders of the Supreme Court, said they started work on March 10, 2013, and submitted a report, under director B R Mani in August 2013. “It was the most challenging and interesting task in our entire career. Another Mysurean, Ravishankar, an epigraphist now residing in Bengaluru, was also part of the teams deputed to provide evidence,” Prakash said.  Another Mysurean, the late K V Ramesh, an epigraphist and Sanskrit scholar, was an oral evidence in connection with Vishnu Hari inscriptions found at the excavation site. Up to 1,210 BC “Our team was given one month’s time for excavation and 15 days for reporting. But it was not easy. The excavation was done up to a depth of 13.5 metres and we found evidence from the present day to 1,210 BC, comprising 18 layers. By putting in the maximum number of work hours, we accomplished the work,” he said. Prakash said, “The aim of the excavation was to confirm whether there was any hidden temple or structure which was demolished and a mosque was constructed.” “There are many archaeological mounds like Mani-Parvatha, Sugriva Tila (mound) and Ram-Kot. The Ram Janmabhoomi mound is important because this is the place where Lord Ram is deemed to have been born and a temple was builtthere.” Prakash said, “Initially, ground penetrating survey (GPR) was conducted on the 2.77-acre culturally-rich mound to see if there is any anomaly. By scanning the surface, one can identify hard substances like stone slabs, pillars, floors or walls. Based on the reports, 90 trenches were dug and horizontal excavations were conducted.”  “There were some restrictions for excavating at the centre, where the sanctum sanctorum exists, in the makeshift temple. We took the help of epigraphists and experts from the Science Branch of ASI. There were parties from both sides, witnessing the progress. There were two high court judges, both representing two different religions. There was a CCTV monitoring system,” he said. Prakash said, “If the temple Trust makes provision for a museum in the temple complex, all antiques recovered from the excavation can be displayed. Visitors can learn about the history, heritage and culture of Ayodhya.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/archaeologist-mines-memories-treasures-ayodhya-excavations-of-2013-868880.html
03-08-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Covid-19 patient who escaped from hospital found||A 76-year-old Covid-19 infected, who escaped from the hospital, traced and shifted to the hospital. The old man, resident of Lashkar Mohalla, had escaped from the hospital on July 23. The old man was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. The authorities found him at a village in T Narasipur taluk and shifted to hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-covid-19-patient-who-escaped-from-hospital-found-868995.html
03-08-2020||National||DH toon: Rafale deal is a saga of political dogfight to celebratory touchdown||The touchdown of five Rafale jets on Indian soil on Wednesday caps years of intense political dogfight, with the ruling BJP projecting the purchase as a huge boost to national security and the Congress alleging corruption, before a clean chit by the Supreme Court to the deal removed any hurdle in its acquisition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rafale-deal-is-a-saga-of-political-dogfight-to-celebratory-touchdown-868875.html
03-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 3||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected nearly 18 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 18,46,007 as of August 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No. of people discharged: 10,57,805                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-August-3-868877.html
03-08-2020||National||Patna IPS officer probing case related to Sushant Singh Rajput's death 'forcibly quarantined' in Mumbai: DGP||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Sunday charged that Vinay Tiwari, the IPS officer from Patna who is in Mumbai to probe a case related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, has been "forcibly quarantined" by civic authorities in the metropolis. Tiwari is heading a Bihar Police team which is in Mumbai to investigate an ''abetment to suicide'' case on the basis of a complaint filed by the late actor's father in Patna. "IPS officer Vinay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from Patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11 PM today," Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Pandey tweeted. "He was not provided accommodation in the IPS mess, despite request, and was staying in a Guest House in Goregaon," he said. Sushant's sister Shweta Singh Kirti has tweeted, " What? Is this even for real? How can an officer sent on duty be quarantined for 14 Days?". Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his Bandra residence on June 24 last. Last month, Rajput's father lodged an FIR here of abetment to suicide naming actress Rhea Chakraborty, said to be close to the deceased Patna-born actor, and her family members as accused. Tiwari was posted as the City SP (East) in Patna. The Mumbai Police, which is also probing the death case, have so far recorded statements of nearly 40 people, including those from Rajput's family, his cook and people from the film industry that include filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali and filmmaker Aditya Chopra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patna-ips-officer-probing-case-related-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-forcibly-quarantined-in-mumbai-dgp-868903.html
03-08-2020||National||DCGI nod to Serum Institute of India for phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate||India’s drug regulator has approved the proposal of Serum Institute of India to conduct Phase II and III clinical trials of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 Vaccine. “This will hasten the development of the Covid-19 vaccine,” a health ministry statement said. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19 and had submitted its first application to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on July 25 for conducting the phase 2 and 3 trials of the potential vaccine. The trials will be conducted on 1,600 individuals aged above 18 years and across 17 selected sites that include JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research in Mysuru, AIIMS in Delhi & Jodhpur, Andhra Medical College in Vizag and B J Medical College in Pune. “The firm has to submit safety data, evaluated by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), to the CDSCO before proceeding to phase 3 clinical trials,” a senior official said. “As per the study design, each subject will be administered two doses four weeks apart (first dose on day one and second dose on day 29) following which the safety and immunogenicity will be assessed at predefined intervals,” the official said. Currently, phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate is going on in the United Kingdom, phase 3 clinical trial in Brazil, and phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in South Africa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-nod-to-serum-institute-of-india-for-phase-2-and-3-human-clinical-trials-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-868906.html
03-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu greet people on Raksha Bandhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday greeted people on Raksha Bandhan, saying the festival reaffirms the strong ties of love and affection that bind brothers and sisters together. रक्षा बंधन के पावन पर्व पर समस्त देशवासियों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। "Many greetings to all citizens on the festival of Raksha Bandhan," the prime minister tweeted. Naidu said the festival reaffirms the strong ties of love and affection that bind brothers and sisters together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-greet-people-on-raksha-bandhan-868911.html
03-08-2020||National||India reports one-day spike of 52,972 new Covid-19 cases||India reported 52,972 new coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1.8 million, data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare showed on Monday. With 771 new deaths, the Covid-19 disease has now claimed 38,135 lives in the world's second-most populous country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-one-day-spike-of-52972-new-covid-19-cases-868923.html
03-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Uma Bharti to not attend Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan', says concerned about PM Modi's health||Former Union minister Uma Bharti on Monday said she will go for darshan of Lord Ram in Ayodhya after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others leave the venue of the ground-breaking ceremony for Ram temple construction there, in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The 61-year-old senior BJP leader's comments came a day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah said he tested positive for the coronavirus. Bharti was among the leaders of the Ram Janambhoomi agitation and is an accused in the Babri mosque demolition case. The ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple is scheduled to be held on Wednesday in Ayodhya and is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Modi. "I will leave Bhopal today and on the way I might come in contact with a coronavirus infected person. Taking this into account, I will keep a distance from the place where @narendramodi and hundreds of others will be present," Bharti tweeted in Hindi. "I will go for darshan of Ramlala after @narendramodi and others leave the venue," she further said. "I have informed senior officer-bearers of Ram Janambhoomi Nyas at Ayodhya and @PMOIndia not to incorporate my name in the list of the people during @narendramodis function," she said. Bharti in an earlier tweet said a senior office-bearer of the Ram Janambhoomi Trust directed her to reach Ayodhya by August 4 evening and be present there till August 6.   Veteran BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are among those being invited to the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 which will be shown live by Doordarshan, trustees of the temple said on Sunday. Besides them, there is also a view to invite spiritual leaders from all faiths, Anil Mishra, a member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, told PTI. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished in December 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. In November last year, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-uma-bharti-to-not-attend-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-says-concerned-about-pm-modis-health-868929.html
03-08-2020||National||P Chidambaram's son, Karti Chidambaram, tests positive for coronavirus||The MP tweeted that he has mild symptoms and is under home quarantine. "I would urge all those who have recently been in contact with me to follow medical protocol." the tweet also said. On Sunday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/p-chidambarams-son-karti-chidambaram-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-868940.html
03-08-2020||National||Did 'Dr Aisha' fake her coronavirus infection?||On July 31, 2020, a Twitter post by a Dr Aisha took social media by storm. The doctor claimed she was not coping with Covid-19. Sympathies and good wishes poured in as people expressed their grief and wished the one suffering a speedy recovery. The post was later unavailable, creating a controversy around its authenticity. What was the post? An alleged doctor, Dr Aisha, posted on Twitter that she had contracted coronavirus and needed ventilator support. The post read, "Haya friends not coping with covid 19. Going to be hooked up to the ventilator sometime today. Remember me, my smile to you. Thank U 4 Ur friendship. Will miss Ull. Be safe take this deadly virus seriously. Luv u guys. Bye (and then two emojis)".   Post garners attention Immediately, the post went viral, with numerous users including well-known people retweeting and praying for her speedy recovery. Journalist Nidhi Razdan tweeted, "This is the saddest story you'll see today. A reminder the COVID can kill even young people. We have no business being careless."   The smiling face of Dr Aisha became a symbol of the fight against coronavirus. The account further posted "Keep Aisha in your prayer. The more here friends and family pray for her, she may recover from this virus."  These tweets were posted from South Africa.  And then, after the news of her death, the grief reached a crescendo. Her alleged brother Dr Sakar tweeted the news via her handle. "I am Dr Aisha's sister Dr Sarkar. I had Aisha phone as she was not allowed a phone in her isolation. A request from her should anything happen to inform her friends on social media. We were handed a sealed coffin due to the virus. I will be deleting all her social media accounts," the tweet said.   Real sympathy, but fake disease? But Dr Aisha's tragic tale soon raised doubts over the authenticity of the tweets as a reverse image search of her photo showed that the image was old. It was allegedly taken from a website named 'Confluence Health'. Furthermore, the picture was taken during dental treatment, or more specifically, during the anaesthetic treatment.   Several Twitter profiles also said that the hospital bedsheet revealed that Aisha wasn't at any South African hospital, but rather in the  'Life hospital' located in Kamareddy (Telangana).   Moreover, netizens pointed out that many of Dr Aisha's tweets that went viral were copies of other viral tweets.    After such revelations, like many others, Nidhi Razdan, too, deleted her original tweet and issued a clarification: “Have deleted a previous tweet about a Dr. Aisha. Turns out the account was fake! You have to be really sick to pretend to have COVID.”   The saga has also brought forth social media's viral claims that allow users to share their own sorrow to garner sympathy without verifying the original claims. Dr Aisha's fake disease story has seen several parallel examples across emails and other social media where unverified social problems continue to see retweets, reposts and shares without attribution to authenticity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-dr-aisha-fake-her-coronavirus-infection-868956.html
03-08-2020||National||Tahir Hussain admits his role in Delhi violence: Report||Suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain confessed during an interrogation that he incited people to unleash violence in the riots that broke out in North East Delhi in February this year, according to a report by ANI.  Hussain’s task was to collect as much glass, bottle, petrol, acid and stones as possible on his roof, the Delhi Police said.  Hussain said that he met former JNU student Umar Kahlid at the Popular Front of India (PFI) office in Shaheen Bagh on January  8. Hussain’s acquaintance Khalid Saifi was given the task to gather people on the streets for protest. “Khalid Saifi, along with his friend Ishrat Jahan, first started a dharna demonstration in Khureji on the lines of Shaheen Bagh. On February 4, in Abu Fazal Enclave, I met Khalid Saifi for planning the riots,” Hussain told the police during the interrogation. During the meeting, it was decided that people sitting for the anti-CAA strike will be provoked, Hussain said. Saifi reportedly told him that something big had to be done at the time of Donald Trump’s visit to bring the government to heel.  Interrogation by the Delhi Police revealed Hussain took his pistol from the police station to use in the violence.  “On February 24, according to our plan, I had called several people and told them to throw stones, petrol bombs, and acid bottles from my roof. I had shifted my family to another place. On February 24 2020, at about 1.30 pm, we started throwing stones,” Hussian told the police. According to a charge sheet by Delhi Police, Hussain is one of the prime accused in the killing of IB staffer Ankit Sharma, whose body was recovered from a drain in Chand Bagh on February 26 during the 2020 Delhi riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tahir-hussain-admits-his-role-in-delhi-violence-report-868974.html
03-08-2020||National||PM Modi still plans to attend Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan'; has Covid-19 marred a historic moment?||The groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the Ayodhya Ram Temple is set to take place on Aug. 5. At the time of this writing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's plan to attend the 'bhoomi pujan' remains unchanged, despite several BJP leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, UP party head Swatantra Dev Singh and Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa having tested positive for Covid-19. The guest list includes veteran BJP leaders L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. Advani and Joshi will not visit Ayodhya because of the pandemic and security issues. They are expected to attend the event via video-conferencing. Iqbal Ansari, son of the oldest Babri litigant Hashim Ansari, has been invited to attend the ceremony. Ansari will present a copy of Ram Charit Manas (Hindu epic authored by Tulsidas) and 'Ramnami' (a scarf with the name of Lord Rama written all over) to the prime minister. BJP National Vice President Uma Bharti cited the need to control Covid-19 as the reason behind her decision not to join the prime minister at the 'bhoomi pujan'. The 61-year-old senior BJP leader was among the leaders of the Ram Janambhoomi agitation and is an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is set to visit Ayodhya to review the preparations. On March 25, Adityanath moved the idol of 'Ramalala' to a temporary structure near Manas Bhawan of the temple campus. He said in a tweet that he had made a Rs 11 lakh contribution for the construction of the structure. अयोध्या करती है आह्वान... भव्य राम मंदिर के निर्माण का पहला चरण आज सम्पन्न हुआ, मर्यादा पुरुषोत्तम प्रभु श्री राम त्रिपाल से नए आसन पर विराजमान... मानस भवन के पास एक अस्थायी ढांचे में 'रामलला' की मूर्ति को स्थानांतरित किया।  A landmark ruling The Supreme Court ruled last November in favour of a temple being built on the site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was invited to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple. In a unanimous verdict, the apex court also directed the Centre to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board to build a mosque. Ayodhya is ready Many parts of Ayodhya are lit up to celebrate the event and the arrival of the prime minister. Fences are adorned with fresh paintings of Lord Ram all over the district. A special dress has been stitched for Ram Lalla with nine gems using golden thread by brothers Shankarlal and Bhagwatlal 'Pahaadhi', who have been stitching clothes for Ram Lalla in Ayodhya for the past three and a half decades. "My father late Babulal started stitching the clothes of Ram Lalla in 1985," Shankarlal, 54, told PTI. "He used to carry our sewing machine to the Ramjanmabhoomi and stitch the clothes with me and my elder brother in tow."  Special earthen lamps have been made ahead of the occasion. An earthen pot maker told ANI, “We've received an order to make 1.25 lakh earthen lamps. There are around 40 families in this village, so we've divided the work among us." Ayodhya: Earthen lamps being made, ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram Temple on August 5. Asha, a Prayagraj-based firm decided to install loudspeakers in Ayodhya for free. Asha Director Praveen Malviya said, "Around 3,000 loudspeakers will be installed in Ayodhya and Faizabad. We are not charging a single rupee." Ranjit Mandal, a sculptor from Assam is making statues to depict Lord Ram's journey from childhood to coronation. His statues will be placed in the courtyard of the Ram Temple. "I cannot express my happiness," Ranjit told ANI. "I started this work in 2013." An ode to Ram Lalla The first phase of the new Ayodhya station, modelled on the Ram Temple, will be completed by June of next year and it will provide state-of-the-art facilities for passengers travelling to the birthplace of Lord Ram, the Railways said on Sunday. In the first phase, the development work on platform number 1, 2 and 3, development of the current circulating area and holding area will be completed, according to Northern Railway General Manager Rajiv Chaudhary. The design of the railway station temple complete with domes, tall 'shikharas' and towering pillars has been conceptualised with the temple town in mind. Once completed, the station will have a built-up area of 1,00,000 square feet. A moment in history “With the construction of this temple, the nationality of Indians cannot be now linked to any foreign invader and it will be defined by the inspiring narratives of the patriarchs and matriarchs of the nation such as Lord Shri Ram," said Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Central Joint General Secretary Surendra Jain. "This will also be a foundation stone of Ram Rajya in the country," Chaupal, a key figure of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and a Dalit member of the trust, told PTI. "Ram's life encapsulates the values of social harmony and brotherhood. The temple will foster these values in our society."  Muslim devotees of Lord Ram also geared up to celebrate the historic ceremony. Wasi Haider, a native of Faizabad, said, "We believe in the fundamentals of Islam and we practice Islam, but we also believe that Lord Ram was our ancestor. It will be great that we will witness the construction of the Ram Temple." The Opposition parties After Jawaharlal Nehru's initial opposition, the Congress government at the Centre made its biggest move when it dismissed four BJP-ruled state governments in 1992, under P V Narasimha Rao's rule, following the demolition of the Babri Masjid during a 'kar seva' led by Hindutva organisations. Fast-forwarding through 27 years of conflict, the Congress now backs the top court's verdict barring a few leaders. Even Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet, "While respecting the court's decision, we all have to maintain mutual harmony. This is the time for bondage, faith and love among all of us Indians." सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने अयोध्या मुद्दे पर अपना फैसला सुना दिया है। कोर्ट के इस फैसले का सम्मान करते हुए हम सब को आपसी सद्भाव बनाए रखना है। ये वक्त हम सभी भारतीयों के बीच बन्धुत्व,विश्वास और प्रेम का है। Former Union Law Minister Veerappa Moily put forward the Srirama Pattabhisheka picture featuring Ram, Sita and Hanuman, among others, which he felt was a symbol of unity and inclusiveness. The image of Ram with a bow and arrow is more aggressive, Moily told PTI, adding that it would not be inclusive.  Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and Congress Rajya Sabha Member Digvijaya Singh quoted Shankaracharya of Dwarka and Joshimath of the Hindu (Sanatan) religion and said that the timing or muhurta of the ceremony was inauspicious. Replying to Acharya Pramod's tweet, he said, "Do not know how many Ayodhya residents will get infected with corona. Rules should be one for all." "Attending Bhumi Pujan in official capacity will be a violation of @PMOIndia‘s constitutional oath," said AIMM chief and Lok Sabha member Asaduddin Owaisi in a tweet. "Secularism is part of the Basic Structure of Constitution. We can’t forget that for over 400 years Babri stood in Ayodhya & it was demolished by a criminal mob in 1992." Meanwhile, MP party chief Kamal Nath said that he will host a recital of 'Hanuman Chalisa' at his residence on Tuesday, a day before the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram Temple construction.    What about the Shiv Sena? Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony could be conducted through a video-conference due to the pandemic. Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, said that he could go to Ayodhya for the ceremony but he asked if lakhs of 'Ram bhakts' could be stopped from going there. The Shiv Sena honoured its commitment with a transfer of Rs 1 crore to the trust overseeing the construction of the Ram Temple, a senior party leader said. On July 21, party MP Sanjay Raut said that Uddhav Thackeray would definitely attend the groundbreaking ceremony. Donations and gifts  The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, mandated by the Central Government to oversee the construction after the Supreme Court ruling in November, planned the 'bhoomi pujan'. Donations for the construction would be accepted from all communities, according to a member of the Trust. Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swami, head of Udupi-based Pejawar Mutt in Karnataka, who attended a recent virtual Trust meeting, said that it was suggested that a sum of Rs 10 per head be collected and Rs 100 from a household as part of the resource mobilisation efforts. "It's just a suggestion, it's not like tax. It's kind of a road map for people who are desirous of participating in the construction of the Mandir," the seer told PTI. Ram's message far and wide The Karnataka unit of the VHP said that water from various rivers and soil from religious places in Karnataka had been sent for the construction. Images of Lord Ram and 3D portraits of the grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be beamed across giant billboards in the iconic Times Square in New York City. The Delhi BJP will install giant LED screens across the city for people to watch the groundbreaking ceremony. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-still-plans-to-attend-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-has-covid-19-marred-a-historic-moment-868975.html
03-08-2020||National||Chef Vikas Khanna to help India's street vendors impacted by Covid-19 pandemic||Michelin-star chef Vikas Khanna, who will soon reach the milestone of having distributed 25 million meals across India amid Covid-19, is now aiming to provide essential rations and supplies to 10 million street vendors and their families facing hardships due to the coronavirus pandemic. The 48-year-old world-renowned chef and author has coordinated a massive food distribution drive from his home in Manhattan since the coronavirus pandemic gripped India, unleashing economic hardships for millions as a nationwide lockdown was implemented in March. "We are securing ration and are planning about 10 million meals around the country for street vendors, who actually hold the true heritage of Indian food in their hands," Khanna told PTI. He has distributed rations, meals and essential supplies to innumerable orphanages, old-age homes, leprosy centers, widow ashrams, Mumbai's famed Dabbawalas, boatmen and craftsmen in Varanasi as well as to migrant workers and hundreds of thousands of people in need across more than 125 Indian cities with the help of The National Disaster Response Force. Nearly 50 leading brands as well as public and private organisations and individuals have partnered with and supported Khanna in his 'Feed India' initiative. Khanna will soon touch the landmark of having distributed 25 million meals across India amid the pandemic and says he will dedicate this milestone to India's legendary artist Lata Mangeshkar, with whom he shares a special bond. He recalls that his mother listened to Mangeshkar's songs on the radio after working long arduous hours running and managing banquets in Amritsar. Khanna is simultaneously working on providing two million meals, food, clothes, essential supplies like mosquito repellents, candles and matches to people in flood-ravaged areas of Bihar and Assam, particularly in the remote areas. "There are a lot of challenges to support relief in flooded areas of Bihar & Assam (especially the remote ones). But I pledge 2 million+ meals in the affected areas. We will do best to our ability," Khanna had tweeted. The world-renowned chef said he was particularly moved by the plight of the millions of street vendors across India, whose source of income and livelihood has been severely impacted due to the pandemic and lockdown. He is planning to distribute 10 million meals and other essential items for the street vendors that will last for at least three months and has shortlisted 20 cities for the distribution drive. Khanna hopes that more people and companies will join his efforts to help the street vendors, who he says are an intrinsic part of India's food culture and feed daily wage workers, besides attracting food lovers from all walks of life. "Street vendors have been among the most important thread of society and provide food to millions of daily labourers. They have uplifted each other through the years. That is the power of street vendors. My next mission is to help these street vendors," he said. "It is important to stay positive in these difficult times but it it also good to help out right now. This is the true moment where individual strength is displayed. We are all holding hands and we can actually make this work. It is time for the country to come together," he said. Khanna emphasised that criticising governments or foundations for their response to the crisis "is an absolutely wrong way to look at it right now because these are very unpredictable circumstances. Nobody knows how to deal with it." "These crises are not crises which can be managed by NGOs and governments alone. The crisis is a testimony of the human grit. At this time of severe crisis, we need individuals who can share a little from what they have," he said. "The street vendors are hopeful that once restrictions are lifted and the crisis is over, their businesses can resume. They are just hanging by a thread. The pandemic is an unprecedented crisis and it is far from over. But we cannot give up," Khanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chef-vikas-khanna-to-help-indias-street-vendors-impacted-by-covid-19-pandemic-868985.html
03-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan contests SC contempt notice, terms tweets as bona fide criticism of CJIs||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan has contested strongly before the Supreme Court the contempt notice issued to him for two of his tweets, saying those were his "bona fide critique of a CJI and succession of CJIs which does not scandalise the court or lower its authority". He maintained, "to assume and suggest that the 'CJI is the SC and the SC is the CJI' is to undermine the institution of the Supreme Court of India". In his 142-page response to the Supreme Court's notice of July 22, he said the tweet regarding the CJI riding a motorcycle on June 29 was made "primarily to underline my anguish at the non-physical functioning of the Supreme Court for last more than three months (during Covid-19 pandemic), as a result of which fundamental rights of citizens, such as those in detention, those destitute and poor and others facing serious and urgent grievances were not being addressed". However, he admitted that he did not notice that the bike was on a stand and therefore wearing helmet was not required. The top court's bench led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to consider the matter on August 5. With regard to his tweet of June 27 alleging role of past four CJIs in "destruction of democracy", he said his criticism has been "outspoken yet it has been carefully weighed and made with the highest sense of responsibility". He cited an instance of four senior-most judges press conference of January 12, 2018, erosion on rights like freedom of speech and dissent, assault on Institutions. Bhushan highlighted the instance of "omission and commission of the Supreme Court during the tenure of last four CJIs".  He gave instances of Sahara Birla diary case, Kalikho Pul suicide note, medical college bribery case, denial to the CBI to register FIR against an Allahabad High Court judge, judicial judgements, debatable judgements in Judge Loya case, Bhima Koregaon case, Assam NRC case, electoral bonds matter, sexual harassment case, Article 370 case, habeas corpus cases, CBI director's tenure and Ayodhya case verdict, Citizenship Amendment Act, Delhi riots and among others. "The decisions and inaction of the courts in dealing with these criticism cases are enough to form an opinion about the role-playing by the Supreme Court in last six years in undermining democracy, which bona fide opinion, I am entitled to form, hold and express under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-contests-sc-contempt-notice-terms-tweets-as-bona-fide-criticism-of-cjis-868992.html
03-08-2020||National||Maharashtra needs permanent infectious diseases hosp: CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said there was a need for a permanently dedicated hospital in the state for infectious diseases. He was speaking at the commissioning ceremony of a 371-bed Covid facility in Mira Bhayander in Thane district. He said facilities to fight the Covid-19 outbreak were being set up at grounds and halls and were temporary in nature, while the need of the moment was a permanent facility for treatment of and research into infectious diseases. On July 27, during a video-conference interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, the Maharashtra CM had asked for help from the Centre to set up a permanent infectious diseases hospital near Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-needs-permanent-infectious-diseases-hosp-cm-thackeray-868997.html
03-08-2020||National||Political lines get blurred as Bihar lawmakers demand CBI probe into Sushant s death||The issue of Sushant Singh Rajput's death rocked one-day Bihar Assembly session on Monday with both the ruling party as well Opposition vociferously demanding a CBI probe to unravel the truth. Leaders cutting across party lines were miffed with Maharashtra Government and its police after knowing that the IPS officer Vinay Tiwary, who went to Mumbai to probe into Sushant's death case, was quarantined for 14 days. "The nation wants to know the truth in Sushant's case," said Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, while reiterating CBI probe demand as sought by BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar, who is also Sushant's cousin. Tejashwi also suggested to the Government that the upcoming Film City near Rajgir be named after Sushant Singh Rajput, a pride of Bihar. The Assembly session, the last one of the present 16th Vidhan Sabha, was held at the Samrat Ashoka Convention Centre in Gyan Bhavan. This was for the first time in the history of Bihar that a session had to be held outside the premises of Vidhan Sabha, a decision taken unanimously due to the pandemic. "Your government remained busy with fudging figures on Covid-19 cases, while the affected ones ran from pillar to post to get medical help," Tejashwi was unsparing in his criticism of the State Government. Nitish's Health Minister Mangal Pandey retorted by saying "the Covid-19 tests in Bihar have increased to around 35,000 per day from 12,000 last month and recovery rate was 65 per cent." Nitish announced that the family member of those who died while serving during a pandemic would get a Government job or retirement benefits. Earlier, in the day Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took exception to Mumbai Police asking one of the Bihar's IPS officer Vinay Tiwary to quarantine himself for 14 days as a mandate by BMC (Brihan-Mumbai Municipal Corporation) and termed it "not fair.". He asked Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey to speak to his Maharashtra counterpart and resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-lines-get-blurred-as-bihar-lawmakers-demand-cbi-probe-into-sushant-s-death-869012.html
03-08-2020||National||Yogi visits Ayodhya to see ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ preparations||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday visited Ayodhya to review preparations for Ram temple ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5. The Chief Minister reached Ayodhya in the afternoon and visited the Ram Janmabhoomi site where the Bhoomi Pujan is to be held. He also visited Hanuman Garhi temple and was seen giving various directions to the senior officers. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Ayodhya District Magistrate Anju Kumar Jha and DIG Deepak Kumar also accompanied the CM during his visit in which he also sought details of sitting and other plans for the event, a senior official said here. CM had to visit Ayodhya on Sunday but at the plan had was cancelled due to the death of state minister Kamla Rani Varun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-visits-ayodhya-to-see-bhoomi-pujan-preparations-869014.html
03-08-2020||National||India's Wockhardt to supply millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines to UK||The global pharmaceutical and biotechnology major, Wockhardt, on Monday announced that it has entered into an agreement with the UK Government to fill finish Covid-19 vaccines.  The manufacturing will be undertaken at CP Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Wockhardt based in Wrexham, North Wales. As per the terms of the agreement the company has reserved manufacturing capacity to allow for the supply of multiple vaccines to the UK Government in its fight against Covid-19, including AZD1222, the vaccine co-invented by the University of Oxford and its spinout company, Vaccitech and licensed by AstraZeneca, a press statement said in Mumbai. Dr Habil Khorakiwala, founder chairman, Wockhardt, said: “The pandemic of Covid-19 is a challenge for all and needs a concerted effort to overcome. We are proud to be collaborating with the UK Government to make vaccines available and the arrangement brings in a huge sense of purpose and pride, it upholds our ongoing commitment to fight against such a pandemic of global human importance. As a global organisation, we are focussed and committed to assist in mitigating the worldwide impact of the pandemic.” Alok Sharma, Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Government of U.K said, “Ensuring the UK has the capability to research, develop and manufacture a safe and effective vaccine is critical in our fight against coronavirus. “Today we have secured additional capacity to manufacture millions of doses of multiple Covid-19 candidates, guaranteeing the supply of vaccines we need to protect people across the UK rapidly and in large numbers,” he said. Speaking about the contractm Ravi Limaye, Managing Director Wockhardt UK said, “We are immensely proud to have been selected to partner with the UK Government on this project. In doing so we are taking a lead role in the nation’s fight against pandemic of Covid-19”. The government has reserved one fill and finish production line for its exclusive use for the next 18 months in order to guarantee the supply of vaccines required to fight Covid-19 in the UK. Kate Bingham, chair of U.K. Vaccines Task Force said, “Never before have we needed to find and manufacture a vaccine at this speed and scale in order to protect the UK population. We have made significant progress in securing a diverse portfolio of potential vaccines and treatments for Covid-19, adding a fourth vaccine candidate from GSK and Sanofi last week. However, discovering a successful vaccine is only part of the solution, we also need to be able to manufacture it. Fill Finish is a critical step in the process to get the vaccine in a form to be given to patients.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-wockhardt-to-supply-millions-of-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-uk-869015.html
03-08-2020||National||India's coronavirus case tally crosses 18 lakh, recoveries surge to 11.86 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 18-lakh mark on Monday, just a day after it went past 17 lakh, with 52,972 cases reported in a day while the number of recoveries surged to over 11.86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India has also crossed the 2 crore-mark, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The total coronavirus cases surged to 18,03,695, while the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 38,135 with 771 people succumbing to the disease in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 5,79,357 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country at present while the recoveries have increased to 11,86,203. As many as 40,574 people have recovered from Covid-19 in a day, according to the data. The Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 65.77 per cent, while the fatality rate is at 2.11 per cent, the data stated. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the fifth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000 in the country. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 17-lakh mark on Sunday. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,02,02,858 samples have been tested up to August 2 with 3,81,027 samples being tested on Sunday. Of the 771 fresh deaths reported, 260 are from Maharashtra, 98 from Tamil Nadu, 84 from Karnataka, 67 from Andhra Pradesh, 53 from Uttar Pradesh, 49 from West Bengal, 22 from Gujarat, 20 from Bihar, 18 from Punjab, 15 from Delhi, 13 from Rajasthan, 10 each from Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, and eight from Jammu and Kashmir. Five fatalities each have been reported from Haryana, Goa and Jharkhand, four each from Assam and Tripura, three each from Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh, one each from Chandigarh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Manipur and Kerala. Of the total 38,135 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 15,576 followed by 4,132 in Tamil Nadu, 4,004 in Delhi, 2,496 in Karnataka, 2,486 in Gujarat, 1,730 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,678 in West Bengal, 1,474 in Andhra Pradesh and 886 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 703 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 540 in Telangana, 433 in Haryana, 423 in Punjab, 396 in Jammu and Kashmir, 329 in Bihar, 197 in Odisha, 118 in Jharkhand, 105 in Assam, 86 in Uttarakhand, 82 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 58 deaths, Goa 53, Puducherry 52, Tripura 27, Chandigarh 19, Himachal Pradesh 14, Andaman and Nicobar Islands eight deaths, Ladakh and Manipur seven each, Meghalaya and Nagaland five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-case-tally-crosses-18-lakh-recoveries-surge-to-1186-lakh-869018.html
03-08-2020||National||Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan' rituals begin in Ayodhya||The rituals began with the invocation of 'Gauri-Ganesh' (Goddess Parvati and Lord Ganesha) followed by special 'puja' of the 'kuldevis' (family deity) of Lord Ram and his consort Sita. Twenty-one 'purohits' (priests), specially roped in from Varanasi, performed the rituals at the Ram Janmabhoomi amid chanting of Vedic hymns and 'Jai Shriram'. The rituals would culminate on Wednesday with the laying of the foundation stone by prime minister Narendra Modi in the presence of a large number of seers, BJP leaders and RSS functionaries. Four specially prepared dresses, studded with 'navratnas' (nine precious jewels), were handed over to the chief priest of the makeshift Ram Temple on Monday. 'Ramlala' would be donning white dress on Monday, red on Tuesday, green on Wednesday and yellow on Thursday, the priests said. Elaborate arrangements have been made in Ayodhya for the groundbreaking ceremony. All the important temples in the town have been illuminated with bright light. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also reached Ayodhya on Monday to review the arrangements. Adityanath also met the president of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teert Trust, which was overseeing the construction of the Ram Temple, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Several important dignitaries, who were extended invitations to attend the ceremony, have preferred to stay away from the event in view of the coronavirus pandemic. One of the priests at the makeshift Ram Temple and 16 security personnel deployed inside the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex had tested positive a few days back. Senior BJP leaders L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi would be witnessing the ceremony via video conferencing. It was not clear, however, the two leaders, who had taken an active part in the Ram Temple movement, were invited to attend the ceremony. Another senior saffron party leader Uma Bharti said that she would be in Ayodhya on Wednesday but would not attend the event keeping in view the pandemic. One of the notable invitees included Iqbal Ansari, son of the oldest Babri litigant Hashim Ansari. Iqbal Ansari said that he would be presenting 'Ram Charit Manas' authored by Tulsidas and 'Ramnami' (a scarf on which the name of Lord Rama is written everywhere). All roads leading to Ayodhya had been sealed and only authorised vehicles were being allowed, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-rituals-begin-in-ayodhya-869028.html
03-08-2020||National||Horse Power: To enforce lockdown, UP cop rides horse, Minors hold the halter||In a bid to 'tame' the violators and enforce the lockdown, an Uttar Pradesh cop rode a horse through the lanes of Moradabad town, about 350 kilometres from here, only to find himself staring at trouble. The cop, identified as Riaz Zaidi, the in-charge of the Jayantipur police outpost in the town, allegedly used minors to hold the halter and was served a notice by the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The cop had also not put on the mask nor the two children, who held the halter had put on the same. According to the reports, Zaidi decided to ride the horse to enforce the lockdown since it was found that the residents of the areas under the jurisdiction of his out-post flouted lockdown protocols with impunity. On Sunday, Zaidi set out on a horse with a mic in his hand asking the residents to remain indoors and venture out only in the event of an emergency. A resident prepared a video from his mobile phone and uploaded the same on social media. The video went viral within no time. It showed two children holding the halter and the cop sitting on the back of the horse. Now the district police chief had been asked by the state Child Rights Protection Commission to look into the matter and submit a report in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/horse-power-to-enforce-lockdown-up-cop-rides-horse-minors-hold-the-halter-869051.html
03-08-2020||National||Shashi Tharoor takes dig at Amit Shah for getting admitted to private hospital||Indian National Congress leader Shashi Tharoor took a jibe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for not getting himself admitted to a public hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.  The Gandhinagar MP had tested positive for Covid-19 and got himself admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta hospital on Sunday afternoon.  The last cabinet meeting was held on Wednesday, four days before Shah announced that he had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-takes-dig-at-amit-shah-for-getting-admitted-to-private-hospital-869056.html
03-08-2020||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad self-isolates; says he met Amit Shah on Saturday evening||A day after Home Minister Amit Shah tested positive for Covid-19, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said he has gone into self isolation as he had met the former two days ago. Shah, who was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, was keeping fine, sources said. A team of doctors from AIIMS led by Director Randeep Guleria is also in touch with Medanta doctors regarding the treatment of the Home Minister. The Home Minister had on Sunday evening announced through Twitter that he has tested positive for the virus and asked those who came in contact with him to go into isolation and get themselves tested. Prasad tweeted on Monday, "Friends! I'm absolutely fine. To follow protocol I have isolated myself at home for a few days as I had met Amit Shah-ji on Saturday evening for an official meeting. I'm working from home and following a daily routine, including yoga and exercise. Also reading books and enjoying classical music." On Sunday, Minister of State Babul Supriyo too tweeted that he is going into self-isolation since he had met Shah on Friday. Officials on Sunday said that Cabinet Ministers who were in touch with Amit Shah and who attended Cabinet meeting earlier would undergo Covid-19 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-self-isolates-says-he-met-amit-shah-on-saturday-evening-869061.html
03-08-2020||National||Cong-led UDF in Kerala stages online protest demanding CM's resignation in gold smuggling case||The Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala on Monday organised a half-day online sit-in following Covid-19 protocol as part of protests against the Left government and demanding resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the recent gold smuggling case involving diplomatic baggage. The UDF leaders joined the protest, titled 'Speakup Kerala', from their homes and offices across the State and the agitation was inaugurated by All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Kerala, Mukul Wasnik. Opposition Leader Ramesh Chennithala, who sat on a protest at his official residence, reiterated his demand for a CBI probe. "With this gold smuggling case, the current government in the state has tarnished the image of Kerala worldwide," Chennithala alleged. State Congress chief Mullappally Ramachandran, who sat on a protest at the KPCC office here, demanded a probe by the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). "The current Left government is a liability to the state. Since the gold smuggling matter has international ramifications, the RAW should also probe the case," Ramachandran said. The state-wide online protest was organised through Zoom platform and other leaders too participated and spoke during the event. The protest started at 9.30 AM and ended at 1 PM. The state government is under attack from the opposition parties ever since reports emerged that suspended senior IAS officer and former IT secretary M Sivashankar had close links with few accused in the case. On July 5, the customs seized around 30 kg of gold worth Rs 15 crore from a diplomatic suitcase addressed to the UAE Consulate which arrived at the International airport here. The National Investigation Agency and the Customs department are investigating the matter. The NIA has so far arrested ten people in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-led-udf-in-kerala-stages-online-protest-demanding-cms-resignation-in-gold-smuggling-case-869064.html
03-08-2020||National||Ram Temple aims at establishing 'Ram Rajya' in India: VHP||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Monday said that the Ram Temple was not merely ''one more temple'' but was aimed at establishing the 'Ram Rajya'' in the country, where there was 'equality' and ''social harmony''. ''We believe that this massive effort is not only to build one more Temple...this campaign is for establishing Ram Rajya,''  central working president of VHP Alok Kumar said. In a statement here, Kumar said that the construction of the Temple was ''embroiled in the hurdles created by various governments, the manipulations by political forces and the long delays in the Courts''. ''We hope that in about three years, the devotees may be able to worship Ramlala in the sanctum sanctorum of the grand Temple,'' he added. ''The Ram Rajya will have a harmonious society based on equality, where every person will be treated with dignity...everyone will be assured food, clothing and shelter along with education and gainful vocations...the family values will be respected,'' he said. Kumar said that Lord Rama, during his wanderings in the forests, had seen the havoc caused by the terrorists' demonic activities and unsuitable alien culture. He had vowed to end the terrorists from the earth.  VHP would also work for the development of the cow and its progeny, cow-based products and organic agriculture. For this purpose, the VHP would strengthen the training infrastructure for Gau-Palaks and farmers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-aims-at-establishing-ram-rajya-in-india-vhp-869083.html
03-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: UP CM Yogi Adityanath visits Ayodhya ahead of Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan'||In today’s episode, The BCCI has said that it will grant amnesty to registered players who voluntarily declare any age fraud but those found to be in breach of the unusual scheme could be slapped with a two-year suspension; Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visits Ayodhya to review preparations for Ram temple ‘Bhoomi Pujan’; The BBMP is planning to press paramedical students and National Service Scheme (NSS) cadre into doing swab collection for Covid-19 testing and six employees at the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's office have tested positive for Covid-19.  Here are the top news of today, Monday: August 3, 2020: The BCCI on Monday said it will grant amnesty to registered players who voluntarily declare any age fraud but those found to be in breach of the unusual scheme could be slapped with a two-year suspension. The measures will be applicable to all cricketers participating in the board's age-group tournaments from the 2020-21 season onwards. "Under this scheme, players who voluntarily declare that they have manipulated their date of birth by submitting fake/tampered documents in the past will not be suspended and allowed to participate in the appropriate age group level if they disclose their actual date of birth (DOB)," the BCCI said in a release. "Players have to submit a signed letter/email along with supporting documents to BCCI Age Verification Dept. revealing their actual DOB before 15th September 2020." The apex body also made it clear that if the players don't accept it now and are later found to be guilty of age fraud then they will be heavily sanctioned. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday visited Ayodhya to review preparations for Ram temple ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5. The Chief Minister reached Ayodhya in the afternoon and visited the Ram Janmabhoomi site where the Bhoomi Pujan is to be held. He also visited Hanuman Garhi temple and was seen giving various directions to the senior officers. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Ayodhya District Magistrate Anju Kumar Jha and DIG Deepak Kumar also accompanied the CM during his visit in which he also sought details of seating and other arrangements for the event, a senior official said here. CM had to visit Ayodhya on Sunday but the plan had to be cancelled due to the death of state minister Kamla Rani Varun. Meanwhile, Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to call off the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram Temple contending that the time chosen for it was inauspicious. Singh accused the BJP of playing with the sentiments of thousands of Hindus by ignoring the advice of religious leaders such as the Shankaracharya of Dwarkapeeth Swami Swaroopananda Saraswati who had claimed that the time chosen for the foundation stone laying ceremony was inauspicious. Indian drugmaker Wockhardt Ltd will supply millions of doses of multiple COVID-19 vaccines to the UK, including the one being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, it said on Monday. The company has reserved fill-and-finish capacity - the final manufacturing step of putting vaccines into vials or syringes and packaging them - as part of an agreement with the UK government, it said. Shares in Wockhardt jumped 10% after the news in a downcast Mumbai market. The UK government has also reserved one fill-and-finish production line at a Wockhardt subsidiary in Wrexham, Wales for its exclusive use for the next 18 months to secure supply. More than 150 vaccines are being developed and tested around the world to stop the pandemic, with 25 in human clinical trials, according to the World Health Organization. The BBMP is planning to press paramedical students and National Service Scheme (NSS) cadre into doing swab collection for Covid-19 testing. BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad issued an order, stating that it was necessary to engage the services of paramedical students at the graduate and postgraduate programmes at colleges affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi Health Sciences University for testing work. Prasad listed 994 students from 21 colleges registered under RGUHS and directed the varsity to ensure all the paramedical students report to the deputy commissioner (administration), BBMP. Similarly, the BBMP has invited NSS students to work for swab collection in various wards and announced remuneration of Rs 14,000 per month. Prasad wrote to state NSS convener Dr Gananatha Shetty with a request to allot NSS students from colleges for swab collection in Bengaluru city wards. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the two-crore mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data. A cumulative total of 2,02,02,858 samples have been tested up to August 2 with 3,81,027 samples being tested on Sunday, the ICMR said. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 had crossed the one-crore mark in India on July 6. There are now 1,348 testing labs in the country comprising 914 in the public sector and 434 private labs. Six employees at the Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's office have tested positive for COVID-19, official sources said on Monday. After the Chief Minister tested positive, his office and residence were sanitised. Besides, contact tracing was done during which the six of his staff members were confirmed to have contracted the virus, the sources said. However, Governor Vajubhai Vala and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, whom the Chief Minister had met on July 31, have tested negative. Officials said random tests were conducted at the Chief Minister's premises and the six were found infected. They included a gunman, a driver, and house-keeping staff. In a video released by his office, the Chief Minister said the health of the people of the state was his priority and requested them to follow measures like maintaining distance and wearing masks to control the spread of the virus. "Last night around 8:30-9:00, as soon as I got to know that I was corona positive, I came to the hospital and I'm undergoing treatment. Doctors after tests last night and this morning have said that there are no issues and I will recover and go out soon," Yediyurappa said in the video message. IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said he has gone into self-isolation for a few days as per protocol since he had met Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday evening. Shah, on Sunday, had said he had tested positive for coronavirus and was getting admitted to a hospital following the advice of doctors. Prasad, who is also the Law Minister, tweeted on Monday that he has isolated himself at home for a few days, as per protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-visits-ayodhya-ahead-of-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-869094.html
03-08-2020||National||Search operation launched to trace Territorial Army jawan missing since August 1||A search operation was launched on Monday to trace a Territorial Army (TA) jawan who is suspected to have been abducted by militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, an Army spokesperson said here. Rifleman Shakir Manzoor of 162 Battalion (TA) went missing on Sunday and his vehicle was found abandoned and burnt in south Kashmir's Kulgam, he said. It is suspected that the soldier, a resident of neighbouring Shopian district, has been abducted by militants, the spokesperson said. The Army has launched an operation to trace him, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/search-operation-launched-to-trace-territorial-army-jawan-missing-since-august-1-869098.html
03-08-2020||National||Falling R-values in Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai point to Covid-19 slowdown||The R-value, or reproduction number, for Covid-19, has fallen below one in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, indicating a slowdown in the spread of the disease in three of India’s biggest cities, according to a recent study.   As experts sound a note of caution against the temptation to lower the guard and warn that any laxity could send the numbers spiralling, a modelling study published in the journal Statistics & Applications found the current R-value for Delhi is 0.66 while it is 0.81 for Mumbai and 0.86 for Chennai, lower than the national average of 1.16.   R-value is the number of people getting infected by an already infected person on an average. Andhra Pradesh has the highest R-value of 1.48 in the entire country right now.   Explaining the Delhi figure of 0,66 to illustrate the concept, Sitabhra Sinha, professor of physics at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) in Chennai who led the study, said this means every group of 100 infected persons in the city can currently pass on the infection to another 60 people on an average. “Continuation of such a low value of R in a community implies that the current wave of the pandemic is on the decline and could be brought under control in the near future with continued containment measures,” said Dibyendu Nandi, professor of physics at Kolkata’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER).    "Typically an effective reproduction number, i.e., R-value lower than one implies that an infected person, on average, is spreading the infection to at most one person,” he explained.   Stressing the need for continuing all measures such as containment until the pandemic is “completely eradicated”, Nandi asserted, “So we should not lower our guard.”   The simplest way to think about the R number is that it measures, on average, the number of people susceptible to the disease who can be infected by someone with the infection, added Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University in Haryana.   In his view, estimates for Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai indicate the growth of the pandemic, as inferred from the day-to-day change in case numbers, is slowing.          Menon said serological surveys suggested it is likely that 40 percent or more of the population has been infected in both Mumbai and Delhi by now. Sero-surveillance studies provide estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and are considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination.   “From what we know from other countries, herd immunity from the infection will probably require that at least another 20 percent or more will need to be infected,” said Menon. “So, while the slowdown is real, the pandemic could resurface if we are not vigilant and relax our precautions too soon,” he added.   Scientists note the R-value depends on the model and assumptions used for the analysis and may vary accordingly. They add that the projections need to be used cautiously for arriving at any conclusions.   Asked if there are limitations in calculating the R-value, Nandi said, “From the theoretical viewpoint no. But from observations sometimes it is difficult to estimate an actual R-value unless the data on disease spread is accurate and comprehensive.”   One intriguing question that arises from the analysis is the fact that the growth rate of the disease has continued to be low despite a large degree of relaxation in lockdown norms, researchers from the IMSc noted in their study. “As India is still very far from achieving herd immunity, and there appears to be no evidence that the pathogen has shown any change in its ability to infect, it is possible that the voluntary adherence to public hygiene has been responsible. “If true, this may suggest that, under certain conditions, citizens can be mobilised to engage in a mass effort to achieve desirable public health outcomes,” according to the study authors. On most days in July, more people were recovering from the disease in Delhi than getting infected, pointing to an improvement in the situation. On Sunday, the city reported 961 fresh cases (with 12,730 tests), taking the tally to 1,37,677 cases, of which 1,23,317 have recovered.  On June 23, Delhi had seen the highest single-day spike of 3,947 new cases.        Mumbai city reported 1,105 fresh cases on Sunday, pushing the count to 1,16,436. The city recorded 717 new cases of coronavirus on July 28, its lowest one-day rise in more than two months.           Chennai registered 1,065 fresh cases on Sunday taking the tally to 1.01 lakh cases.  The Covid-19 growth rate in the city has been low ever since cases dropped from 2,400 in the first week of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/falling-r-values-in-chennai-delhi-mumbai-point-to-covid-19-slowdown-869099.html
03-08-2020||National||Use visor, not mask; no spa, sauna, steam baths: Centre's guidelines for gyms||Use a visor instead of a mask during exercise, maintain six feet distance between two persons, and check oxygen saturation using pulse oximeters before beginning a workout, read the checklist for reopening of gymnasiums and yoga centres from Wednesday. The Health Ministry on Monday released guidelines for Yoga Institutes and Gymnasiums that seek to minimise possible physical contacts between staff, members and visitors to such centres. The gym and yoga institute has been directed to provide personal protection gears like face covers, masks, visors, hand sanitizers to the members, visitors and staff. “However, during yoga exercise or exercising in gymnasiums, as far as possible only a visor may be used. Use of masks (in particular N-95 masks) during exercise may cause difficulty in breathing,” the guidelines said. As per the rules, members have been asked to avoid common exercise mats and preferably bring their own exercise mats. “Ensure availability of pulse oximeters to record oxygen saturation of members prior to the exercise. Those having oxygen saturation below 95% should not be allowed to exercise,” the guidelines said. According to the guidelines, those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of ten years are advised not to use gyms in closed spaces. “Spas, Sauna, Steam Bath and Swimming Pool shall remain closed," the guidelines stated. Those visiting Yoga institutes and gymnasiums are advised to use face covers or masks at all times within the premises. “The practice of Yogic Kriya(s) may be avoided for the time being. Even if it is to be practiced essentially, it may be done in open spaces,” the guidelines said. The government also asked gym owners to redesign the premises including proper placement of equipment. “Plan yoga, gymnasiums floor area based on four metre square per person, place equipment six feet apart, utilize outdoor space by relocating equipment, create specific pathways for entering and exiting exercise areas using floor or wall markings,” the ministry directed. The government asked the gym and yoga institute owners to limit the number of staff and members within the general gymnasium floor, specific workout areas and change rooms and cover dustbins and trash cans. Besides this, owners have been asked to stagger class session times and allow a minimum of 15-30 minutes between classes to avoid overlap between members arriving and leaving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-visor-not-mask-no-spa-sauna-steam-baths-centres-guidelines-for-gyms-869100.html
03-08-2020||National||PM Modi, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani discuss evolving security situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani discussed the evolving security situation in the region and other areas of mutual and bilateral interest on Monday, the Prime Minister's Office said. During a phone call, the two also exchanged Eid–ul–Adha greetings. President Ghani thanked Prime Minister Modi for the timely supply of food and medical assistance to meet Afghan requirement. Modi reiterated India's commitment to the people of Afghanistan in their quest for a peaceful, prosperous and inclusive Afghanistan, the PMO statement said. "The two leaders also exchanged views on the evolving security situation in the region and other areas of mutual, bilateral interest," it said. The phone call happened as reports said Afghan forces retook a prison in the country's east, a day after the Islamic State terrorist group attacked the facility in which at least 29 people were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-afghanistan-president-ashraf-ghani-discuss-evolving-security-situation-869106.html
03-08-2020||National||Proud to have a brother from whom I learnt value of 'love, truth and patience': Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said she is proud to have a brother like Rahul Gandhi from whom she has learnt the value of love, truth and patience. She said this as she greeted countrymen on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. "I have learnt the value of love, truth and patience from my brother while living together in happiness and sorrow. I am proud to have such a brother. My best wishes to all the countrymen on Raksha Bandhan," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also put out a picture of her with Rahul Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi also wished everyone on Twitter, saying, "Wishing every one a happy Raksha Bandhan". He also put out a picture of him with Priyanka Gandhi. A host of other Congress leaders also wished people on Raksha Bandhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proud-to-have-a-brother-from-whom-i-learnt-value-of-love-truth-and-patience-priyanka-gandhi-869113.html
03-08-2020||National||Enforcement Directorate questions Sushant Singh Rajput's chartered accountant||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday questioned the chartered accountant (CA) of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in connection with a money laundering probe that stemmed from a complaint lodged by Rajput's father with the Bihar police, officials said. They said Sandeep Shridhar has been questioned in Mumbai by the central probe agency and his statement recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The CA is understood to be handling the actor's finances for about a year and the ED wants to understand his financial dealings in order to take the probe forward. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area on June 14.  The questioning is linked to the money laundering case that was registered by the ED last week on the basis of a Bihar Police FIR in which Sushant Singh Rajput's father has accused actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor's suicide. At least two companies linked to Rajput and some financial deals involving Chakraborty and her brother Showik are under the ED scanner. Chakraborty, her bother and others are expected to be summoned by the agency for questioning soon. The ED case has been filed against the accused named in the Bihar Police FIR that include Chakraborty, her family and six others. Rajput's father Krishna Kumar Singh (74), who resides in Patna, had last month lodged a complaint with the Bihar Police against Chakraborty, her family members and six others for abetment to suicide of his son and fraud. Singh has accused Chakraborty, purported girlfriend of Rajput, of having befriended his son in May, 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career.  He also wanted a police investigation to ascertain where the Rs 15 crore deposited in a bank account held by Rajput was transferred. The Mumbai police is also probing the alleged suicide case, and has questioned several top Bollywood producers and directors in this case. Chakraborty has also released a video statement after the ED case was filed. "I have immense faith in god and the judiciary. I believe that I will get justice. Even though a lot of horrible things are being said about me on the electronic media, I refrain from commenting on the advice of my lawyers as the matter is sub-judice. Satyamev Jayate, the truth shall prevail," she said in the message. Rajput starred in films like 'Shuddh Desi Romance', 'Raabta', 'Kedarnath', 'Chhichhore' and 'Sonchiriya'. His most prominent role was in cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni's biopic "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-questions-sushant-singh-rajputs-chartered-accountant-869121.html
03-08-2020||National||Pakistan to give 'another chance' to India to appoint Kulbhushan Jadhav's lawyer||The Islamabad High Court on Monday asked the Pakistan Government to approach New Delhi again giving the Government of India an opportunity to appoint a lawyer to represent former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav as he seeks a review of the death sentence awarded to him by a military tribunal in the neighbouring country. The court said that the Government of Pakistan should get its Ministry of Foreign Affairs offer the Government of India another chance to arrange a lawyer to represent Jadhav during the hearing on his petition for the review of the death sentence awarded to him by the military tribunal in April 2017. A two-member special bench comprising Islamabad High Court’s Chief Justice Athar Minallah and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb heard the Pakistan Government’s petition for appointment of a lawyer for the Indian Navy officer as neither he, nor the Government of India had so far arranged one so far. The court, however, was in favour of giving New Delhi and Jadhav another chance to appoint a lawyer and adjourned the hearing till September 3, according to a report by the Express Tribune news portal of Pakistan. The lawyer, who will be appointed by Jadhav or New Delhi on his behalf, must be someone, who is entitled to practice in Pakistan, not anyone from India, according to the media-reports quoting Attorney General of the neighbouring country Khalid Javed Khan. New Delhi last month alleged that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad not only failed to provide the High Commission of India in the capital of Pakistan “unimpeded” consular access to Jadhav, but also declined to hand over the copies of the documents related with the case to a lawyer in the neighbouring country after he was appointed by the Government of India to seek review of conviction and sentencing of Jadhav in the High Court. The Pakistan Government on July 22 moved the Islamabad High Court seeking appointment of a lawyer to represent Jadhav, stating that New Delhi and the incarcerated former Indian Navy officer had failed to arrange one. Jadhav has been in the custody of Pakistan Army at least since March 2016. He was accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. A military tribunal awarded him death sentence in April 2017. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Islamabad had violated the Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963, and the death sentence awarded to Jadhav would remain suspended till the review of the conviction. Pakistan on May 20 last promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”, which mandated that a petition for review and reconsideration of conviction by military tribunal could be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days from the day it was brought into force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-to-give-another-chance-to-india-to-appoint-kulbhushan-jadhavs-lawyer-869122.html
03-08-2020||National||eVIN reaches 32 states & UTs, to be rolled out soon in remaining areas: Health ministry||The Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network, which provides technological solutions for strengthening immunisation supply chain systems, has reached 32 states and Union territories and will be rolled out in the remaining areas soon, the health ministry said on Monday. In a statement, the ministry said the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) aims to provide real-time information on vaccine stocks and flows, and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country. The eVIN has reached 32 states and Union territories (UTs) and will soon be introduced in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Ladakh and Sikkim. "At present, 23,507 cold chain points across 585 districts of 22 states and two UTs routinely use the eVIN technology for efficient vaccine logistics management. Over 41,420 vaccine cold chain handlers have been introduced to digital record-keeping by training them on eVIN," the statement said. Moreover, nearly 23,900 electronic temperature loggers have been installed on vaccine cold chain equipment for accurate temperature review of vaccines in storage, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evin-reaches-32-states-uts-to-be-rolled-out-soon-in-remaining-areas-health-ministry-869125.html
03-08-2020||National||Two-thirds of migrants have returned to cities or wish to do so||Nearly two-thirds of migrant workers who had left for their homes due to the coronavirus lockdown have either returned to cities or wish to do so in the absence of skilled employment in villages, according to a new study that surveyed over 4,500 households. The collaborative study on "How is the Hinterland Unlocking" was carried out by the Aga Khan Rural Support Programme (India), Action for Social Advancement, Grameen Sahara, i-Saksham, PRADAN, SAATHI-UP, SeSTA, Seva Mandir and Transform Rural India Foundation, VikasAnvesh Foundation and Sambodhi. The study is based on a rapid assessment survey of 4,835 households across 48 districts in 11 states carried out between June 24 and July 8. It found that 29 percent of migrants who had left for their villages are now back in cities, while 45 percent want to return. "Absence of skilled employment in villages is reflected in the fact that nearly two-thirds of the returned migrants have either migrated again or wish to do so," it said. The study also found that migrants who returned were engaged mainly in labour work in villages, more than 80 percent of them. "More than one-fourth of the migrant workers are still searching for work in villages," it said. According to the survey, one in every four households is thinking of taking their child out of school (24 percent). "Though distress is still considerable, structural changes are not yet visible and the health risk of Covid-19 in rural India is rising," the survey warned. The study found that 43 percent of households still reported a reduction in meals, while 55 percent said they have reduced the meal items. However, it said, there was a "marked improvement" in food intake in comparison to the lockdown period. "... it is likely that grain availability through PDS (public distribution system) has helped households improve the consumption as well as reduce the need to buy from the market," it noted. The study found that about 6 percent of participants have mortgaged household items, while 15 percent sold their livestock to cope with financial distress. With regard to sale of productive assets, the study found that 2 percent of households have sold dry cattle and milk cattle each. About 2 percent have mortgaged their land, while one percent of surveyed households have sold their land. About 10 percent of households have borrowed money from their extended families, while 7 percent borrowed from money lenders, the study found. The survey found that women in households where migrant members have returned shouldered more workload compared to other members. On government schemes, the study found that 71 percent of households have LPG and 85 percent of them got it through the 'Ujjwala Yojana'. "Eighty percent of Ujjwala beneficiaries have received free refills in the last month (June 2020), while 90 percent households are eligible for PM-KISAN and 38 percent of those have received the transfer of Rs 2,000," it said. The study found that 35 percent of households have postponed a ceremony and 13 percent reduced the number of guests instead. Released at a webinar on Monday, the study was aimed at making an assessment of the effect of the lockdown on rural households. It focussed mainly on areas of reverse migration, food security, kharif season practices, drudgery faced by the women in households, and borrowing and asset sales.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-thirds-of-migrants-have-returned-to-cities-or-wish-to-do-so-869126.html
03-08-2020||National||85% work on Kailash Mansarovar route completed: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said massive work is underway for highways construction and almost 85 per cent work has been completed on the Kailash Mansarovar route via Pithoragarh. In addition, work is on in full swing on the Chardham project entailing a cost of about Rs 12,000 crore, the road transport and highways minister said while addressing an event through video conferencing. "85 per cent work on Kailash Mansarovar route via Pithoragarh has been completed. Once it is completed, I will take Prime Minister to Mansarovar via Pithoragarh," Gadkari said. The minister had recently complimented the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for completing the work of road connectivity from Dharchula to Lipulekh, popularly known as Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route, which will ease the journey of pilgrims. The newly built 80-km strategically crucial stretch connects the Lipulekh pass at a height of 17,000 feet along the border with China in Uttarakhand with Dharchula. With the completion of this project, the arduous trek through treacherous high-altitude terrain can be avoided by the pilgrims of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra and the period of the journey will be reduced by many days. At present, travel to Kailash Mansarovar takes around two to three weeks through Sikkim or Nepal routes. Lipulekh route had a trek of 90 km through high altitude terrain and the elderly yatris faced a lot of difficulties. Now, this yatra will get completed by vehicles. The Darchula - Lipulekh road is an extension of the Pithoragarh-Tawaghat-Ghatiabagarh road. It originates from Ghatiabagarh and terminates at Lipulekh Pass, the gateway to Kailash Mansarovar. In this 80-km road, the altitude rises from 6,000 feet to 17,060 feet. Gadkari also said work is on in full swing on the Rs 12,000 crore Chardham project that proposes to provide all-weather connectivity to Yamnotri, Gangotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath through 826 kms highways. Last month, to fast-track Chardham project, Gadkari had urged the Uttarakhand chief minister to expedite land acquisition and environment clearances for the crucial plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/85-work-on-kailash-mansarovar-route-completed-gadkari-869152.html
03-08-2020||National||Scamsters using profiles of army officers to con people||A strange pattern has emerged where conmen are pretending to be Army officers to scam others on online marketplaces like OLX. There is a method to this madness. A low-price vehicle is advertised on an online marketplace like OLX. The vehicle is advertised as “army-owned” and the fraudster manages to share, often fake documents for authentication. To complete the con, photos of army officers, sourced from one of their many fan pages or facebook profiles, is used as the profile photo of the account handling the negotiation. The buyer is then asked to deposit either the whole or part of the total sum as a digital transaction. According to IE, the scam has been running for close to two years now. One reason to use profiles of army officials could be to exploit the general sense of trust and respect people have for them. It allows scamsters to weasel out of certain requirements. “Posing as a defence person means there’s always an excuse for anything, ‘I can’t pick up calls, I can’t carry my phone here. I can’t speak on the phone now’,” a cyber cell official told the source. Due to the nature of the profession, involving multiple transfers and relocation, selling goods at throwaway prices does not seem suspicious either. There are hundreds of posts from people who claim to have been affected by the scam on the microblogging platform Twitter. Despite multiple warnings and reports, people continue to fall for this scam. After all, it is hard to resist a good deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scamsters-using-profiles-of-army-officers-to-con-people-869153.html
03-08-2020||National||Expression of opinion cannot constitute contempt of court: Prashant Bhushan to Supreme Court||The expression of opinion, “however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some”, cannot constitute contempt of court, activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan said on Monday in his reply to a show-cause notice issued by the Supreme Court. The top court on July 22 issued notice to Bhushan for hearing on August 5 the criminal contempt proceedings initiated against him for his two alleged derogatory tweets against the judiciary, observing his statements prima facie “brought the administration of justice in disrepute”. In a 142-page reply affidavit filed through lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, the activist lawyer has referred to several apex court judgements, speeches of former and serving judges on contempt of court and the “stifling of dissent” in a democracy and his views on judicial actions in some cases. Bhushan also stood by his two tweets. “The respondent (Bhushan) states that expression of his opinion however outspoken, disagreeable or however unpalatable to some, cannot constitute contempt of court. This proposition has been laid down by several judgments of the Supreme Court and in foreign jurisdictions such as Britain, USA and Canada,” he submitted. He also referred to the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 (1)(a) of the Constitution and said this right was the ultimate guardian of all the values that the Constitution holds sacred. “The relationship between Article l9 (1A) and Article 129 (this gives power of contempt to SC) is governed by Article 19(2). Article l9 (2) (reasonable restrictions) recognizes the fetters that can be placed on freedom of speech & expression under the court's power to punish for contempt under Article 129. “ 'Reasonable restriction' being the operative word under Article l9(2), any exercise of contempt powers by the Supreme Court must necessarily not be of a nature that goes beyond 'reasonable restrictions',” Bhushan said in the affidavit. To prevent a citizen from forming, holding, and expressing a ‘bonafide opinion' in the public interest on any institution that is a creature of the Constitution is not a reasonable restriction and violates the basic principles on which our democracy is founded, he said. The affidavit said the power of contempt under Article 129 of the Constitution should be “utilized to aid in the administration of justice and not to shut out voices that seek accountability from the court for the errors of omissions and commissions”. It said that to curb constructive criticism from “persons of knowledge and standing” is not a 'reasonable restriction'. Preventing citizens from demanding accountability and reforms and advocating for the same by generating public opinion is not a 'reasonable restriction', it said, adding that the Article 129 cannot be pressed into service to stifle bonafide criticism. The affidavit also raised objections related to procedures on taking up the contempt petition filed by one Mehak Maheshwari on July 21. Earlier, the apex court had issued notice to Bhushan and had also sought the assistance of Attorney General KK Venugopal. While referring to the tweets by Bhushan, the apex court had said these statements are prima facie capable of "undermining the dignity and authority" of the institution of the Supreme Court in general and the office of Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of the public at large. Recently, Bhushan filed a separate plea seeking recall of the show cause notice of July 22 order in the contempt proceeding initiated for his alleged contemptuous tweets against the judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expression-of-opinion-cannot-constitute-contempt-of-court-prashant-bhushan-to-supreme-court-869160.html
03-08-2020||National||China's posturing in Indian Ocean to disturb stability: Experts||Defence and strategic experts on Monday said that China's posturing in the Indian Ocean will disturb stability and peace in the region. Commandant of National Defence College, Vice-Admiral Pradeep Kaushiva, said that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China has been establishing naval bases in the Indian Ocean for a long time. The PLA Navy may need such bases in large numbers to minimise the geographical distance from China, he said while speaking at a webinar organised by Tillotama Foundation. "In such a scenario, the Indian Ocean is poised for turbulence and I believe it is in the offing," Vice-Admiral Kaushiva said. He said, "It is time to forge ahead with the Quad security dialogue - comprising the US, Japan, Australia and India - to check the rise of expansionist China and protect the security of the region". In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the "Quad" or Quadrilateral coalition to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. David Brewster of Australian National University (ANU) said that China's approach to the Indian Ocean is political and strategic. Brewster is a Senior Research Fellow with the National Security College at the ANU, where he specialises in South Asian and Indian Ocean strategic affairs. He said, "There has been a significant deterioration in the relationship between Australia and China in the last six months as our country hailed the need for an independent inquiry into the Covid crisis". Subsequently, Beijing had imposed sanctions against Australia, he said. However, China needs Australian resources like iron ore for which the balance of trade was not in China's favour, Brewster said. He said that there are growing concerns about China's influence in the Indian Ocean and it is time to make Quad a credible grouping. According to him, the Covid crisis will substantially change the economics of Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The BRI is a multi-billion-dollar initiative launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. Jayanath Colombage, additional secretary to the President and former commander of Sri Lankan Navy, said that his country is not happy about what is taking place in the Indian Ocean. He said that the Hambantota port, in which China has 85 per cent stake, is a Sri Lankan Port and not a Chinese one. "We will not allow anyone to use a single inch of our land for military purposes which might pose a security threat to India," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-posturing-in-indian-ocean-to-disturb-stability-experts-869161.html
03-08-2020||National||Govt sets target for Rs 1.75 lakh crore turnover in aerospace, defence goods, services||The government has set the target to achieve a turnover of Rs 1,75,000 crore in aerospace and defence goods and services within the next five years, including export of Rs 35,000 crore, according to a new policy draft made public on Monday. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Monday made public the draft of the new Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020, seeking suggestions from the stakeholders. “The DPEPP 2020 is envisaged as MoD’s overarching guiding document to provide a focused, structured and significant thrust to defence production capabilities of the country for self-reliance and exports,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s office tweeted. The new policy is aimed at providing impetus to self-reliance in defence manufacturing, bringing down dependence on imports in the sector and taking forward the “Make in India” initiatives through domestic design and development, in sync with the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The MoD officials stated that it was drafted keeping in mind the need to promote export of defence products and make the country part of the global defence value chains. The Department of Defence Production of the MoD has laid out a target to achieve a turnover of Rs 1,75,000 crores in Aerospace and Defence Goods and Services by 2025. “The share of domestic procurement in overall defence procurement is about 60 per cent. In order to enhance procurement from domestic industry, it is incumbent that procurement is doubled from the current Rs 70,000 crore to Rs 1,40,000 crore by 2025,” the MoD noted in the draft of the policy. It stressed on developing a dynamic, robust and competitive defence industry, including in the area of aerospace and naval shipbuilding to cater to the needs of armed forces with quality products. It also seeks to create an environment that encourages research and development, rewards innovation, ensures Indian Intellectual Property ownership and promotes a robust and self-reliant defence industry, the MoD stated in a press-release. The draft policy stressed on indigenization and support to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Start-Ups, optimizing resource allocation, investment promotion, encouraging Foreign Direct Investment and ensuring Ease of Doing Business, apart from focussing on innovation and research and development, quality assurance and building testing infrastructure and export promotion. It also emphasised on revitalizing the defence PSUs and the Ordnance Factory Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-sets-target-for-rs-175-lakh-crore-turnover-in-aerospace-defence-goods-services-869163.html
03-08-2020||National||No compromise on territorial integrity: India to China during 5th round of military talks||The Indian army has categorically conveyed to China's PLA at the fifth round of military talks it will not compromise on India's territorial integrity, and clearly said disengagement of troops from Pangong Tso and a few other friction points in eastern Ladakh should be completed at the earliest, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. Senior commanders of the two armies held intense negotiations for nearly 11 hours on Sunday at a designated meeting point in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian delegation very clearly and firmly communicated to the Chinese side that restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh was key for overall ties between the two countries, and that Beijing must ensure complete disengagement of its troops from the remaining friction points, according to the people familiar with the developments. It was also categorically conveyed that the Indian army will not compromise on the country's territorial integrity, they said. The Chinese army has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other areas but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from the Finger Four and Eight areas in Pangong Tso as demanded by India. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. China also has not completed withdrawal of troops from Gogra areas. The focus of the Sunday talks was on finalising the modalities for further de-escalation, and disengagement of troops from various friction points, sources said, adding both sides were to discuss details of the negotiations with their respective military and political leadership. The sources said Army Chief Gen MM Naravane was given a detailed briefing about the talks on Monday morning which was subsequently followed by a discussion he held with senior military officials on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh. It is learnt that National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar were also apprised about the talks, and the entire military and strategic brass tasked to deal with the border row is deliberating on various aspects of the overall situation. The Indian delegation was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, while the Chinese side was headed by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. The previous round of the Corps Commander-level talks took place on the Indian side of the LAC on July 14 and it lasted for nearly 15 hours. There was no official word on details of the meeting. The military talks took place 10 days after both sides held another round of diplomatic parleys on the border issue. After the diplomatic talks, the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) said both sides agreed that an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols was essential for the overall development of bilateral relations. Last week, India rebutted China's claim that the disengagement process was completed at most locations. "There has been some progress made towards this objective but the disengagement process has as yet not been completed," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said when asked about China's claim. In the last three weeks, India has significantly ramped up troops and weaponry in the areas around Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) and Depsang Valley in commensurate with deployment of troops by China's People's Liberation Army(PLA). During the military and diplomatic talks, India has also been demanding withdrawal of Chinese troops from Depsang, the area where they had intruded in 2013. The transgressions had created military and diplomatic tensions but was resolved after hectic rounds of negotiations following which the Chinese troops withdrew. India began sending reinforcements to Depsang and the areas around DBO in mid-May when tension between the two sides gradually escalated, and the deployment has been significantly ramped up with several thousand troops, tanks and artillery guns in the last two months, sources said. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between NSA Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tension in the face-off points. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The Chinese side also suffered casualties in the clashes but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The second round of military talks took place on June 22. At the third round of military talks on June 30, both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Indian Air Force(IAF) has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-compromise-on-territorial-integrity-india-to-china-during-5th-round-of-military-talks-869165.html
03-08-2020||National||Cong didn't want resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi land dispute: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath here on Monday attacked the Congress, alleging that it did not want an end to the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi site dispute. Adityanath, who was in Ayodhya to take stock of the preparations for the "bhoomi pujan" of the Ram temple here on August 5, also asked the opposition party to introspect, saying the construction of the temple should have started soon after the Independence. But when the power becomes more important for people than the country, they play with the emotions of the public for their political games; divide society on caste, creed and religion, he said, adding that the Congress did not “want the dispute to end”. Even a leader of the Opposition party had filed a petition in the apex court contending the issue “should not be resolved before the 2019 elections”, the CM claimed. The chief minister also termed November 9, 2019, a historic day when the Supreme Court paved a way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. He claimed that now “pseudo-secularism and politics of caste, creed and religion has ended for always”. The chief minister said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of a grand Ram temple on August 5, it will be a historic and emotional moment for all. Besides, it will also be an opportunity to lay the foundation of a new India, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-didnt-want-resolution-of-ram-janmabhoomi-land-dispute-adityanath-869171.html
03-08-2020||National||Did not get any complaint from Sushant family in February: Cops||The Mumbai Police on Monday rejected the claim made by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's father that the family had filed a written complaint on February 25 apprehending threat to his son's life. Rajput's father, K K Singh, has said they had filed a written complaint on February 25 at the Bandra Police station, nearly four months before his death, stating that the actor's life was in danger. In a press note, the Mumbai police denied the claim and said Bandra police officials did not receive any written complaint from Rajput's family about the threat to his life. The 34-year-old actor was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The city police, in their note, pointed to KK Singh releasing a statement about his family submitting the written complaint. "It must be clarified that no such written complaint was addressed to the Bandra Police on that day (February 25)," said the note. However, O P Singh, an IPS officer and brother-in-law of Rajput, had sent some WhatsApp messages to the then DCP Zone 9 regarding this matter, the Mumbai police said. The then DCP Zone 9 had called OP Singh and told him a written complaint was mandatory for any inquiry or action, they said in the note. However, O P Singh wanted the matter to be resolved informally, but the DCP had clearly told him this was not possible, the Mumbai police said. In a video, the actor father's has alleged the Bandra police did not act on the complaint about my son's life being in danger". In the video, KK Singh also went on to state that accused are on the run and "victims are being labelled as conspirators. He has also accused the Mumbai police of not extending help to the Bihar police team which is probing "abetment to suicide" case filed by him in Patna last week. The Mumbai police are separately probing the circumstances in which the Bollywood actor died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-not-get-any-complaint-from-sushant-family-in-february-cops-869186.html
03-08-2020||National||India registers second-highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases in world for the first time||India on Monday registered 52,972 Covid-19 new patients, the second-highest single-day rise in the world after the US. On Monday morning, the US had 47,511 Covid-19 cases, while Brazil had 25,800. But through the day, the US numbers had touched 58,388 new cases while Brazil had 45,392 new cases. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 18,51,711 total confirmed cases of the infectious disease, making it the third worst-hit country in the world. The US had 46.75 lakh cases, making it the worst-hit country in the world, followed by Brazil which had 27.33 lakh Covid-19 patients, according to the John Hopkins University Covid-19 Tracker. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation referring to reports of India reporting the highest single-day increase in infections in the world. “‘The right decisions at the right time means India is better off than other countries’: PM,” Rahul said taking a jibe at the Prime Minister. India, with 18.51 lakh Covid-19 cases, accounts for nearly 10% of the total infections the world over. According to the JHU tracker, there are 1.8 crore Covid-19 case across the world. However, the actual caseload of Covid-19 patients in India was 5.84 lakh as more than 12 lakh patients had recovered and discharged from healthcare facilities. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients was 65.77%. According to the health ministry, India also has one of the lowest Covid-19 fatalities rate world at 2.11% of the total confirmed cases. On Monday, India crossed yet another milestone of conducting two crore tests for Covid-19 since the first case was reported in late January. On Sunday, India had tested 3.82 lakh samples for Covid-19 in its network of 1348 laboratories across the country. “Currently, the testing per million for India is 14,640,” a health ministry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-second-highest-one-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-world-for-the-first-time-869194.html
03-08-2020||National||Adar Poonawala responds to Anand Mahindra’s call for a “Big V” vaccine||When Bollywood actor Amitabh Bacchan tested negative for Covid-19 and was discharged, several well-wishers congratulated him on his speedy recovery. Amongst them was Chairman of the Mahindra group, Anand Mahindra. “Welcome back @SrBachchan As I had said, you possessed an inbuilt vaccine codenamed  the Big V. Now we need @adarpoonawalla to find a way to extract it from you, manufacture it & give us all a dose…,” wrote the businessman on Twitter. Adar Poonawala, who has been in the news for the progress the Serum Institute vaccine has been making, responded jovially to the comment. “Haha! good one @anandmahindra, my scientists are working on it! and great to have you back, @SrBachchan,” he replied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawala-responds-to-anand-mahindra-s-call-for-a-big-v-vaccine-869200.html
03-08-2020||National||Major reserves appear to have more dogs than tigers: Report||According to camera-trapped estimates, dogs appeared to outnumber tigers in 17 reserves, including Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam (Andhra Pradesh), Sariska (Rajasthan), Pench, Panna and Bandhavgarh (Madhya Pradesh), Bhadra (Karnataka), Sathyamangalam (Tamil Nadu) and Melghat (Maharashtra).  A large number of dogs and livestock animals were recorded in nearly 30 other reserves as well.  Experts believe that feral dogs and abandoned domesticated animals outnumbering tigers in such reserves could be risky since they could become carriers to viruses.  There is no clarity regarding how deep within the forest these animals were.  “We are aware of this problem. Livestock and dogs are found in certain fringe areas close to villages. In view of threats such as canine distemper virus, etc., we are trying to minimise the interaction between these domestic species and wildlife,” S P Yadav from the National Tiger Conservation Authority, which conducts the all-India survey told IE.  However, wild dogs do not just come with the risk of being virus transmitters. They also prey on the livestock, affecting the food cycle of other endangered species like wild canids and can even kill cubs of predators.  “I have seen domestic dogs kill leopard cubs, snatch kills from wolves and chase away hyenas right inside the tiger reserve. Their presence causes stressed behaviour in prey species such as nilgai, affecting foraging patterns,” wildlife biologist Dharmendra Khandal told the source.  The positive news is, with the number of feral dogs and other domesticated animals accounted for, due to the camera traps. This would allow authorities to locate and manage their population better.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-reserves-appear-to-have-more-dogs-than-tigers-report-869222.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Home Minister Amit Shah greets people on Raksha Bandhan||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday greeted people on the festival of Raksha Bandhan. "Heartfelt greetings to the people of the country on the auspicious occasion of Raksha Bandhan," Shah tweeted in Hindi. The home minister on Sunday said he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was getting admitted in a hospital following the advice of doctors. "I have done a coronavirus test after showing initial symptoms and I have tested positive. My health is fine but I am getting admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-amit-shah-greets-people-on-raksha-bandhan-868915.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||PM, Yogi should self isolate; call off Ram Temple ceremony: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to call off the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram Temple contending that the time chosen for it was inauspicious. Singh, a Rajya Sabha member, Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should quarantine themselves as a UP minister had died due to Covid-19 and Home Minister Amit Shah too had contracted the infection. Singh accused the BJP of playing with the sentiments of thousands of Hindus by ignoring the advice of religious leaders such as the Shankaracharya of Dwarkapeeth Swami Swaroopananda Saraswati who had claimed that the time chosen for the foundation stone laying ceremony was inauspicious. “The result of ignoring the tenets of Sanatan Hindu Dharma are there for every one to see. All the priests of the Ram Temple have turned Covid-19 positive. UP Minister Kamala Rani Varun has died due to Covid-19. UP BJP chief is in hospital. Home Minister Amit Shah, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yeddiurappa are in hospital,” Singh said.  अयोध्या में भगवान राम मंदिर निर्माण के शिलान्यास के अशुभ मुहूर्त में कराये जाने पर हमारे हिंदू (सनातन) धर्म के द्वारका व जोशीमठ के सबसे वरिष्ठ शंकराचार्य स्वामी स्वरूपानंद जी महाराज का संदेश व शास्त्रों के आधार पर प्रमाणित तथ्यों पर वक्तव्य अवश्य देखें।   “How many more people do you wish to send to hospital by going ahead with the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram Temple at an inauspicious hour,” Singh said. The senior Congress leader said Swami Swaroopananda had already flagged that the time chosen for laying the foundation stone for the Ram Temple was inauspicious and accused Modi of flouting the tenets. Singh has accused the BJP and Vishwa Hindu Parishad of hijacking the Ram Temple Trust by filling it with their nominees and ignoring the leading religious leaders. मैं मोदी जी से फिर अनुरोध करता हूँ ५ अगस्त के अशुभ मुहुर्त को टाल दीजिए। सैंकड़ों वर्षों के संघर्ष के बाद भगवान राम मंदिर निर्माण का योग आया है अपनी हठधर्मीता से इसमें विघ्न पड़ने से रोकिए।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-yogi-should-self-isolate-call-off-ram-temple-ceremony-digvijaya-singh-868993.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan urges people to light lamps at home for Ayodhya event||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has appealed to people to light lamps at their homes on Tuesday and Wednesday and recite 'Sunderkand' and 'Hanuman Chalisa' to mark the 'bhoomi pujan' for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple is scheduled to be held on Wednesday at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I appeal that we all light lamps and light up our houses with decorative electric bulbs on the night of August 4 and August 5 to express our happiness for the construction of the temple (at Ayodhya). Celebrate by staying at home, recite 'Sunderkand' (part of the epic Ramayana) and 'Hanuman Chalisa', Chouhan said in the video. He said there will be "Ram Rajya" under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the beginning of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. He also urged people to stay at home and not gather at the temples. "Special puja will be performed by priests in temples. But, people should not gather in temples and stay at home, Chouhan said, citing the Covid-19 epidemic. He said a special puja will also be performed at Orchha (in Madhya Pradesh's Niwari district), where the famous Ram Raja temple is located. The temple in Orchha will be decorated. Special puja will also be performed at temples in Chitrakoot, a holy place associated with Lord Ram, he added. Madhya Pradesh BJP chief V D Sharma has also appealed to the party workers and citizens to celebrate the 'bhoomi pujan' for Ram temple at Ayodhya by staying at home, the party's state media cell in-charge Lokendra Parashar told PTI. "There is no programme scheduled on behalf of the party but the workers, leaders and people will celebrate this auspicious occasion at their homes, Parashar said. The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished in December 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. In November last year, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-urges-people-to-light-lamps-at-home-for-ayodhya-event-869006.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||No infighting in West Bengal BJP, TMC spreading canards to mislead people: Dilip Ghosh||Amid reports of infighting in the BJP unit of West Bengal, the party's state president, Dilip Ghosh, on Monday asserted that all was well in the organisation, and charged the TMC with spreading canards against the saffron camp. The senior BJP leader also said that a section of media was trying to mislead the people of the state with "false" information about his party. "The TMC and a section of the news media are trying to spread canards against the state unit (of the BJP) to create confusion among the cadres and malign the image of the party. "I want to make it very clear that reports of dispute in the party are untrue. We are united and will fight together to defeat the TMC in next elections," Ghosh said during a press meet here. Speculation is rife that some BJP leaders may switch over to the TMC, ahead of the 2021 assembly polls. Last week, former MLA Biplab Mitra quit the saffron camp to return to the state's ruling party. Media reports also suggested that a few leaders in the West Bengal unit of the BJP are unhappy with the state leadership. The reports claimed that differences had cropped up between Ghosh and a section of state leaders, who had moved to the BJP from the TMC over the last few years, during an organisational meeting in New Delhi. Ghosh, however, rebuffed the reports as "baseless and completely bereft of truth". "The BJP is growing from strength to strength and will continue to expand its base. We are not bothered about such rumours," he said. Asked about the buzz doing the rounds that he might resign from the post of the BJP state president, the Medinipur MP said, "These are politically motivated rumours. I don't believe in running away from the field. I have full confidence in my party and my abilities." Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy, who had moved to the saffron camp from the TMC in 2017, also recently dismissed reports of his discord with other members of the party as "malicious and misleading". "I am with the BJP and will continue to remain with the BJP," Roy had said, scotching speculations of him returning to the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-infighting-in-west-bengal-bjp-tmc-spreading-canards-to-mislead-people-dilip-ghosh-869049.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Lord Ram's name makes time auspicious: MP CM hits back at Digvijaya Singh||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit back at Congress leader Digvijaya Singh who has demanded that Wednesday's "bhoomi pujan" ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya be put off in view of an "inauspicious" 'muhurat'. "Congress leaders who had rejected the existence of Lord Ram are today trying to fix the auspicious inauspicious time for the construction of a temple in his name. "Oh Congressmen, mere invoking Lord Ram turns a time auspicious (sic)," Chouhan tweeted. The senior BJP leader said the Congress had filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court stating that Lord Ram was never born and that his birth was a mere imagination. "(Congress senior leader) Mani Shankar had raised questions over the birthplace of Lord Ram," Chouhan added. Earlier in the day, Digvijaya Singh had referred to the statement of Dwarka Peeth Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanandji to claim that the August 5 'muhurat' was "inauspicious" for the ground-breaking ceremony. "For the convenience of Modiji this inauspicious muhurat was fixed," Singh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lord-rams-name-makes-time-auspicious-mp-cm-hits-back-at-digvijaya-singh-869070.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||How is Ayodhya event happening during ban on religious gatherings, asks CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday found fault with the government taking over the 'bhumi pujan' ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya while questioning how a religious gathering could be allowed when the Centre's guidelines specifically bars religious gatherings due to Covid-19 pandemic. It also said the taking over of the function by the UP government and the involvement of the Centre through the participation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not provide "retrospective legitimisation" of the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992, which the Supreme Court had described as a criminal act. In a statement, the party's Polit Bureau said it has always maintained that the Ayodhya dispute must be resolved either through a mutually acceptable negotiated settlement or through a court verdict. It said the Supreme Court had allowed the construction of the temple and said it should be undertaken by a Trust. "The takeover of the bhumi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya by the UP administration along with the Central government involvement at the highest level of the Prime Minister goes against both the Supreme Court verdict and the letter and spirit of the Constitution of India," it said. The party also noted that the Supreme Court verdict had condemned the demolition of the Babri Masjid describing it as a criminal act. However, it said, "far from punishing those guilty, the involvement of the Central/state governments must not provide retrospective legitimisation for this destruction." The CPI(M) also referred to the pandemic raging across the country and said the preventive protocol stipulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs bans religious gatherings. "Reports of priests and policemen deployed in Ayodhya testing Covid positive only highlights the risks to human lives. We appeal to the people of India to uphold the Constitutional principles of secularism and justice, strictly adhere to the pandemic preventive protocol precautions and not permit the people’s religious sentiments to be exploited for partisan political purposes," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-is-ayodhya-event-happening-during-ban-on-religious-gatherings-asks-cpim-869097.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Turning Goa Raj Bhavan into a five star resort! BJP, Congress trade charges||The ongoing controversy over a proposed new Raj Bhavan complex on Monday took a messy turn, after the Congress in Goa alleged that the BJP-led coalition government wanted to convert the existing Governor’s House into a five-star resort with casino facilities. Reacting to the Congress charge, Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade demanded that state Congress president Girish Chodankar provide proof to back his allegation or else refrain from making “baseless charges”. “One cannot make baseless allegations like this. Chodankar should show proof before shooting his mouth. Goans will not take it lying down if politicians decide to convert Raj Bhavan into a five star hotel,” Tanavade told reporters on Monday, when asked to react the charge made by Chodankar. The controversy has erupted amid a war of words between Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik and Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, which has lasted for several weeks now. After Malik had publicly reprimanded Sawant for trying to “put words in his mouth” over media criticism of the state government’s efforts to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the Governor on August 1 shot down a proposal mooted by the Chief Minister to construct a new Raj Bhavan premises calling it “irrational and imprudent” especially a time when the state government was grappling with financial resources required to fight the pandemic. Amid the power tussle between the CM and the Governor, the main opposition party in Goa, the Congress had alleged that the state government was keen to build a new Raj Bhavan complex, so that the existing premises — which dates back several centuries — could be handed over to a five-star resort chain for the purposes of setting up a casino operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/turning-goa-raj-bhavan-into-a-five-star-resort-bjp-congress-trade-charges-869110.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at PM Modi over daily Covid-19 cases||With the country reporting over 50,000 Covid-19 cases for the fifth day in a row, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe on Monday at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had said: "the right decisions at the right time means India is better off". Gandhi put up a graph on his Twitter account showing India at the top of the chart of 10 countries with the highest number of coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. India reported 52,972 Covid-19 cases on Monday, as the tally of such cases crossed the 18-lakh mark in the country. "The right decisions at the right time means India is better off than other countries. PM," Gandhi wrote on Twitter. After India, the graph showed the USA with 47,511 cases, Brazil with 25,800 cases, Peru with 21,358 cases and Colombia with 11,470 cases in the last 24 hours. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease also surged to over 11.86 lakh in the country, according to the Union health ministry. Gandhi has been attacking the prime minister and the government over the manner in which the pandemic has been handled. He has also said the nationwide lockdown has "failed" to give the desired results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-pm-modi-over-daily-covid-19-cases-869120.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Marginalized Hurriyat terms August 5 a 'sordid chapter' in saga of Jammu and Kashmir||Two days ahead of first anniversary of revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, moderate faction of Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq Monday termed 5 August 2019 decision of the Center “as the most sordid chapter in the saga of J&K.” In a rare statement, a spokesperson of the marginalized Hurriyat alleged that in the last one year “anti-J&K” and “anti-majority community” laws and ordinances were being thrust on the people as reminders of aggression. “Even observance of religious occasions is barred,” he said. The spokesperson said the unilateral decision on August 5 last year “was taken to change the demographic and physical character of J&K and undermine its disputed nature acknowledged by the world. "(But) it will not change the reality of the Kashmir issue nor the need to resolve it peacefully. The decision has only increased the resentment in almost all regions of J&K manifold and people of Kashmir have and will continue to protest it despite the severest crackdown being foisted on them,” he added. The Hurriyat said that it always advocated for a peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue in accordance with the will and aspirations of all the people of J&K and stands firm and committed to that stand. “Both India and Pakistan must resume dialogue at the earliest to seek a permanent and peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue as per the aspirations of the people of J&K. People of J&K are the main stakeholders as they are the ones bearing the brunt of the conflict for the past 73 years and living in hellish conditions,” the spokesperson added. For the last one year, both factions of Hurriyat have chosen to remain silent fearing arrest of their leaders under terror charges. Since last August, most of the statements from separatists have stopped. Hardline Hurriyat which was earlier led by Syed Ali Geelani issued a few statements purportedly from Pakistan. Banned JKLF issued one statement in February asking people to observe strike on the death anniversaries of Afzal Guru and Maqbool Bhat, who were hanged in Tihar Jail in 2013 and 1984 respectively. Earlier, these separatist organisations would issue statements almost daily in which they would bash the government of India and its policies in Kashmir. The statements would get prominent space in local newspapers. However, post abrogation of Article 370, local media has almost not carried any news related to the separatists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/marginalized-hurriyat-terms-august-5-a-sordid-chapter-in-saga-of-jammu-and-kashmir-869124.html
03-08-2020||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot seeks CBI, ED raids against Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday attacked Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, saying the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate should raid his premises as the BJP leader’s name has cropped up in a credit society scam. Gehlot’s remarks have come days after a Jaipur court directed that the Rajasthan Police should probe a complaint alleging the involvement of Shekhawat in the Rs 900-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam. Shekhawat has been named along with his wife and others in the complaint related to the scam. Earlier, a magistrate’s court had rejected an application to include him in the charge sheet. The applicants then approached the additional district judge’s court, which issued directions that their complaint should also be probed. Taking up the issue, Gehlot said people will not accept a leader who is “involved in a scam”. “The CBI and the ED raids should be conducted on his premises,” he told reporters after arriving Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where Congress MLAs are holed up amid allegations of horse-trading. The Rajasthan chief minister also targeted Shekhawat for his alleged role in the “conspiracy” to topple his government. Gehlot called the Jodhpur MP as an over-ambitious leader, who "should have shown patience" but acted "hurriedly". The Congress has accused Shekhawat of involvement in the “conspiracy” to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state on the basis of audio clips having a purported conversation regarding the alleged plot. The Rajasthan chief minister also rejected the claim of dissident Congress MLAs that their work was not being done. He told reporters that the MLAs earlier used to appreciate the government's work and now they are complaining about it. He said people elected them but now they have “revolted”. Gehlot said it is unfortunate that the BJP is making repeated attempts to topple his government and that too amid the coronavirus pandemic. “The public is seeing this all. They understand what is going on. They (BJP) are trying to topple an elected government. They should stop this and let the state government function,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-seeks-cbi-ed-raids-against-union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-869145.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Phase 1 of new Ayodhya station to be completed by Jun 2021: Ministry of Railways||The first phase of the new Ayodhya station, modelled on the Ram temple, will be completed by next June and it will provide state-of-the-art facilities for passengers travelling to the birthplace of Lord Ram, the Railways said on Sunday. In the first phase, the development work in platform number 1, 2/3, development of current circulating area and holding area will be completed, Northern Railway General Manager Rajiv Chaudhary said. Sanctioned in 2017-2018 at a cost of Rs 80 crore, the Ayodhya railway station will be constructed at a cost of around Rs 104 crore, Chaudhary said. "The first phase of the new Ayodhya station will be completed by June 2021," he said. "For crores of devotees visiting the Ram temple, Railways is redeveloping the Ayodhya station under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. In the second phase, the construction of the new station building and other facilities will be undertaken, the statement said. These facilities include renovation of the internal and external premises of the station to increase the facilities available, such as expansion of the number of ticket counters, waiting room expansion, three restrooms with air-conditioned facility, 17-bed male dormitory with toilet and 10-bed female dormitory with toilet. Other facilities, including an additional footbridge, food plaza, shops, additional toilets, are being planned. Apart from this, the tourist centre, taxi booth, Shishu Vihar will be additional facilities. "The holy city of Ayodhya, embellished with the footsteps of Lord Rama, has supernatural importance and in view of the importance of this city in the future, the railway is modernizing the Ayodhya railway station," Chaudhary said. The construction work of a well-equipped building with the latest and modern passenger facilities of Ayodhya station is in progress, the statement said. "This station building is being constructed by the RITES," it added. The design of the railway station temple complete with domes, long "shikhars" and towering pillars has been conceptualised with the temple town in mind. Once completed, the station will have a built up area of 1,000,00 sq feet. The groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple is scheduled to be held on August 5 in Ayodhya and is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phase-1-of-new-ayodhya-station-to-be-completed-by-jun-2021-ministry-of-railways-868874.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Railway station modelled on Ram Mandir coming up at Ayodhya||With the preparation is full swing for foundation laying ceremony for Ram Temple at  Ayodhya scheduled on August 5, the  Indian Railways is also working on building new station at temple town modelled on the Ram Temple. The design of the railway station temple has  domes, long "shikhars" and towering pillars. The design was prepared keeping in mind of temple town, said top officials in the Indian Railways. The government approved the building modern railway station in 2017-18 at existing station with the cost Rs 80 crore. But the government enhanced budget Rs 104 crore for the project after adding more facilities, which will be completed in two phases. The first phase work of the new Ayodhya Station started expected to complete in June,  2021. The second phase expected to complete in 2023-24. Once completed, the station will have a built up area of 1,000,00 sq feet. "For crores of devotees visiting the Ram temple, Railways is redeveloping the Ayodhya station under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. RITES, organisation under the Railway Ministry,  is undertaking modernisation works. Once complete, the station will have state of art facilites state-of-the-art facilities for passengers travelling to the birthplace of Lord Ram, Northern Railway General Manager Rajiv Chaudhary said. Existing facilities including ticket counters, waiting room, restrooms with air-conditioned facility, both male and female dormitories will be expanded. Additional footbridge, food plaza, shops, additional toilets, are being planned by railways. Apart from this, the tourist centre, taxi booth, Shishu Vihar will be additional facilities coming up station. The construction work of a well-equipped building with the latest and modern passenger facilities of Ayodhya station is in progress, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-station-modelled-on-ram-mandir-coming-up-at-ayodhya-868887.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Territorial Army jawan goes missing in Jammu and Kashmir, his burnt vehicle found||A Territorial Army (TA) jawan has gone missing and his vehicle was found burnt in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday. The officials suspect that he might have been kidnapped by militants. A vehicle registered in the name of Muzzaffar Manzoor, a resident of Shopian district, was set ablaze by unknown persons at Rambhama area of south Kashmir's Kulgam district late Sunday night, the officials said. They said Manzoor serves in the Territorial Army and could not be contacted. The officials said they suspect that he might have been kidnapped by militants, adding that efforts were on to trace him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/territorial-army-jawan-goes-missing-in-jammu-and-kashmir-his-burnt-vehicle-found-868924.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Man finds 'half lizard' in sambar bowl at top Delhi restaurant||A group of men dining at South Indian restaurant Sarvana Bhawan in Delhi's Connaught Place found a 'half-lizard' in their sambar. In a video that went viral on social media, the men shared images of the severed lizard in a bowl filled with the popular south Indian dish. The restaurant, a branch of a popular chain of South Indian restaurants, which witnesses long queues on weekends because of its popularity, is located in central Delhi's posh market area amid luxury hotels, eateries, and shopping complexes.  In the video, circulated widely on social media, the two men show the carcass of the lizard in a spoon from the plates they were eating from. The men, visibly angry, are seen yelling at the restaurant staff. "I have eaten some bites (from the sambar bowl). Half of the lizard is missing," he says to the staff of the restaurant. The men reportedly also took pictures of the menu that show the name of the popular restaurant chain and said they would file a complaint with the police, according to multiple media reports. A case has been registered over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-finds-half-lizard-in-sambar-bowl-at-top-delhi-restaurant-868942.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Restrictions imposed in Kashmir Valley, markets shut||The restrictions come two days ahead of the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. No movement of people, except essential services and medical emergencies, was being allowed, the officials said. The authorities sealed most of the roads and market places and sought the cooperation of the public to make the lockdown a success. District magistrates said strict implementation of the lockdown restrictions was ordered in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases. Markets and business establishments across the valley were shut on Monday, while public transport was off the roads, the officials said. However, government employees and banks have been exempted from the restrictions on producing valid identity cards or movement passes. Construction and developmental activities have also been exempted, they added. Security forces have been deployed in strength at several places across the valley to enforce the lockdown, the officials said, adding any violation would invite strict action. Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 444 new coronavirus cases with 206 from Jammu region and 238 from the valley. While Udhampur district in Jammu region recorded the highest of 69 new positive cases followed by 65 in Jammu District, Srinagar had 62 cases. The union territory has witnessed a spike in the number of positive cases in the last few weeks. While officials maintained that restrictions were in view of the Covid-19 situation, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija Mufti said the heightened security arrangements in the valley were being undertaken to ensure that "anger and frustration felt by people" against the Centre's decision "remain hidden". "Suddenly, there is heightened security & surveillance in the valley. Not like non-discriminatory Covid-19 virus will be more active in the days approaching 5th August so clearly this is being done to ensure that anger & frustration felt by people here remain hidden," Iltija posted on her mother's Twitter handle which she has been using since Mehbooba was taken into custody in August last year. The Centre on August 5 last year revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir by abrogating Articles 370 and 35-A and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-imposed-in-kashmir-valley-markets-shut-868950.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Mizoram to treat infected security personnel, civilian patients at separate Covid-19 hospitals||The decision in this regard was taken during an emergency meeting chaired by Health Minister Dr R Lalthangliana on Sunday in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases among security personnel posted in the northeastern state, he said. Officials observed it was not "medically healthy" to treat infected security personnel and civilian patients at the same hospital, he said. It was decided that the nursing school in Sercchip town will be reserved for infected Border Security Force (BSF) personnel, while jawans of other paramilitary and armed forces will be treated at the AYUSH Hospital at Thenzawl in Sercchip district and the Tribal Art Centre at Tanhril in Aizawl, he said. Apart from these facilities, Assam Rifles has its own Covid-19 care centre at Zokhawsang near Aizawl. Civilian patients will be treated at the Beraw Covid-19 care centre and the multipurpose centre at ITI locality in Aizawl, the official said. There are 64 beds for Covid-19 patients at the state- run Zoram Medical College here. It was also decided that guidelines will be framed for quarantining of security personnel, he said. Mizoram had on Sunday reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases as 55 more people, including 47 security personnel, tested positive for the infection. The fresh infections have taken the number of active cases in the state to 215. Security personnel and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) staffers constitute 76.74 per cent of the total number of active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mizoram-to-treat-infected-security-personnel-civilian-patients-at-separate-covid-19-hospitals-868957.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Search on for Covid-19 patients who gave false information in Lucknow||While 1,171 people out of those who gave false information have been tracked, a hunt is on for the others. "2,290 people who had undergone Covid-19 tests at various private and government laboratories between July 23 and July 31 had given false names, mobile numbers and addresses. This came to the fore when our department could not contact them. We have informed the police about it," a senior health official said. These people are not only from Lucknow but other cities also who were tested in the state capital, he said. Lucknow Police Commissioner Sujit Pandey said that police immediately swung into action and "we have tracked 1,171 of these people and informed authorities and integrated Covid-19 command and control room." "Attempts are on to trace the remaining ones," Pandey said, adding that directives have been issued to hospitals and laboratories to verify mobile numbers before taking samples so that they remain under the vigil of the Health Department. The state capital had witnessed 8,686 cases, which included 4,012 active cases, 4,559 patients who are discharged and 115 deaths till Sunday. While state minister Kamla Rani Varun died due to the virus, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and minister Mahendra Singh tested positive for the virus on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-on-for-covid-19-patients-who-gave-false-information-in-lucknow-868959.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Former Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh cremated in Delhi||Former Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh was cremated at the Chhatarpur crematorium here in the presence of family members and relatives on Monday, two days after he died in a Singapore hospital. The last rites took place around 11:30 am. His two daughters consigned his mortal remains to flames.    Due to Covid-19 protocols, Singh's last rites were performed in the presence of a limited number of people, including actor-turned-politician Jaya Prada, who considered him her 'godfather'. Earlier in the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, and Jaya Prada were among the first ones to pay floral tributes to the former Samajwadi Party leader at his Chhatarpur farmhouse.  His wife Pankaja Singh and two daughters were present there. Singh's body was brought to the national capital in a chartered aircraft on Sunday evening.  The 64-year-old had been undergoing treatment at a hospital in Singapore for six months and had earlier undergone a kidney transplant in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-rajya-sabha-member-amar-singh-cremated-in-delhi-868967.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Elderly man arrested for sexually assaulting five minor girls||A 65-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting five minor girls by luring them to watch television at his home in Chhattisgarh's Balod district, police said on Monday. The accused allegedly committed the offence for three days - from July 28 to July 30 - at a village under Arjunda police station limits and the victims' parents reported it to police on Saturday following which he was arrested, Balod Superintendent of Police Jitendra Meena said. As per the preliminary investigation, the accused used to call the girls, aged between 8 and 11 years, from neighbourhood to his home to watch television after finding them playing on streets, he said. He would then make the minors sit in front of the television and call them one by one inside a room where he sexually assaulted them, the official said. The offence came to light when the mother of one of the girls found her upset and disinterested in playing with the other children. When the mother asked, the girl narrated the entire incident to her, he said. Four other girls also revealed the same ordeal to their parents who then approached police, the official said. The accused was arrested on Saturday was booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 354(a) (sexual harassment), 363 (kidnapping), 376 (rape) and 376 (2)(n) (rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than 10 years but may extend to imprisonment for life), and provisions of the Protection of Children for Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. "Preliminary medical examination of the girls did not reveal injuries on their private parts. However, we have sent some samples for forensic examination and their reports are awaited," he said. Further investigation was underway in the case, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-five-minor-girls-868972.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus tests in India cross 2 crore-mark, says ICMR||A cumulative total of 2,02,02,858 samples have been tested up to August 2 with 3,81,027 samples being tested on Sunday, the ICMR said. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 had crossed the one-crore mark in India on July 6. There are now 1,348 testing labs in the country comprising 914 in the public sector and 434 private labs. Having started with one single laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and then expanding to 100 laboratories around the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated the 1000th testing lab. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 18-lakh mark on Monday, just a day after it went past 17 lakh, with 52,972 cases reported in a day while the number of recoveries surged to over 11.86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases surged to 18,03,695, while the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 38,135 with 771 people succumbing to the disease in a day, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed. Various steps taken by the central government have paved the way for enhanced testing for Covid-19, the health ministry had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-tests-in-india-cross-2-crore-mark-says-icmr-868984.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||CISF to take over Leh airport security; around 100 personnel to be assigned round-the-clock detail||The CISF will take over the security of the Leh airport, the highest-altitude airport in the country, on Tuesday, becoming the 64th airport to be under the paramilitary force's cover. Officials said around 100 CISF personnel will be providing round-the-clock security to the Kushok Bakula Rimpochee Airport, which is located 3,256 metres above sea level. Leh airport 23rd highest commercial airport in the world. So far, local police have been providing security and the induction of the CISF, which has been designated as a national civil aviation security force, against the backdrop of the increasing strategic importance of the region amid a stand-off with China at the borders. A decision on handing over the three strategically important airports in Srinagar, Jammu and Leh to the specialised unit of the CISF was also fast forwarded taking into account the security situation in the region where terrorists are waiting for opportunities to launch a strike. The arrest of the then Jammu and Kashmir Police Deputy Superintendent Devender Sharma on charges of ferrying Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists also prompted the security establishment to have a re-look at the deployment in these airports, officials said. At the Leh airport, the CISF will man the airport perimeter, conduct checking of passengers at terminal gates and security checks before boarding the flight. The personnel will be armed with AK rifles and the INSAS. The function of handing over of airport security on Tuesday will be attended by CISF Director General (DG) Rajesh Ranjan and senior officials of the AAI and Ladakh administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cisf-to-take-over-leh-airport-security-around-100-personnel-to-be-assigned-round-the-clock-detail-869002.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya Temple 'bhoomi puja': Special dress with 9 gems stitched using golden thread for Ram Lalla||For the past three and a half decades, brothers Shankarlal and Bhagwatlal 'Pahaadhi' have been stitching clothes for Ram Lalla in Ayodhya. The pinnacle of their dedication will be manifest in the splendid dress they have meticulously crafted for the deity to wear on August 5, during the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram temple. Operating from their shop named after their late father Babulal and located in the city's Badhi Kutiyaa area, the brothers stitch clothes for only deities and seers. "My father late Babulal started stitching the clothes of Ram Lalla in 1985. He used to carry our sewing machine to the Ramjanmabhoomi and stitch the clothes with me and my elder brother in tow," Shankarlal, 54, told PTI on Monday. "The three of us used to make the clothes of Lord Ram. The dresses were made and stitched virtually in front of the deity. Since then, our work is continuing," he said. Shankarlal said that for Wednesday, the day of bhoomi pujan to mark the beginning of the construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya, two sets of dresses have been made -- one is green, while the other is orange. "The clothes are made using soft material such as 'makhmal' (velvet). After all, they are for Ram Lalla who is a child. The green dress has been made keeping in mind the day-specific colour, while orange is considered auspicious," he said. On Wednesday, the green dress will be worn first and the orange one later, Shankarlal said. The special dress for the ceremony has nine gems stitched in golden thread. "There is grandeur in the clothes of the Lord as well," he said. On Sunday, the dresses were handed over by the tailors, said Acharya Satyendra Das, the chief priest of the Ram temple. "A day-specific colour scheme is followed for the dresses worn by Lord Ram. On Monday the dress is white, on Tuesday it is red, while on Wednesday it is the turn of the green dress for the Lord," Shankarlal said. On Thursdays the idol is dressed in yellow, Fridays are for cream-coloured dresses, on Saturdays it is the turn of blue clothes while on Sundays pink clothes adorn the deity. Shankarlal also said the same cloth, with which Ram's dress is stitched, is used to make dresses for Lakshman, Bharat, Shatrughan, Hanuman and Shaaligram. "Earlier, 11-metre-long fabric was required to make the dress, but now, we need about 17 metres of cloth. Once the grand temple is built, I do not know how much cloth will be required to make one set of dresses for Lord Ram and others," Shankarlal said. At present, Shankarlal is assisted by his nephews Pawan Kumar, Sanjay Kumar and Shravan Kumar. "My son Rajveer is in class 7. As soon as he clears class 8, he will join me," he said. Shankarlal's elder brother Bhagwatlal 'Pahaadhi' attributed their stitching expertise to God. "The entire family is involved in this. Whatever qualities have been given by God, we are making dresses using those qualities only. It is He who is getting them made by us, as He gets everything done." Interestingly, the brother duo and their family members depend on other tailors for their own apparels. "We only make clothes for Lord Ram and some clothes of seers. We do not accept any orders from the common people. We even do not make our own clothes. Our own clothes are made using the services and expertise of other tailors," Shankarlal said. "I feel overwhelmed that I was born in Ayodhya and got an opportunity to serve Ram Lalla. What could give more happiness than this?" he asked. The brothers and their shop are a centre of attraction these days due to the media's presence as the city prepares for the groundbreaking ceremony. Passersby often greet them with chants of 'Jai Sriram' which the duo is quick to reciprocate, much to the delight of the visiting devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-temple-bhoomi-puja-special-dress-with-9-gems-stitched-using-golden-thread-for-ram-lalla-869008.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||It's Lord Ram's will that I attend bhoomi pujan: Babri case litigant Iqbal Ansari||Iqbal Ansari, who was a litigant in the Ayodhya land dispute case, has decided to gift a 'Ram nami' stole and a copy of the Ramcharitmanas to Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he attends the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ram temple here on Wednesday. "Yes, I have received the invitation from Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the bhoomi pujan ceremony. I will certainly attend it. The dispute is over now after the court's verdict," Ansari, 69, told PTI. "Our Prime Minister is coming. I will meet him and give him a 'Ramnami' stole (with Ram's name written on it) and Ramcharitmanas as a present," Ansari said. He further said, "I respect sadhus and saints. I am happy to have received the invitation for the ceremony. I think it is Lord Ram's will that I attend it". When asked what he would have done had the court decided the case in his favour, Ansari said he had wanted the construction of a school and a hospital on the disputed land. "I feel the city needs development. The future of our children should be safe and secure and they should get employment. Dispute in the name of religion should end now and we should let the city witness a new beginning," he said. The Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple by a Trust at the disputed site of the Babri Masjid's demolition in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The state government has allotted a five-acre land in Dhannipur village in Sohaval Tehsil of Ayodhya for the mosque's construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-lord-rams-will-that-i-attend-bhoomi-pujan-babri-case-litigant-iqbal-ansari-869009.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||4 dead, 3 children injured as car rams into truck in Chhattisgarh||Four people, including three of a family, were killed and three children injured after their SUV collided with a stationary truck in Chhattisgarh's Korba district on Monday, police said. The incident took place early in the morning near Patla village under Bango police station area on Ambikapur- Korba highway, said Pankaj Patel, Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Katghora. The deceased were identified as Moni Kumari (32), her relatives Deepak Kumar Sharma (22), and Tripurari Sharma (32) and driver Shankar Kahar (40), all natives of Bihar, he said. Moni's daughter Manvi (6) and sons Manav (6) and Mayank (4) sustained injuries, the SDOP said. Moni and her family had left for Korba from Bihar on Sunday to take part in the tenth-day ritual after her father's death, he said. "It seems the driver fell asleep due to which the vehicle rammed into a stationary truck parked on the opposite side of the road," Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-dead-3-children-injured-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-chhattisgarh-869022.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM's 9th day Covid-19 test positive, hospital stay continues||Chouhan has been in Chirayu Medical College and Hospital in Bhopal since July 25 undergoing treatment for Covid-19. A health bulletin from Chirayu Hospital said, "CM's RT-PCR test for SARS-Cov-2 on 9th day was positive. His medical parameters are normal." MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra confirmed the development to reporters and said the CM will stay in the hospital, for now, adding that the state cabinet meeting scheduled for Tuesday would be a virtual one. Chouhan had tweeted on Sunday that he was healthy and not showing any symptoms of the infection, and had said he would be discharged if a sample collected for tests during the day returns negative. Chouhan also shared on Twitter a picture of a rakhi tied on him by nurse Saroj who is attending to him in the isolation ward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cms-9th-day-covid-19-test-positive-hospital-stay-continues-869031.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court dismisses plea against GGSIPU to allocate 50% PG medical seats to its students||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a petition challenging the decision of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) to reserve 50 percent state quota of PG medical seats to MBBS graduates from its own colleges. Justice Jayant Nath said GGSIPU is following the dicta of the Supreme Court in various cases which have approved 'institutional reservation' upto 50 percent of the postgraduate seats. “In view of the stated legal position, this is clearly permissible. The pleas of the petitioners are clearly without merit. There is no merit in the present petition. The same is accordingly dismissed,” the court said in its 32-page judgement. In the petition, various MBBS graduates and students from Jamia Hamdard University had challenged the policy of GGSIPU of allocating the entire 50 percent state quota of postgraduate medical college seats to MBBS graduates from colleges affiliated only to itself by way of 'Institutional Preference'. The plea sought direction to the university to amend its admissions guidelines /brochure for the academic year 2020-21 without reserving entire 50 percent state quota only for graduates of colleges affiliated to itself by way of 'Institutional Preference', as was done in previous academic years and to allow Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (HIMSR) MBBS graduates in the state-wise merit list. The plea, through advocate Samar Bansal, said that admission to PG medical courses in India is made from two sources, 50 percent seats are filled up on the basis of the marks obtained in NEET in which medical graduates from across the country are eligible to appear and  50 percent are filled up on the basis of rules to be framed in accordance with the law by the State Government appointed authority limited to students who have appeared in NEET which is also called “state quota”. It said this petition relates to 'state quota' and raised the question whether 'Institutional Preference', namely the right of an institution offering postgraduate courses to reserve such seats for undergraduate students from colleges affiliated to itself, can be permitted to be exercised while deciding the manner of allocation of 50 percent seats of state quota. Another plea raised by the petitioners was that there is no specific decision taken by the Delhi government regarding the apportionment of the state quota. It was urged by them that in the absence of a clear statutory stipulation or administrative direction permitting GGSIPU to allocate the entire state quota to the students of its own university, the same is illegal. Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh submitted that as per the Constitution, the government has the power to regulate. However, he said this is only an enabling provision and the government is following a 'hands-off policy'. “In my opinion, the Government of NCT of Delhi is supporting the action taken by GGSIPU. No fault can be found merely because some formal communication has not been issued by the Government of NCT of Delhi,” Justice Nath said. Advocate T Singhdev, representing the Medical Council of India, said as per the judgement of the Supreme Court it is for the appropriate authority or state to declare the policy and the authority in the present circumstances is GGSIPU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-against-ggsipu-to-allocate-50-pg-medical-seats-to-its-students-869034.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Suspected militants abduct soldier, burn his vehicle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam||Suspected militants abducted an Indian Army soldier and set ablaze his private vehicle in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Sunday evening. “Rifleman Shakir Manzoor of 162 Battalion (TA), is missing since 1700hrs yesterday. His abandoned burnt car has been found near #Kulgam. It is suspected that the soldier has been abducted by terrorists. Search op in progress (sic),” Army’s Srinagar-based 15-Corps tweeted. The militants intercepted the car of Manzoor, a resident of neighboring Shopian district, who works with Territorial Army (TA), near Damhal Hanjipora in Kulgam, 80 km from here, sources said. The soldier was abducted while the vehicle was burnt down. In May 2017, Lieutenant Umar Fayaz, who had gone home in Shopian to attend the marriage ceremony of his relative, was first abducted and then killed by the militants. The same year, BSF constable Mohammad Ramzan Parray was dragged out of his house in north Kashmir’s Hajin town and killed. Similarly, another soldier, Aurangzeb was killed by militants June 2018 in Pulwama while as army man Muhammad Rafiq Yatoo of Warpora, Sopore of JAKLI was killed in April 2019. The TA is part of the regular Indian Army. Its role is to relieve the regular Army from static duties and assist civil administration in dealing with natural calamities and maintenance of essential services in situations where life of the communities is affected or the security of the country is threatened. The Territorial Army also provides uniformed units for the regular Army as and when required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-militants-abduct-soldier-burn-his-vehicle-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam-869058.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Few bandhs, stone-pelting incidents in J&K since abrogation of Article 370 last year: Officials||Fall in stone-pelting incidents and continued crackdown on separatist leaders in Jammu and Kashmir are key factors of a decreasing trend of violence since the abrogation of Article 370 last year, officials said on Monday. A comparative analysis of the data gathered since the constitutional changes were made last year shows that separatists, who used to give call for strikes in Kashmir, are in disarray after the government continued to crack its whip by seizing their bank accounts and attaching assets allegedly amassed through terror funds, they said. On August 5 last year, the Centre abrogated the special status guaranteed to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated the state into Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. There has been barely any bandh call during the last one year by separatist groups, which have virtually become non-functional after the government arrested their main leaders like Yasin Malik of JKLF in a 1990 case of gunning down IAF personnel and Shahbir Shah of Jammu and Kashmir Democratic Freedom Party (JKDFP) in a 2007 money laundering case. Sale of medical seats in Pakistan by separatist leaders also came to the fore during last year, officials said, adding that it left the public at large disgruntled. Large gatherings at funerals of local militants came to an abrupt halt after the government changed the norms and did not identify the killed militants, the officials said, adding that in some cases, the terrorists were identified but the bodies were sent to unidentified graveyards, either at Baramulla or Ganderbal and buried in the presence of their family members. Giving the statistics of the declining trend of violence, the officials said there were 532 incidents of stone-pelting in 2018, 389 in 2019 and 102 in 2020. The incidents of stone-pelting were down by 27 percent in 2019 in comparison to 2018 and 73 percent in 2020. As many as 2,268 stone pelters were arrested in 2018, 1,127 in 2019 and 1,152 in 2020. A total of 583 militants were arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in 2018, 849 in 2019 and 444 in 2020, the statistics said. Fifty-eight Hurriyat leaders were also detained in 2018, 70 in 2019 and six in 2020, while 29 activists of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) were detained in 2019 and eight in 2020. The security cover, by way of residential guards, personal security officers (PSOs) and vehicles, has also been taken away from all separatist leaders since 2019. Action was taken against JeI and JKLF activists which included registration of 51 cases and arrest of 117 JeI activists, of which, 29 were detained under the Public Safety Act. A total of 82 bank accounts involving Rs 70,44,073 were frozen and 19 premises housing JeI offices were raided during the course of investigation, it said. Besides the house of separatist leader Asiya Andrabi was attached in a UAPA case, with security agencies regularly monitoring and taking required action against terror funding and other cases pertaining to separatists. As many as 173 cases registered under UAPA have been charge-sheeted in courts in 2019 (140 cases) and 2020 (33 cases), according to the official estimate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/few-bandhs-stone-pelting-incidents-in-jk-since-abrogation-of-article-370-last-year-officials-869062.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Political leaders, relatives pay last tributes to Amar Singh||Political leaders, family members and relatives paid their last respects to Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh, who died in a Singapore hospital two days ago. Singh's body was brought to the national capital in a chartered aircraft on Sunday evening. The cremation is scheduled to take place at the Chhatarpur crematorium.  Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, and Jaya Prada who considered Singh her 'godfather', were among the first ones to pay floral tributes to the former Samajwadi Party leader at his Chhatarpur farmhouse.  His wife Pankaja Singh and two daughters were present there. Due to Covid-19 protocols, Singh's last rites will be performed in the presence of a limited number of people. Singh, 64, had been undergoing treatment at a hospital in Singapore for six months and had earlier undergone a kidney transplant in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/political-leaders-relatives-pay-last-tributes-to-amar-singh-869080.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Ram Temple: Only five including PM to be on stage, oldest Babri litigant's son gets first invite||Only four people including Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be sharing the stage with prime minister Narendra Modi during the Ram Temple's groundbreaking ceremony at Ayodhya on Wednesday. The two others, who would be on the stage, were RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Interestingly former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh during whose regime the Babri Mosque had been demolished in Ayodhya had not found a place on the stage though he had been invited for the ceremony. Two Muslims were among the invitees for the groundbreaking ceremony. Iqbal Ansari, the son of the oldest Babri litigant Hashim Ansari got the first invite for the ceremony. ''It was Lord Rama's wish that I got the first invite,'' an elated Ansari said in Ayodhya. Speaking to reporters in Ayodhya, Trust general secretary Champat Rai clarified that senior saffron party leaders L.K.Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi were invited through telephone but owing to the age factor they would be witnessing the ceremony via video conferencing. Another senior party leader Uma Bharti would be in Ayodhya but would stay away from the event in view of the pandemic scare. He said that in all 135 seers, including saints from Nepal, had been invited to attend the ceremony. The invitation cards, which bore the names of Modi, Bhagwat and Anandiben Patel, had a security code to ensure that only the authorised persons gained entry into the venue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-only-five-including-pm-to-be-on-stage-oldest-babri-litigants-son-gets-first-invite-869092.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Women Congress MLAs tie rakhis on CM’s wrist||Women Congress MLAs of Rajasthan celebrated the festival of Raksha Bandhan by tying rakhis on the wrist of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Minister Mamta Bhupesh and legislators Shakuntala Rawat, Ganga Devi and others tied rakhis on the wrist of the chief minister and offered him sweets. The women MLAs also tied rakhis on the wrists of other legislators including Sanyam Lodha. The festival was celebrated in Hotel Suryagarh in Jaisalmer where the MLAs have been made to stay to save them from the alleged bids to make them ditch the Gehlot government. They are expected to stay here till the assembly session begins on August 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-congress-mlas-tie-rakhis-on-cm-s-wrist-869093.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Man killed after fight over online game PUBG||A man was killed here allegedly by three persons after an altercation overplaying popular online game PUBG, officials said on Monday. Raj Kumar, Bikram Jeet and Rohit Kumar were playing the online game when Daleep Raj objected and asked them not to make noise, they said. Later, Daleep was allegedly attacked by the three men with a log of wood and he died on the spot, the officials said. The incident took place in Badyal Qazian village of R S Pura tehsil in Jammu district and the three accused have been arrested, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-after-fight-over-online-game-pubg-869138.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Subdued Raksha Bandhan in Delhi amid Covid-19 pandemic||Raksha Bandhan festivities in the national capital were subdued this year owing to the coronavirus pandemic, with siblings having to rely on technology to wish each other. “Travelling was not an option this year but it's the bond that matters the most. I ordered rakhi and sweets for my brother and he sent me gifts. We had a video call with all cousins too,” said Sweety Gaur, a city resident. Neetu Bhatia was a bit upset as she would have celebrated Rakhi with her cousin after a long time this year, but the pandemic did not let it happen. "Some differences had cropped up between us over the last few years and we had not celebrated the festival since then. But over the last year, we resolved our differences and I had planned to surprise him by visiting him this time. “But I could not meet him. I sent him Rakhi and sweets and wished him over phone. Hopefully we will celebrate the festival together next year," she said. With travel restrictions in place due to the pandemic and apprehensions about going out, Rahul Bhardwaj could not meet his sister who lives in a different city. "This is the first time that it has happened but this is the need of the hour. We need to keep ourselves safe and our loved ones safe too,” he said. People also relied on homemade sweets and dishes to celebrate the festival as they were not sure about the quality of sweets available outside. "The festival was a bit different this year. I got homemade barfi for my brothers and did not buy anything from outside. We are also not going anywhere and just spending time with our family," said Shivani Rawat. Said Nimrat Kaur, “We celebrated Rakhi at home only. I made homemade rakhi and sweets were made at home too. After the lockdown was announced, we did not order anything from outside and only groceries have been bought.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/subdued-raksha-bandhan-in-delhi-amid-covid-19-pandemic-869143.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Government panel to study outcome of India-China army commanders' talks||A government panel comprised of top bureaucrats and the military and intelligence officials will review the outcome of the fifth round of talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday. The panel – informally called “China Study Group” – is likely to meet on Tuesday and discuss the report sent by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, after his more-than-10-hour-long meeting with Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA at the Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. The Chief of Army Staff, General M M Naravane, already briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh about the outcome of the meeting. The senior military commanders of the two sides held the fifth round of meeting as the process of withdrawing troops from the scenes of the face-offs along the LAC remained stalled over the past few weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to completely pull back soldiers from the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), Depsang 'Y' junction and the Gogra Post. The Indian Army or the Ministry of Defence did not officially comment on the outcome of the talks. A source in New Delhi, however, told the DH that Lt. Gen. Singh reiterated to Maj. Gen. Liu that Indian Army would expect the Chinese PLA to sincerely work with it “for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest” as they had agreed upon during the first three rounds of meetings on June 6, 22 and 30 and had reaffirmed during the fourth on July 14. The Indian Army asked the Chinese PLA to restore the status quo ante along the LAC, added the source. The response of the Chinese PLA would be reviewed during the meeting of the top brass of the government on Tuesday and the future course of action would be decided accordingly. The two sides had mutually agreed upon the “disengagement process” or withdrawal of the front-line troops to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. It started early last month but remained stalled for the past couple of weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas. The PLA thinned out troops from the “Finger 4” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) early last month. It, however, did not restore the status quo ante and held on to the area between “Finger 5” and “Finger 8” – an eight-kilometre-long stretch it took over after its stand-off with the Indian Army started in early May. The Chinese Army rather brought in more troops, built bunkers and observation posts, dug trenches, pitched tents and set up new prefabricated huts to accommodate additional soldiers, apart from deploying its navy unit with more speed-boats for patrolling on the lake. It not only fortified its position in the entire stretch from “Finger 5” to “Finger 8”, but also occupied the ridgeline overlooking the “fingers” – thus effectively controlling an area of nearly 30 sq km, denying access to the Indian Army to places it regularly patrolled before the stand-off started three months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-panel-to-study-outcome-of-india-china-army-commanders-talks-869154.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Curfew in Srinagar ahead of first anniversary of revocation of Article 370, 'specific inputs' about violent protests||On the eve of first anniversary of abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, a strict curfew was imposed in the Valley on Tuesday, even as Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have been extended till August 8. Apprehending protests in view of plans by separatists and regional political parties to observe August 5, the first anniversary of revocation of J&K’s special status under Article 370, as “black day”, authorities decided to impose a strict curfew on Tuesday and Wednesday. "...Protests are not ruled out. There are specific inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property," the order for Srinagar district said, though the curfew is applicable across Kashmir valley. However, the order said, people engaged in essential services amid the Covid-19 pandemic are allowed to move. The decision to impose curfew, sources said, was taken at a core group meeting of security officials, civil administration and intelligence agencies operating in the Valley. The meeting was chaired by General Officer Commanding 15-Corps B S Raju and Director General J&K Police Dilbag Singh on Monday. Police and paramilitary forces have been deployed in strength across the valley to thwart any attempts of protests on August 5, reports said. Roads and lanes in various parts of the city have been barricaded while concertina wires have also been laid to restrict the movement of people. Additionally, the Covid-19 related restrictions, which were imposed from July 31 till August 5, have been extended till August 8. Hours before the abrogation of J&K’s special status and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories on 5 August last year, a similar curfew had been imposed across the Valley. Hundreds of political leaders had been detained or arrested. Many leaders are still under house arrest, including former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti. While reacting to government’s latest decision to impose curfew, Iltija Mufti, daughter of Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: ““As expected, ‘normalcy acrobatics’ for 5th August is underway with the imposition of Section 144 in Srinagar along with additional deployment of troops & the city lost in a maze of concertina wires, police vans & barricades.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curfew-in-srinagar-ahead-of-first-anniversary-of-revocation-of-article-370-specific-inputs-about-violent-protests-869189.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal gives cheque for Rs 1 crore to family members of medical practitioner who died of Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met with the family members of Joginder Chaudhary, a medical practitioner who died of Covid-19 in the city, and handed over a cheque for Rs 1 crore as financial assistance on Monday. Chaudhary (27), who worked at the Delhi government-run Baba Saheb Ambedkar Medical College and Hospital (BSAMCH), succumbed to Covid-19 last week. "Our Corona Warrior Dr Joginder Chaudhary, posted in a Delhi government hospital, served patients by putting his life at stake. Dr Chaudhary passed away recently due to the coronavirus infection. Today, I met with his family members and handed over a cheque for Rs 1 crore as financial assistance. Will help the family in every possible way," Kejriwal said in a tweet Hindi. Chaudhary tested positive for Covid-19 on June 29. Doctors are treating patients during the pandemic day and night without caring for their lives and Chaudhary was one such Covid-19 warrior of Delhi, a statement issued by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government said. The relentless work of the doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and other medical officers have yielded significant results as the number of coronavirus cases is coming down with every passing day, the statement said. The positivity rate of the samples tested and the number of deaths have also come down in Delhi, it added. Chaudhary was a junior resident and worked on an ad-hoc basis at the BSAMCH since October, 2019. He was first attached to the influenza clinic of the hospital and then at the casualty ward, until he complained of fever on June 23, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-gives-cheque-for-rs-1-crore-to-family-members-of-medical-practitioner-who-died-of-covid-19-869217.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Call centre owner held in Delhi for illegally routing internet calls on Indian numbers||A call centre was busted here for allegedly routing international internet calls to Indian phone numbers by illegally bypassing the legal gateway for such connections besides causing revenue loss to the government, police said on Monday. Sumit Kumar Bisdah, 27, who was running the call centre, was arrested from Laxmi Nagar in Delhi after an FIR was lodged in Noida on a complaint by officials of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), Government of India, they said. Besides the revenue loss, the call centre had posed a threat to national security by the act, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said, after a joint raid by the local Sector 20 police and a DoT team. “Based on the information, the illegal set-up was tracked at two houses in Sector 2 and Sector 8 of Noida. Equipment and evidences were collected from the two spots and based on that, Bisdah was arrested from Laxmi Nagar in Delhi,” a police spokesperson said. “He had illegally installed the telecom set-up and used his system to divert voice calls from international numbers to Indian phone numbers, bypassing the legal connection gateway,” the spokesperson said. “His acts have caused heavy loss to the Telecom department and the Indian government. His illegal act could have also jeopardised national security,” the police official added. Additional DCP Singh said the licence was provided to the call centre for a limited activity but it was running more than permissible channels. Discrepancies were found in their documents during verification done by DoT technical officials, he said. “Internet calls from abroad were landing on mobile phones in India. This could have been done only through ISD licensing. ISD routes were bypassed to connect international calls here (in India). This caused a huge revenue loss to the government also,” Singh said. “Also, for just procuring the ISD licence one needs to pay crores of rupees in fees and it involves security checks and compliance of government rules. This call centre had not taken that licence,” he added. “Secondly, such a type of act is a threat to national security. The identity of callers is not visible on such internet-based calls. The calls routed from this centre included several calls done by suspicious channels and groups. Secrecy and security were being compromised,” the officer said. An estimated amount of revenue loss incurred by the government was not immediately known and the police have not yet revealed how long the illegal activity had been taking place. “Bisdah's network was large scale. Prime facie, it appears a prominent media group based outside India also used his illegal network for routing calls on Indian phone numbers,” an official privy to the probe told PTI. Bisdah is a native of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh, the police said. The police said they have seized two laptops, four routers, and devices related to voice over internet protocol (VOIP) from his offices and home. An FIR has been lodged at Noida's Sector 20 police station under Indian Penal Code Section 420 (cheating). Bisdah has also been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/call-centre-owner-held-in-delhi-for-illegally-routing-internet-calls-on-indian-numbers-869223.html
03-08-2020||North and Central||Free sanitary napkins for women below poverty line in Haryana||The Haryana government will launch a scheme to give a packet of free sanitary napkins to about 22.50 lakh women and girls below the poverty line every month for a year, Women and Child Development Minister Kamlesh Dhanda said on Monday. A scheme will also be started to provide fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder under the 'Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana' for children aged 1-6 in Anganwadi centres, and pregnant and lactating mothers under the Integrated Child Development Scheme, she said. Dhanda informed that Chief Minister ML Khattar would launch the 'Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana' on Wednesday for girls and women living below the poverty line (BPL). She underlined that the government was committed to the all-round development and empowerment of women. Under the 'Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana', about 22.50 lakh women aged 10-45 will be provided free sanitary napkins every month for a year, she said. Dhanda said Rs 216 crore would be spent for fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder under 'Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana' and Rs 30.80 crore under the 'Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana'. She said fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder would play an important role in reducing malnutrition. Around 200 ml of fragrant skimmed milk would be given per day for six days in a week. The minister said the ambitious scheme would reach about 9.03 lakh children and 2.95 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers visiting 25,962 Anganwadi centres in the state. She informed that sanitary napkins and fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder would be distributed door-to-door by Anganwadi workers at the villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-sanitary-napkins-for-women-below-poverty-line-in-haryana-869224.html
03-08-2020||Opinion||Off the Record: August 3, 2020||Virtual bye  On the last working day of every month in government offices in Delhi, employees are busy in organising farewells to the retiring staff. Colleagues mobilise money to arrange felicitation and tea parties to the outgoing staff and their family members. However, after Covid-19 lockdown, farewell functions were stopped in most of the offices as only skeletal staff was operating. The Railway Ministry find out a novel way to arrange retirement functions. The Ministry organised a virtual retirement function for superannuating officials connecting with all zones, divisions and production units on July 31. With 2,320 retiring from the Ministry in the last month, all of them connected on a single platform along with the officers and staff, marking the first of its kind meeting for the national transporter. Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister of State of Railways, Suresh C Angadi and other senior officers of railways addressed retiring employees online. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi Is BJP eyeing Tilak next? After appropriating Congress icons such as Sardar Patel, Madan Mohan Malviya, BJP now appears to have set its sights on Lokmanya Tilak. On the 100th death anniversary of Tilak, hailed by Mahatma Gandhi as the ‘Maker of Modern India’, BJP pulled out all stops to make it a grand occasion. Home Minister Amit Shah addressed a webinar on the occasion and drew parallels between Tilak’s insistence on Swaraj and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. BJP leaders wrote articles hailing Tilak’s contribution to nation-building. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor sought to pre-empt BJP’s moves to appropriate Tilak’s legacy by pointing out that Hinduism practised by the legendary leader was inclusive. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Surprising silence In the wake of Kerala gold smuggling case, Congress, which is the main opposition party, is constantly raising fresh allegations against the left-front government. Journalists used to seek Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s reactions to these during his routine press conferences pertaining to Covid-19. Despite the CM flaying journalists for raising such issues amidst the pandemic, journalists continued to seek reaction. Vijayan, who is quite known for his short temper, was somehow managing not to lash out. But the other day when journalists ought his reaction of an alleged pact between CPM and BJP to sabotage the gold smuggling probe, the CM maintained an unexpected silence that continued for a few seconds. Since the press conference was taking place over video conferencing, some journalists thought there was some connectivity issue. The journalist asked whether the CM could not hear him. Vijayan replied that the query did not deserve a reply and hence he remained silent. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  Fooling people Former J&K chief minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah finally broke his self-imposed silence to speak about politics last week. In an article in a national daily, he expressed his desperation to be a part of the electoral exercise if the Center restores statehood to J&K. About the special status of J&K which along with statehood was scrapped last August, he only gave a recap of what everyone knows. What he didn’t conveniently recall was his rant that he and his father (Farooq Abdullah) would lay their lives if J&K’s special status is revoked. And netizens were vocal to express their displeasure over Omar’s remarks. They questioned Omar why NC MPs continue to enjoy perks and privileges while he himself says August 5 decisions were “against the people.” But then this is how his family and party have tried to fool people over the years, starting, obviously, from the NC founder Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah himself. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-august-3-2020-868870.html
03-08-2020||Opinion||Not ‘Super CM’, I’ve been a bridge between CM and party workers, says B Y Vijayendra||Widely seen as CM BS Yediyurappa’s political heir, BY Vijayendra, 45, tells DH’s Bharat Joshi that he has been made vice president of the state BJP unit because the party’s central leadership had shown faith in his work, and not because he was Yediyurappa’s son nor as a prelude to his father being replaced as CM.   From Yuva Morcha general secretary to becoming V-P of the state unit, how will your role change in the party? I’ve been active in the party only for the last 2-3 years. I’ve been recognised at such a young age by the party’s leadership. The role of vice-president isn’t a small thing. Retaining the faith the party leadership has shown in me is the biggest challenge. I’m confident I’ll do well.  Do you have a specific area of focus?  The Old Mysuru region is a tough nut to crack for the BJP. It’s a strong JD(S) bastion. And now that DK Shivakumar is the Congress president, this region provides a good opportunity for us. Like they say, where there’s a crisis, there’s an opportunity. After the KR Pet win, the BJP definitely has good scope. People are looking towards the BJP. The KR Pet win has given us confidence, which we need to take it forward. We’ll have to work across the state, but this region needs more focus since we are weak here.  What’s the current position of the BJP in the Old Mysuru region? It’s only been a few months since Nalin Kumar Kateel became the state party president. He’s been touring the entire state. It’s only recently that office-bearers were appointed for the Old Mysuru region. The structures have been put into place, which we need to use to go to the people. This must be done.  The feeling is that your party lacks leaders in this Vokkaliga-dominated belt. If you look at Bengaluru, people of all communities are supporting the BJP. But to be honest, in the Old Mysuru region, there has been a gap from our end. We have to go to the people, we shouldn’t expect people to come to us. Also, caste is a concept that’s present only in the minds of leaders. People want only development. Agility lies in coming out of caste-based politics, and that’s the politics we need to do. We proved this in KR Pet. If you go to people, naturally people will bless you.  You say there’s been a gap. If you see some 25 years ago, when Yediyurappa was the state president, everyone said the BJP was an urban-based party. Yediyurappa took up the issues of farmers and others, he did padayatras, cycle yatras and touched the weaker sections. Gradually, the ‘urban-based party’ grew stronger in Mumbai-Karnataka, coastal Karnataka and central Karnataka. That’s what I meant. There’s scope to grow.  The BJP prides itself on its organisational skills. Why does it finish second or third in urban local body polls? There’ll be many local factors. There might have been mistakes in fielding candidates. But, in any local body election, naturally, there’s an inclination towards the ruling party. There’s nothing new in this. The next local body polls will happen in November-December. It’s too early to comment on that. Given the work happening under the Yediyurappa-led government, people are confident. And I’m confident people will support our party.  Your appointment as VP coincided with talk about change in leadership.  It’s just a coincidence. Already, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, our state president and others have clarified. There’s no discussion at the state-level or in the central leadership on this. Such a situation isn’t there. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi went to the extent of saying that the next general election will be fought under Yediyurappa’s leadership.  Do you see yourself as Yediyurappa’s successor? The BJP is not the JD(S), Shiv Sena or Samajwadi Party. There’s a world of difference between us and the Congress. So that question doesn’t arise. If I needed positions, I’d have gotten myself something within a month of Yediyurappa becoming the CM. It will be based on my work for the organisation and not because I’m Yediyurappa’s son that the party will decide what responsibility I should be given.  Under whose leadership will BJP face the next election? This will be decided by the national leadership. It’s too early. Everyone, including the people of the state, is confident that BSY will continue as CM for the next three years. This has the blessing of the national leaders as well. Why are you arriving at the conclusion that the next election will not be fought under Yediyurappa? He has the strength. Yediyurappa’s dream is to win 140+ seats and we’re working towards that. All of us, under Yediyurappa’s leadership, we will work together.  Over the last year, you’ve been dubbed ‘Super CM’ because of your role in the administration.  Naturally, as the CM’s son, there will be such allegations and discussions. All that I’ve tried to do is act as a bridge between Yediyurappa and party workers. I’ve not interfered with the administration. I understand how Yediyurappa built the party over 30-40 years, the problems and propaganda he faced when he was CM in 2009, the needless allegations that forced him to step down, the legal problems...there’s a lot of expectation in terms of development and lakhs of party workers are watching. Given all this, as CM’s son, I don’t want to create nuisance. Your party MLAs seem unhappy with the administration. Why?  When Congress was in power for five years, BJP MLAs didn’t get development funds. Then, we had the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, then elections...Almost for seven years, our MLAs saw no development or funds. There’s no denying this. Also, when Yediyurappa was CM in 2009, you know, he took the state budget outlay from Rs 36,000 crore to Rs 1 lakh crore. If our party MLAs asked for Rs 50 crore, he’d give them Rs 70 crore. He even gave funds to Opposition MLAs. Nobody was unhappy. So now, obviously, our MLAs have high expectations. But the CM’s hands are tied. There was drought, floods, Covid-19...As finance minister, he needs to maintain financial discipline. He’ll have to take up things in a phased manner. There will be answers in the coming months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/not-super-cm-i-ve-been-a-bridge-between-cm-and-party-workers-says-b-y-vijayendra-869210.html
03-08-2020||Panorama||Assessing India’s obsession with data localisation||Covid-19 has spawned contact-tracing worldwide, triggering collection and processing of personal data. Privacy protections surrounding this are nascent, raising significant concerns about their permanence in our society. The Supreme Court’s landmark Puttaswamy judgement recognised privacy as intrinsic to personal liberty under Article 21.  Concurrently, it recognised that a legitimate interest, say, an epidemic, might restrain the right — provided the doctrines of ‘necessity’ and ‘proportionality’ are satisfied. In this context, a recent order from the Kerala High Court in Balu Gopalakrishnan assumes significance.  The Kerala government contracted US-based Sprinklr Inc for Covid-related medical data analysis. Petitioners assailed this contract for lacking adequate privacy safeguards, arguing that the jurisdictional choice of New York virtually renders Indian citizens defenceless against a breach.  The court’s order pervasively focuses on ‘data localisation’, that data concerning Indian residents must reside within India to secure jurisdiction of her courts. This sentiment has been echoed by Union ministers as well. We submit that data localisation is an anachronism, and severely inhibits privacy protections envisaged under the Constitution.  A comprehensive safeguard instead necessitates attaching jurisdiction through the residence of the ‘data subject’. In fact, Delhi’s obsession with data localisation stalls the resolution of another obsolescence ailing India’s privacy regime – the absence of a data-protection legislation.  Currently, statutory protections are entirely contained within the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act). Data localisation advocates, and respondents in Gopalakrishnan argue that localisation attaches jurisdiction using Section 75(2) of the IT Act, which applies the Act extra-territorially (outside India) if a breach “involves a computer … located in India.”  Any reassurance from Section 75(2) is a facade. Consider this, Sprinklr decides to use a supercomputer in Ohio and copies data from Indian servers. The supercomputer at Ohio – containing data of Indian nationals – is breached. In such a case, Section 75(2) will not operate since the computer “located in India” was not breached, and absurdly, an Indian will be without remedy. The IT Act was designed to facilitate e-commerce, not for data protection. Thus, virtually, the entirity of its penal provisions are predicated on tangible loss (see Sections 43A, 66, 66C, 66D, and 66E). Disclosure that someone is diabetic may not cause a “loss” but is still a privacy violation – yet, the IT Act provides no remedy here.  Resolving these absurdities requires a fundamental re-imagination of our privacy jurisprudence. Jurisdiction should attach to any entity collecting, processing, and/or storing personal data based on the residence of the data subject, not its location. This approach allows greater flexibility for processing while also comprehensively protecting privacy.  The spatial approach of data-localisation is incongruent to the very concept of privacy. This was first enunciated by the US Supreme Court (Scotus) in Katz v United States, where wiretapping without entering a person’s home was challenged as a violation of Fourth Amendment rights.  The Fourth Amendment is textually spatial; it protects against unreasonable search and seizure of someone’s “persons, houses, papers, and effects.” Drafted around 1791, its text could not possibly predict the intrusion that remote technologies can accomplish today.  Therefore, like data-localisation, it was written with spatial limitations and a literal interpretation renders it redundant today. Cognizant of this vulnerability, Scotus held that privacy attaches to people, not places, and therefore, wiretapping even absent a literal intrusion was unconstitutional.  The Indian Supreme Court, in Dist Registrar & Collector v Canara Bank, adopted Katz with approval, placing individuals at the locus of privacy. In Puttaswamy, Justice Chandrachud wrote, “Privacy is a concomitant of the right of the individual to exercise control over his or her personality.” Justice Nariman distilled an informational aspect of privacy, distinct from an individual’s physical body. As a principle seeking to preserve privacy, therefore, data localisation ignores its evolution and attempts to restrict it to an obsolete conception of tangibility and spatiality.  Restrictive view To argue that Indian courts cannot pursue offenders abroad without data localisation is a restrictive view of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court in GVK Industries acknowledged Parliament’s power to legislate extra-territorially for the interests or welfare of inhabitants of India. Article 73 of the Constitution makes the Union executive power contemporaneous with Parliament’s legislative authority.  Therefore, where the welfare of Indians is concerned, legislative and executive powers of extend outside India too. The Constitution’s Fundamental Rights Charter is meant to check state authority. Consequently, it too, must operate abroad if the state pursues extra-territorial acts.  Concluding otherwise would confer absolute impunity to state action abroad, even when it infringes the rights, interests or welfare of the people of India. The Constitution provides for writs under Articles 32 and 226 for enforcing rights of Indians, indicating that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and high courts would extend extra-territorially in such cases. There is precedent for this understanding of jurisdiction. Section 4 of the IPC provides that an Indian citizen may be charged with an IPC offence committed while she is abroad, even if it is not an offence in that country. Parliament has therefore attempted to regulate the conduct of Indian citizens abroad to accord with India’s standards of criminality. In such cases, Indian courts gain congruent jurisdiction already. For data protection, Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation statutorily attaches jurisdiction based on residence of “data-subject”, rejecting data-localisation. Under the Protective Principle, international law also permits extra-territorial jurisdiction of states for its own preservation or protecting its interests. Clearly, critical personal data of its residents is at the core of a state’s interests.  In Maneka Gandhi, the SC noted that courts should “expand the reach and ambit of Fundamental Rights, rather than to attenuate their meaning and content by a process of judicial construction.” By relying on constricted and overly simplistic anachronisms like data-localisation, policy makers are turning away from this guiding principle.  (Maniktala is an LLB student, Campus Law Center, University of Delhi; Khurana, is an LLM graduate from the UCLA School of Law, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/assessing-india-s-obsession-with-data-localisation-868868.html
03-08-2020||Panorama||A bet on head start in the coronavirus vaccine race||In early May, an extremely well-sealed steel box arrived at the cold room of the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine maker. Inside, packed in dry ice, sat a tiny 1-milliliter vial from Oxford, England, containing the cellular material for one of the world’s most promising coronavirus vaccines. Scientists in white lab coats brought the vial to Building 14, carefully poured the contents into a flask, added a medium of vitamins and sugar and began growing billions of cells. Thus began one of the biggest gambles yet in the quest to find the vaccine that will bring the world’s Covid-19 nightmare to an end. The Serum Institute, which is exclusively controlled by a small and fabulously rich Indian family and started out years ago as a horse farm, is doing what a few other companies in the race for a vaccine are doing: mass-producing hundreds of millions of doses of a vaccine candidate that is still in trials and might not even work. But if it does, Adar Poonawalla, Serum’s chief executive and the only child of the company’s founder, will become one of the most tugged-at men in the world. He will have on hand what everyone wants, possibly in greater quantities before anyone else. His company, which has teamed up with the Oxford scientists developing the vaccine, was one of the first to boldly announce, in April, that it was going to mass-produce a vaccine before clinical trials even ended. Now, Poonawalla’s fastest vaccine assembly lines are being readied to crank out 500 doses each minute, and his phone rings endlessly. National health ministers, prime ministers and other heads of state (he wouldn’t say who) and friends he hasn’t heard from in years have been calling him, he said, begging for the first batches. “I’ve had to explain to them that, ‘Look, I can’t just give it to you like this,’” he said. With the coronavirus pandemic turning the world upside down and all hopes pinned on a vaccine, the Serum Institute finds itself in the middle of an extremely competitive and murky endeavour. To get the vaccine out as soon as possible, vaccine developers say they need Serum’s mammoth assembly lines — each year, it churns out 1.5 billion doses of other vaccines, mostly for poor countries, more than any other company. Half of the world’s children have been vaccinated with Serum’s products. Scale is its specialty. Just the other day, Poonawalla received a shipment of 600 million glass vials. But right now it’s not entirely clear how much of the coronavirus vaccine that Serum will mass-produce will be kept by India or who will fund its production, leaving the Poonawallas to navigate a torrent of cross-pressures, political, financial, external and domestic. India has been walloped by the coronavirus, and with 1.3 billion people, it needs vaccine doses as much as anywhere. It’s also led by a highly nationalistic prime minister, Narendra Modi, whose government has already blocked exports of drugs that were believed to help treat COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Poonawalla, 39, says that he will split the hundreds of millions of vaccine doses he produces 50-50 between India and the rest of the world, with a focus on poorer countries, and that Modi’s government has not objected to this. But he added, “Look, they may still invoke some kind of emergency if they deem fit or if they want to.” The Oxford-designed vaccine is just one of several promising contenders that will soon be mass-produced, in different factories around the world, before they are proven to work. Vaccines take time not just to perfect but to manufacture. Live cultures need weeks to grow inside bioreactors, for instance, and each vial needs to be carefully cleaned, filled, stoppered, sealed and packaged. The idea is to conduct these two processes simultaneously and start production now, while the vaccines are still in trials, so that as soon as the trials are finished — at best within the next six months, though no one really knows — vaccine doses will be on hand, ready for a world desperate to protect itself. U.S. and European governments have committed billions of dollars to this effort, cutting deals with pharmaceutical giants such as Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Sanofi and AstraZeneca to speed up the development and production of select vaccine candidates in exchange for hundreds of millions of doses. AstraZeneca is the lead partner with the Oxford scientists, and it has signed government contracts worth more than $1 billion to manufacture the vaccine for Europe, the U.S. and other markets. But it has allowed the Serum Institute to produce it as well. The difference, Poonawalla said, is that his company is shouldering the cost of production on its own. But Serum is distinct from all other major vaccine producers in an important way. Like many highly successful Indian businesses, it is family run. It can make decisions quickly and take big risks, like the one it’s about to, which could cost the family hundreds of millions of dollars. Poonawalla said he was “70 to 80%” sure the Oxford vaccine would work. But, he added, “I hope we don’t go in too deep.” Unbeholden to shareholders, the Serum Institute is steered by only two men: Poonawalla and his father, Cyrus, a horse breeder turned billionaire. More than 50 years ago, the Serum Institute began as a shed on the family’s thoroughbred horse farm. The elder Poonawalla realized that instead of donating horses to a vaccine laboratory that needed horse serum — one way of producing vaccines is to inject horses with small amounts of toxins and then extract their antibody-rich blood serum — he could process the serum and make the vaccines himself. He started with tetanus in 1967. Then snake bite antidotes. Then shots for tuberculosis, hepatitis, polio and the flu. From his stud farm in the fertile and pleasantly humid town of Pune, Cyrus Poonawalla built a vaccine empire, and a staggering fortune. Capitalizing on India’s combination of cheap labor and advanced technology, the Serum Institute won contracts from UNICEF, the Pan American Health Organization and scores of countries, many of them poor, to supply low-cost vaccines. The Poonawallas have now entered the pantheon of India’s richest families, worth more than $5 billion.   Initial trial results of the Oxford-designed vaccine showed that it activated antibody levels similar to those seen in recovering COVID-19 patients, which was considered very good news. Serum has already produced millions of doses of this vaccine for research and development, including large batches for the ongoing trials. By the time the trials finish, expected around November, Serum plans to have stockpiled 300 million doses for commercial use. But even if this vaccine fails to win the race, the Serum Institute will still be instrumental. It has teamed up with other vaccine designers, at earlier stages of development, to manufacture four other vaccines, though those are not being mass produced yet. And if all of those fail, Adar Poonawalla says he can quickly adapt his assembly lines to manufacture whatever vaccine candidate does work, wherever it comes from. “Very few people can produce it at this cost, this scale and this speed,” he said. Under the AstraZeneca deal, Serum can make 1 billion doses of the Oxford vaccine for India and lower- and middle-income countries during the pandemic and charge an amount that is no more than its production costs. After the pandemic passes, Poonawalla expects that he will be able to sell the vaccine at a profit — if it works — but his biggest concern is the near term and covering his cash flow. He estimates that he is spending around $450 million to mass-produce the Oxford vaccine. Many of his expenses might never be recouped, like the costs for the vials holding the vaccine and the chemicals used in the process. For the first time, the Poonawallas say they are considering turning to sovereign wealth or private equity funds for help. Analysts said it was likely that Serum would eventually get some financial help from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which supports global immunization programs, or maybe the Indian government. Both declined to comment. But any deal will probably be far smaller than what the big pharmaceutical companies have landed. Another difference is that those companies are vaccine developers and producers. Serum’s role, at least for the Oxford vaccine, is purely production. Either way, Adar Poonawalla said he felt an obligation to take this risk. “We just felt that this was our sort of moment,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-bet-on-head-start-in-the-coronavirus-vaccine-race-868869.html
03-08-2020||Panorama||Lung cancer: Where are we now?||Every year the August 1, is World Lung Cancer day. Lung cancer is the second most common cancer affecting Indian men and the fifth most common among India women?  The statistics presented at Globocan 2018, puts the burden of lung cancer cases in our country at over 48,500 new male cases with over 45,000 male deaths annually. While the numbers affecting our Indian women are about 19,000 new cases with about 18,000 deaths annually. This puts the overall ratio at 4.5 males affected for every 1 female. Although, data trends from urban India do suggest a decrease in this ratio given the steady rise in female chronic smokers. Lung cancer, for the most part, is preventable as long as one avoids consumption and exposure of the following risk factors. Cigarette and beedi smoking is a common primary risk factor for acquiring lung cancer. This subset of people is 10-30 times more likely to acquire this disease when compared to non-smokers. Other risk factors include: consuming tobacco and tobacco products; long time passive smokers; chronic exposure to biomass fuel like kerosene or dried animal dung particularly affects women from lower socioeconomic strata. Long term exposure to noxious chemicals fumes, chronic exposure to asbestos, lead paint, radiation are other known causes for those working in industries like petrochemicals, fertilizers, coal miners.  Lung cancer is broadly classified into two types: small cell (20-25% cases) and non-small cell lung carcinoma (75-80%). Small cell carcinomas are more aggressive and generally have a poor prognosis, while non-small cell carcinomas have a greater chance of being cured and going into remission. It is important to note that outcomes depend on (i) tumour characteristics--location, size, stage, subtype, and protein expression; (ii) patient factors include-- smoking status at the time of diagnosis, other medical conditions; willingness for and compliance to therapy. However, now with the advent of molecular diagnostics there are more than 30 subtypes of lung cancer that have been identified.  Typical symptoms to be aware of: new onset or worsening chronic cough which may be associated with spitting out fresh blood, loss of appetite, loss of more than 5% body weight in the last 6-12 months, chest pain, shortness of breath. Less common symptoms include--pain in the neck, back, shoulder, or arm; unilateral swelling of the face; engorged neck and or neck veins; drooping of the face/eye on the affected side; unexplained, persistent hoarse voice.  Once a patient is suspected to have lung cancer, the key tests advised are: (i) contrast-enhanced CT-scan of lungs to identify the tumour (ii) whole-body PET-CT scan is done to look for active tumour site (iii) lung biopsy – to obtain adequate lung tissue. For central and select peripheral tumours, us Pulmonologists have the ability to perform EndoBronchial UltraSound (EBUS) guided biopsies with excellent success rates. This is a minimally invasive procedure where we access central lung masses and targeted lymph nodes with the ability to take adequate number of biopsies under vision ensuring patient comfort and safety. The biopsy material taken is sent to our pathology colleagues for identification, classification, and characterization of tumours. Identification of tumour proteins by immunohistochemistry has proved to be a game-changer for our Medical Oncology colleagues who are now able to provide targeted drug therapy in many cases. For instance, in non-smokers with stage IV lung cancers, there is a 35% chance that the patient will harbour a mutation which will allow the patient to be treated with tablets, at home, rather than chemotherapy, at the hospital. In this case, patient selection is critical.   Treatment options available are: (i) chemotherapy (ii) radiotherapy (iii) immunotherapy. Immunotherapies have been the biggest game-changer both for the patients and their providers. With present day medications available, the quality of life has improved to where you can tell your patient – to pop a pill and live as you will! (The writer is a consultant Pulmonologist and a member of the Health Education Committee of Karnataka Pulmonologist Association)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/lung-cancer-where-are-we-now-869212.html
03-08-2020||Second Edit||Supreme Court should reopen Saifuddin Soz case||The Jammu and Kashmir administration’s submission before the Supreme Court that Congress leader Saifuddin Soz was not under detention was known to be wrong, and was proved to be false the next day with photographic evidence. The 83-year-old leader’s wife had challenged his detention in the court, but the petition was disposed of after the government submitted an affidavit which said that he was ‘’free and not under detention’’, has never been detained or placed under house arrest, and  that ‘’there are no restrictions on his movement’’. It also told the court that Soz had gone out of the state by air twice last year. The contention was proved wrong when photographs and videos of Soz were presented the next day, in which he was seen standing behind the boundary wall of his residence mounted with barbed wire, trying to talk to the media but being grabbed and pulled away by policemen. Shouting could also be heard.  It is not just surprising, but is a matter of serious concern that the government grossly misrepresented Soz’  status in the highest court of the land. There cannot be any interpretation possible of the leader’s forced confinement in his own home as anything other than detention. It is not known whether any written orders are there for his confinement and whether any technical differences between detention, arrest and any other kind of robbing of freedom are applicable in this case. But the truth is that he has not been allowed to go out of his home for one year from August 5, 2019. The government’s claim that he has gone to Delhi twice is also only technically correct. These trips were visits to meet his ailing sister on humanitarian grounds and for his own medical check-up on a recommendation from his doctor. He had to take permission from the government on both occasions. To present the visits as proof of his freedom was therefore wrong. The government has however reiterated its position even after the video has gone public.  Soz has himself said that he is not a free man, he is not being allowed to go out of his house and that the government has lied to the court. He has also said that he would go to the court again. This is a serious matter, and the court should reopen the case and consider the petition for his release again. It should take the new evidence into account and question the government why it was misled on the matter. There should be consequences for trying to mislead the court and presenting wrong facts to it, especially on a matter relating to the fundamental rights of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/supreme-court-should-reopen-saifuddin-soz-case-868864.html
03-08-2020||Second Edit||IPL will be held, and that’s a good thing||The dates have been earmarked and venues identified, the Centre’s approval appears a mere formality. The 13th edition of Indian Premier League will be held, belatedly, from September 19 to November 10 at three venues – Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah -- in the United Arab Emirates. The 53-day event will witness the gathering of 192 international and domestic cricketers, a sizable number of support staff at each franchise, scores of people working with the broadcasters, match officials, commentators, team owners and security personnel, among others. It will be a huge challenge to ensure the safety of every individual while the Covid-19 pandemic rages, the relatively lower caseload in the UAE notwithstanding. Understandably, the wisdom behind holding sporting events in these times has been questioned, with the debate assuming a morality vs money-making exercise hue, especially with the added controversy this year over continuing to accept sponsorship of Chinese companies. Unquestionably, the money involved is huge, but whether it is correct to look at the tournament only through the prism of financial gain is debatable. These are depressing times for people across the globe. Any positive distraction from the steady stream of distressing developments is welcome. Sport is one of the most effective means of putting the smiles back on people’s faces. Of course, that feel-good can’t come at the expense of safety. But, as European football leagues with a larger pool of teams and participants have shown, bio-safety bubbles can function effectively if everyone inside them acts responsibly. It’s impossible to ignore financial considerations while talking about IPL. The Board of Control for Cricket in India stands to miss out on Rs 5,000 crore of income from the non-conduct of a single edition, which will have a domino effect on the entire cricketing landscape in the country. The revenue generated from the previous 12 seasons of IPL has helped BCCI ramp up cricket infrastructure even in remote parts of the country, and helped it enhance the financial status of domestic players, even retired cricketers. The 2018-19 domestic season alone saw as many as 2,024 matches involving 37 teams amounting to 3,444 match days, almost double the preceding season. Nearly 6,500 players across age-groups were able to showcase their skills, largely because the BCCI was able to facilitate their progress. Throw in match officials, scorers, infrastructure upkeep and ground staff that maintain facilities and keep them match-ready, and the magnitude of the BCCI’s task, both financially and logistically, becomes all too evident. The revenue generated from the IPL tournament is primarily responsible for the healthy state of the sport in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ipl-will-be-held-and-that-s-a-good-thing-869204.html
03-08-2020||South||Kerala to train health workers, send them abroad: Finance Minister Thomas Isaac||Kerala has historically benefited from a large population of expatriates sending money back home, helping drive economic and social gains such as India’s highest literacy rate and the country’s highest sex ratio. The state accounted for about a fifth of some $80 billion sent home last year by Indians living abroad. The state government’s plan to invest in training health workers comes as the World Bank estimates a sharp decline in remittances globally following disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, including job losses. Isaac doesn’t see an immediate drop in remittances though. “For the simple reason that the people are returning home. Therefore, they would bring back all their savings,” he said. A sharp rise in net invisible receipts, which includes money remitted home, helped India’s current-account balance flip to a rare surplus in the quarter ended March, according to the Reserve Bank of India. Remittances by Indians employed overseas and other private transfers rose 14.8% from a year ago to $20.6 billion during the period, the RBI said. When remittances do fall, consumption will be the biggest casualty, according to Isaac. Construction activities will contract sharply and real estate is going to be damped in the near future, he said. Kerala’s per capita consumption expenditure is highest in the country, he said. The state has unveiled a number of programmes to rebuild its economy post-pandemic. These include improving technological infrastructure and offering loans and interest concessions to companies looking to relocate to the state. The government will also borrow 500 billion rupees ($6.7 billion) for the purpose through its unit - the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, while health expenditure is going to drastically increase, Isaac said. While Isaac didn’t specify how much the state would invest in training health workers, a World Health Organization study shows the number of institutes offering nursing and midwifery training more than doubled between 2005 and 2016. “There is a total collapse of the aggregate demand, and therefore common sense tells you that you borrow and spend, so that demand picks up,” he said. “That’s the way out of recession.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-train-health-workers-send-them-abroad-finance-minister-thomas-isaac-868909.html
03-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu rejects three-language formula, to continue with two-language policy||Tamil Nadu on Monday became the first state to reject the three-language formula proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) of the Union Government by declaring that it would continue with the existing two-language policy that has been in force in the state for decades. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the three-language formula finding place in the NEP released by the Centre last week was “sad” and “disappointing” and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the proposal. The state governments should be allowed to implement language formulas in line with their policy, he added. The government has also appointed a high-powered committee to go into other aspects of the NEP. “Despite the NEP released by the Centre containing a three-language formula, the government that is guided by Amma (Jayalalithaa) will never allow a three-language formula and will continue to follow the existing two-language policy,” Palaniswami said in a statement. Palaniswami’s statement came as there was wide-spread opposition in Tamil Nadu to the three-language formula proposed in the NEP. His announcement also coincided with a letter written by leaders of the DMK alliance including Opposition Leader M K Stalin asking him to reject the language formula. Language is a very sensitive issue in Tamil Nadu and the then Congress’ government’s efforts to force Hindi saw the party being thrown out of power in 1967. Since then, it has only piggy-backed on one of the Dravidian parties to face elections. The state has been following the two-language formula of English and Tamil for the past several decades and has stonewalled every move to “impose” Hindi or any other language. Political parties in Tamil Nadu believe that the three-language policy will ensure “back-door entry” to Sanskrit or Hindi in the state which has kept them at arm’s length so far. In the statement, Palaniswami noted that Tamil Nadu has been following the two-language formula for the past 80 years and recalled statements by former Chief Ministers C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa who had time and again reinforced the need for continuing with the existing language policy. “In 1968, the then Chief Minister C N Annadurai had brought a resolution in the Assembly resolving that Tamil Nadu will follow two-language policy by including Tamil and English and remove Hindi from the curriculum. In 1986, the then Chief Minister M G Ramachandran had passed another resolution reaffirming two language policy,” Palaniswami said in the statement. Late Jayalalithaa had also maintained that Hindi should not be imposed on non-Hindi speaking states, Palaniswami noted. The Centre should reconsider the three-language formula by considering the sentiments of the entire Tamil population, Palaniswami said, requesting Modi to allow states to implement the language formula in line with their policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rejects-three-language-formula-to-continue-with-two-language-policy-868934.html
03-08-2020||South||Puducherry: 4 persons succumb to Covid-19, 178 new cases||The 178 new cases took the overall tally in the union territory to 3,982 of which 1,515 (including 273 in home isolation) were active, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said at a virtual press conference. He further said as many as 2,411 patients had been treated and discharged so far. On the deaths reported in the last 24 hours ending 10 am today, the Minister said a 71-year old male patient died at centrally-administered JIPMER, while three other patients (two women in the age group of 52 and 60 years and one male patient aged 55) succumbed at the government-run Indira Gandhi Medical College Hospital. All the four patients had co-morbidities and died on Sunday, he added. Also, he said the 178 new cases were identified after examining 782 samples in 24 hours, showing a positivity rate of 22.8 percent. The Minister said that 102 patients were treated and discharged. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has so far tested 41,540 samples and found 36,894 of them to be negative. Results of examination of the remaining samples were awaited. The rate of fatality in Puducherry was 1.4 percent, the Minister said. While 125 of the 178 new cases were being treated in hospitals in Puducherry, nine were in the government GH in Karaikal followed by 42 in the GH in Yanam and the remaining two were undergoing treatment at the GH in Mahe. Yanam region, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh's East Godavari district, had a total of 151 active cases. Rao, elected from Yanam to the territorial Assembly, had been camping in the constituency for some days overseeing the arrangements to battle the infection. The Minister said he had directed the health authorities to get the adequate infrastructure ready as the number of fresh cases was likely to increase in the coming days. He said with East Godavari district registering an increase in number of patients, Yanam region was bearing the impact and hence the number of fresh cases was going up every day. The Minister appealed to the people seeking healthcare for other ailments to avoid crowding at hospitals. "I appeal to people to come to hospitals for emergency treatment only and avoid coming for small and non-serious ailments. Number of people accompanying the patients should also be minimum," he added. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said Covid-19 was spreading fast in the union territory and urged people to adhere to safety norms, particularly social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-4-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-178-new-cases-869029.html
03-08-2020||South||Congress and CPM in Kerala trying to woo secular and minority vote bases by giving RSS tag to party leaders||With the local body polls and assembly polls approaching in Kerala, the Congress and the CPM have once again triggered allegations and counter allegations of BJP-RSS links of the party leaders - a strategy to attract the secular and minority vote base of Kerala. Such political mudslinging has been quite common in Kerala during the eve of all elections. The CPM and Congress used to make allegations and counter allegations of nexus with outfits like BJP-RSS, SDPI and PFI which are having a communal tag. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and CPM politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai are the current targets and counter targets. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan made the first salvo by alleging that Chennithala, who is the current opposition leader, was trying to implement the RSS's agenda in the state and also termed him as a RSS sarsanghchalak. The CPM further alleged through party's mouthpiece 'Deshabhimani' that Chennithala's father was a RSS worker. Chennithala hit back by stating that it was highly unbecoming of a CPM leader to make such a communal remark. He is also putting up an emotional resistance by lamenting that his late father was being targeted by the CPM, even as he had no RSS connections. In the meantime, CPM suffered a jolt when the BJP mouthpiece and Congress mouthpiece claiming that CPM politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai was an RSS activist during his teenage days. He was a RSS 'Sikshak' in Kerala before being a CPM member and had even participated in RSS meeting. Pillai had not even denied this. Political analyst C A Josukutty said that by alleging links with communal outfits both the Congress and CPM were trying to attract the secular vote base of Kerala. By alleging of BJP-RSS nexus, both Congress and CPM might be trying to attract the Christian and Muslim vote base, which comes to around 45 percent of the state's voters and an influential factor in many constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-and-cpm-in-kerala-trying-to-woo-secular-and-minority-vote-bases-by-giving-rss-tag-to-party-leaders-869067.html
03-08-2020||South||Kerala: Coins removed from boy who died after swallowing them||Two coins were recovered from the body of a three-year-old boy in Kerala who died after swallowing coins. A postmortem examination of the body of Prithviraj, who died during the late hours of Saturday, recovered two coins from his large intestine. The initial diagnosis of doctors was that there was only one coin. The preliminary assumption of the doctors was that the death could not be due to swallowing coins as no internal injuries were found. Since the coin reached the large intestine, it could have gone out through excretion. Further chemical examinations were being done to ascertain the cause of death, sources said quoting doctors. Prithviraj, son of Raju and Nadini hailing from Aluva in Ernakulam district, was allegedly denied proper treatment at three hospitals. The child was taken to the hospitals on Saturday and was referred from one after the other and was finally sent back home from Alappuzhamedical college hospital by advising to have plenty of plantain and rice so that the coin would go out through excretion. But the child died by late on Saturday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-coins-removed-from-boy-who-died-after-swallowing-them-869089.html
03-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu youth groups write to Centre rejecting draft EIA 2020 notification||More than 75 groups representing youth in Tamil Nadu on Monday wrote to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to “abandon” the “unconstitutional” draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 notification. In their petition, the youth groups, including the Chennai Climate Action Group, said the draft EIA notification rewards violators and rewards regulatory lethargy, turns the task of environment impact assessment into an environment management and dilutes the existing mandatory provisions to discretionary ones. The draft EIA notification has created a major storm in Tamil Nadu with not just environmentalists and youngsters lending their voice against the draft report but also prominent actors who have come out openly asking people to join the fight in protecting the environment. Popular actor Karthi released a detailed statement last week punching holes in the draft EIA notification and he was soon joined by his actor-brother Suriya. Another actor Anamika also came out against the draft notification. “Your ministry’s decisions to weaken environmental laws and to specifically undo the meagre protections offered by the EIA Notification, 2006 come at a time when the world is staring at the very real prospect of climate mayhem. Your actions are irresponsible, reckless and insensitive to our rights as young people, the rights of future generations and other living beings,” they said in the petition. The organisations also pointed out a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that warned that global average temperature increase of 1.5 degree Celsius cannot be averted unless emissions are slashed to five times the current amount. They also referred to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ assessment that the sub-continent is set to be particularly hard hit to argue against the draft notification. "We are writing to urge you to abandon the draft EIA Notification, 2020, which is the latest in a series of actions taken by your ministry to dilute environmental laws in the name of ease of doing business. This is short-sighted. Any economy that is based on a premise that nature is expendable is doomed to self-destruct,” they wrote in the petition. They alleged that the proposed EIA notification weakens the body of laws that protect the environment at a time the government needs to strengthen such statutes. “Worse, the proposed rules seek to enrich businesses and the corporate sector by emasculating democracy, limiting public participation and due diligence, and rewarding environmental offenders by facilitating post-facto environmental clearances for projects that begin or are completed without license,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-youth-groups-write-to-centre-rejecting-draft-eia-2020-notification-869105.html
03-08-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan admits laxity in containing Covid-19||Admitting laxity in containing the spread of Covid-19, Kerala government has decided to engage police for contact tracing and stringent enforcement of containment measures. Indirectly accusing Opposition parties for Covid-19 spike, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the mass gatherings and demonstrations were organised without following the social distancing norms. These led to laxity in the fight against Covid-19. Vijayan said that police would be able to trace contacts quite swiftly, enforce containment measures effectively and check quarantine violations. Hence police were being given the charge. Ernakulam city police commissioner IG Vijay Sakhare, who effectively led lockdown measures in Kasargod, was made the nodal officer for these measures. As many as 962 fresh cases were reported in Kerala on Monday, of which 801 were due to local spread. With the death of two more, the total Covid-19 deaths reached 84, and the active cases reached 11,487 as 815 more recovered. Around 174 clusters were so far spotted in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-admits-laxity-in-containing-covid-19-869112.html
03-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu sees record 109 single-day Covid-19 deaths; recoveries cross 2 lakh||Maintaining its robust recovery of Covid-19 patients, Tamil Nadu on Monday saw the cumulative discharges crossing the two lakh milestone while the daily deaths breached the 100 mark for the first time. The state recorded 5,609 fresh cases, taking the overall infection count to 2,63,222, a health department bulletin said. As many as 109 people succumbed to the coronavirus as the death toll mounted to 4,241, it said. On the positive side, a total of 5,800 people were discharged, eclipsing the new cases on Monday and taking the total recoveries to 2,02,283. Active cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 56,698, the bulletin said. Tamil Nadu is the second state to cross the two lakh mark in recoveries after Maharashtra, though the latter's case tally is much more at 4,41,228. Chennai registered 1,021 new cases, taking its tally to 1,02,985. The bulletin said as many as 58,211 samples were tested on Monday while the overall specimens examined stood at 28.37 lakh so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-record-109-single-day-covid-19-deaths-recoveries-cross-2-lakh-869115.html
03-08-2020||South||Probe in Sri Lankan underworld don’s death transferred to CB-CID||Sri Lanka’s underworld gangster Angoda Lokka, who was hiding in Coimbatore under the name of Pradeep Singh for the past two years, died on July 3 under mysterious circumstances. Three people, who claimed to be the kingpin’s relative and cremated his body in Madurai after taking it from Coimbatore by road, have now been arrested. Lokka, whose real name is Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera, is understood to have been living in the industrial city of Coimbatore since 2018, following his escape from Sri Lanka. Amani Thanji, a Sri Lankan national who was living with him, Sivagami Sundari from Madurai and Dyaneswaran from Tiruppur have been arrested for helping Lokka procure fake documents and cremating him in Madurai. Since the case has international ramifications, Tamil Nadu government transferred the probe to its CB-CID wing. The Coimbatore Police began a probe after it received an input from Sri Lankan Government that Lokka was murdered in the city. Sri Lanka believes Lokka was poisoned to death in Coimbatore. Police said Lokka was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 3 by the trio who said he has suffered a cardiac arrest. The trio, who claimed to have been his relatives, admitted Lokka as Pradeep Singh and produced Aadhar card and other documents as proof to the hospital authorities. After Lokka was declared dead, the trio collected his body and travelled to Madurai for cremation, the reason for which is not known immediately. The trio had produced the aforementioned documents for travelling to Madurai for the cremation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/probe-in-sri-lankan-underworld-don-s-death-transferred-to-cb-cid-869116.html
03-08-2020||South||Restrictions on liquor shops in Telangana lifted||The Telangana government on Monday decided to allow liquor shops here to be open till 11 pm thereby lifting the restrictions imposed on them in the wake of the virus spread. The timings for the retail liquor outlets have been restored to their original timings, said a notification issued by the director, prohibition and excise. The shops in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area were allowed to sell from 10 am to 11 pm while those in the rest of the state were open from 10 am to 10 pm.\ This was in accordance with the licence agreement with the government. As of Sunday, the outlets in the state were open from 10 am to 9.30 pm. Sources in the Telangana Wine Dealers Association claimed they had lost over Rs 160 crore towards licence fee during the Covid-19 induced lockdown and the government should be taken into account the losses incurred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/restrictions-on-liquor-shops-in-telangana-lifted-869123.html
03-08-2020||South||Chandrababu Naidu dares Jaganmohan Reddy to withdraw 3 capitals plan in two days or seek fresh public mandate||Telugu Desam Party chief and former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Chandrababu Naidu dared Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy to withdraw his three capitals decision within 48 hours or abolish the state Legislative Assembly to seek a fresh public mandate on his decision for trifurcation. On Monday, Naidu reminded Reddy that he and his YSRCP party leaders had, during the 2019 elections, promised people that Amaravati would continue as the only capital. “After making such a promise, the CM has no right to shift the capital without the approval of all the five-crore people of the state,” Naidu said while addressing a virtual press conference. In a major momentum for Reddy’s plans of constituting three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, the state’s Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan assented to the capital decentralisation bills on Friday. The Reddy government had, in January, introduced two bills in the legislature - one to strip the Amaravati region of its capital status and other to set up three capitals for the state – the executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The much contentious blueprint is being opposed by the TDP and Jana Sena. Amaravati locals, especially the region’s farmers are in an agitation mode since 17 December, when Reddy announced his intention to dismantle Naidu’s plans of a world-class, mega capital in the Guntur district. “If the people vote for and bring the YSRCP back to power in the re-election, then the TDP would humbly accept their mandate. We would not raise any dissenting voice again,” Naidu said in a reiteration of his demand since December. “If the CM does not come out with a proper response, the TDP along with the other opposition parties would intensify their agitation not just through legal battles but also to make the CM stand as a culprit in the people's court,” the TDP chief said. Naidu recalled that YSRCP's 2019 election manifesto committee chairman Ummareddy Venkateswarlu “as repeatedly assuring people then that their party, if voted to power, would continue AP’s capital in Amaravati developing it into a well-equipped city.” In 2015, when Naidu was the CM, farmers of 29 villages constituting Amaravati gave 33,000 acres for the capital under a land pooling scheme. “Agreements were reached with thousands of farmers by the government-formed Capital Region Development Authority. Promises were made to farmers that nine cities would be developed, and large-scale investments would pour in. (The capital shift) would amount to breach of trust,” Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandrababu-naidu-dares-jaganmohan-reddy-to-withdraw-3-capitals-plan-in-two-days-or-seek-fresh-public-mandate-869141.html
03-08-2020||South||Private hospital in Hyderabad barred from Covid-19 treatment after complaints of exorbitant charging||The Telangana government has revoked the Covid-19 treatment permission for a Hyderabad hospital found to have flouted the ceilings fixed for billing and charging exorbitant amounts from the patients. The move was following several complaints against the hospital in Somajiguda, especially one on twitter by Anreddy Radhesh that prompted IT and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao to appeal to the health minister Eatala Rajender to act on the said hospital. In a series of tweets last week, Anreddy who lost his mother, father and brother to Covid-19 and himself tested positive alleged that the Deccan Hospital failed in providing proper care, did not even change soiled diapers of his father and disallowed his body out until he paid lakhs of rupees. “Deeply anguished on hearing about the tragic loss of your family members Radhesh. Exploitation in these times by private hospitals is deplorable and a shame. Request the health minister to take the strictest action against these irresponsible institutions ASAP,” Rao had tweeted. On Monday, an order from the director of public health, invoking the provisions of Telangana Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2002 and the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, stated the hospital’s Covid-19 treatment permissions are revoked. Several complaints were received against Ms Deccan Hospital that it is charging exorbitantly, flouting the ceilings fixed with inappropriate and surplus billing, officials said. “No new Covid-19 patient shall be admitted by the said hospital; and no inconvenience should be caused to already admitted patients and they have to be treated as per ceilings fixed. If it is found that the said hospital is not following these orders, then the government will be compelled to cancel the license issued to the hospital,” the orders said. From mid-June, the Telangana government allowed COVID-19 tests and treatment in private hospitals while capping the rates. While treatment in ICU is fixed at Rs 7,500 per day without ventilator support and Rs 9,000 with ventilator use, for isolation, one has to pay only Rs 4,000 per day, Rajender had announced. However, many such Covid-19 hospitals were found to have been operating in blatant defiance of government rules. Telangana has recorded a total of 67,660 positive cases till Monday, out of which officials say 48,609 have recovered. The state has 551 Covid-19 related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/private-hospital-in-hyderabad-barred-from-covid-19-treatment-after-complaints-of-exorbitant-charging-869159.html
03-08-2020||South||Karnataka Covid-19 death toll reaches 2,594; 4,752 new cases||Karnataka's Covid-19 daily count dropped below the 5,000 mark for the first time in 10 days on Monday, while it reported 98 fresh deaths, taking the death toll to 2,594. The state recorded 4,752 cases taking the total number of infections to 1,39,571, while 4,776 patients were discharged after recovery, the health department said. Bengaluru urban topped the list of fresh cases, with 1,497 infections out of the total of 4,752 cases. As of August 3 evening, cumulatively 1,39,571 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 2,594 deaths and 62,500 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 74,469 active cases, 73,840 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 629 are in Intensive Care Units. "The number of recoveries in a single day has outnumbered the number of new cases for the 2nd consecutive day today. 4,776 people have recovered in the state today and 4,752 new cases have been reported. Bengaluru has reported 2,693 discharges and 1,497 new cases," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. The mortality rate in the state stands at 1. 86 percent, while the recovery rate is at 44.78 percent. Stating that Karnataka's Covid recovery rate is improving steadily, Sudhakar in another tweet said, "The recovery rate in the state increased by 5.67 percent in the last one week and 9.17 percent in Bengaluru (till August 2)." Twenty-seven out of the 98 deaths reported on Monday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (13), Belagavi (10), Dharwad (8), Dakshina Kannada (7), Kalaburagi and Hassan (5 each), Tumakuru and Bidar (3 each), Ballari, Gadag, Haveri, Vijayapura, Chikkaballapur and Davangere (2 each), and Udupi, Raichur, Yadgir, Chamarajanagara and Uttara Kannada (1). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,497, Mysuru 372, Ballari 305, Bagalkote 209, Dharwad 191, Kalaburagi 170, Koppal 157, Shivamogga 155, Dakshina Kannada 153, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 60,998 infections, followed by Ballari 7,354 and Dakshina Kannada 6,163, the bulletin said. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with total 23,603 discharges, Kalaburagi 3,318, and Ballari 3241. A total of 14,46,558 samples were tested so far, out of which 27,989 were tested on Monday alone. Among the samples tested today 18,074 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-2594-4752-new-cases-869166.html
03-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh government ties up with ITC, HUL and P&G for women's economic empowerment||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday signed a pact with three FMCG companies -- Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL), ITC and Procter and Gamble (P&G) -- for marketing and technology support for economic empowerment of women under two new schemes to be launched soon. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed in the presence of Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy here. HUL Chairman and Managing Director Sanjiv Mehta, ITC Executive Director Sanjiv Puri and P&G India CEO Madhusudan Gopalan participated through a video conference. "Women empowerment and their self-reliance are very vital for strengthening the rural economy," an official statement quoted the CM as having said in the meeting. The companies will give handholding to women under the YSR Cheyutha scheme, to be launched on August 12, that aims to provide annual financial assistance of Rs 18,750 for next four years to women of 45-60 years age group belonging to SC, ST, backward class and minorities communities, it said. The companies will help in providing marketing opportunities and technology support to women under this proposed scheme benefiting 25 lakh women in the state. The government will spend Rs 4,500 crore for this scheme in the first year, it added. Apart from YSR Cheyutha, the government said it plans to launch another scheme YSR Asara in September under which Rs 6,700 crore will be spent annually on 90 lakh women and 9 lakh self-help groups in the state. "The partnership with companies will push women across the state to obtain more employment opportunities that will provide a steady income," it said. HUL's Sanjiv Mehta said the company has been running a programme called Shakti for women empowerment in Chittoor district and is happy to work with the state government, the statement said. ITC's Sanjeev Puri said the company can extend cooperation in watershed programmes, social forestry, health and sanitation and post harvesting. P&G's Madhusudhan Gopalan said, "We are happy to be part of the YSR Cheyutha which would generate employment opportunities." In a separate event, the Chief Minister also launched a web portal to provide information on various issues like cybercrime, harassment and other issues for women safety. The portal will create awareness on how and where to complain about the crime, how to download Disha App and has all the important phone numbers to contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-ties-up-with-itc-hul-and-pg-for-womens-economic-empowerment-869203.html
03-08-2020||South||Man held for distasteful comments on Amit Shah's condition||A person has been arrested for allegedly uploading objectionable posts on Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is infected with Covid-19, in the social media, police said on Monday. The man, who was held on Sunday night, claims to be associated with the Karnataka Congress social media unit, the police said. The accused has made derogatory comments on Shah's health condition and been booked by the police. Shah on Sunday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and is getting admitted to a hospital following doctor's advice. Meanwhile, state Congress president D K Shivakumar appealed to the party workers to not make defamatory statements against any political leader and said it was not the party's culture. "I appeal to Congress workers to not make defamatory statements against any political leader on matters of health and other issues on social media platforms. It is not in our culture to speak ill of others," he tweeted. Congress is a party that exemplifies brotherhood and humanity, Shivakumar added in his tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-held-for-distasteful-comments-on-amit-shahs-condition-869220.html
03-08-2020||State||Bengaluru travellers cause Covid-19 spike in districts||In the 48 hours before the government introduced a one-week lockdown in Bengaluru on July 14, thousands fled the city for other districts and states. Data now suggests that these people contributed to a sudden surge in cases in other districts. According to the Department of Transport, nearly 30,000 people, primarily labourers, left the city for their home districts.  Before the Covid-19 “surge” on June 21, an average of 14% of all Covid-19 cases in the state were in Bengaluru from June 1 to June 20. When the surge began on June 21, an average of 44% of all statewide cases were from the city. The biggest share was reported on June 29, when 67% of all state cases were in the city. However, days after people left Bengaluru in droves, the city’s share dropped to its lowest of 28% on July 27.  Tellingly, that same day, several other districts registered triple-digit percentage increases over the figures they had seven days before. Experts have described new cases as being a reflection of the situation at least seven days before. Kalaburagi, for example, registered 631 cases (a jump of 408%), Udupi (225 cases - a 129% increase), Ballari (840 - a 259% increase) and Belagavi (155 - a 158% rise). “We saw something similar in Maharashtra where the virus spread to cities like Pune and Nagpur,” said Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist and Expert Committee member, who had predicted that people fleeing Bengaluru would push up cases in districts. “Existing evidence tells us that the virus will go to susceptible areas,” he added. District evidence Kalaburgi deputy commissioner B Sharath was blunt in what was driving up numbers in his district: travellers from Bengaluru. Meanwhile, at Dakshina Kannada, which has registered 3,657 new cases since July 14, Dr Rajendra K V, the deputy commissioner, explained that his district was testing nearly 2,000 suspected Covid-19 cases every day. Till July 14, the district had only 2,353 cases in total. “Travellers are a source. We get at least one chartered international flight every day plus Vande Bharat flights, where less than 10% of passengers are infected. Asymptomatics are slipping through. People are coming into the district from other places, including from Bengaluru, because we have good medical infrastructure,” he said. He cautioned, however, that travellers could not be solely blamed, as science still had not yet managed to crack all the secrets of the virus. ‘Track deaths’ “More than cases, we should look at deaths as a measure of what the shift in caseload implies,” Dr Babu said, adding that death rates had shot up in several districts. “According to the reported data, Haveri is showing a very worrying seven-day moving average of fatalities. On July 11, it had four deaths; on July 18, it was nine and on July 25, it became 23,” he said. Three other districts also showing high death rates as of the last 10 days are Koppal, Chikkmagaluru and Kolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-travellers-cause-covid-19-spike-in-districts-868847.html
03-08-2020||State||Karnataka records single-day high recoveries of 4,077||Sunday proved a milestone for Covid-19 discharges, with a record 4,077 people walking out of hospitals in the state in a single day. In Bengaluru alone, 2,331 Covid patients were discharged, which was higher than the number of new cases. The next highest number of patient discharges was reported from Raichur with 153 and Tumkur 150. The state reported 5,532 fresh infections and 84 new deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of new cases are on par with a trend established on July 23, when the state’s Covid-19 daily total hit the 5,000-mark and the numbers have not dropped since then.  The largest chunk of cases were in Bengaluru (2,105 cases), followed by Ballari (377 cases), Kalaburagi and Mysuru (238 cases each), Raichur (212 cases), Udupi (182 cases) and Dharwad (181 cases). Eight more districts recorded cases in three figures while the remaining districts reported fresh cases in two digits Of the deaths, Bengaluru Urban accounted for highest Covid-related fatalities with 21 patients succumbing to the virus. Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada reported 10 deaths each followed by Dharwad 8. Just five of the reported new deaths had happened on Sunday while 18 of them were from Saturday. The remaining fatalities were from July.  The youngest fatality was a 20-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada, who died on July 31 at a private hospital within hours of being identified as Covid positive.  She had hypertension and chronic kidney disease, and had developed breathlessness. The oldest fatality was an 87-year-old woman in Bengaluru. The woman died at a private hospital on July 19, three days after being hospitalised. She had symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and had developed heart complications. As many as 64% of deaths had symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), and had breathlessness, a late-stage symptom while 11 had symptoms of ILI. The origin of infection for the remaining deaths are still being investigated.   Bengaluru snapshot According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, a majority of the new Covid-19 cases are in their thirties, while the next largestage-group is people in their forties. Among those discharged, the largest age-group is people in their fifties, followed by people in their forties. The largest number of cases were found in the city’s West Zone, followed by South Zone with 18%. According to the Palike data, 9,375 samples were collected/tested in the city on Sunday. The city currently has 13,726 containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-single-day-high-recoveries-of-4077-868856.html
03-08-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's daughter tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's daughter has also tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru, news agency ANI reported. The hospital also said that Yediyurappa's condition was 'clinically stable'.    On Sunday, the chief minister tweeted he had tested positive for the virus and was being admitted to the hospital as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-868890.html
03-08-2020||State||Fishing sector takes a hit due to virus scare, labour shortage in Karnataka||The Covid-19 scare and non-availability of labourers have deeply affected the lives of people dependent on the fishing industry in the Udupi district. There are more than 1,700 mechanised boats in Malpe fisheries port. Thousands of people earn their livelihood from the sector. Once the fishing season commences, the activities will commence in the port with the auctioning of the fish catch and export of the fish outside the state. The sealing down of the port will have its impact on the economy and financial conditions of the fishermen, said fishermen leaders. Malpe Fishermen Association President Krishna Suvarna said the fishing sector has been suffering for various reasons for the past two years and added that now due to Covid-19, the boat owners are facing the burden of loan. “The industries dependent on the fishing sector are also in distress. We could not carry out fishing properly during this year,” Suvarna said. “We did not get any expected support from the government as well,” he alleged. “The decision to resume mechanised fishing will be taken shortly after consulting the fisheries minister, MLAs and deputy commissioner. A meeting of the fishermen leaders will also be convened shortly,” Suvarna said. Meanwhile, Fisheries Department Deputy Director Ganesh said according to the government’s direction deep sea fishing is allowed from August 1. “Looking at the present situation, it looks like the resumption of fishing likely to be delayed,” he added. Samudra Puja The fishermen leaders said Samudra Puja will be offered at Malpe on August 3, after offering prayers at Balarama Temple and Parivara Daiva at Vadabandeshwara in Malpe. Fish catch In Udupi, the fish catch during 2019-20 was 1,21,479 tonne worth Rs 1,197 crore. It was 1,17,895 tonne worth Rs 1,450 crore in 2018-19 and 1,28,136 tonne worth Rs 1,580 crore in 2017-18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fishing-sector-takes-a-hit-due-to-virus-scare-labour-shortage-in-karnataka-868910.html
03-08-2020||State||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa's son, Vijayendra, under home quarantine||Karnataka state BJP vice president BY Vijayendra will undergo home quarantine for seven days, after his father Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid-19. Though, according to sources, Vijayendra had tested negative in a recent test, he will be under quarantine as a precautionary measure. "Thank you all for your messages and prayers. My father Shri B.S.Yediyurappa-ji is doing fine and under observation of doctors who said there is no need to worry. As a precaution, I will observe home quarantine for next 7 days," he said in a tweet.  Yediyurappa had revealed that he had tested positive but was asymptomatic, during the late hours of Sunday evening and is admitted to a private hospital in the city. Vijayendra, who was appointed BJP vice president on Friday, had tweeted a photo of him meeting his father on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-yediyurappas-son-vijayendra-under-home-quarantine-868949.html
03-08-2020||State||KPCC member Anand Prasad arrested for defamatory tweet on Amit Shah||The Cubbon Park police in Bengaluru have arrested a Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) member on Monday for posting a derogatory and defamatory post on Union Home Minister Amit Shah. According to the police, the arrested Anand Prasad is the secretary of Karnataka Congress IT Cell Secretary and KR Puram Block Congress President. The police have invoked section 153(A) of the IPC against him.  After a few miscreants posted a defaming tweet on the health conditions of union minister Amit Shah, Anand Prasad had replied to the tweet in a provoking and derogatory manner. Following his tweet, a complaint was registered with the Cubbon Park police station. Acting on the complaint, the cops have arrested Anand Prasad and are investigating further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpcc-member-anand-prasad-arrested-for-defamatory-tweet-on-amit-shah-868955.html
03-08-2020||State||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa may have to remain in hospital for 8 to 10 days: K Sudhakar||All those who met Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who has tested positive for Covid-19, in the last three-four days will have to be quarantined, Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K said on Monday. He also said those who came in contact with Yediyurappa in a couple of programmes in the past week are being traced. Sudhakar, a medical doctor himself, said Yediyurappa has "very mild cough and his chest is clear." "I think eight to ten days," he told PTI when asked how long the Chief Minister would have to remain in hospital. Sudhakar said he is also getting himself tested as a few of his office staff had tested positive. "All those who met the Chief Minister in the last 3-4 days...ideally they should be quarantined till they receive their results/report. Those who came in contact with him in a couple of programmes will have to isolate themselves and subject themselves for testing," the Minister said. On the Chief Minister meeting Governor Vajubhai Vala, along with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai last Friday, Sudhakar said as a result "They also become primary contacts. Ideally, they should also be quarantined and tested." Yediyurappa who was hospitalised on Sunday night after testing positive for Covid-19 was "doing well" and is "clinically stable", the hospital treating him said. The 77-year old leader is being monitored by a team of doctors at the Manipal hospital here. "He is doing well, is clinically stable and will be monitored closely by our team," the hospital said in a statement late last night. "I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine," Yediyurappa had said in his tweet. Yediyurappa was in home quarantine a couple of weeks ago, after some staff members in his home office were found infected with the virus. Subsequently, he tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-may-have-to-remain-in-hospital-for-8-to-10-days-k-sudhakar-868964.html
03-08-2020||State||Hindu outfits donate silver brick worth Rs 10 lakh to Ayodhya||Hindu outfit leaders and devotees of Sri Ram of Davangere have decided to donate silver brick worth Rs 10 lakh to proposed Sri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh in memory of those died in Davangere in 1990.  Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, former president of District BJP Unit President Yashwanth Rao Jadhav said as many as eight persons were killed in golibar incident that took place due to communal riot at Venkateshwara circle on Beturu road on October 6 in 1990 in Davangere city. More than 100 persons were injured in the incident. The names of eight martyrs had been carved on the brick.  He said a special programme will be organised in the city on October 6 and family members of the martyrs would be honoured in the event.  He said puja would be performed to silver brick weighing 15 kg on that day. Later it would be donated to proposed Sri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya either through Udupi based Pejawar mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swamiji or office bearers of the outfits would go to Ayodhya and donate the same, he explained||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hindu-outfits-donate-silver-brick-worth-rs-10-lakh-to-ayodhya-869054.html
03-08-2020||State||VIT students bag plum job offers from MNCs||Overcoming the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic, more than 100 BTech students from the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) have secured 'Super Dream' placement offers with pay package of more than Rs 10 lakh per annum. The campus placement at VIT which began on July 14 for the 2021 graduating batch had seven companies in the slot-1 of the 'Super Dream' companies such as Amazon, Paypal, D.E.Shaw India Pvt. Ltd., Morgan Stanley, AppDyamics, Udaan and WorkIndia. According to the statement by the VIT, the entire recruitment process was done online and remotely. "The companies had the pre-placement talk, online test, technical and HR interviews, all of them were conducted online and remotely," the statement said. Students from all the four campuses of VIT took part in the recruitment process. "Amazon has selected 11 students for internships, out of whom three got full time offers, Paypal -10, AppDynamics-5, Udaan- 1, WorkIndia -2, D EShaw India Pvt. Ltd-3 and Morgan Stanley-2. The highest offer was made by AppDynamics with Rs. 39.20 lakh as CTC for five students," Dr G Viswanathan, Chancellor of VIT said. This apart, Societe Generale selected 43 students with a CTC of Rs.13.12 lakh per year. Students from the 2021 graduating batch who did their summer internships in companies have also got pre placement offers. Microsoft made seven such offers to the summer intern students with a CTC of Rs.44 lakh per annum. At present, this is the highest CTC offered by a company for the 2021 graduating batch in VIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vit-students-bag-plum-job-offers-from-mncs-869084.html
03-08-2020||State||Finance dept takes over HR management system||In a bid to streamline expenditure of various departments and ease the process of delegating financial powers, the Human Resource Management System (HRMS) of the government will now be handled by the Finance Department. HRMS, which maintains service documents of government employees, was being handled by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (e-governance), before it was transferred recently. According to the government order, transferring HRMS to Finance Department "will ease the process of disbursing salaries, settling individual claims, releasing additional funds and various other works." If HRMS and Khajane-2 - which is used to execute financial transactions such as bill preparation, bill submission to treasuries among others - work in tandem, it will ease the process of managing expenses of individual departments and delegation of financial powers. The move, according to sources, is aimed at plugging leakage of resources from various departments, especially at a time when the state is under severe financial stress. In the order for delegation of financial powers issued in June, the Finance Department had directed all departments and corporations to use HRMS for transparency in payment of salaries. The order had also made it mandatory for all departments to draw salaries using the HRMS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/finance-dept-takes-over-hr-management-system-869087.html
03-08-2020||State||Refrain from harsh comments: D K Shivakumar||Following the arrest of a Congress worker over derogatory comments regarding the health of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, KPCC president D K Shivakumar urged party workers to refrain from making such remarks. “I appeal to Congress workers not to make defamatory statements against any political leader on matters of health and other issues on social media platforms. It is not in our culture to wish bad for others. Congress is a party that exemplifies brotherhood and humanity,” he tweeted. Cubbon Park police had arrested KPCC IT Cell Secretary Anand Prasad on Monday under IPC Section 153(A) for the social media post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/refrain-from-harsh-comments-d-k-shivakumar-869196.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Road widening to swallow green cover in Sharavathi sanctuary||The proposal by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for widening the Kumta-Sirsi Road — which passes through the Sharavathy Valley Wildlife Sanctuary — has secured in-principle approval, putting more pressure on the biodiversity hotspot threatened by several development projects. About 1.5 km of the 59 km road between Sirsi-Kumta passes through the sanctuary, where the KPTCL is already drilling for a survey for the proposed 2000 MW pumped storage electricity project.  According to the NHAI, the road will be widened into a two-lane road with paved shoulders but will come at the cost of green cover. As per the proposal, more than 10,185 trees will be cut and about 52 acres of forest land in Honnavar and Sirsi division will be diverted for road work. Officials have also proposed earth cutting works in the ghat section. The proposal is aimed at establishing better port connectivity through the Western Ghats. In another section, the NHAI is widening the 4 km road between Belekeri and Hattikeri. The Regional Expert Committee, which had discussed the project twice earlier, has given in-principle approval with several conditions after getting a mitigation plan. The width of the road in the ghat section was also reduced. However, cutting more than 1.2 acres in Devimane Ghat and 0.5 acres in Bandal Ghat has been seen as necessary. “Cutting at some points cannot be avoided” to facilitate turning of multi-axle vehicles. A member of the committee said the project will disturb the wildlife in the sanctuary, whose area was extended to 93,016 hectares to protect the endangered lion tailed macaque. “The mere increase in traffic flow itself will come as a major nuisance. After we insisted on reducing the impact, the road width came down. This has helped avoiding diversion of 9 more acres,” he said, adding that disturbing the landscape will further aggravate the problems in the Western Ghats which is facing landslides every year. To a question, K P Singh, chairman of the committee, said that all precautions have been taken to mitigate the project impact. “The REC had ensured that the project authority reduces the width of the road in ghats which reduced the diversion of land in such areas by 3.67 ha. We will also ensure no cutting will take place in the ghat section. Mitigation measures proposed by the chief wildlife warden will be implemented,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/road-widening-to-swallow-green-cover-in-sharavathi-sanctuary-868849.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa is doing well, clinically stable, says hospital||Chief Minister Yediyurappa, who was admitted to the Manipal hospital on Old Airport Road on Sunday night has been stable and responding to the treatment. Sources close to the chief minister’s family revealed to DH that BS Yediyurappa's health is being closely monitored by an expert team of doctors. The chief minister is also reportedly being assisted by his elder daughter BY Padmavathi who had also been admitted at Manipal hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.  “The CM is doing fine and speaking normally with all the staff. He has carried a couple of books to read during the treatment. He even held an informal meeting with the treating doctors and nurses while having breakfast on Monday morning and inquired about their work condition and pressure as they have been working for over four months continuously,” a source close to the CM’s family revealed.  Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and Leader of Opposition in the state Siddaramaiah have wished Yediyurappa a speedy recovery. "I wish Hon'ble CM @BSYBJP a speedy recovery. @CMofKarnataka," Gowda said on Twitter. "I wish Shri. B S Yediyurappa a speedy recovery & to return with good health to continue his work for the people," Siddaramaiah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-is-doing-well-clinically-stable-says-hospital-868912.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six persons at CM B S Yediyurappa's residence test Covid-19 positive||A day after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid-19, the health officials descended on the official residence of the chief minister, Cauvery, and his home office, Krishna, to sanitise the locations and trace his contacts. As many as four ambulances rushed to both the locations to ferry the chief minister's contacts to quarantine facilities. Health and BBMP personnel also sanitised the area around the chief minister’s personal residence, Dhavalagiri, in Dollar’s Colony. Sources at the chief minister’s home office revealed to DH that currently random tests are being carried out on all the staffers including security personnel, cooks, housekeeping staff and others. “Doctors and paramedical staff have been conducting rapid tests on staffers. Depending on the reports, the staff will either be quarantined or shifted to Covid Care Centres,” a senior officer from the CM office revealed.     A senior health official, refusing to be quoted, said, “As many as six people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the random testing including chief minister’s gunman, driver, and three house-keeping staffers at Cauvery. All of them have been now shifted to CCCs for further treatment.” All of the persons who tested Covid-19 positive have been rushed to Covid Care Centre at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BEIC).  Even the staff who are on leave have been summoned for testing, sources said.  Officials working at his home office also confirmed that in the last three to four days, no public has come in contact with the chief minister. “Last three to four days interactions have been at large with the cabinet colleagues, bureaucrats related to the chief minister’s departments, office and residence staffers, his family members and a few of the MLAs,” a source explained. A massive sanitisation drive was carried out in and around the official residences.  Chief Minister Office officials have banned the entry to Yediyurappa's home office 'Krishna' for the next 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-persons-at-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-residence-test-covid-19-positive-868948.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nothing to worry, will be discharged soon, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Reassuring people of the state that he was doing fine, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that there was nothing to worry about his health and will be discharged soon. In a video message, Yediyurappa said, "There is nothing to worry about. I will be discharged soon and start work," he said. The chief minister was admitted to Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road on late Sunday evening after he tested positive for coronavirus during a routine Covid-19 test. "Doctors have conducted all the required tests and have observed that there are no complications. I will recover soon," he said. Yediyurappa said that he was in touch with all government officials since yesterday itself, so as to ensure that government works are not affected. "Today morning too, I spoke to senior officials." He thanked party national president J P Nadda, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, JD(S) leaders H D Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy, opposition leader Siddaramaih and seers of various mutts for praying for his speedy recovery. Yediyurappa, in the message, also urged people to wear masks and maintain social distance to prevent the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nothing-to-worry-will-be-discharged-soon-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-868979.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ramesh Jarkiholi in Delhi to meet BJP party top brass, to lobby for post of Deputy Chief Minister||With the speculation that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa may go for reshuffle of his cabinet soon, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi arrived to Delhi to lobby with the party top brass to make him as Deputy Chief Minister. Though Ramesh was not available for comment, sources close to him said that "he will now return to Bengaluru and will return after some time." Sources close to Ramesh said that he had a plan  to meet the party top brass including BJP president J P Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah with the demand to make him as Deputy Chief Minister and induct newly elected MLCs H Vishwanath, M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar to the cabinet. All the three leaders joined BJP along with Jarkiholi. Ramesh also plans to suggest the party high command to make Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi as Chief Minister if the party wanted to remove Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as the CM, sources close to him said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ramesh-jarkiholi-in-delhi-to-meet-bjp-party-top-brass-to-lobby-for-post-of-deputy-chief-minister-869147.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Green corridor created to transport plasma from Bengaluru to Chennai||An inter-state Green Corridor was created to transport convalescent plasma from HealthCare Global Cancer Hospital, Bengaluru, to a private hospital in Chennai. A total distance of 348 km was covered in a duration of 4.5 hours. An elderly woman with co-morbidities was tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai. She was admitted in the ICU and was on non-invasive ventilation. The patient’s family was keen to explore the use of plasma therapy, considering her critical condition. Post discussion with the doctor, they decided to go ahead with the plasma therapy. The request for plasma was sent to the Plasma Bank at HCG Hospital. Plasma was extracted from a donor at 3 pm on Sunday, and the transfer began thereafter. The ambulance carrying the plasma left the hospital at 5 pm via the green corridor created with the help of Bengaluru City Police. The hospital team carried the plasma till Hosur, from where it was transferred to the team from the private hospital. The plasma reached Chennai at 9:30 pm. The hospitals' technical teams coordinated throughout the transportation process. Dr Vishal Rao, Associate Dean, Centre for Academics and Research, HCG Cancer Hospital, said, “Green Corridors to facilitate transportation of organs is a common phenomenon, but an inter-state transfer of plasma was a first. Within two hours of extraction, we were all set to transfer the plasma. The police officials created a special green corridor so that the plasma could reach the hospital from Bengaluru to Chennai in a timely manner.” He further added, “With each passing day, plasma requirements for patients are increasing and in the absence of a bank, it gets difficult to cater to them. A plasma bank functions like a blood bank, and has been created specifically for those who are suffering from Covid-19, and have been advised the therapy by doctors. We need more people who have recovered from the infection to donate plasma so that we can save lives.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/green-corridor-created-to-transport-plasma-from-bengaluru-to-chennai-869156.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC tells AAI to clarify if Aarogya Setu is mandatory||The Karnataka High Court has directed the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to submit whether it is mandatory for the air travellers to download the Aarogya Setu application. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi passed the order while hearing a PIL filed by Anivar A Aravind, challenging the compulsory use of the App in many services. During the hearing on Monday, the senior counsel appearing for the petitioner pointed out that AAI has made it mandatory for the air passengers to download the App. The instruction was given on July 30 to all the airports, including five airports in the state. The bench also asked the state government to clarify on the guideline issued. The Additional Solicitor General representing the Union government submitted to the court that instruction was only advisory and passengers may voluntarily do it. He said that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare was issued on June 4, after the Union Ministry of Home Affairs issued the advisory on May 30. The advisory to download the App was only aimed at helping the passengers to reduce the risk of Covid-19. In the last hearing, the petitioners had raised apprehension that Metro rail is also making it mandatory for its passengers to download the App. The Central Government termed the apprehension as premature stating that the services of the Metro rail has been suspended till the month end by an order of the Ministry of Home Affairs on July 29. App as e-pass The petitioner, a digital rights activist, contended that the App has been extended to serve as an e-pass and also to provide links to services offered by various service providers. The petition stated that no law enables the mandatory use of the App.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-tells-aai-to-clarify-if-aarogya-setu-is-mandatory-869182.html
03-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Recoveries outnumber new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||For the first time in close to two months, the state reported more recoveries than the fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. In the last 24 hours, as many as 4,776 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state, while a slightly reduced number of 4,752 new cases were announced. The Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced this as a milestone event, adding that it was evidence that the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate is improving steadily.  “The recovery rate increased by 5.67% in the state and 9.17% in Bengaluru in the last one week. As on Sunday evening, Karnataka’s recovery rate stands at 42.81% and 35.41% in Bengaluru,” he tweeted.  In a chart released by the minister, the recovery rate in the state has steadily climbed from 37% a week ago to the current of 42%. In Bengaluru, 784 people were discharged on July 27. However, on Sunday, 2,331 people were discharged from city hospitals - which was more than the number of new patients diagnosed with Covid-19. Some 36.2% of total discharges were made in Bengaluru Urban. Accelerated discharges Statewide, the number of discharges first accelerated on May 26, when the state revised its discharge policy to release patients after a minimum of 10 days of treatment if they satisfied certain health criteria.  However, data analysis by DH in the subsequent days showed many patients being discharged in under 10 days. From May 26 to June 8, for example, some 342 patients were discharged in nine days or under. A total of 33 patients, primarily in rural districts, were discharged after just four days of treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-869197.html
03-08-2020||West||Miyawaki forest in Mumbai giving results: Forest official||The Miyawaki urban forest in Mumbai has emerged as an example of how the green cover can be increased in cities across India, said a top forest official of the Maharashtra government. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has been actively pursuing the concept of urban forestation by the Miyawaki method, which is pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki. The technique, that is gaining popularity in India, helps build dense, native forests – 10 times faster and 30 times denser. Only native species are planted – and species are divided into shrub, sub-tree, tree and canopy. “The BMC’s Miyawaki forest project has been very successful,” says additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Sunil Limaye. According to him, the concept must be replicated in the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “We need to address various issues in cities like Mumbai. We have to create Miyawaki forests, we have to protect mangroves,” Limaye said, addressing an online discussion on Maharashtra’s forests and biodiversity hosted by Mumbai-based Instucen Trust managing trustee Mugdha Karnik. He said that the government is promoting the concept of urban forests and it's going to add up to the efforts of enhancing the green cover. It may be recalled, on Republic Day, this year, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray formally launched BMC’s Miyawaki forest project. According to the plan that was initiated by the state’s Environment, Tourism and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray, 65 plots in Mumbai will have over 4,00,000 plants to improve the green cover in Mumbai. A veteran forest official, Limaye, who earlier served as the Director of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, said that Mumbai’s nature is very unique.  “Nature reclaims itself fast with little care…it regains itself,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/miyawaki-forest-in-mumbai-giving-results-forest-official-868884.html
03-08-2020||West||BMC bats for Chase the Patient after Chase the Virus success in Mumbai to combat Covid-19||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has released a video on the implementation of Chase the Patient, that is being implemented for the last few weeks. The financial capital of Mumbai is spread in two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, which totally comprises 24 wards. As part of the strategy, dedicated war rooms have been set up in each of the 24 wards in the city, according to Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar. BMC’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that each ward has 10 dedicated ambulances and medical teams. Each ward has 30 dedicated phone lines.  “The BMC is going to the patients and taking a call on the best possible way of treatment,” he said. Once the call has been received, the medical teams attend to patients initially with a phone call and then personally visit them. The war rooms are coordinating the bed allotment.  After the examination, they are being suggested either to be home treatment or get admitted to hospitals. While CCC1 is for high-risk contacts, CCC2 is for mild and asymptomatic patients. Besides, patients are also being referred to the DCHC (oxygen facilities) and DCH (ICU/ventilator facilities). It needs to be mentioned that BMC’s Chase the Virus is a hugely successful programme and is being implemented in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Covid-19 hotspots like Pune, Solapur, Jalgaon and Aurangabad. As part of the campaign, 15 close contacts of a Covid-19 patient will compulsorily be kept in institutional quarantine. The Chase the Virus and 4 Ts – tracing, tracking, testing and treating has won accolades from the WHO for controlling the viral pandemic in Dharavi, the largest slum cluster of Asia. The Chase the Patient is an extension of the Chase the Virus programme. BMC officials said that the patient or their families need not run around. "We will go to them. It's just a matter of a phone call," BMC officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-bats-for-chase-the-patient-after-chase-the-virus-success-in-mumbai-to-combat-covid-19-868907.html
03-08-2020||West||Bihar cop quarantined under Maharashtra government norms: BMC||The decision to quarantine a Bihar Police officer, who reached Mumbai to supervise the probe being conducted by that state's police into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, is as per the Maharashtra governments directives, the city civic body said on Monday. The officer will have to make a formal request to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities for relaxing the necessary quarantine period, it said. On Sunday night, Patna City Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari was quarantined by the BMC and his hand stamped indicating the isolation period till August 15 after he arrived here. He has been quarantined for 14 days at the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) guest house in suburban Goregaon. Bihar Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey later alleged that Tiwari was "forcibly quarantined" by civic authorities in Mumbai. "IPS officer Vinay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from Patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11 PM today. He was not provided accommodation in the IPS mess, despite request, and was staying in a Guest House in Goregaon," Pandey tweeted. However, the BMC on Monday cited the Maharashtra's government directives, dated May 25, where rules for domestic travellers include necessary home quarantine, among others. "The BMCs P/south ward officials came to know about the domestic travel of a Bihar police officer and his staying at SRPFs group 8 guest house located in Goregaon (East)," the BMC said in a statement. "As per the directives, the BMC officials reached the guest house and informed the Bihar police officer about the directives of necessary home quarantine after such domestic travel, it said. "The officer will have to make a formal request to BMC officials for relaxing the necessary home quarantine period, the civic body said. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 24. After Tiwari arrived at the Mumbai airport on Sunday, he told reporters that he was here to supervise his team and will probe all possible angles in the case. "Mumbai Police are probing the case as per their style and we will do so as per ours. If required, we will also record the statements of Bollywood celebrities whose statements were recorded by the Mumbai Police." Mumbai Police, who are probing the case of Rajput's death, have so far recorded statements of nearly 40 people, including those from the actor's family, his cook and people from the film industry like filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali and filmmaker Aditya Chopra. The Bihar Police team is probing a separate 'abetment to suicide' case on the basis of a complaint filed by the late actor's father in Patna last week. So far, the Bihar Police have recorded statements of 10 people in connection with Rajput's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bihar-cop-quarantined-under-maharashtra-government-norms-bmc-868968.html
03-08-2020||West||Mumbai police capable of conducting investigation: Sanjay Raut||Asserting that Mumbai police is compared to Scotland Yard, the ruling Shiv Sena on Monday asserted that investigations must continue in a free and fair manner.  "The world knows about the competence of the Mumbai police. It is compared with Scotland Yard, "Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said.  He said, "Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones". "I was seeing a Raj Kumar movie and just remembered his famous dialogue. I like Raj Kumar," he said,  referring to the dialogue 'jinke apne ghar sheeshay ke hoon … woh doosron par patthar nahi phenka karte ' from blockbuster 'Waqt.'  राज कुमार का एक डायलॉग आज मुझे बहोत याद आ रहा है......"चिनाय सेठ...,जिनके घर शीशेके बने होते है..वो दुसरो पे पत्थर नही फेका करते.."समझने वालोंको इशारा काफी है!!!!जय महाराष्ट्र! When Raut was repeatedly asked as to whom he was referring to, he said: "..... it is just that I like Raj Kumar. I just remembered the great actor. People know what I am referring to."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-capable-of-conducting-investigation-sanjay-raut-868970.html
03-08-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray unlikely to attend Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan'||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is unlikely to visit Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan for Ram temple construction there on August 5 owing to the serious Covid-19 situation in the Uttar Pradesh town, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut indicated on Monday. "It is important that the PM is going. The chief minister (Thackeray) can go there anytime, Raut told reporters here while extending good wishes for the ceremony. The 'bhoomi pujan' of the Ram temple is scheduled to be held on Wednesday at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The outbreak of Covid-19 in Ayodhya and surrounding areas is a matter of concern...Uttar Pradesh's minister Kamal Rani (Varun) lost life (due to the disease), while three other ministers are infected," Raut said. "I think as less people as possible should go there and the ceremony there be held. It is important that the PM is going. The chief minister (Thackeray) can go there anytime, the Rajya Sabha member said. Asked if Thackeray has not been invited for the ceremony, Raut said, Nobody is waiting for the invitation." He said the chief priest of the temple and security guards there have been quarantined. The Shiv Sena does not want to give a political angle to the issue (of party leaders not being invited), he said, adding that the situation in Ayodhya is serious and a kind of medical emergency is prevailing there". "And you (the media) are asking about who is going and all. As less number of people as possible should go there...we will go there later, Raut said, adding that even BJP veterans like L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, who played key roles in the temple campaign, were unlikely to attend the ceremony due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The Shiv Sena had laid the foundation of the temple construction, he said. The temple construction would not be possible had the Babri mosque not been brought down, he said. The BJP, VHP and the Sangh Parivar accepted that it was the Shiv Sainiks (Shiv Sena workers) who had "pulled down the mosque", he said. "So, we had laid the road (of temple construction). We are happy that the temple is being built. And you have seen that Uddhav Thackerayji, our Shiv Sena has given Rs 1 crore fund for it, he added. The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. Advani and Joshi were leading the Ram temple movement at that time. In November last year, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town. Meanwhile, Raut refused to comment on queries pertaining to the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death. "Mumbai Police are able. Trust should be reposed into them if they are investigating the case. Police of the world have faith in the Mumbai Police," the Shiv Sena leader said. "So, when the probe is on, the person who is not in the government and not related to it, like me, should not comment about the probe. It is not right, he added. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 24. The Mumbai Police, who are probing Rajput's death, have so far recorded statements of nearly 40 people, including those from the actor's family, his cook and people from the film industry like filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali and filmmaker Aditya Chopra. A Bihar Police team is probing a separate 'abetment to suicide' case on the basis of a complaint filed by the late actor's father in Patna last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-unlikely-to-attend-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-869027.html
03-08-2020||West||No intention to allow street vendors to resume business: Government to High Court||The Maharashtra government on Monday told the Bombay High Court it does not intend to permit street vendors and hawkers to conduct their businesses amid the Covid-19 pandemic as it is not possible to regulate them. The government filed an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation filed by one Manoj Oswal, raising concerns of street vendors being without income due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Oswal in his plea argued that since hotels and restaurants are allowed to operate, street vendors should also be allowed to conduct their business activities. "Considering the present ground realities and the affect that the Covid-19 pandemic has caused on businesses and commercial activities, the state government does not intend to permit street vendors or hawkers to commence their businesses amid and post the lockdown, the government said in its affidavit. The affidavit filed by Kishor Nimbalkar, secretary, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department, said street vendors and hawkers fall in an unorganised sector and thus, it is very difficult to regulate their business. "The state government presently does not intend to permit street vendors or hawkers to conduct their businesses even in non-containment zones or areas that are not in lockdown, mainly because it is difficult to implement conditions, if any and if at all, imposed on them to conduct their business, the affidavit said. It said the civic body and police authorities are already over-burdened with Covid-19 related duties and hence, it would not be possible to expect them to regulate street vendors and hawkers. The court last month asked the government to clarify its position on the issue, and said the government could consider framing a policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-intention-to-allow-street-vendors-to-resume-business-government-to-high-court-869073.html
03-08-2020||West||Gujarat: FIR registered after Jignesh Mevani, Hardik Patel's 'expose on corruption in MNREGA||Two days after independent MLA Jignesh Mevani and Gujarat Congress' Working President Hardik Patel alleged widespread corruption in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) in the state, an FIR was registered against unidentified officials responsible for implementing the scheme in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. Officials said that the FIR was registered on Sunday late in the night after an inquiry conducted by district officials found illegality in the scheme's implementation as alleged by the two leaders in a press conference held in Ahmedabad on Saturday. Officials said that the FIR was registered at Amrigadh police station under various sections of Indian Penal Code including forgery and related offences along with conspiracy. The FIR is based on a complaint filed by the Deputy District Development Officer. "We have found some wrongdoings in the implementation of the scheme and, therefore, we filed an FIR with the police for a neutral probe. Our departmental inquiry is also going on to find out people who are responsible for this," District Development Officer, Ajay Dahiya told DH. He said that the internal inquiry has revealed "deletion of 226 job cards without following procedures and we suspect these cards were also bogus." He added that these cards were made 2014 onwards. When contacted, Banaskantha Superintendent of Police Tarun Duggal said that FIR was registered on Sunday night based on a complaint that prima facie suggest illegality in MNREGA scheme. As a matter of fact, the details provided by Mevani and Hardik Patel had revealed 264 job cards of Balundra village, Amirgadh taluka, were deleted in the month of April and June without following procedure that mandates verification of beneficiaries, presentation of such cases to gram panchayats and making the data public. Dahiya confirmed such procedures were not followed. On the other hand, Jignesh Mevani, who is also an MLA from Dehgam constituency in the district, had said, "These job cards were not only deleted illegally but also forged in the name of villagers who never worked under the scheme. There are details of money paid to fictitious persons through bank accounts opened in the name of people who had no idea about it. We believe that nearly Rs10 crore was swindled in such manner in the past ten years."  He added, "What we have found in Balundra village is just a tip of the iceberg. We have evidence to show that not just 300-odd villages in Banaskantha but across the state similar scam is going on running into multi-crore."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-fir-registered-after-jignesh-mevani-hardik-patels-expose-on-corruption-in-mnrega-869119.html
03-08-2020||West||Amruta Fadnavis tweets on Sushant Singh Rajput case; Shiv Sena, NCP hit back||Amruta Fadnavis, the wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, on Monday tweeted that Mumbai had lost its "humanity" and was "no more safe to live" looking at the way the metropolis' police was handling the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The tweet invited a backlash from Shiv Sena and NCP leaders who claimed Amruta Fadnavis was criticising the same police force of which she is a protectee. "The manner in which Sushant Singh Rajput Death Case is being handled-I feel Mumbai has lost humanity & is no more safe to live for innocent, self respecting citizens," Amruta Fadnavis tweeted. Hitting back, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi took to Twitter and said, "Roams around with Mumbai police security and car" and added a personal slight by tweeting further that the men in khakhi were the "only audience forced to listen to her out of tune songs". Chaturvedi tweeted, "I challenge these state BJP leaders & their political aspiration bearing family accusingMumbai Police & defaming them, to give up their police security go for private agencies who can make them feel safe in the city. As wife of fmr CM who was also HM to speak this way is shameful." NCP spokesperson Aditi Nalawde dug out an earlier photograph of Amruta Fadnavis sitting on the edge of a ship during a launch ceremony and tweeted "she should not forget that when she was sitting dangerously at the corner of a cruise ship, it was a Mumbai police personnel guarding her" Nalawde further alleged that Amruta Fadnavis was only interested in opening police salary accounts in the private bank where she worked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amruta-fadnavis-tweets-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-shiv-sena-ncp-hit-back-869127.html
03-08-2020||West||Ahmedabad's biggest mall sealed over Covid-19 norm violations||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed the "Ahmedabad One" mall here in Gujarat on Monday over alleged violations of guidelines in place to contain the spread of coronavirus. "Ahmedabad One", located in the posh Vastrapur area, is considered as the largest mall in the city. It houses many high-end showrooms and eateries, attracting thousands of visitors. Malls in Gujarat have been allowed to operate but with a slew of guidelines related to crowding and adherence to social distancing and other norms related to Covid-19. On Friday, a large number of people were present inside the sprawling mall for shopping ahead of Raksha Bandhan (on Monday), said civic officials. "Similar scenes were witnessed on Sunday also. Today, an AMC team saw people roaming inside shops without masks and also flouting social distancing norms. "A large number of people had flocked the mall and no social distancing was being maintained," said Director of AMC's Solid Waste Department, Harshad Solanki. The AMC team first asked visitors and shop owners to vacate the place and then the entire premises was sealed, said AMC Deputy Director MB Shah. "We saw many visitors roaming inside the mall without wearing masks. There was a lack of social distancing too. This can lead to infection. "Thus, we have sealed the mall for an indefinite period," said Shah, who led the AMC inspection team. Similar action will be taken against other malls also if they are found violating the norms and rules laid down by the government to stop the spread of coronavirus, Shah warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabads-biggest-mall-sealed-over-covid-19-norm-violations-869140.html
03-08-2020||West||Lord Ram idol at Ayodhya temple should have moustache: Sambhaji Bhide||Hindutva leader Sambhaji Bhide on Monday said the idol of Lord Ram in the proposed temple at Ayodhya should have a moustache. The 'bhoomi pujan' of the Ram temple is scheduled to be held on Wednesday at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to be attend the ceremony. Talking to speaking to reporters in adjoining Sangli, he said, "I have asked Govind Giriji Maharaj (a trustee of the temple trust) that the statues of Ram, Laxman you are going to install should have a moustache. "If you are not rectifying the mistakes (of not having a moustache to idols of Lord Ram) then for a devotee of Lord Ram like me, even if the temple is built, it would be of no use." Bhide said before starting the "bhoomi pujan" (ground- breaking) ceremony at the temple site, an image of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj should be worshipped. Bhide, who heads Shri Shivpratishthan Hindustan, appealed to people to celebrate the August 5 event of 'bhoomi pujan' for the temple on the lines of Diwali and Dussehra. Speaking about NCP chief Sharad Pawar's recent statement that some people think building a temple will help eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic, Bhide said the veteran politician is a respected figure and should not have made that statement. "In fact, he (Pawar) should go for the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony even if he has not been invited. He will represent entire Maharashtra over there," Bhide said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lord-ram-idol-at-ayodhya-temple-should-have-moustache-sambhaji-bhide-869177.html
03-08-2020||West||8,968 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; 266 deaths, 10,221 recoveries||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally on Monday increased to 4,50,196 with the addition of 8,968 fresh cases, while more than 260 patients succumbed to the infection, the state health department said. With 266 fresh deaths, the fatality count increased to 15,842, said an official from the health department. The state also saw the discharge of 10,221 patients, upping the count of recovered cases to 2,87,030, the official said. Maharashtra now has 1,47,018 active cases. A total of 22,98,723 people have been tested so far for Covid-19, he said. Mumbai city and suburban areas (MMR region) reported 970 and 2,957 fresh cases of Covid-19, respectively. With this, Mumbai has so far reported 1,17,406 cases and 6,493 deaths. The wider MMR region now has 2,49,111 cases of Covid- 19 and 9,970 deaths. The number of cases jumped by 796 in Pune city, while the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad added 731 new infections in the day. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 4,50,196, deaths 15,842, discharged 2,87,030, active cases 1,47,018, people tested so far 22,98,723.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8968-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-266-deaths-10221-recoveries-869193.html
