04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sira MLA B Sathyanarayana admitted to hospital; critical||Amid conflicting reports over the health of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana, admitted to Manipal Hospital in Old Airport Road, the hospital clarified that he was still undergoing treatment in the Intensive Care Unit of the Hospital. Dr Manish Rai, Director of the Hospital, said in a statement that the MLA was in a "very critical state" an "has been suffering for a prolonged period of time with advanced chronic liver disease."  The doctor added that he is very ill "due to septicemia with multisystem organ failure." The 67-year-old legislator was elected for the third time from Sira constituency in Tumkur district in 2018 and he tested negative for Covid-19, according to top the hospital.  Confusion over his health arose after both Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar condoled his death on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sira-mla-b-sathyanarayana-admitted-to-hospital-critical-869370.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Human clinical trials of Covaxin begin at Belagavi hospital||Human clinical trials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad in association with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of Covid-19 commenced at the Jeevan Rekha Hospital. Jeevan Rekha is among the 12 facilities identified by ICMR for conducting clinical trials. In the first phase, vaccine has been administered to 375 persons across the country and the progress has been on expected lines, Director Dr Amit Bhate told DH. Four persons, two male and two female have been administered the vaccine here and they were progressing on expected lines with no reactions being witnessed after four days. The second dose will be administered to them on the 14th day after the first dose has been administered, he said. Volunteers in the age group of 18 to 55 years had been shortlisted after thorough screening. Their blood and swab samples had been sent to the Central Laboratory of ICMR at New Delhi. After receipt of their reports, four volunteers, two male and two female were selected. Pregnancy tests were also conducted for women volunteers, he said. Dr Bhate said, first day of the vaccine being administered is calculated as zero day and second dose would be given on 14th day to the volunteers. Antibody tests will commence on 28th day onwards and every month immunogenicity tests will be conducted for few months. After the first dose being administered on Friday, there have been no reactions on all four volunteers and the trials have began on expected lines. Their health was being monitored for all parameters as per the protocols, he said. Phase-2 trials of the vaccine will commence after 20days across the country, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/human-clinical-trials-of-covaxin-begin-at-belagavi-hospital-869378.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 33 fresh Covid-19 cases||Karnataka's Kodagu district continued to see a surge in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with the district administration recording 33 fresh coronavirus cases. Among the 33 who were tested positive for the virus, 24 were tested by the RT-PCR method. The remaining were tested using rapid antigen kits, said DC Annies Kanmani Joy. Fourteen persons among them have reported ILI symptoms. The remaining infected are either primary contacts of the already-infected persons or have an interdistrict travel history. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has risen to 546. Already 322 infected have recovered and they've been discharged from hospital. The total number of active cases in the district is 214.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-33-fresh-covid-19-cases-869393.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain: Rivers flowing at dangerous level in Kodagu||Heavy rain coupled with gusty wind lashed Kodagu district on Tuesday. Heavy rainfall in the Brahmagiri range has created a flood threat in the district. Triveni Sangama at Bhagamandala is full. River Water is flowing on Napoklu-Bhagamandala road in the district. Water level in rivers Cauvery and Lakshmanatheertha have increased drastically. With Somwarpet, Garagandooru, Madapura, Jambooru, Mukkodlu, Galibeedu receiving heavy rain, the inflow of water to Harangi Reservoir has increased. Already 5,500 cusecs water is released into Harangi river from the reservoir. The release of water to the river is likely to increase by evening. People living on the banks of river at Kudige and Kushalnagar have been asked to remain cautious.   The NDRF team camping in the district is reviewing the flood situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-rivers-flowing-at-dangerous-level-in-kodagu-869394.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||UPSC exams: 4 persons from Mysuru region get rank||Four persons from the Mysuru region have obtained ranks in the UPSC exams, results of which were announced on Tuesday. Abhishek Gowda of Maragowdanahalli, Malavalli taluk, Mandya district has secured the 278th rank. Abhishek, a MBBS degree holder, has cracked the exam in his third attempt. He had received coaching at an institute in Bengaluru for six months and later appeared for the exam. Abhishek said, "I wanted to appear for UPSC exams since my high school days. After completing MBBS, I studied for two years for the exam. I sought the guidance of Mandya Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh for the interview." Varun K Gowda of Bannur hobli, T Narasipur taluk, Mysuru district, has secured the 528th rank in his first attempt. Varun completed his MBBS last year. "I appeared for the exam to serve the people. I had not expected a rank in the first attempt," Varun said. Prajwal of Vijayashreepura, Mysuru, has secured the 636th rank. He did BE (Mechanical Engineering) from NIE and was working as a Design Engineer in a firm in Bengaluru. Prajwal has passed the exam in his fourth attempt, though he was selected for the interview last year, he could not get a rank. "I worked hard as I am from a middle class family. My father was a supervisor in a hotel and mother a homemaker. The financial condition of the family was weak and I had to pursue my dreams, by working. Navo-Pramati Institute of Civil Services helped me to crack the exam," he said. Darshan of Haralakatta village, Arsikere taluk, Hassan district, has secured the 594th rank. Darshan did BE in Mechanical Engineering in 2009 and worked at Infosys in Bengaluru, for three years. Later, he continued at the firm's US office for two years. He resigned to prepare for UPSC exams. Darshan had studied in Kannada medium, up to 8th standard, and appeared for the exam in Kannada and was successful in his fourth attempt. He is also a student of Navo-Pramati Institute of Civil Services. A total of eight students of Mysuru-based Navo-Pramati Institute of Civil Services have cleared the exams -- B Kruthi, 297, Bengaluru; Dr N Vivek Reddy, 485, Srinivasapur, Kolar; Praful Desai, 532, Gokak, Belgaum; K R Bharath, 545, Mulbagal, Kolar; Pruthvi S Hullatti, 582, Shivamogga; R Suhas, 583, Bengaluru; H G Darshana Kumar, 594, Arasikere, Hassan; and Prajwal, 636, Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/upsc-exams-4-persons-from-mysuru-region-get-rank-869569.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya sugarcane transported to factories in TN||With no signs of resuming Mysuru Sugar (MySugar) factory, the lifeline of farmers of the district, sugarcane grown in Mandya is being transported to factories in Tamil Nadu. Trucks, laden with sugarcane, plying on the roads is a common scene in the district, with agents convincing the farmers to sell their produce. While a few private sugar factories have started crushing for the year, a few cooperative factories are making preparations to begin crushing. The district has around 50 lakh tonne of sugarcane for crushing. Around 30 lakh tonne is ready for harvest. Coromandel sugar factory in KR Pet, NSL and Chamundeshwari factory in Maddur have already begun crushing. Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkhane (PSSK) is leased to Nirani Sugars and would resume operations by August 11. Preparations are underway to resume MySugar factory, under Operation and Management (O&M) system. But, the sugarcane grown in Mandya, Pandavapura and Srirangapatna taluks are being transported to Shakti Sugars and Pyari Sugar factories near Sathyamangalam in Tamil Nadu. The district administration had made arrangements to transport cane to other districts and states last year, as the factories in Mandya district were closed, due to various reasons. Tamil Nadu sugar factories have appointed agents in Mandya, according to farmer leader Shambunahalli Suresh. The VCF-571 variety of sugarcane, grown in Mandya, yields more jaggery, and is in great demand among traders of Tamil Nadu, said Muniraju, a trader from Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-sugarcane-transported-to-factories-in-tn-869571.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ram Mandir: Prohibitory orders in Mysuru||Prohibitory Orders, under Section 144 of IPC and Column 31 of Karnataka Police Act, have been imposed in Mysuru city, from midnight of Tuesday up to midnight of Wednesday, as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid crisis and also the laying of foundation stone for the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya. As per the order of Police Commissioner Chandragupta, puja at public places, public programmes, processions, celebrations, bursting of crackers, use of loud speakers, display of flex, banners or LED screens and gathering of people have been banned. Besides, protests, demonstrations or bike rallies have been banned. The restrictions do not apply for regular puja at temples. Temple managements have been directed to ensure that all devotees wear masks and their numbers do not cross 50. Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda has directed officers of all police stations, to ensure that the guidelines of the Prohibitory Orders are followed. Meanwhile, Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami has appealed to the people to watch the live broadcast of the ceremony from Ayodhya on television, in view of the Covid crisis. “The bhoomi puja for Sri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya is the most sacred and celebratory occasion for the whole nation. Millions of people longed, for hundreds of years, for this event. Karnataka Pranthiya Prachar Pramuk Basavaraju, Dakshin Pranthiya Sanchalak M Venkataram and others extended an invitation for the Shilanyas. However, due to the prevailing Covid pandemic and security issues, physical participation in the programme is avoided,” the seer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ram-mandir-prohibitory-orders-in-mysuru-869572.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ex-CM tests +ve, anxiety among primary contacts||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah testing positive for Covid-19, on Monday night in Bengaluru, has sent his primary contacts in Mysuru, Srirangapatna and Mandya, especially Congress leaders, party workers, and close associates, into a tizzy on Tuesday. Most of his primary contacts, nearly 150 members were subject to rapid antigen test (RAT) at his TK Layout residence and also at Rangacharlu Town Hall on Tuesday. Most of them, including writer Devanuru Mahadeva, have tested negative. More results are awaited. Media persons, who were in contact with Siddaramaiah would be subject to RAT, on Wednesday. A few places that Siddaramaiah visited, in Mysuru, like his house and Mysuru District Journalists’ Association building, have been sealed down and sanitised, as a precautionary measure. It has to be noted that Siddaramaiah, also Opposition Leader was in Mysuru, his native, on July 30, 31 and August 1 and 2. He took part in the fourth death anniversary of his elder son Rakesh at his farmhouse at T Katur near here. It has to be noted that Rakesh died under suspicious circumstances on July 30, 2016, at Brussels in Belgium. Siddaramaiah, who lost to his once associate G T Devegowda in 2018, in the Chamundeshwari Assembly segment, spends most of his time in Mysuru, even though he represents Badami of Bagalkot in the Assembly. His son Dr Yathindra is MLA from Varuna segment. Whenever Siddaramaiah is in Mysuru, his supporters and followers rally behind him, almost up to Bengaluru, on his way back. He attended various programmes and held meetings with various visitors in Mysuru on July 30 and 31. On August 1, he visited Srirangapatna and Mandya to hold meetings with Congress leaders and workers. He returned to Mysuru and left the city on August 2. A photo of Siddaramaiah playing chess with his grandson Dhawan Rakesh on July 31 had gone viral on the social media. Meanwhile, his supporters conducted puja in temples and also at public places for his recovery and well-being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ex-cm-tests-ve-anxiety-among-primary-contacts-869588.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Priest who set 'muhurat' for Ram Temple bhoomi pujan gets death threats||Astrologer N R Vijayendra Sharma or ‘Pandit Sharma’ as he is popularly referred to, is the person who picked out the date and time, or muhurat, for the Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan. A police officer has been deployed outside his home.  He is a resident of Shastri Nagar, Belagavi, in south-west Karnataka. A case has been filed with the Tilakwadi police station regarding the same. The callers have allegedly been threatening Sharma to either withdraw the muhurat or face consequences for refusing to do the same. Sharma had close ties with former Prime Ministers Atal Vihari Vajpayee and Morarji Desai. He also shared an association with BJP stalwarts like L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. Along with Sharma, Varanasi-based astrologer Ganeshwar Shastri Dravid also played a role in finalising the muhurat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/priest-who-set-muhurat-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-gets-death-threats-869603.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||45,000 cusecs of water released from Tunga dam||As much as 45,000 cusecs of water was released from 22 crest gates of Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga on Tuesday evening.Following good spell of rains in Thirthahalli region over the last two days, the dam reached maximum level. The water-level in the rivers Tunga and Bhadra has increased. Hosanagar, and Thirthahalli taluks received heavy rains. Thirthahalli recorded 104.40mm, and Hosanagar-210.80 mm. The rivers Tunga, Malathi, Kushavathi, and other streams in Thirthahalli taluk are in full spate. A tree was uprooted on the house belonging to Ahmed on K P Road at Megaravalli village in the taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/45000-cusecs-of-water-released-from-tunga-dam-869606.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hampi Varsity Vice Chancellor tests positive for Covid-19||Hampi Kannada University Vice-Chancellor Sa Chi Ramesh tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. His house located on the premises of the varsity has been sanitized by health department staff. Holiday has been declared for the varsity staff for five days with effect from Monday.  Ramesh underwent rapid antigen test on August 1 and the results came back positive. Throat swab test has confirmed the virus.  He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru, said health department officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hampi-varsity-vice-chancellor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-869608.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa's hospitalisation won't affect day-to-day administration: Shettar||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday stated that hospitalisation of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would not affect day-to-day administration. "He has empowered the chief secretary regarding the day-to-day administration, and he would talk to ministers if required. Ministers are ably shouldering these responsibilities," he said. Reacting to the Ram Mandir issue, he said, constructing Ram Mandir at Ayodhya was the dream of all Indians. When other parties tried to make it an issue of conflict, the BJP had trust in legal procedures. The time to construct Ram Mandir as per the Supreme Court direction has come now, he added. Shettar also recalled his participation in 'Rath Yatra' programme of L K Advani, held in Hubballi in 1991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappas-hospitalisation-wont-affect-day-to-day-administration-shettar-869471.html
04-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Convene Legislative Session, D K Shivakumar urges government||KPCC president D K Shivakumar has on Tuesday urged the state government to convene a Legislative Session to discuss about the irregularities corruption taken place in the purchase of Covid-related equipment. Speaking at a press meet here on Tuesday, he alleged public money is being looted after the Covid-19 outbreak. The government is mired in corruption and every minister is thinking of getting percentage while purchasing equipment. The Congress extended its support to state government to fight the pandemic and made food arrangement for hapless people. Karnataka has highest number of medical colleges in the country and has state-of-the-art hospitals. The government did not hold talks with them as it can't get percentage as expected, the MLA charged. Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah, Public Accounts Committee Chairman H K Patil and myself have sought accounts as the corruption has taken place in the Rs 4000-crore set aside to fight the Covid-19. PPE Kits, thermal guns, masks and high flow oxygen machines and others have been purchased three four times higher the actual price. Should we cooperate for the government in this irregularities?. A BJP general secretary has issued a legal notice to us for demanding accounts. We will never afraid though hundreds of such notices were issued, he told. The government is neither allowing the PAC chairman to go through the accounts nor allowing to hold the meeting, the leader accused. Turning his gun towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi who took a potshot at the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government as 10 % government during the last Parliament polls, Shivakumar said: "Do you know the percentage now? the percentage has gone up to 200-300 now. If any irregularities had taken place in our previous coalition government, let them punish us," he challenged. The state government should waive off commercial, property and vehicle taxes for one year as the people are in dire financial straits. The government should provide free treatment to all Covid-19 patients and those who have already spent money on the treatment should be returned, he urged. To a question on the invitation for the foundation stone laying ceremony for construction of Rama Mandir, Shivakumar said, the construction of the mandir is not an asset of any particular person. We don't need any invitation for the function. We feel happy watching the programme on television. Rama is in the heart of every Congress worker, he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/convene-legislative-session-d-k-shivakumar-urges-government-869490.html
04-08-2020||National||Sushant death case: Turf war between Maharashtra, Bihar intensifies||The ongoing turf war between the Maharashtra and Bihar governments on investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput intensified further after an IPS officer from Patna was forcibly quarantined preventing him from moving around in Mumbai. The opposition BJP in Maharashtra stepped up attack on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government for what it stated the way attempts are being made to stall the probe and not cooperating with the JD (U)-BJP alliance government led by Nitish Kumar. The development rattled the Bihar government and its police set up – that was totally caught unawares. Patna Central’s superintendent of police Vinay Tiwari, who flew into Mumbai to join the four-member team, was taken to the Maharashtra police guest house at the SRPF campus at Goregaon.   But as soon as he reached there after landing at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, he was quarantined by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), till August 15. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, when asked about this, said that he did not have knowledge of developments. “The BMC should have knowledge about it…they look after quarantine, we do not,” he said. A BMC official said on Monday that the P/South ward administration received information stating that the officer arrived in SRPF group 8 Guesthouse, Goregaon East. “Being a domestic air traveller, he needs to be guided for home quarantine as per the State government guidelines. Accordingly, the P/South ward team approached him at the said guesthouse on Sunday evening,” the official said. The official said that the BMC team explained to him the whole procedure for domestic air travellers, including home quarantine, which is fixed by the state government notification dated May 25, 2020 under number DMU/2020/CR. 92/DisM-1. “He has also been guided to apply to the competent authority of BMC for exemption in the home quarantine period as per the State government notification,” the official said. A Maharashtra police official said that arrangements were made for stay in Goregaon as the Worli police mess is non-operational because of Covid-19 and a Maruti Ertiga vehicle was also organised.  "All courtesies befitting to an IPS officer were duly extended to Vinay Tiwari," the official said. On the other hand Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that instead of solving the mystery behind the death of the actor, such behaviour will only result in huge outcry and disbelief amongst the people about the investigation. "A medical team from Kerala visited Mumbai, UP Police came to investigate Vikas Dubey case, a team from Bihar police is already working in Mumbai since four days but none of them were quarantined so why only an SP rank officer is treated differently?" he wanted to know. His wife and banker Amruta Fadnavis lashed out at the Maharashtra government. “The manner in which the case is being handled, I feel  Mumbai has lost humanity and is no more safe to live - for innocent, self-respecting,” she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-death-case-turf-war-between-maharashtra-bihar-intensifies-869261.html
04-08-2020||National||'My scientists are on it,' Adar Poonawalla responds to Anand Mahindra’s call for a 'Big V' vaccine||When Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan tested negative for Covid-19 and was discharged, several well-wishers congratulated him on his quick recovery. Amongst them was Chairman of the Mahindra Group, Anand Mahindra.  “Welcome back @SrBachchan As I had said, you possessed an inbuilt vaccine codenamed the Big V. Now we need @adarpoonawalla to find a way to extract it from you, manufacture it & give us all a dose…,” wrote the businessman on Twitter.  Adar Poonawala, who has been in the news for the progress the Serum Institute vaccine has been making, responded jovially to the comment.  “Haha! good one @anandmahindra, my scientists are working on it! and great to have you back, @SrBachchan,” he replied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-scientists-are-on-it-adar-poonawalla-responds-to-anand-mahindra-s-call-for-a-big-v-vaccine-869262.html
04-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 4||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 18 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 19,01,932 as of August 4   States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 39,741   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 10,57,805  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-4-869264.html
04-08-2020||National||DH toon: BCCI has shown disrespect to country by continuing with Chinese sponsor for IPL, says SJM||Shocked over the BCCI's decision to continue with the Chinese sponsors for the IPL, the RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM) on Monday said people should consider boycotting the T-20 cricket league.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bcci-has-shown-disrespect-to-country-by-continuing-with-chinese-sponsor-for-ipl-says-sjm-869266.html
04-08-2020||National||The Lead: CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on the collapse of the welfare state||In this episode, DH Radio takes you through CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury's view on the collapse of the welfare state and the coronavirus pandemic.   Excerpts: Q:  CPM general secretary Sitaram is joining us to analyse the world and India during this Covid-19 pandemic. Almost all countries were in a lockdown at some point in time. How this pandemic impacted the lives of common people. Has the state failed them? has the economic situation led to a situation, whether the welfare state has withered away? All these things we hope to analyse during this interaction?Covid-19 has changed the world, the pandemic has changed the world a lot. The way we interact. More virtual meetings are happening, like what is happening now. How has the world changed? How will you analyse this? A: Well, first of all, the world has changed in a very very big way. It's no longer the world we know before the pandemic arrived. Whether we will return to that sort of a world again, once we get a vaccine, hopefully, that is also with a lot of question marks. And the reason for these question marks arising is the manner in which this pandemic itself has been handled. In most of the countries in the world, because of the economic reforms and the neo-liberalism that has been raging, globalisation for the last three decades or so, one thing that meant was that complete privatisation of all public utilities and public service. Public health was the biggest casualty. Everything was routed through the insurance route, through the route of big pharmaceuticals... The state expenditure though they may have been high but that was not for creating, in some states they may have been high but that more for the insurance purposes, rather than from creating state-funded health infrastructure. Now, India has also the same and therefore you have a lot of casualties which could have been prevented and which we can Vietnam, Cuba or even China or even South Korea or Singapore or Taiwan. Wherever you have a public health system, there the situation is much better. In India, the situation is much worse than most of the developed capitalist countries. We did huge mismanagement the manner in which we managed the pandemic. The first warning in the world came in December (2019). India had the first positive case on the 30th of Janunary (2020), from 30th of January, in the state of Kerala, from where the first positive case came from somebody who travelled from Wuhan. There you had the entire structure set up to the ability of the state government and that is why the Kerala model became globally famous. And the way scientifically in terms of testing, isolating positive patients, contact tracing and then quarantine. That was not done in India. For three months, the government organised things like Namaste Trump, toppling the governments and public swearing-ins, giving permission for Tablighi Markaz and such events, which acted to actually spread and then came the completely unplanned lockdown. Four-hour notice. Neither the people were prepared nor the state governments were prepared and the consequences were disastrous. You have seen the migrants, lakhs of them, suffering for more than two months; people losing their lives because of exhaustion, because of hunger... All this could have been prevented if a proper warning was given. We had the Janta Curfew, why couldn't the prime minister announce there is a possibility that we have to go into to total lockdown, so be prepared. That may happen in a week, that may happen in 10 days. These migrant workers would have gone back at their own expense, by the trains that were running then. No facilities, no protective equipment for our health workers, no livelihood for the people and no food for the hungry. For cash transfers give the food, it was announced after two months, by the time, the damage had to be done had done... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-cpim-general-secretary-sitaram-yechury-on-the-collapse-of-the-welfare-state-869267.html
04-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally climbs to 18,55,745; recoveries cross 12 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally increased to 18,55,745 with 52,050 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries crossed the 12-lakh mark on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 38,938 with 803 fresh fatalities being reported in 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 12,30,509 people have recovered, while there are 5,86,298 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has risen to 66.31 per cent, while the fatality rate has further dropped to 2.10 pc, the data stated. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the sixth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. A cumulative total of 2,08,64,750 samples have been tested up to August 2 with 6,61,892 samples being tested on Monday, the highest done in a day so far, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR, Dr Lokesh Sharma, said. "A total of 1,05,32,074 tests for detection of coronavirus infection have been performed, with per day average of 3,39,744 tests, in July, the highest number of tests conducted in a month so far," Sharma said. Currently, there are 917 labs in the government sector and 439 labs in the private sector for conducting Covid-19 tests.  Of the 803 fresh deaths reported, 266 are from Maharashtra, 109 from Tamil Nadu, 98 from Karnataka, 63 from Andhra Pradesh, 53 from West Bengal, 48 from Uttar Pradesh, 23 from Telangana, 22 from Gujarat, 19 from Punjab, 17 from Delhi, 14 from Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Rajasthan, 11 from Jammu and Kashmir and 10 from Odisha. Seven each deaths were reported from Haryana and Jharkhand, four each from Assam, Puducherry and Uttarakhand, three each from Chhattisgarh and Goa, two each from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Kerala while Bihar and Tripura has recorded one fatality each. Of the total 38,938 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 15,842 followed by 4,241 in Tamil Nadu, 4,021 in Delhi, 2,594 in Karnataka, 2,508 in Gujarat, 1,778 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,731 in West Bengal, 1,537 in Andhra Pradesh and 900 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 715 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 563 in Telangana, 442 in Punjab, 440 in Haryana, 407 in Jammu and Kashmir, 330 in Bihar, 207 in Odisha, 125 in Jharkhand, 109 in Assam, 90 in Uttarakhand, 84 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 61 deaths, Puducherry and Goa 56 each, Tripura 28, Chandigarh 19, Himachal Pradesh 14, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 10, Ladakh  and Manipur seven each, Meghalaya and Nagaland five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-1855745-recoveries-cross-12-lakh-mark-869320.html
04-08-2020||National||India ‘flying blind’ on coronavirus data even as top leaders get infected||By Muneeza Naqvi and Ragini Saxena Amit Shah, the man leading India’s fight against Covid-19 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s top lieutenant, has been among government leaders touting the country’s low death rate as a success story. Officially India’s death rate is nearly 20 times lower than the US, even though it has the world’s fastest-growing epidemic and the third-highest number of total cases -- now including Shah, who confirmed on Sunday that he was hospitalized with the virus. But independent experts are warning India has failed to properly record fatalities, and say better data collection is needed if the country is going to get a handle on the epidemic. “The problem is a mix of poor data culture and a bloated, corrupt bureaucracy,” said Steve H. Hanke, professor of Applied Economics and the founder and co-director of the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics, Global Health, and the Study of Business Enterprise at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, pointing to a report by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “Missing or low-quality data are always a major problem when attempting to form public policy in the health -- or any other -- field,” he said. “It’s equivalent to the pilot of an aircraft flying blind.” The country of 1.3 billion has more than 1.8 million confirmed infections and close to 40,000 deaths, according to the most recent data from the Johns Hopkins University. Its mortality per 100,000 is about 2.82 compared to 47.33 in the U.S and 44.92 in Brazil, the data shows. Unregistered Deaths Bloomberg contacted officials in the capital New Delhi, the financial hub Mumbai and the southern industrial center of Chennai to obtain data for total deaths in each month from March to July for 2019 and 2020. Figures from Chennai showed overall deaths this year were higher than last year, with a spike in June, while Mumbai provided two different data sets that couldn’t be compared. Multiple calls to municipal corporation officials in Delhi yielded no data. India’s death registration data was patchy even before the virus struck. The vast majority of deaths, especially in rural villages, take place at home and routinely go unregistered. For others the cause of death listed is often anodyne -- old age or heart attack. Experts believe that only between 20%-30% of all deaths in India are properly medically certified. The pandemic has stretched the country’s already ramshackle health infrastructure to near breaking point, highlighting every fault-line that already existed. Data collection is a prime example. Covid-19 data from the federal and state governments is either without any breakdown of gender and age -- crucial when assessing the impact of disease -- or lacking comparisons with deaths recorded over similar periods in previous years. For now, India’s infections show no signs of peaking. Last week the country was adding more than 50,000 infections almost every day, while cities and states that appeared to have the epidemic under control are reporting grim stories of overwhelmed hospitals. Given India’s testing rate is one of the lowest in the world among hard hit countries, experts say the true extent of its epidemic is likely far higher than official data indicates. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare didn’t respond to requests for comment. Revising Data At least three major Indian cities -- New Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai -- revised their Covid-19 death data significantly upwards in June. The reasons for revisions varied. In New Delhi, local municipal bodies said hospital death data didn’t tally with reports of virus-related burials and cremations. In Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu state, and Mumbai delays or bureaucratic lapses in collecting data from multiple sources were cited. Last week, Tamil Nadu once again revised death data -- this time for the entire state -- adding more than 400 deaths from March to June. There have been a slew of news reports about other cities ignoring the death reporting guidelines of the main medical research organization, the Indian Council of Medical Research, that state all ‘suspected’ Covid-19 deaths should be included in the death tally. Mumbai Raises Virus Death Tally by 38% on Data Filing Delays “Mortality data are essential as they provide unbiased estimates of the trends in Covid deaths,” said Prabhat Jha, professor of Global Health and Epidemiology at the Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto. Jha is one the leading experts on India’s mortality data and the chief investigator of the Million Death Study in India. “Data are the best way out of the epidemic,” he said, urging governments “to release a lot more data quickly on cases, deaths and hospitalizations.” Missing death data will worsen as the virus sweeps through India’s villages, said T. Sundararaman, a New Delhi-based global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, an organization which brings together local activists, academics and civil society groups working on public health. The problem with under-reporting virus deaths is compounded by all the delays in how data is collected and travels through India’s bureaucracy, he said, as well as the time between infection and death. “The mortality data released today relates to the cases of infections reported 15 days back -- in those 15 days we’ve added 500,000 new cases,” Sundararaman said in a telephone interview. “We’re looking at the current number of deaths by the current number cases” instead of dividing by the cases from two weeks ago. “In which case our mortality rate will actually rise to 6% which is where I think it should be -- at about 4% to 6%.” “All these deaths that are missed, all these cases that are missed are clusters in the making,” he said. “The real problem is that you’re failing to follow a properly data driven public health policy.” Beds vs Doctors India’s poor quality of health data is a symptom of its overrun public health system. As the disease progressed every infection-hit city or state began to announce additional hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Tens of thousands of beds were added -- yet there was no explanation of how these beds were being medically staffed. Setting up beds is easy, but there is no point unless you have the extra staff to care for the patients in those beds, the managing director of a prominent private hospital in north India said, asking not to be identified citing privacy concerns. In the end, India’s mortality rates will be among the highest in the world, the director said, offering a lesson in how not to manage a pandemic. It’s a gap Sundararaman also notes. “We’ve increased the beds but the recruitment is not on pace. Nurses, paramedics, lab technicians -- we need to provide jobs now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-flying-blind-on-coronavirus-data-even-as-top-leaders-get-infected-869339.html
04-08-2020||National||Civil Services Exam Results 2019 out; Pradeep Singh tops the list||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Tuesday announced the results for the Civil Services Exam 2019. A total of 829 candidates qualified.  Pradeep Singh bagged the first rank followed by Jatin Kishore and Pratibha Verma.  Of the 829 selected, 304 are from the general category while 78 are from economically backward class, 251 from the Other Backward Classes (OBC), 129 from Scheduled Castes and 67 from Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-services-exam-results-2019-out-pradeep-singh-tops-the-list-869340.html
04-08-2020||National||UPSC declares Civil Services Exam results, Pradeep Singh tops the list||IRS officer Pradeep Singh, IES officer Jatin Kishore and IRS officer Pratibha Verma bagged the top three positions in the Civil Services Examination 2019 with the Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday saying that 829 aspirants have qualified for the elite services. Of the 829 selected, 304 are from the general category while 78 are from economically weaker sections, 251 from the Other Backward Class (OBC), 129 from Scheduled Castes and 67 from Scheduled Tribes. The UPSC has also maintained a consolidated reserve list of 182 candidates while results of 11 have been withheld. Various services like IAS, IPS and IFS have reported a total of 927 vacancies, with the Group A Services topping the list with 438 vacancies. There are 180 vacancies in IAS, 150 in IPS and 24 in IFS. Singh, the first rank holder, is a resident of Sonepat in Haryana while Kishore hails from Delhi and Verma from Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur. Singh had entered the civil services last year and was chosen for the Indian Revenue Service. He was undergoing probation at the National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics (NACIN) in Faridabad. "It is like a dream come true. It is a pleasant surprise for me. I always wanted to be an IAS officer. I would like to work for the deprived sections of society.I have opted for my home state Haryana as the preferred cadre state for the IAS. I am happy that I will now get the chance to work for my state,” Singh was quoted by PTI as saying. Kishore (26), a 2018-batch officer of Indian Economic Service (IES) and currently posted as Assistant Director in the Ministry of Rural Development in New Delhi, bagged the second rank in his second attempt. He said education and environment would be his focused areas. Verma, also an IRS officer who got 489th rank in 2018 exams, said, “I was inspired by the way IAS officers act as the first responder at the time of any crisis. They are always on the frontline at the time of difficult situations. That is why I decided to prepare again for the exam." Marks will be available on the website within the next 15 days. The Civil Services Examination is conducted annually in three phases -- preliminary, main and interview -- for choosing candidates for IAS, IPS, IFS, Group A and Group B officers. This year, the final leg could be completed only on July 31 due to the restrictions imposed on travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The interviews were suspended in March and the remaining were done between July 20 and 31. The Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday announced the results for the Civil Service Examinations 2019 with 829 aspirants clearing the elite services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-declares-civil-services-exam-results-pradeep-singh-tops-the-list-869342.html
04-08-2020||National||Ram belongs to everyone, Ayodhya ceremony should send message of unity: Congress||Congress on Tuesday came out in full support of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya with a strong assertion that Lord Ram belongs to everyone. In a statement on the eve of the foundation stone laying ceremony for the temple, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra called for the occasion in Ayodhya to be the one to spread the message of national unity, brotherhood and cultural fellowship. “Simplicity, valour, restraint, sacrifice, commitment, compassion is the essence of Ram. Ram dwells in everyone, Ram is with everyone,” Priyanka said, making her first public statement on the issue that the Congress had dithered to speak about. Priyanka’s statement hailing the virtues of Lord Ram is seen as an attempt to strike chord with the people of Uttar Pradesh and the Hindi heartland at large. “From north to south, east to west, the story of Ram expresses itself in several forms. Like the varied forms of the Lord, there are varied versions of Ram Katha,” she said. With references to various versions of Ramayana, the Congress leader also sought to send across a message of the all encompassing nature of the epic. “For ages, the story of Lord Ram has been the string that connected Indian territory to humanity. Lord Ram signifies refuge as well as sacrifice. Ram belongs to Sabari as well as Sugreev. Ram belongs to Valmiki as well as Bhasa. Ram belongs to Kamban as well as Ezhuthachan. Ram belongs to Kabir, Tulsidas as well as Raidas. Ram is munificent towards all. Gandhi’s Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram gives good sense to all. Waris Ali Shah says Rabb and Ram are one,” Priyanka said. The Congress leader’s statement was read out at a special press conference of the AICC, endorsing it as the party’s official position on the issue of Ram Temple. So far, Congress had avoided making any political statement on the issue and limited itself to welcoming the Supreme Court order, paving way for construction of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-belongs-to-everyone-ayodhya-ceremony-should-send-message-of-unity-congress-869372.html
04-08-2020||National||Retired SC judge Santosh Hegde calls for peaceful coexistence, religious harmony ahead of Ayodhya Bhoomi Pujan||As the stage is set for the ground-breaking ceremony for Ram temple construction at Ayodhya on Wednesday, retired Supreme Court judge N Santosh Hegde has called for the promotion of religious harmony and peaceful coexistence and respect for different faiths. "It is a good idea to make that as an object of the temple so that there can be peace in the world," the former Solicitor General of India said when asked if the temple should be promoted as a symbol of national integration, and social and communal harmony. Hegde said one of the most dangerous things for conflict today is religion. "In that background, there should be some effort from somebody or other to bring about peaceful coexistence, respecting each religion," the former Karnataka Lokayukta told PTI on Tuesday. "It is a good idea to start Bhumi Pujan as an indicator of that or foundation for developing harmony among various religions," he added. The Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple by a Trust at the disputed site of the Babri Masjid's demolition in Ayodhya. It also directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5- acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh government has allotted a five-acre land in Dhannipur village in Sohaval Tehsil of Ayodhya for the mosque's construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-sc-judge-santosh-hegde-calls-for-peaceful-coexistence-religious-harmony-ahead-of-ayodhya-bhoomi-pujan-869377.html
04-08-2020||National||Adani group, Suraksha, Sunteck Realty submit EOI to acquire debt-laden HDIL||Adani Properties, Suraksha Asset Reconstruction and Sunteck Realty are among six players which have shown initial interest to acquire debt-laden HDIL through the insolvency resolution process, according to a regulatory filing. Adani Properties and Suraksha group had participated in the insolvency resolution process of Jaypee Infratech, which eventually was acquired by the state-owned NBCC. HDIL is under corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) pursuant to the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. In a regulatory filing, Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) shared the provisional list of prospective resolution applicants. The invitation for expressions of interest (EOI) for resolution applicants was first published in February and subsequently revised several times. "Submission of EOI was closed on July 31, 2020. The Resolution Professional has received 6 (six) EOI from interested parties," the filing said. International Asset Reconstruction Company, N S Software and Harsha Vardhan Reddy have also submitted the EOI, but were found ineligible. International Asset Reconstruction Company has not submitted the undertaking under section 29A of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) in the required format on stamp paper duly signed, stamped and notarised. It will become eligible once the required undertaking is furnished on or before August 8. N S Software and Harsha Vardhan Reddy did not meet the criteria of having minimum net worth (Rs 500 crore) or asset under management (Rs 2,000 crore) or committed funds (Rs 250 crore) at the end of March 2019. "Any objection to inclusion or exclusion of a prospective resolution applicant in the provisional list may be made with supporting documents within five days from the date of issue of the provisional list i.e. by August 8, 2020. "After considering the objections, if any, received by the Resolution Professional, final list of prospective resolution applicants (PRAs) will be published," the filing said. Its affairs, business and assets are being managed by the Resolution Professional Abhay N Manudhane appointed by National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, Mumbai, vide order dated August 20, 2019. At present, promoters of HDIL Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan are in jail for alleged involvement in the multi-crore rupee Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative Bank scam case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adani-group-suraksha-sunteck-realty-submit-eoi-to-acquire-debt-laden-hdil-869395.html
04-08-2020||National||Aadhaar linkage proposed in Social Security Code goes against SC order: Parliamentary panel||A Parliamentary panel found fault with the Ministry of Labour and Employment for making disclosure of Aadhaar numbers mandatory for unorganised workers for availing benefits under the proposed Social Security Code 2019, indicating that it goes against Supreme Court verdict as there is no commitment of fund flow from the Consolidated Fund of India The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour headed by senior BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab highlighted the need for harmonising the provisions with the Supreme Court judgement, which said the government could insist on Aadhaar linkage could be done only for subsidy or benefits serviced from the Consolidated Fund of India. In the Code, the multi-party panel said, the Financial Memorandum does not involve any expenditure from the Consolidated Fund and this appears to "contradict provisions" made in Clause 113(2) making it mandatory for Aadhaar linkage but runs against the apex court ruling. To this, the Ministry had responded saying the Financial Memorandum details the financial implications that may arise in future for formulating the schemes for unorganized sector and for entrusting the additional work for administration of other enactments or schemes relating to social security under Clause 13. "Therefore, the Code clearly acknowledges that there will be expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India for undertaking Schemes, however, the same cannot be quantified at present," it argues. The Ministry also said the linkage of national database for unorganised workers with Aadhaar will enable the Government of India to have a single unified sanitized and robust database. However, the panel is not convinced and said in its report submitted to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that the Ministry should "harmonise the relevant provisions in the Code with the Supreme Court Judgment so as to make it legally tenable". The Committee also queried about the giving a unique number based on Aadhaar to unorganised workers registering with a national database and asked whether it desirable to issue multiple unique numbers. The Ministry said in Aadhaar, the personal details cannot be used and it is covered under. "That is why Aadhaar is a number for portability but scheme-wise, we have a unique number so that the scheme can run smoothly. For example, in EPF (Employment Provident Fund) also we have a Universal Account Number,” the Ministry reasoned. The panel was also critical that the Financial Memorandum to the Code remained "vague to the extent that neither estimated expenditure has been quantified nor source of revenue clearly indicated as was done in other Codes such as the Industrial Relations Code, 2019". It wanted the Ministry to incorporate "some tentative approximate estimated financial commitments be reflected" in the Financial Memorandum, which may be "modified according to the need of time so as to demonstrate authenticity and inspire confidence among all the stakeholders involved".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aadhaar-linkage-proposed-in-social-security-code-goes-against-sc-order-parliamentary-panel-869402.html
04-08-2020||National||Covid-19 will disappear with blessings of Lord Ram: Shiv Sena||The Covid-19 crisis in the country will disappear with the blessings of Lord Ram, the Shiv Sena said on Tuesday, and pointed out that veterans like L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi won't be present in Ayodhya for the temple 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony. An editorial in the party mouthpiece "Saamana" took a dig at the August 5 ceremony being held amid rising cases of coronavirus in the country. "There is no other golden moment like the one when Prime Minister Modi performs the 'bhoomi pujan' at Ayodhya, the Sena said. "Coronavirus is there, but will disappear with Lord Ram's blessings," it added. Advani and Joshi, key leaders associated with the Ram temple construction campaign, will witness the ceremony via video conferencing from Delhi, the editorial noted. They were advised not to attend the ceremony in view of their age and the outbreak of Covid-19 in Ayodhya, it said. Uma Bharti, another prominent leader attached to the campaign, will also not be present at the ceremony and will instead watch it "from the banks of the Sarayu river through the eyes of her mind", the Sena said. There is excitement in the country in view of the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony, the Sena said. "Coronavirus has spread in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh and the entire country. This crisis, too, will fade away with the blessings of Lord Ram," it said. The responsibility of security arrangements in Ayodhya was with the Home ministry, but it is unfortunate that Home Minister Amit Shah tested coronavirus positive, it said. Despite the presence of the Prime Minister, the RSS chief, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and others, the ceremony will be lacklustre without Shah, the Sena said. It said Shah participated in a public event in Delhi last Saturday and attended the cabinet meeting last Wednesday observing social distancing norms, and has asked those who came in his contact in the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested for coronavirus. The entire Council of ministers needs to be isolated, if the home minister is saying this, it said. Shah is close to Modi but nothing will happen to the prime minister and the home minister due the blessings of Lord Ram, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-will-disappear-with-blessings-of-lord-ram-shiv-sena-869404.html
04-08-2020||National||Bihar government can't recommend CBI probe: Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer||Actor Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer on Tuesday said the Bihar government cannot recommend a CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death when police from that state do not have any jurisdiction to even investigate the case. The Bihar government has decided to recommend a CBI inquiry in the case of Rajput's death after his father made a request for it, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday. "There cannot be transfer of a case which had no legal basis, to begin with for the Bihar police to get involved. At the most, it would be a Zero FIR which would then be transferred to Mumbai Police, Chakraborty's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said in a statement. The transfer of a case, in which they (Bihar police) had no jurisdiction, to CBI has no legal sanctity, he said. He said the Bihar government, realising that it does not have the jurisdiction to probe the case, is now adopting this "illegal method" of recommending the case to be handed over to CBI. Chakraborty earlier filed a petition in the Supreme Court, stating that the Bihar Police has no jurisdiction to probe the case as the Mumbai Police have already registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR). Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) and an investigation is underway in the case. Till now, the Mumbai Police have recorded statements of 56 people, including Rajput's sisters, Chakraborty and some other film personalities. Rajput's father KK Singh last week lodged a complaint with Patna police against Chakraborty and her family members, accusing them of abetting the actor's suicide. The Patna police registered an FIR against Chakraborty and six members of her family under various Indian Penal Code Sections, including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide). A team of the Bihar police is in Mumbai for probing the case and recording statements of witnesses. Maneshinde on Monday refuted the Bihar Polices contention that Chakraborty was "missing", and said till date she has not received any summons or notice from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-government-cant-recommend-cbi-probe-rhea-chakrabortys-lawyer-869405.html
04-08-2020||National||Pakistan court appoints three senior lawyers as amici curiae in Jadhav's case||A top Pakistani court has named three senior lawyers as amici curiae in the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav as it ordered the Pakistan government to give "another chance" to India to appoint a counsel for the death-row prisoner. Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the International Court of Justice against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. A two-member bench of the Islamabad High Court (IHC) comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb appointed the three lawyers on Monday as it held a hearing of the petition filed by the Pakistan government to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav. Amicus Curiae is a lawyer appointed by a court to assist in any matter or case. The court also ordered a larger bench to be set up for the case. It also directed the registrar of the court to fix the proceedings at 2 pm on September 3 before a larger bench. “We appoint Mr Abid Hassan Manto, Mr Hamid Khan, Senior Advocates of the Supreme Court and former presidents of the Supreme Court Bar Association, and Mr Makhdoom Ali Khan, Senior Advocate Supreme Court and former Attorney General of Pakistan, as amici curiae for our legal assistance in general and, in particular, to ensure that the judgement of the International Court is effectively implemented,” the court said in its order. The Pakistan government in its petition has claimed that Jadhav refused to file a review petition or an application to reconsider the verdict against him by the military court. “We feel that in order to ensure the effectiveness of the review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentence of Commander Jadhav, a reasonable opportunity ought to be extended to the latter and the Government of India to arrange legal representation and to file a petition. "We, therefore, at this stage restrain ourselves from appointing a counsel on behalf of Commander Jadhav and advise the Government of Pakistan to extend an opportunity to Jadhav and the Government of India for arranging legal representation in terms of Article 32(1)(c) of the Convention and in accordance with the applicable laws,” the court order said. The court also asked the Pakistan government to communicate the order to the Indian government. Responding to the judge's remarks, Pakistan's Attorney General Khalid Javed Khan said an ordinance was issued to give an opportunity to India and Jadhav to file a review petition against the sentence. "We will contact India again through the Foreign Office," he said. He told the court that Jadhav was being taken care of and was in good health. On July 16, Pakistan provided consular access to Jadhav, but the Indian government said the access was "neither meaningful nor credible" and he appeared visibly under stress. In New Delhi, External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava last month said Pakistan has once again exposed its "farcical" approach by denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence which is also in contravention of the ICJ verdict, and asserted that India will explore further options in the case. Srivastava said Pakistan has blocked all the avenues for an effective remedy available to India in the case, while noting that New Delhi has so far requested consular access to Jadhav for 12 times over the past one year. The MEA spokesperson said Pakistan is not only in violation of the judgment of ICJ, but also of its own ordinance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-court-appoints-three-senior-lawyers-as-amici-curiae-in-jadhavs-case-869406.html
04-08-2020||National||Need to make delivery of justice speedier, affordable: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday voiced concern over the mounting pendency of cases across various courts, including the Supreme Court, and urged the government and the judiciary to ensure faster justice by addressing the issue of delays. He underscored the need to make delivery of justice speedier and affordable. Citing adjournment of cases, Naidu observed that justice was becoming costly, an official statement said. Addressing the Platinum Jubilee meet of Dr B R Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, via video, the vice president said that public interest litigations (PILs) should not become private interest litigations for personal, pecuniary and political interests.   There was nothing wrong if it was for a larger public cause, he stressed. Asking law students to be the voice of the voiceless, and to use their legal knowledge to empower the marginalised, he advised them to take up legal aid for the poor as a commitment. He also told the budding lawyers to nurture professionalism and ethical conduct, while being fearless and fair when it comes to discharging their duties, the statement said. “Fight injustice wherever it exists and in whichever manner it is perpetuated”, he said. Highlighting the need to avoid ambiguity while drafting laws, the vice president said laws should be simple and uncomplicated. The focus should not only be on the letter but also on the spirit of and the intent behind our laws. “The intent and purpose of the law must be very clear”, he asserted. Advising students to remain life-long learners and understand the nuances of our democratic system and the functioning of its institutions and processes, Naidu said there was a need to make policies that are not only legally sound but also morally righteous and socially just.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-make-delivery-of-justice-speedier-affordable-vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-869411.html
04-08-2020||National||Plea for taking law test from home; HC seeks Centre, NLU consortium stand||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Consortium of National Law Universities (NLU) to reply to a law graduate's plea challenging the requirement of physically appearing at the exam centre for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Jayant Nath asked the central government to inform the court whether it would be permissible to hold such an exam at physical centres in view of the prevailing pandemic. The court issued notices to the central government and the NLU, seeking their stand by August 10 on the petition which has sought that the online CLAT exams be allowed to be undertaken from home. CLAT is a centralised exam for admissions to bachelors and masters courses in law in 22 NLUs in the country and is conducted by the consortium. Under the CLAT 2020 notification, the exam would be held online at notified centres where computers would be set up for candidates to access the test. The counsel appearing for the consortium initially said the plea was not maintainable in Delhi as the consortium was based in Bengaluru. He also said that it was decided not to hold CLAT at home as it would lead to rampant cheating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-for-taking-law-test-from-home-hc-seeks-centre-nlu-consortium-stand-869412.html
04-08-2020||National||Aam Aadmi Party to restructure Delhi unit: Gopal Rai||The Aam Aadmi Party has decided to restructure its Delhi unit at assembly, district, ward, polling station and booth level, senior party leader and minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday. The restructuring exercise is being undertaken with an eye on the 2022 municipal polls in the city. Rai, who is also the AAP's Delhi convener, said the restructuring will start from Wednesday and will continue till August 20. He said the party will give new responsibilities to those who performed well in the assembly elections held earlier this year. "A 15-day restructuring exercise will start from Wednesday. The restructuring at district, assembly, ward, polling station and booth level also aims to strengthen the organisation," Rai told PTI. "We will review the works of our leaders at these five levels and then, the party will make a decision.Those who have done good work during the COVID-19 pandemic will also be considered for new responsibilities," the AAP leader said. The municipal elections will be held in 2022. In 2017, the AAP lost the MCD elections. However, in the assembly elections this year, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP had won 62 seats and the BJP bagged eight seats in the 70-member Delhi Assembly, while the Congress had drawn a blank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aam-aadmi-party-to-restructure-delhi-unit-gopal-rai-869417.html
04-08-2020||National||Ram Temple: Get to know the Sompuras, the temple architects||A nation's wait and a long saga of political and social turmoil will come to an end on Aug. 5, 2020, with the Ayodhya Ram Temple's 'bhoomi pujan'. A tale that began with the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 will enter its final chapter as the ceremony marks the formal commencement of the much-promised mandir's construction. The design of the temple has been formulated by Chandrakant Sompura, who belongs to the Sompura clan. Let's take a look at who the Sompuras are.  The Sompuras (or Sompura Salat) are a group of people who took up artistic and masonry works as an occupation and branched off from the Sompura Brahmin community. Kumar Suresh Singh, in the book India's Communities, wrote that "they are a section of Sompura Brahmin or Prabhas Patan which was once called Somapura because it was supposed to have been founded by Chandra (the Moon God)." However, Sompura Brahmins do not accept them as proper Brahmins. They maintain clan exogamy as a strict rule for marriage. Chandrakant Sompura, a grandson of Prabhashankar, has designed 131 temples, including the Swami Narayan Temple in Gandhinagar and Ambaji Temple in Palanpur. In 1889-90, he was asked by Ashok Singhal, former chief of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, to design and build the Ram Janmabhoomi temple. Chandrakant, who is 78 now, is spearheading the project and his two sons Ashish and Nikhil Sompura are assisting him. Though traditions in the family call for elders to pass the learnings of the Shilpa Shastras and the art of ancient temple architecture to the next generation, the modern age calls for certain upgrades to that technique. That is why both Ashish and Nikhil have acquired diplomas in civil engineering. The original design for the Ram Temple was prepared in 1988 by the Sompura family of Ahmedabad. After the Supreme Court verdict in 2019, the Sompuras prepared a new design for the Ram Temple. The new design is grander than what was planned earlier. The temple will be 235 feet by 360 feet with a height of 161 feet and has been designed following the 'Nagara' style of architecture. The first floor of the temple will have Ram Darbar housing idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman, Sita and Lord Hanuman. Around 30,000 tonnes of Bansi Pahadpur stone, also known as 'pink stone', will be used for the construction of the temple. There will be 360 pillars with 100 bows around the temple. The temple complex will have a prayer hall, Ramkatha Kunj (lecture hall), Vaidik Pathshala (educational facility), Sant Niwas (saints residence), Yatri Niwas (hostel for visitors) and other facilities like a museum and a cafeteria. Once completed, the temple will be the world's third-largest Hindu shrine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-get-to-know-the-sompuras-the-temple-architects-869421.html
04-08-2020||National||No entry for people with less than 95% oxygen saturation in gyms, yoga classes||The directive, released on yesterday said that yoga and physical activity is important for health and wellbeing. Hence, gymnasiums and yoga classes can resume from August 5 provided all health procedures are followed.  Gymnasiums and yoga schools have to provide oximeters in their facilities to measure the oxygen saturation level of all members before they start exercising. “Those having oxygen saturation below 95% should not be allowed to continue the exercise. Call central/state helpline/ambulance and refer such persons to the nearest health facility. Ensure availability of pulse oximeters to record oxygen saturation of members prior to the exercise,” the SOP stated. The guidelines also asked yoga classes and gymnasiums to reschedule sessions of their members by calculating the maximum capacity per session based on redesigned spaces. The directive has also advised maximum usage of outdoor spaces. The directive also stated that according to the CPWD guidelines, the temperature of all air-conditioning devices has to be maintained between 24-30 degree celsius and relative humidity should be within 40% to 70%. Cross ventilation and intake of fresh air must also be available.  Social distancing of about 6 feet always needs to be maintained between instructors, members, placement of equipment and lockers. In lieu of masks, visors can be worn as masks might make it difficult to breathe during exercising. Spas, saunas, steam baths and swimming pools will remain closed until further notice. People with comorbidities, pregnant women, children below 10 and people above 65 years have been advised not to use these facilities. Gymnasiums and yoga centres in containment areas will remain closed, the directive said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-entry-for-people-with-less-than-95-oxygen-saturation-in-gyms-yoga-classes-869422.html
04-08-2020||National||Dalai Lama mourns death of Nobel laureate John Hume||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Tuesday expressed condolences on the demise of Northern Irish politician and fellow Nobel laureate John Hume. Hume, who died on Monday at the age 83, following a long period of illness won a Nobel Peace Prize for fashioning the agreement that ended violence in his native Northern Ireland. In his condolence message to Hume’s wife, the Dalai Lama wrote: “I was pleased to be able to meet your husband during one of my several visits to Northern Ireland. His deep conviction in the power of dialogue and negotiations to resolve conflict was unwavering.” “It was his leadership and his faith in the power of negotiations that enabled the 1998 Good Friday Agreement to be reached. His steady persistence set an example for all of us to follow,” he said. Hume's dedication to peace and non-violence in the resolution of conflict, no matter how protracted or difficult it may seem to be, will long survive him and noted that he had lived a meaningful life, the spiritual leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-mourns-death-of-nobel-laureate-john-hume-869425.html
04-08-2020||National||Landslide on WEH after heavy rain, traffic movement affected||Heavy overnight rain caused a landslide on the Western Express Highway in suburban Kandivali early Tuesday morning, affecting vehicular movement from the western suburbs towards south Mumbai, officials said. No casualty was reported in the incident, a fire control room official said. "We received a call around 7 am informing us about the debris on Ali Yavar Jung Marg (also known as the Western Express Highway)," the official said. The Western Express Highway (WEH) is a major north- south arterial road, stretching from Dahisar to suburban Bandra in Mumbai. Vehicular movement from the area towards south Mumbai was disrupted, affecting regular commuters and those involved in emergency services as authorities closed some portion of the road for clearing the debris, another official said. A car was stuck in the debris and was later removed. The south-bound traffic was diverted to another road, the fire control room official said, adding that work was on to remove the debris from the road. Mumbai and its neighbouring areas have been receiving heavy showers since Monday night. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy rains are likely to continue for next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landslide-on-weh-after-heavy-rain-traffic-movement-affected-869434.html
04-08-2020||National||Bofors-fame advocate moves SC for CBI probe into death of Sushant Singh Rajput||Bofors-fame advocate Ajay Agrawal on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai on June 14. In a petition, he contended a uniformed probe by the CBI was necessary to unravel the truth. Even though the Bihar ordered for an enquiry by the central agency, the Maharashtra government may not agree for it. Agrawal pointed out the blatant act of the Bombay Municipal Corporation to put Patna SP, Vinay Tiwari, who went for probe in an FIR lodged by Rajput's father, in quarantine under the instruction from the Maharashtra government made it loud, clear and apparent that there was something fishy in the investigation of Mumbai Police.  It wanted to hide and suppress some material facts which are necessary for impartial and fair investigation of the case and that is why the present Maharashtra government was shy of recommending CBI inquiry into the matter wherein its act in this matter is under cloud, he claimed. He said nobody could swallow this theory of suicide of a bright star of Bollywood and every Indian was curious to know the actual facts of his untimely death. The petitioner also pointed out the top court on July 15 dismissed a PIL for a CBI probe into the matter but there was no speaking order. Agrawal, who filed the PIL in Bofors scam, is a member of the BJP. He has also unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls against Sonia Gandhi from Rai Bareli constituency. Meanwhile, Dwivendra Devtadeen Dubey, a law student from Mumbai, also filed a plea for transfer of probe into the FIR lodged by Bihar police to the CBI. He sought a direction to Mumbai police to preserve all records. The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Wednesday, August 5 a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty for transfer of the July 25 FIR filed by father of deceased actor with Patna Police to Mumbai. Sushsnt's father K K Singh accused Rhea, who was in live-in relationship with the actor, and others, including her family members, of cheating, holding his son hostage and forcing him to commit suicide. He also claimed as much as Rs 17 crore was withdrawn from his son's bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bofors-fame-advocate-moves-sc-for-cbi-probe-into-death-of-sushant-singh-rajput-869435.html
04-08-2020||National||Release data on registered deaths to understand mortality impact of Covid-19: Researchers||More than 200 researchers, epidemiologists and public health professionals from India and abroad have urged government agencies to release data on registered deaths to understand the mortality impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.   In an appeal to the Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, state registrars and other agencies which maintain death records, the signatories said that vital registration systems that record births and deaths are "unrevealed health surveillance tools" that are particularly valuable in responding to epidemics. "This data enables the calculation of 'access mortality' statistics, that is, mortality above what we would have expected under normal conditions. "If made available publicly by government authorities, these statistics will help quantify the mortality impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in India in real time and guide policy responses," they said. "We, the undersigned, urge government authorities to immediately release available data on registered deaths to understand the mortality impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in India," the appeal dated August 2 said. India's Covid-19 tally increased to 18,55,745 on Tuesday with 52,050 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 38,938 with 803 fresh fatalities being reported in 24-hours, the Union Health Ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The letter stated that in the last few months, vital registration systems in many countries have made available these statistics and galvanised them to inform their mitigation strategies. Like in other countries, this data will help public authorities in India identify places that need restrictions on movements, increased testing, and where healthcare provision needs to be strengthened.  "This data will also add to the scientific knowledge on Covid-19 in India, by improving understanding of the infection fatality rate of the virus,” the signatories said. "We urge civil registrars to release individual level anonymised data that contains information on sex, age, home location identifiers (such as district), and date of death of the deceased person," they said in the letter. To estimate excess deaths correctly, information on deaths for at least the last three years (2018, 2019, and 2020) would be crucial. If causes of death are available for these years, they urged the authorities to release them too.  At a minimum, deaths from accidental mortality be identified separately, they underlined. "Additionally, we request that death registration be encouraged. Centres, where deaths are registered, should remain open and follow social distancing norms," they said. Although vital registration in India is incomplete, the experts stated registered deaths data has the ability to guide public health decision making. They also mentioned that according to a latest report from India's civil registration system, 86 pc of all deaths were registered in India in 2018. Death registration was complete in 16 out of 36 states and Union Territories.  "We understand that public authorities in India are already stretched and work under many constraints. The pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have made the work of public officials more difficult, and more essential. As researchers, scientists, journalists, and public health professionals, we would be happy to assist public authorities in cleaning, analysing, and understanding the implications of these data," they said in the letter. The 2018 annual report of vital statistics of India says the civil registration system “serves as the cornerstone of the public health system.” At no other point in the history of India has the data collected by this system been so important, the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/release-data-on-registered-deaths-to-understand-mortality-impact-of-covid-19-researchers-869439.html
04-08-2020||National||Hindutva now basic coat on canvas of Indian politics: Govindacharya||Hindutva is now the "basic coat on the canvas of polity" and political parties subscribing to its various shades may be vying for power in future as socialism and secularism is no longer the pivot of politics, former RSS ideologue K N Govindacharya said on Tuesday. A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends the ground-breaking ceremony for building a Ram temple in Ayodhya, Govindacharya, once a powerful BJP general secretary, underscored its significance, saying this marks the return of national politics to its "roots" of Hindutva which, he added, remained at the margins for decades before going from strength to strength 2010 onwards. As "special assistant" to the then BJP president L K Advani during 1988-91, Govindacharya is considered a key figure in planning the "Rath Yatra" taken out by Advani in 1990 which had propelled the Ram Janmbhoomi movement and consequently the party to the centre stage of Indian politics. Speaking to PTI, he noted that Congress leaders like Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath have now been speaking in favour of the temple's construction, and said this signals that even many opposition leaders understand the issue's ideological and emotional significance to the masses. To a question, he said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has embraced Hindutva, and people, in turn, have embraced him." The Congress under Sonia and Rahul Gandhi "declined" and became "discredited" by antagonising masses, he claimed, adding that a big part of the credit for the BJP's rise should be given to opposition parties. The Congress should return to the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi, he said, observing that Indira Gandhi was much "wiser" to Hindutva sentiments after her return to power in 1980 following her party's big defeat in 1977. "Many pro-Hindutva or Hindutva-subscribing political groups may vie in competition for supremacy and a better slice of gains in future. The basic coat on the canvas of polity is Hindutva now," Govindacharya, the BJP general secretary (organisation) between 1991-2000, said. He has since cut his ties with active politics and is associated with groups advocating nationalist and swadeshi causes. As socialism and secularism were the pivots of politics between 1952-80 and 1980-2010 respectively, Hindutva has now come to acquire the same dominance, he said. Asked about criticism that some groups, especially minorities, have about Hindutva, he defended the ideology, saying it is "non-adversarial, comprehensive and has respect for all modes of worship". Govindacharya, 77, however, cautioned that the BJP's dominance in future cannot be taken for granted as it will depend much on the party's emotional commitment to its ideology and value-based politics. This will also depend on how opposition parties' adapt to the turn in politics, he noted. Power has its "intoxicating" ingredients, and the BJP's skills and commitment will be tested, he said. "Only future will tell if the party sticks to its values and undergoes Congress-isation," he said. The Ram Janmbhoomi movement mobilised the masses because of its emotional resonance, he said, adding that many groups outside politics played important roles in shaping the Hindutva movement||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindutva-now-basic-coat-on-canvas-of-indian-politics-govindacharya-869442.html
04-08-2020||National||IndiGo operates charter flight to repatriate 212 Indians from Russia||IndiGo said on Tuesday that it operated a passenger charter flight from Moscow to Amritsar to Kochi on Sunday, bringing back a total of 212 Indians from the Russian capital. "The passengers who were mostly students flew home by the chartered flight en route Moscow - Amritsar - Kochi with the assistance of Embassy of India in Moscow, Russia and Nixtour India Private Limited," the airline said in a press release. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the pandemic. However, special international charter flights, permitted by the Indian aviation regulator DGCA, have been operating as usual. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic. PTI DSP http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-operates-charter-flight-to-repatriate-212-indians-from-russia-869447.html
04-08-2020||National||Nokia to set up robotics lab in IISc||Nokia on Tuesday announced a collaboration with Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to set up a Nokia Centre of Excellence (CoE) for networked robotics. "The CoE will promote interdisciplinary research involving robotics, advanced communication technologies and Artificial Intelligence (AI) to develop socially relevant use cases across areas like emergency management, agriculture and industrial automation," said Nokia in a statement. "The centre will promote engagement and cooperation between academia, start-ups and industry ecosystem partners in research and development of use cases. This centre supports and aligns with the government initiatives of Start-up India," the statement said. The Nokia CoE, a state-of-the-art network robotics laboratory, will be available to the IISc community and its ecosystem partners for advanced research projects involving designing next-generation networks and applications of Artificial Intelligence for solving pertinent social problems. Nokia will share its expertise in next-generation network innovations and leverage Nokia Bell Labs’ technical expertise in robot orchestration, robot network controller and human-robot interaction to aid the research and development of the end-to-end use case technology solutions. IISc will engage its cross-disciplinary faculty and researchers, and provide its in-house expertise in algorithms, drones and robotic systems. "This is a critical initiative and it will help us move closer to finding technology-powered solutions to enrich our lives,” said Professor G Rangarajan, Director, IISc. Some of the use cases which the collaboration will explore include using drones for remote management of agricultural orchards to promote water conservation and avoid human contact with pesticide, quickly accessing the affected areas during disaster relief and anticipating crop fires, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nokia-to-set-up-robotics-lab-in-iisc-869452.html
04-08-2020||National||Swab samples of Jharkhand CM, his family members, CMO officials collected for Covid-19 test||A team of health workers on Tuesday collected swab samples of Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and his family members for Covid-19 tests, the second time in a month, after several employees at his office were found to have contracted the disease, an official said. Other staff members at the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) have also given their samples for examination, he said. Abhishek Prasad, the chief minister's press adviser, said 17 officials at the CMO were diagnosed with the disease on August 2. Soren, who is also the JMM executive president, his wife and other family members had undergone the test for the first time on July 11, the results of which came negative. The CM had quarantined himself at his Ranchi residence last month after contact tracing of a cabinet minister and an MLA led to Soren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swab-samples-of-jharkhand-cm-his-family-members-cmo-officials-collected-for-covid-19-test-869454.html
04-08-2020||National||IndiGo operates charter flight to repatriate 212 Indians from Russia||IndiGo said on Tuesday that it operated a passenger charter flight from Moscow to Amritsar to Kochi on Sunday, bringing back a total of 212 Indians from the Russian capital. "The passengers who were mostly students flew home by the chartered flight en route Moscow - Amritsar - Kochi with the assistance of Embassy of India in Moscow, Russia and Nixtour India Private Limited," the airline said in a press release. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the pandemic. However, special international charter flights, permitted by the Indian aviation regulator DGCA, have been operating as usual. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-operates-charter-flight-to-repatriate-212-indians-from-russia-869460.html
04-08-2020||National||Supreme Court orders provision of essentials to elderly during Covid-19 pandemic||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered all the states to ensure all elderly people who are eligible for pension should be paid the amount regularly, along with necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers, and other essential goods during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy directed that when any individual request was made, it should be attended to by the administration with all promptness. "The care givers of those old age homes should be provided personal protection and appropriate sanitisation should also be undertaken in the old age homes," the bench said. The court also directed that elderly people should be given priority in the admission in the government hospital looking to their vulnerability to Covid-19. "In event of any complaint made by the elderly people, the hospital administration concerned shall take immediate steps to remedy their grievances," it ordered. The court passed its directions on an application filed by former Union Law Minister and senior advocate Ashwani Kumar, who contended that the older people, living alone, were the worst sufferers in Covid-19 crisis, as they were not able to get medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods. The care givers of these people were untrained and were also not equipped with personal protection equipment. Union government's counsel submitted that the necessary steps have been taken to give protection to the older people in this pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-orders-provision-of-essentials-to-elderly-during-covid-19-pandemic-869485.html
04-08-2020||National||With oximeters, temperature guns and more, gyms ready to welcome ‘fitness in corona era’||Gyms and fitness centres on Tuesday geared up to open their doors after almost five months with managements busy fine-tuning operational details such as hourly sanitisation, spacing out equipment to ensure social distancing and minimising staff in accordance with government guidelines. Thousands of small gyms and bigger chains will welcome customers to ‘fitness in the Covid-19 era’ on Wednesday though outlets in states where lockdown rules have not been relaxed will continue to be closed. After the crippling losses and layoffs, the Ministry of Home Affairs’ July 30 notice allowing gymnasiums and yoga institutes to reopen from August 5 was a huge relief, said, gym owners. On Monday evening, the Health Ministry issued its guidelines and establishments are quickly making sure that everything is in place before they reopen for business. Aseem Rao, who owns Hype, a franchise of nearly 40 fitness centres across Delhi-NCR, said his outlets will follow all government-instructed protocols, including the availability of sanitisers and oximeters, spaced out equipment and thermal screening of both staff and members. “Most of my outlets are 6,000 square feet in area. To ensure social distancing during group classes, we have decided the space that was earlier occupied by as many as 60 people at a time will now house not more than 25 people,” he said.  Rao will be reopening 19 of his centres across Haryana and Ghaziabad, while the Delhi outlets will remain shut. Several states and cities, including Delhi and Maharashtra, will continue to keep gyms shut. Maharashtra has reported 15,842 Covid-19 deaths and Delhi 4,004, according to Union Health Ministry figures on Monday. Pravesh Gaur, who owns the Fast Fit chain of gyms, is also getting ready to open his outlets in Faridabad. “We will be adhering to all the government directions — thermal temperature check before entering the centre, sanitisation of all equipment on an hourly basis and before every use, as well as monitoring the staff for any symptoms on a regular basis,” Gaur told PTI. The staff capacity will be at 50 per cent, he added. The ministry’s 'Guidelines on Preventive Measures to Contain Spread of Covid-19 in Yoga Institutes & Gymnasiums' also suggests staggered visits by members and instructs that equipment, including cardio and strength machines, be placed six feet apart wherever possible. It also says visors should be used as far as possible while exercising. Before exercising, people have to get their oxygen saturation checked. If below 95 per cent, they should not be allowed to exercise, the notification says. The fitness industry was among the first to take a hit with gyms across states shutting down rapidly even before the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, leaving thousands of trainers and support staff unemployed.   According to Gympik, a health and fitness aggregator, there are approximately 20,000 gyms across the country, including neighbourhood workout centres as well as nationwide chains like Gold Gym and Cultfit that have multiple centres in a single city alone.  These centres offer facilities like strength, weight and cardio training, alongside yoga and Zumba classes, and cater to over 10 million gym-goers, it estimates. Gaur, who owns four centres across Delhi and Faridabad and is ensuring that he complies with all the orders, has incurred an approximate loss of Rs 20-30 lakh per branch. He said he was also compelled to either let go off or send some of his employees on “temporary unpaid leave”. Some of his trainers conducted online classes, but that did not really work. “Using equipment that specifically targets each muscle group, along with the personal guidance of a trainer to correct forms and techniques cannot be replicated in online classes. We hardly generated four to five per cent of our revenue through these sessions,” he added. Rao agreed. Over the last five months, he said, the losses had been massive, with no income but rents and staff salaries that had to be paid. “Although we were doing online classes, even our existing members did not seem very interested in those sessions and there were no new registrations during that time,” he said. Shalini Bhargava, director at Mumbai’s JG’s Fitness Centre is not looking at opening her facility immediately with the Maharashtra government extending the lockdown till August 31 but is prepping for it. “Most of our existing clients have been calling to get an idea of the time slots, rules and safety measures that will be followed. All the government guidelines were expected, so we are completely prepared,” Bhargava said. Machines and gym equipment have been spaced out, sanitisation machines have been installed, and fitness sessions have been moved to the open-air terrace. She added that she is also planning to install a UV tower which will keep disinfecting the gym every one hour.  Fitness enthusiasts have been missing their workout sessions at the gyms but are wary of stepping into one. Gurgaon-based Chetna Beniwal, for instance, would visit the gym five days a week before the lockdown. Given the continuing spread of the disease, she said she has decided to continue to work out at home. “My major concern is using the same equipment and machines that other people have been using. Besides, I have been working out at home using a mat and a few weights, and it feels like a better alternative to gyms. “Working out at home is more convenient and easy. I can exercise anytime I want, be it day or late at night,” the 28-year-old customs inspector said. Unlike her, Mumbai-based Ankit Doshi said he can’t wait for the gyms to reopen in his state. “I used to work out a minimum of five days a week before the lockdown started. Thanks to the online classes and workout apps, I have been able to maintain my fitness schedule. I also did a yoga training course for 21 days with The Yoga Institute.  “But it has been difficult to manage weight training. Also, at gyms, you maintain a certain discipline, which you tend to lose at times while working out at home,“  said the 34-year-old CEO of a Mumbai-based enterprise. The fitness business might be taking tentative steps to normalcy but drastic changes are in store, said Amaresh Ojha, founder and CEO of Gympik. Agreeing with Gaur and Rao that online alone is not a viable business model for gyms, Ojha said the industry is likely to now function on the “hybrid business model” — a combination of limited on-premise and online classes. “The fitness business will no longer be a volume game. Most estimates show that the footfall will probably reduce significantly to allow only 33-50 per cent member attendance, depending on the availability of space. “The hybrid model will allow the gyms to up their game and offer the best of both the online and offline worlds to their members by giving them more freedom and flexibility to workout anytime, anywhere,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-oximeters-temperature-guns-and-more-gyms-ready-to-welcome-fitness-in-corona-era-869486.html
04-08-2020||National||Three migrant workers from Jharkhand found dead near railway track||Three migrant workers from Jharkhand were found dead near the railway track at Kanjikode late Monday night, in a suspected case of train run over. The incident occurred between Kanjikode and Palakkad stations around9 to 10 pm. The three are contract workers engaged in the construction work of the IIT campus at Kanjikode, work for which began hardly one and half months ago. Palakkad district Collector D Balamurli said the three were missing since last afternoon and their bodies found near the railway track have been identified. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained. The three workers had recently come to Palakkad, the Collector told P T I. Enraged over the incident, a few other workers had refused to hand over one of the bodies to police and shifted the remains to the campus, demanding compensation. They also allegedly indulged in rioting. It was only this morning after the district labour officer, other officials and police held talks with the protesting workers, did they allow the body to be shifted to hospital. "The workers refused to hand over one of the bodies, damaged a private vehicle and also caused minor injuries to a policeman," Palakkad SP G Siva Vikram told P T I. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and the exact cause of death will be known only after the report comes, the SP said. Meanwhile, Railway sources from Palakkad said the railway control room had not informed of any runover deaths last night. A railway engine on monsoon track patrolling had left the Palakkad station at 7.55 pm and returned by 10 pm and did find any unusual incident on both the tracks, the sources said. A goods train carrying food grains had also crossed the track and the loco pilot had also not informed about any runover incident, railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-migrant-workers-from-jharkhand-found-dead-near-railway-track-869487.html
04-08-2020||National||Minimum Rs 500 cr net worth must for licence to sell petrol, diesel to retail, bulk users||The government on Tuesday said any entity with a net worth of at least Rs 500 crore is eligible for obtaining the liberalised licence to sell petrol and diesel to retail and bulk consumers. Clarifying on the November 2019 liberalised fuel licensing regime, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas said any entity with a net worth of Rs 250 crore can get a licence to retail petrol and diesel to either bulk or retail consumers. For those seeking authorisation for both retail and bulk should have a minimum net worth of Rs 500 crore at the time of application, it said in a statement. Last year, the government had relaxed norms for retailing of auto fuels, allowing non-oil companies to venture into the business — a move that could help private and foreign firms to enter the world's fastest-growing market. Prior to that, a company had to invest Rs 2,000 crore in either hydrocarbon exploration and production, refining, pipelines or liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals to obtain a fuel retailing licence in India. In the statement, the ministry said the government had on November 8, 2019, notified simplified guidelines for grant of authorisation for bulk and retail marketing of motor spirit (petrol) and high-speed diesel (diesel). "The simplified guidelines aim at increasing private sector participation in the marketing of petrol and diesel," it said. "An entity desirous of seeking authorisation for either retail or bulk must have a minimum net worth of Rs 250 crore at the time of making an application — Rs 500 crore in case of authorisation for both retail and bulk." Applications, it said, may be submitted in the prescribed form directly to the ministry. "For retail authorisation, the entity is required to set up at least 100 retail outlets," the statement said adding that the new policy has opened up the marketing sector of petroleum products by removing the strict conditions applicable earlier. The other requirements as per the November 2019 notification include the need for companies to install facilities for marketing of at least one new generation alternative fuel, such as CNG, LNG and biofuels, or electric vehicle charging within three years of the start of operations. The retailers will necessarily have to set up five per cent of the total outlets in rural areas within five years. The new policy liberalises fuel retailing by increasing private sector participation, including foreign players. "It will also encourage dispensing of alternate fuels and augmentation of retail network in remote areas and ensure higher levels of customer service," the statement added. The government had last set fuel marketing conditions in 2002 and the November 2019 change was based on the recommendation of a high-level expert committee. The move will facilitate entry of global giants such as Total SA of France, Saudi Arabia's Aramco, BP Plc of the UK, and Trafigura's downstream arm Puma Energy. Total in partnership with Adani Group had in November 2018 applied for a licence to retail petrol and diesel through 1,500 outlets. BP too has formed a partnership with Reliance Industries to set up petrol pumps. While Puma Energy had applied for a retail licence, Aramco was in talks to enter the sector. State-owned oil marketing companies Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) currently own most of the 69,924 petrol pumps in the country. Reliance Industries, Nayara Energy (formerly Essar Oil), and Royal Dutch Shell are the private players in the market but with limited presence. Reliance, which operates the world's largest oil refining complex, has 1,400 outlets. Nayara has 5,756 pumps, while Shell has just 194. Currently, IOC is the market leader with 29,368 petrol pumps in the country, followed by HPCL with 16,707 outlets, and BPCL with 16,492 fuel stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimum-rs-500-cr-net-worth-must-for-licence-to-sell-petrol-diesel-to-retail-bulk-users-869491.html
04-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: ‘Economy’s return to health critically linked to how Covid-19 curve evolves across states’||In today’s episode, The government admitted the economy’s return to health will be critically linked to how Covid-19 infection curve evolves across the states; Former chief minister Siddaramaiah has tested positive for Covid-19; Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi formally declared her intention to seek a second term in an election in November and China accuses the United States of "bullying" over popular video app TikTok.    Here are the top news of today, Tuesday: August 4, 2020: After propagating a V-shaped economic recovery in the next two to three quarters, the government Tuesday admitted the economy’s return to health will be critically linked to how Covid-19 infection curve evolves across the states. India’s top 12 growth-driving states account for 85% of the Covid-19 caseload, with 40% of confirmed cases concentrated in the top two growth-drivers -- Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “The increase in the Covid-19 cases and subsequent intermittent lockdowns make the recovery prospects fragile and call for constant and dynamic monitoring. The future economic recovery of India is crucially linked to how the Covid-19 infection curve evolves across states of India,” the finance ministry said in a report. The highest growth in active Covid-19 cases in July was seen in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand. Though signs of recovery were witnessed in manufacturing, industrial production, fertilizer sales and diesel consumption in the months of May and June, they have started moderating in July. With India unlocking, the worst seems to be over for the economy as high-frequency indicators recovered in June 2020 from an unprecedented trough in April. However, risks on account of rising Covid-19 cases and intermittent state lockdowns remain, the ministry said.   Former chief minister Siddaramaiah has tested positive for Covid-19. Siddaramaiah, in a tweet, said that he has been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution.  The 71-year-old leader of opposition in the state assembly has requested all those who have come into contact with him to quarantine themselves. Siddaramaiah has also been admitted to Manipal Hospital where Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is undergoing treatment for coronavirus.   The total number of Covid-19 cases at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru has risen to 53, the administration has said. According to the information given to DH, this number includes 15 students who have tested positive for novel coronavirus so far, two employees living on campus, two family members of employees living on campus, 21 permanent and temporary employees living off-campus, two family members of IISc employees living off-campus, seven pensioners and four family members of pensioners. These figures are acknowledged to be up-to-date as of July 31.   Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Tuesday formally declared her intention to seek a second term in an election in November that is seen as a test of the Southeast Asian nation's tentative democratic reforms. After decades of military rule, Suu Kyi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for campaigning for democracy, took the reins in 2016 after an electoral landslide, but has been forced to share power with the generals. Her international reputation slumped over Myanmar's treatment of Rohingya Muslims but she remains popular at home, where her image is undented by accusations of complicity in atrocities against the minority. On Tuesday, Suu Kyi, 75, waved to a crowd of around 50 supporters on the outskirts of the former capital Yangon to submit an application to run as a candidate.   Bofors-fame advocate Ajay Agrawal on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court for a CBI probe into death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai on June 14. In a petition, he contended a uniformed probe by the CBI was necessary to unravel the truth. Even though the Bihar ordered for an enquiry by the central agency, the Maharashtra government may not agree for it. Agrawal pointed out the blatant act of the Bombay Municipal Corporation to put Patna SP, Vinay Tiwari, who went for probe in an FIR lodged by Rajput's father, in quarantine under the instruction from the Maharashtra government made it loud, clear and apparent that there was something fishy in the investigation of Mumbai Police. Agrawal, who filed the PIL in Bofors scam, is a member of the BJP. He has also unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls against Sonia Gandhi from Rai Bareli constituency. The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Wednesday, August 5 a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty for transfer of the July 25 FIR filed by father of deceased actor with Patna Police to Mumbai.   China accused the United States on Tuesday of "bullying" over popular video app TikTok, after President Donald Trump ramped up pressure for its US operations to be sold to an American company. In the latest of a series of diplomatic spats between the world's two biggest economies, Beijing hit back after Trump gave TikTok six weeks to arrange a sale of its US operations -- and said that his government wanted a financial benefit from the deal. "This goes against the principles of the market economy and the (World Trade Organization's) principles of openness, transparency and non-discrimination," said foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin. "It's outright bullying." The app has been under formal investigation on US national security grounds, because it collects large amounts of personal data on users and is legally bound to share it with authorities in Beijing if they demand it. Trump said that Microsoft was in talks to buy TikTok, and has given ByteDance until mid-September to strike a deal, a tactic that is almost unheard of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-economy-s-return-to-health-critically-linked-to-how-covid-19-curve-evolves-across-states-869501.html
04-08-2020||National||Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh cross 1 lakh-mark; death toll climbs to 1,817||The total number of coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the one lakh mark as the state recorded 2,948 fresh cases on Tuesday, an official statement said. A total of 41 fatalities were recorded in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll due to the disease to 1,817. There are 41,222 active coronavirus cases in the state and 57,271 people have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. The state’s infection tally stands at 1,00,310, he said. According to the statement, the maximum number of deaths in the past 24 hours was reported from Kanpur Nagar (8) followed by four each in Lucknow and Gorakhpur, and three each in Allahabad, Moradabad, Saharanpur and Azamgarh among others. The state capital Lucknow reported the maximum fresh cases (611) followed by Kanpur with 259 cases, it said. However, the state government, in the statement said 2,983 fresh cases have been reported in the past 24 hours. The state has conducted over 26 lakh tests so far, Prasad said, adding that among the active cases, over 1,300 are in home isolation, 1,353 undergoing treatment and 152 are in semi paid facilities in the state. The official said on the directives of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the work for setting up at least one L-2 hospital each in all the districts of the state was on. He added that the network of Covid-19 helpdesks set up in the state was proving to be very helpful in screening symptomatic people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-cross-1-lakh-mark-death-toll-climbs-to-1817-869502.html
04-08-2020||National||Hardik Patel announces Rs 21,000 donation for Ram temple||Gujarat Congress leader Hardik Patel on Tuesday announced that he and his family will donate Rs 21,000 for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. In a statement here, the newly-appointed working president of the Gujarat Congress said though he has "immense faith" in religion, he is not a "radical" and hoped the temple would usher in 'Ram Rajya' (Lord Ram's rule) in India. The statement came on the eve of the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony for the temple at Ayodhya, an event to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, other leaders and religious figures. "Lord Shri Ram's temple is coming up in Ayodhya. I and my family have faith in God and that is why we have decided to donate Rs 21,000 for the construction of Ram temple. "I hope that the temple would usher in 'Ram Rajya' in India and Gujarat," said the 26-year-old opposition party leader. Patel elaborated on the term "Ram Rajya" and linked it with present issues concerning common people. "Ram Rajya means prosperity for farmers, jobs for youths, the safety of women, free and quality education for children, development of villages and economic growth of the country. "I pray for the wellbeing of all countrymen," said Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hardik-patel-announces-rs-21000-donation-for-ram-temple-869504.html
04-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 testing rate lower than other nations, says WHO Chief Scientist||Noting that lockdown was a temporary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus, a senior official of the World Health Organisation on Tuesday said India has a low testing rate when compared to some of the countries that are successfully trying to curb it. The Chief Scientist of WHO, Soumya Swaminathan, in an interactive session through video conference said,as of now about 28 vaccine candidates for Covid-19 are under clinical trial, of which five are entering Phase-II and over 150 candidates are in pre-clinical trials across the globe. "India as a whole, the testing rates are much lower compared to some of the countries, who have done well like Germany, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan. Even the United States is testing a huge number of people. So we need to have some benchmark and every public health department needs to have benchmarks on what is the rate of testing per lakh or per million, what is the test positivity rate," she said. Without an adequate number of tests, fighting the virus is like "fighting fire blindfolded," she pointed out. According to Swaminathan, the number of tests being conducted is not adequate if the Covid-19 test positivity rate is above five per cent. Governments need to constantly monitor the availability of beds, quarantine facilities, ICUs and oxygen supplies in district hospitals. "So there is a set of 8 to 10 indicators that the government needs to keep a close watch on. And you can ramp up or ramp down based on what you are seeing on the ground," she said. Observing that the scientists' community was still studying the body's immune response to coronavirus and the next 12 months were crucial to put in place the public health and social measures, she said the virus has spread to every country in the world and "established community transmission". "We know that lockdowns are temporary measures or a temporary measure which reduces the spread because it prevents people from getting closer together and the idea of the lockdown is to buy time for the government to put in place the system needed to tackle the virus," the WHO official said.  On the ongoing vaccine trials, she said the WHO has issued guidelines on it and if the efficacy rate of the vaccine is 70 percent, then it is considered to be a good one. On the COVAX facility, a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines worldwide, Swaminathan said by the end of 2021 it is aimed to deliver two billion doses of safe, effective vaccines that have passed regulatory approval and/or WHO prequalification. All the 194 member countries of the WHO need to come together and make a decision on the way they want to proceed for the equitable and fair distribution of vaccine (once successfully comes out) and other products that are being developed for Covid-19, she opined. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, which is into developing Covaxin, a vaccine candidate for Covid-19,said the Centre needs to decetralise some of the regulating authorities such as Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for faster approvals. Telangana Minister for IT and Industries KT Rama Rao acted as a moderator for the session titled The Vaccine Race- Balancing Science and Urgency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-testing-rate-lower-than-other-nations-says-who-chief-scientist-869506.html
04-08-2020||National||Pakistan PM Imran Khan issues new political map including Jammu and Kashmir, parts of Gujarat||Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad on Tuesday officially published a new map, showing within Pakistan, not only India’s two Union Territories – Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir – but also Junagadh in its western state of Gujarat. Khan, himself, unveiled the new map of Pakistan – a year after India had on August 5, 2019, moved to strip the then state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of its special status and reorganized it into two Union Territories. “This is the most historic day for Pakistan,” said the Prime Minister of the neighbouring country as he addressed a news conference in Islamabad after his government approved the new map. New Delhi dismissed Islamabad’s move to publish the new map of Pakistan as “ridiculous” and “an exercise of political absurdity”. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) of the Government of India stated that the new map put out by the Khan Government only confirmed Pakistan’s “obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism”. Pakistan published its new map amid its “iron brother” China’s aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo along the communist country’s disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. The military stand-off between the two nations could not be resolved yet, as the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) declined to fully withdraw troops from the face-off scenes even after agreeing with the Indian Army on a phased process to mutually pull back soldiers. Beijing earlier prodded Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s government in Kathmandu to publish a new map of Nepal, incorporating in its territory nearly 400 sq kms of area of India. Khan on Tuesday said that Pakistan had for the first time published a political map which showed within its territory entire Kashmir, including the areas currently under the administrative control of India. He said that the new map reflected fully the “aspiration” of people of Kashmir as well as the people of entire Pakistan. The cricketer-turned-politician also claimed that the new map had the endorsement of all political parties in Pakistan, not merely of his Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, which was in power since August 2018. Pakistan has since long been challenging India’s control over J&K, but this is the first time it published a map, incorporating the entire area in its territory. India, on the other hand, claims the entire J&K as part of its territory, including the area under illegal occupation of Pakistan. The Khan Government’s decision to include Junagadh in the new map of Pakistan, however, came as a surprise for India. The Nawab of the erstwhile princely state of Junagarh, Muhammad Mahabat Khanji III, had acceded to Pakistan on September 15, 1947. But when a plebiscite was held on February 20, 1948, an overwhelming 99.95% of the people of Junagadh had voted in favour of making the state a part of India. It remained a part of Saurashtra state of India for almost a decade. It became a part of Bombay along with the rest of Saurashtra in 1956. Bombay was split into Maharashtra and Gujarat in 1960. Junagadh was then included in the territory of Gujarat. Pakistan did not refer to Junagadh as a subject of its dispute with India during the past several decades. The new map issued by Islamabad also has the Sir Creek estuary within the territory of Pakistan. The 96-kilometre-long estuary on the Indus River Delta marshland has been a disputed territory between India and Pakistan. The two sides, however, had reached closer to a deal to settle the dispute during the series of bilateral Composite Dialogue before it had been interrupted in 2008 in the wake of the 26/11 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. The inclusion of the Sir Creek estuary and Junagadh as parts of the territory of Pakistan indicated Islamabad’s move to harden its stance on its territorial dispute with India. “This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian State of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and of Ladakh. These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility,” Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson in New Delhi, said, shortly after the new map was released in Islamabad. “In fact, this new effort only confirms reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism.” Khan-led Pakistan Government’s campaign against New Delhi’s August 5, 2019 move on J&K. Beijing too joined Islamabad in opposing the decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, not only out of solidarity with its “iron brother”, but also due to its own concern over the implication of New Delhi’s decision on China-India territorial row in the western sector of the disputed boundary.   “This map also opposes the Indian Government's illegal act of August 5 last year,” Pakistan Prime Minister said, adding: “The settlement of the dispute over Kashmir only lies in the United Nations Security Council resolutions.” The Modi Government has been steadfastly resisting moves by Pakistan and China to bring the issue of J&K back to the UN Security Council’s agenda. New Delhi has been maintaining that the 1972 Shimla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration by the two sides had left no scope for the UN or any third party to play any role in resolving the “outstanding issues” between the two South Asian neighbours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-pm-imran-khan-issues-new-political-map-including-jammu-and-kashmir-parts-of-gujarat-869516.html
04-08-2020||National||After Amit Shah, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan tests positive for Covid-19||Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, the second member of Narendra Modi's Cabinet to contract the virus infection after Home Minister Amit Shah. Pradhan is admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, near Delhi, where Shah is also undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19. "After developing Covid-19 symptoms, I got my tests done. The samples have tested positive. On the advice of the doctors, I have been admitted to a hospital and I remain healthy," Pradhan tweeted. On Sunday, Shah had announced that he had contracted the disease. Pradhan's staff had earlier tested positive and he was in self isolation. He has joined a list of high-profile leaders and functionaries like Shah, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who have tested positive for Covid-19. Senior JD(U) MP RCP Singh and UP BJP President Swantantra Dev Singh had also tested positive for the virus while UP Minister Kamal Rani Varun, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, breathed her last in Lucknow on Sunday. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain recovered from the virus infection after undergoing plasma therapy at a private hospital in the national capital. In Maharashtra, five ministers and three MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 while in Tamil Nadu, 21 MLAs and three ministers had contracted the virus infection. In Delhi, three AAP MLAs also recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-amit-shah-union-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-869521.html
04-08-2020||National||Education Ministry relaxes criteria for admission to Bachelor of Architecture||The Ministry of Education on Tuesday relaxed admission criteria for admission to Bachelor of Architecture courses in view of the partial cancellation of class 12 board exams. "In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the partial cancellation of class 12 exams by several boards across the country, the Ministry of Education on the recommendations of Council of Architecture has decided to relax the eligibility for admission to B.Arch Course for 2020-2021,” Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ tweeted. "Now, candidates who have passed the 10+2 scheme of examination with PCM subjects or 10+3 diploma with Mathematics shall be eligible for admission to the first year of B.Arch. Course for 2020-2021," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-ministry-relaxes-criteria-for-admission-to-bachelor-of-architecture-869522.html
04-08-2020||National||Beijing irked as India plans to review China's Confucius Institutes||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government now planning to review the collaborative arrangements between Indian and Chinese academic institutions, Beijing on Tuesday called upon New Delhi to avoid politicising normal cooperation between the two nations. The Ministry of Human Resource Development of the Government of India is set to launch a comprehensive review of the functioning of the Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms jointly established by China and seven universities and colleges in India. The ministry will also review 54 pacts inked by Indian and Chinese higher education institutions for academic cooperation. The move comes amid continuing military stand-off between India and China along the disputed boundary between the two neighbours in eastern Ladakh. The aggressive move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control – the de facto boundary between the two nations – prompted New Delhi to initiate a series of economic offensives against the communist country. New Delhi’s latest move to review academic collaboration between Indian and Chinese institutions irked Beijing. The Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi issued a statement, calling upon the Government of India to “treat Confucius Institutes and China-India higher education cooperation in an objective and fair manner, avoid politicizing normal cooperation, and maintain healthy and stable development of China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges”. China has since long been setting up Confucius Institutes abroad as collaborative projects between the educational institutions in the communist country and the colleges and universities in the foreign nations, professedly to promote its language and culture around the world. The Confucius Institutes are run by “Hanban” (Headquarters of Confucius Institutes), which is directly funded by the Ministry of Education of the Chinese Government. The institutes, however, drew flak in United States and United Kingdom for being allegedly used by the Communist Party of China for overseas propaganda. They were also put under scanner in the US for alleged role in espionage on behalf of China. A source in New Delhi said that the move by the Modi Government to review the role of the Confucius Institutes in India as well as collaboration between Chinese and Indian institutions were also triggered by “national security concerns”, just as the recent decisions to ban use of the apps developed by or linked to the companies in the communist country were. China’s embassy in the capital of India said that bilateral cooperation on the Confucius Institute projects has been carried out for more than 10 years. “All Confucius Institutes were established by the Chinese and Indian universities after signing legally binding cooperation agreement in accordance with the principles of mutual respect, friendly consultation, equality and mutual benefit, and on the premise that the Indian side applied voluntarily and met the conditions for running the institute,” said Ji Rong, a spokesperson of the embassy. She said that the Confucius Institutes had played “an important role in promoting Chinese language teaching in India and China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges” over the past 10 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-irked-as-india-plans-to-review-chinas-confucius-institutes-869526.html
04-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise over charging former CJIs of corruption||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday refused to apologise before the Supreme Court for his 2009 interview with Tehelka magazine, wherein he accused eight out of 16 former Chief Justices of India of corruption. However, he expressed regret, if his statement caused hurt to judges or their family members and if it was misunderstood to lower the reputation of the judiciary. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra, which reserved its order, said that any statement of corruption in the judiciary per se would amount to contempt. The court said that there was a thin line between free speech and contempt. It told the counsel to save the system's grace and bring an end to the matter. However, in its order released on evening, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said, "Explanation or apology submitted by Bhushan and Tarun Tejpal (then-Tehelka editor) have not been received so far. In case we do not accept the explanation or apology, we will hear the matter. We reserve the order." In his statement, Bhushan said he had used the word corruption in a wide sense meaning lack of propriety. "I did not mean only financial corruption or deriving any pecuniary advantage. If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same. I unreservedly state that I support the institution of the judiciary and especially the Supreme Court," he said. The bench, preferred to speak to Rajeev Dhavan and Kapil Sibal, counsel for Bhushan and Tejpal respectively, over WhatsApp calls, after a brief hearing.  The bench asked the parties to issue statements tendering their apologies. In the afternoon after the bench reassembled, Bhushan refused to apologise. Dhavan, for his part, told the court, if it wanted to render any finding on whether the interview amounted to contempt or not, it would have to hear the parties fully, on facts and law. Meanwhile, a group of 16 prominent citizens, including Aruna Roy, T M Krishna, S R Hiremath, asked the court through an application to dismiss Suo Motu criminal contempt for tweets of Bhushan, saying it would have the effect of stifling legitimate criticism not just by him but by members of the general public, and has a “chilling effect” on the citizens’ right to free speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-refuses-to-apologise-over-charging-former-cjis-of-corruption-869528.html
04-08-2020||National||Won't compromise on self-respect, fight against 'dictatorial' working style of Gehlot: MLAs in Pilot camp||Asserting that neither former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot nor the MLAs supporting him have spoken against the top Congress leadership or the party, three legislators backing Pilot on Tuesday said their fight is about "self-respect", and against the "dictatorial" working style of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Hemaram Chaudhary, a six-time MLA and a former Congress legislative party leader, said, "we are true soldiers of the Congress and our fight is not against the party, but we cannot work under Gehlot's leadership". The chief minister himself has stated that he was not on talking terms with the deputy chief minister, so it is for all to see that what kind of a government he was running, the senior Rajasthan Congress leader told PTI. The assertion by senior leaders in the Pilot camp came hours after Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that dissident MLAs should give up the hospitality of the BJP and the security of Haryana police if they want to hold a dialogue with the party. On Saturday, Gehlot in Jaisalmer said that he has no issues with any of the rebels if they apologise to the party high command. The state chief minister also said that he would abide by whatever the leadership decided about them. Gehlot has accused Pilot and those supporting him of colluding with the BJP to topple his government by allegedly engaging in horse-trading. Chaudhary said the current standoff within the party in Rajasthan was not the outcome of a single event, but the result of one and a half years of "humiliation and systematic marginalisation" of Pilot within the Gehlot government. "The continuous public humiliation of our leader (Pilot), sidelining of those close to him, constantly hampering work of the deputy chief minister and depriving him of authority has led to this situation," the MLA from the Gudamalani constituency in Barmer said. "We could not bear it after a point and the last straw was the serving of a notice by the state police, that too on 'sedition charges' to the sitting deputy chief minister," Chaudhary said. The MLA hit out at the AICC office-bearers dealing with Rajasthan, particularly state in-charge Avinash Pande, alleging that they were completely biased against Pilot and his supporters, and not willing to address their grievances even after repeated attempts over the last 18 months.  He said it was never about opposing the party or its national leadership, but those MLAs supporting Pilot were against the "dictatorial leadership style" of the individual heading the government.  "Surely criticising leadership style of Gehlot can’t be a good enough reason for the party to unceremoniously sack Mr Pilot as Deputy CM and PCC president," the MLA said. Hitting out at Gehlot, Chaudhary cited an RTI inquiry to allege that in the first year of office, zero amount of money was spent on TV/Newspaper advertisements on Pilot, whereas the state government spent more than 25 crore on the publicity of Gehlot.  "Another RTI showed that the CM in the first year of office had used the state aircraft as many as 85 times, while the number of such trips for Mr Pilot was zero. In fact, the details show that Mr Pilot had not travelled by air on the official expense, even once," he claimed. “While making political appointments, official programmes of the state government, transfers and postings of bureaucrats, allocation of funds, the bias against Pilot was there for all to see. The CM chose to target those close to Pilot and the vindictive manner in which CM opposed anyone not paying obeisance to him, was suffocating," Chaudhary said. Another MLA from the Pilot camp, Ved Prakash Solanki, also echoed Chaudhary's views. He said watching Pilot, who worked from panchayats to block and district levels to revive the party's fortunes, being sidelined in the government was "heart-wrenching" for many party workers. "Ashok Gehlot tried to portray our grievances as the anti-party act or a betrayal of sorts, but the fact is that it is a fight for self-respect, honour and our own space in the party and the government which we toiled for five long years to create," the MLA from Chaksu told PTI. Indrajit Singh, an MLA from Viratnagar, alleged that Gehlot did not allow them to raise issues of farm loan waiver or employment of youth. "Our fight is about hurt and anger over being sidelined by one person. It is a fight for our self-respect and we will not compromise on that," he said. He said people raising their voice with Pilot were cabinet ministers, a former speaker, and senior Congressmen belonging to various parts of Rajasthan representing a cross-section of society and caste combination. "These people don't deserve to be elbowed out of the party on the whims of one person," the MLA said, in an obvious reference to Gehlot. The three MLAs also demanded that that party should remove Gehlot and make Pilot the chief minister to "save the party" in the state. Nineteen Congress rebels, including Pilot, revolted against Gehlot, posing a threat to the Congress government in Rajasthan. However, Gehlot has asserted that he has the support of majority MLAs. After days of political stalemate, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra last week finally agreed to call the assembly session from August 14. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him have stated earlier that they are not joining the BJP and want a leadership change in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-compromise-on-self-respect-fight-against-dictatorial-working-style-of-gehlot-mlas-in-pilot-camp-869530.html
04-08-2020||National||We’re overjoyed, but making sure bhoomi pujan doesn't become Jamaat 2.0: VHP||Vishva Hindu Parishad national working president Alok Kumar also rejected questions about the muhurta of the event, saying the "best advice" has been taken including from the Head of the Jyotish Department of the Banaras Hindu University on the timing of the ceremony. "It is something which comes once in several lifetimes, the finest moment, and we are overjoyed. But, at the same time, we have taken care that it does not become a Jamaat episode-2,” he told PTI in an interview, referring to a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March in Delhi that was blamed for a large number of coronavirus cases in the country. Kumar said they have, therefore, sent a limited number of invitations for the ceremony so that the health department’s coronavirus advisory is complied with. The city is decked up for the bhoomi pujan on Wednesday that will be attended at the Ram Janmabhoomi by 175 people, who figure in a select guest list of seers and politicians topped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asked how difficult it was to keep the guest list short, the VHP leader said, "It was rather an impossible task. Because if somebody would ask me that those who laid down their lives, their families should be invited. I would say ‘yes absolutely’. But then the number would have exceeded. “All those who remained in jail (in connection with the movement), their number is in thousands. So, it was one of the impossible tasks, but something had to be done." He also appealed to people to “be disciplined” and not come to Ayodhya for the ceremony. “Let us focus on our places and places around us. And work for the development of Ramatva." Kumar also rejected a Tweet on July 30 by Congress leader Karti Chidambaram who had said, "Ram Mandir Bhoomi Pujan Muhurta- Its astrological meaning? The choice of time baffles me, Wednesday 12 to 1.30 pm is Rahu Kaalam. No one starts anything auspicious during this period. I stick to my stated position, we don't need any new place of worship." Kumar said, “Karti Chidambaram should focus more on defending himself in cases. We have taken the best advice possible including from the Head of the Jyotish Department of the Banaras Hindu University. And, I have found out that this is a very good time for doing it." Delving on the concept of Ramatva, he said, "Ramatva is ushering a Ram Rajya. It is going back once again to Shabris and Nishads. Ramatva took Lord Ram to Nishadraj and embrace him, and took him to Shabri's ashram. Shabri and Nishadraj are characters of the epic Ramayana belonging to lower strata of the society. “Lord Ram has said that he does not accept the caste structure, the high or the low. Therefore, social harmony. He went to Ahilya's ashram to give her dignity back. He went to vanars and bhils and organised them, empowered them," Kumar said. “We shall have a society, where there would be no appeasement or exploitation. Above all, there has to be an end to terrorism by organising the power of good,” he said. He also said the VHP will work to strengthen the traditional family system of Bharat wherein families will become central to human life. This will help in getting rid of the problems of loneliness and depression, he added. "Ram is there, he is in our heart, and he is relevant to the core,” he said. Prime Minister Modi will perform the "bhoomi pujan" (ground-breaking) ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of the grand Ram temple. The Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-re-overjoyed-but-making-sure-bhoomi-pujan-doesnt-become-jamaat-20-vhp-869534.html
04-08-2020||National||J&K: Curfew lifted in Srinagar, restrictions due to Covid-19 to continue||The Srinagar administration on Tuesday evening announced the lifting of curfew as the situation remained incident-free, but strict restrictions would continue in areas which have seen a spike in Covid-19 cases, officials said. An order was issued by Deputy Commissioner Shahid Choudhury on Tuesday saying that after assessing the situation in the area, it has been decided to prematurely end the curfew which was slated to continue till Wednesday night. The order, however, states that restrictions ordered earlier under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Disaster Management Act, in view of the prevailing situation due to the Covid-19 disease, will remain enforced across the district as directed through an order issued on July 31. It states there shall be restrictions on public movement including transport and that commercial and other establishments shall remain closed. Meanwhile, Choudhury has said avoiding public gatherings is an important part of the efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and urged the general public to ensure strict compliance with all preventive guidelines and protocols that the government has issued in regard to it. He has directed for strict adherence to restrictions as ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-curfew-lifted-in-srinagar-restrictions-due-to-covid-19-to-continue-869547.html
04-08-2020||National||Two Covid-19 vaccine candidates move to Phase-II trials: Centre||Two Indian vaccines against Covid-19 have completed Phase-I clinical trials, three weeks after the first injections were administered on participants three weeks back, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. “At the present moment, we have three Indian vaccines in different levels of clinical testing. The first one is the inactivated virus vaccine, which is the Bharat Biotech vaccine, which has completed its Phase I study in 11 sites, and has started its phase II study... Similarly, for the DNA vaccine for Zydus Cadila, India has completed the phase-I and has embarked on the phase-II studies at 11 sites,”’ Bhargava told a press conference here. The third recombinant vaccine to be manufactured by Serum Institute of India has got the clearance from the Drug Controller General of India for conducting Phase-II and Phase-III trials which are expected to begin next week at 17 sites, Bhargava said. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the cumulative test positivity rate for India was 8.89%. However, the positivity rate for the last week was 11%, when Covid-19 cases have seen an increase of more than 50,000 every day. “Last week’s positivity of India was 11%, which means a few States are showing a rise in Covid-19 cases,’’ he said. Bhushan said while the disease had spread to newer areas, 66% of India’s current caseload was from 50 districts and 82% cases were being reported from 10 States. On ventilators, Bhushan said the Centre had delivered 18,000 breathing machines to 700 hospitals across the country, most of them financed through the PM-CARES fund. Asked about the mutation of the SARS CoV-2 virus, Bhargava said the three virus strains found in India were similar and minor mutations appear to have happened. “It takes anywhere between 10 and 50 years for a virus to undergo major mutation. So, if you ask me, has the virus undergone major mutation. The answer is no,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-move-to-phase-ii-trials-centre-869548.html
04-08-2020||National||SC restrains Centre from discharging SSC women Navy officers pending their claim for Permanent Commission||The Supreme Court Tuesday restrained the Centre from discharging the Short Service Commissioner (SSC) women officers in Indian Navy from service pending consideration of their claims for grant of Permanent Commission (PC). The top court on March 17 in a major verdict paved the way for granting Permanent Commission to women officers in Indian Navy, saying a level playing field ensures that women have the opportunity to overcome "histories of discrimination". The apex court had said that all the Short Service Commission (SSC) officers in the education, law and logistics cadres of Navy, who are presently in service, shall be considered for the grant of permanent commissions (PCs) and gave three months’ time to Centre to complete the modalities. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph, was hearing a plea of a woman officer through video conferencing, alleging that Centre has not complied with top court’s direction of March 17, for the grant of Permanent Commission within a period of three months in Indian Navy. Advocate Santosh Krishnan, appearing for petitioner Rupali Rohatgi said that this exercise has not been initiated (beyond inviting applications) and completed. After hearing the arguments, the bench said, “Prima facie, the Union of India having failed to comply with the directions contained in the judgment of this Court dated March 17, 2020 which mandated consideration for the grant of Permanent Commission within three months, it would be unfair to discharge the Short Service Commissioned officers in the meantime, pending consideration”. It said, “We accordingly issue an ad-interim order and direction that the petitioner(s) shall not be discontinued from service pending consideration of their requests for the grant of Permanent Commission”. It stayed the judgment of the Delhi High Court dated July 23, 2020 and of the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) dated July 13, 2020 on the issue of grant of permanent commission. The bench issued notice to Centre on the plea filed by Rupali Rohatgi, an SSC officer in Indian Navy, challenging the orders of the Delhi High Court and the order of AFT, which had refused to restrain the authorities from releasing them after the lapse of their commission till their claim for grant of permanent commission is considered on merits. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for Centre, said an application for extension of time has been filed before this Court in view of the intervening pandemic and the lock down which was occasioned, as a consequence. Krishnan submitted that as a result of the impugned order of the Delhi High Court; even those cases where interim orders have been granted by the Armed Forces Tribunal are now being listed for vacating them. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on August 20. On March 17, the top court had said that the battle for gender equality is about confronting the battles of the mind and history is replete with examples where women have been denied their just entitlements under law and the right to fair and equal treatment in the workplace. "A hundred and one excuses are no answer to the constitutional entitlement to dignity, which attaches to every individual irrespective of gender, to fair and equal conditions of work and to a level playing field," the top court had said, giving three months to the Centre to work out the modalities for granting permanent commission to women SSC officers. It had said the Centre's contention that certain sea-going duties are ill-suited to women officers is premised on sex stereotypes that male officers are more suited to certain duties by virtue of the physiological characteristics and to accept it would be to "approve the socially ascribed gender roles which a commitment to equal worth and dignity of every individual belies". The top court had quashed the prospective effect of the Centre's controversial September 2008 policy, which restricted the grant of permanent commission to certain categories only. The top court had said that the period of service after which women SSC officers shall be entitled to submit applications for the grant of PCs shall be the same as their male counterparts. "A level playing field ensures that women have the opportunity to overcome their histories of discrimination with the surest of responses based on their competence, ability and performance," it had said, adding that in the context of the Armed Forces, specious reasons have been advanced by decision makers and administrators, which range from physiology, motherhood and physical attributes to the male dominated hierarchies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-restrains-centre-from-discharging-ssc-women-navy-officers-pending-their-claim-for-permanent-commission-869555.html
04-08-2020||National||Will contest all 243 assembly seats in Bihar: JD(S)||The Janata Dal (Secular) will contest all the 243 assembly seats in Bihar, the elections for which are due in October-November this year, its state unit chief Haldhar Kant Mishra announced on Tuesday. Mishra said party supremo Deve Gowda has asked him to expand JD(S)'s base and also to prepare itself for contesting all the constituencies in view of the zeal and enthusiasm shown by party workers and office-bearers. Deve Gowda announced the decision during a virtual meeting with presidents of party's various cells and office- bearers, he said. He assured that the party will provide all kinds of support for its expansion and selection of candidates for the Bihar polls, Mishra said. The former prime minister told the party functionaries that several leaders from Bihar are in touch with him and they will join the JD(S) to play their part in the elections, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-contest-all-243-assembly-seats-in-bihar-jds-869557.html
04-08-2020||National||People's trust and confidence in economy have evaporated: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the government on the state of the economy, saying people's trust and confidence in the economy have evaporated and the situation has deteriorated. In a tweet, he said neither the prime minister nor his team has the understanding to fix the problem and it is only a matter of time that every Indian will understand this. Gandhi tagged an article by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, in which he calls for rebuilding India's confidence and revival of the economy besides suggesting that the path to a sustained recovery is to improve sentiments in society, using economic tools. "People's trust and confidence in the economy has evaporated. The situation has deteriorated.   "PM and his team have neither the understanding, the tools nor the ability to fix the problem. It's only a question of time before every Indian is forced to understand this," Gandhi said on Twitter. The former Congress president has been critical of the Modi government in the handling of the economy over the past few years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peoples-trust-and-confidence-in-economy-have-evaporated-rahul-869564.html
04-08-2020||National||'Rahul Modi' cracks civil services exam, gets 420th rank||Guess who has secured the 420th rank in the civil services examination 2019? A candidate named Rahul Modi. This unique combination of names of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has caught the attention of many social media users who posted their comments on the Internet. Rahul Modi, roll number 6312980, secured the 420th rank, according to the list of qualified candidates announced by the UPSC on Tuesday. Twitter was abuzz with posts on this name. Some users also shared memes. "Can't get more bizarre than this - Rank no. 420 - Rahul Modi! Need I say more!" said Ananth Rupanagudi, who describes himself as a railway bureaucrat, on Twitter. Another user Ankit Yadav wrote: "What a coincidence..UPSC civil services 2019 results are out and a Candidate named RAHUL MODI secures 420 rank." IRS officer Pradeep Singh topped the list of 829 candidates who have qualified for the prestigious civil services, including the IAS, the IPS and the IFS, according to the UPSC. The top three rank holders -- Singh, Jatin Kishore and Pratibha Verma -- are serving officers. Singh is a resident of Haryana, while Kishore hails from Delhi and Verma from Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-modi-cracks-civil-services-exam-gets-420th-rank-869568.html
04-08-2020||National||16 candidates from Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh crack UPSC civil service||Sixteen candidates from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh Union Territories (UTs) cracked the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil service exam-2019, the result of which was declared on Tuesday. Among 829 successful candidates in the UPSC list ,14 are from J&K while two hail from Ladakh. Abhiskhek Augustsya of Jammu, who is ranked at 38, is at the top of the list of the successful candidates from J&K. He is followed by Sunny Gupta (148), Dev Ahuti (177), Parth Gupta (240), Asrar Ahmad Kitchloo (248), all from Jammu. Asif Yousuf Tantray (328), Namgyal Angmo (323) Nadia Beigh (350), Aftab Rasool (412), Sabzar Ahmad Ganie (628), Majid Iqbal Khan (63, Stanzin Wangyal (716), Rayees Hussain (747), Mohammed Nawas Sharafuddin (778), and Syed Junaid Adil (822). While Angmo and Wangyal are from Ladakh, rest of the successful candidates are from Kashmir valley. Nadia Beigh, who hails from remote Punzwa village of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, credited her family for her feat. Both her parents are in the teaching profession, while her two young sisters are studying MBBS and brother studied BBA. A graduate in economics honours from Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, she was away from home last year when a communication blockade was imposed in the valley after the abrogation of Article 370 last year. “I wanted to talk to my parents but could not due to the communication gag. I dedicate my success to my parents and my siblings who always stood by me,” she said. Nadia is the second female qualifier of prestigious examination from Kupwara after Ruveeda Salaam, who qualified the exam in 2012. Asrar Kichloo, a 27-year-old doctor from remote village of hilly Doda district, said a patient’s pain drove him to crack civil services. “During my internship, I was shocked to see that a patient had applied cow dung on his wound in a remote village.  He was not aware that this will cause septic,” he said. “In the entire Jammu, we have only one medical college, and people from remote areas had to travel for 24-hours to reach the hospital. Many such incidents happened during my internship which pushed me to go for civil services," Asrar added. From this year, unlike past years, there will be no upper-age relaxation for applicants taking the civil services examination-2020, who are domicile of Jammu and Kashmir between 1980 and 1989, according to a notification issued by the UPSC. The UPSC had announced 796 vacancies in the India’s bureaucracy to be filled through the civil services examination 2020. The Civil Services exam 2020 was scheduled to be held on May 31. The exam has been rescheduled to October 4 in view of the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-candidates-from-jammu-kashmir-ladakh-crack-upsc-civil-service-869574.html
04-08-2020||National||96 per cent of 60,000 ventilators being procured are indigenous: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said about 96 percent of the 60,000 ventilators being procured by the government are indigenous and most of them have been sponsored by the PMCARES fund. Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 60,000 ventilators are being procured and 18,000 have already been supplied to the states and union territories. "Of the 60,000 ventilators, 50,000 are being funded by PMCARES fund which comes to about Rs 2,000 crore in monetary terms," Bhushan said during a press briefing.   He further said all the ventilators that are being procured under PMCARES and those by the budgetary allocation of the Health Ministry have GPS chips embedded that can be tracked. "The 'Make in India' (indigenous) ventilators have a share of more than 96 percent by volume and more than 90 percent by value," he said. Responding to a question on whether some ventilators of AgVa brand were rejected, Bhushan said those ventilators are of a different make than the ones the government is procuring. "The news that we have seen in the media about AgVA ventilators being rejected is in relation to two specific hospitals in the Bombay Municipal area. Those ventilators are of a different make than the one that we are procuring and another fact is that those ventilators were donated to those specific hospitals in Mumbai by an NGO and these ventilators are being used by Maharashtra and they have not complained about it," he said. Bhushan said as of Monday only 0.27 percent of the total active cases of coronavirus were on ventilators across the country. "Yesterday, only 0.27 percent of the total active cases were on ventilators across the country. I am not saying the situation will remain the same but in the last six months ventilator need percentage has not reached at 1 percent in case of patients using ventilatory support," he said. Noting that initially the domestic capacity of making ventilators was insignificant, the official said domestic manufacturers were dependent upon imported components like sensors (oxygen, airflow and pressure sensors), stepper motor drive, pressure transducer, control valves, turbines etc. The Indian ventilator market in 2019 was 8,510 units valued at Rs 444.74 crore annually in terms of volume and value and 75 per cent of market share was with the imported equipment. In March, 2020 because of Covid-19 the demand for ventilators spiked and export restrictions were imposed in many ventilator-producing countries like Argentina, Germany, USA, Switzerland. He said to meet the demand of ventilators in view of the coronavirus outbreak, the Committee of Technical Experts under DGHS met multiple times to deliberate with subject experts and then prescribed minimum essential specifications for the basic ventilators to be procured for Covid-19 purposes. "Orders were placed based on the recommendations of the Technical Committee of domain experts under DGHS (Directorate General of Health Services) and ventilators were physically demonstrated before the same committee," he told reporters. After the ventilator model qualified the demonstration, it was validated clinically on patients in a hospital as decided by the DGHS, he said, adding, after successful clinical validation and based on the specific recommendation of DGHS, the ventilator was approved for supply. "This is the story of 'Make in India' ventilators and its price ranges between Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh per unit while the price of foreign ventilators range from Rs 10 lakhs to 20 lakhs," he noted. He further said two public sector units played a crucial role in the ventilators being manufactured indigenously -- Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) which is a PSE of Ministry of Defence (30,000 ventilators) and Andhra Med-Tech Zone (AMTZ) which is a PSE of AP government (13,500 Ventilators). He said in less than two months more than 18,000 ventilators were supplied to states, UT's, central government hospitals and DRDO facilities and ventilators were installed at more than 700 hospitals. The monitoring of these ventilators is being done through a dashboard that can track real time status of ventilators dispatched, delivered and installed, he added. "Institution wise tracking has also been enabled and each ventilator is Geotagged to track their location. We have also created 36 WhatsApp groups and every state has a WhatsApp group to give feedback in real time basis to suppliers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/96-per-cent-of-60000-ventilators-being-procured-are-indigenous-health-ministry-869586.html
04-08-2020||National||SC to pronounce order on referring plea against 10% reservation for EWS to Constitution bench||The Supreme Court would on Wednesday pronounce its judgement whether the challenge to the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent reservation in jobs and education to candidates of economically weaker sections (EWS) would be referred to a Constitution bench for adjudication. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai is scheduled to deliver the order at 12 noon on Wednesday, August 5. The court has reserved its order in the matter on July 31, 2019. A batch of petitions filed by NGOs Janhit Abhiyan, Youth for Equality, among others challenged the validity of Constitution (103 rd Amendment) Act, 2019 on the ground that economic criterion cannot be the sole basis for reservation. They claimed the decision violated the principle of basic structure of the Constitution and breached the overall 50 per cent ceiling of reservation as mandated under the Indra Sawhney case (Mandal Commission), 1992. The 10 per cent quota for economically weaker sections in government jobs and higher educational institutions, including in private sector, became the law of the land after President Ram Nath Kovind on January 12, 2019 gave his assent to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-order-on-referring-plea-against-10-reservation-for-ews-to-constitution-bench-869592.html
04-08-2020||National||Red alert issued for 'extremely heavy' rains in Mumbai; 6 more die in Bihar floods||Six more flood-related deaths were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, while heavy showers crippled Maharashtra's Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, and a 'red' alert was issued for "extremely heavy" rainfall in the city for Wednesday. There was heavy rainfall in parts of Kerala, Odisha and West Bengal as well, and the weather department predicted fairly widespread downpour in Gujarat in the next three days. In Tamil Nadu, over 200 people had to be evacuated in Nilgiris district following heavy downpour since Monday, and in the northern part of the country, 16 districts were affected by floods in Uttar Pradesh and rescue efforts were underway in rain-hit areas of Uttarakhand. The death toll due to the floods in Bihar climbed to 19 on Tuesday as 63.60 lakh people are affected across 16 districts. Nearly seven lakh more have fallen victim to inundation since Monday. Several rivers such as Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra are flowing above danger level. The water level of the Ganga has witnessed an increase of 6 cm to 18 cm at various places. In Maharashtra, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and some other parts of the state for Wednesday. The alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts. While the warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday, that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday. Local train services were suspended on some routes in Mumbai and suburbs on Tuesday morning due to water-logging. A landslide on the Western Express Highway in suburban Kandivali affected vehicular movement from the western suburbs towards south Mumbai. The Bombay High Court adjourned its virtual hearings as many staff members could not reach the court. The Maharashtra government announced a holiday for all its offices in Mumbai city and suburbs on Tuesday. Two fishermen went missing while 11 were rescued after a boat got caught in heavy rains and capsized some 12 kilometres off Gorai beach in north Mumbai. A 35-year-old woman and her two children were swept away in a swollen nullah in suburban Santacruz. A person died of electrocution after accidentally touching an electric pole in Thane city following heavy overnight rains. In Gujarat, the IMD has predicted fairly widespread rainfall, with heavy to very heavy showers in isolated places between Tuesday and Friday. Several parts of Saurashtra, especially Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Amreli and Rajkot districts, received heavy rainfall during the day. The weather office asked fishermen to not venture into the Arabian Sea along the south and north Gujarat coasts till August 8. Gujarat region, Saurashtra-Kutch as well as Daman and Dadra and Nagar Haveli will receive light to moderate rainfall during this period, it said. In Kerala, heavy rains lashed Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad districts as weathermen predicted widespread showers in the central and northern parts this week. The Bhavani river is overflowing and at least 51 people in low-lying areas were shifted to safer places, officials said. The IMD has also issued orange alerts for Idukki and five northern districts of Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod for this week. Other districts have been issued the yellow alert for the same time period. In Tamil Nadu, the weather office has predicted heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts between August 4 and 8. A Coimbatore report said a flood alert was sounded to people living on the banks of Bhavani river in Mettupalayam in the district as surplus water was released from Pilloor dam. In Uttarakhand, officials said besides the death of 18 people in cloudburst incidents, 40 families have become homeless as their houses were washed away by swollen rivers, rivulets or landslides in the past fortnight. Sixteen districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods, and major rivers such as Sharda, Rapti and Saryu are flowing above the danger mark at some places. A total of 777 villages have been hit, of which 282 are marooned, he added. As for the eastern part, there was heavy rainfall in parts of Odisha and the downpour, coupled with gusty winds, is likely to continue in many areas till the weekend. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places in north and south coastal Odisha and many places in the state's interior parts, and heavy to very heavy rain lashed some places in Puri district. Issuing an "orange warning" for several districts till Wednesday morning, the Met office advised people to remain prepared for heavy to very heavy rainfall. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea. Moderate to heavy rains lashed south Bengal districts since Monday night. Kolkata experienced 17 mm rainfall till 2.30 pm on Tuesday. There was rainfall in North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly, Jhargram and East Burdwan districts. The western districts of the state, including Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, also recorded steady showers since Tuesday morning. The flood situation in Assam continued to improve with the water maintaining a receding trend, though 1.96 lakh people in 15 districts are still affected by the deluge, an official bulletin said. This year's flood and landslides have claimed 136 lives across the state so far. While 110 people died in flood-related incidents, 26 were killed in landslides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/red-alert-issued-for-extremely-heavy-rains-in-mumbai-six-more-die-in-bihar-floods-869595.html
04-08-2020||National||Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan's muhurat time and more||Bhoomi pujan of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is all set to take place on August 5. Preparations for the same are in full swing as leaders and attendees make their way to Ayodhya for the event.  According to reports, a silver brick, representative of the bhoomi pujan, would be placed at 12.15 pm, during the ‘Abhijit Muhurta’, an auspicious time period.  According to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust that would handle the construction and management of the temple, this is the most auspicious time period.    Prime Minister Narendra Modi would place a 22.6 kilogram silver brick to mark the bhoomi pujan. 75-year-old N.R. Vijayendra Sharma, the Belagavi-based astrologer who set the date and time of the event, would not be attending the bhoomi pujan. Along with Sharma, who also goes by the name of ‘Pandit Sharma’, Varanasi-based Ganesh Shastri Dravid, also played a role in setting the ‘muhurat’.  Over 200 guests are expected to arrive for the bhoomi pujan. RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat would be attending the event along with many others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujans-muhurat-time-and-more-869615.html
04-08-2020||National Politics||Rebel MLAs should give up BJP's hospitality if they want dialogue with Congress: Surjewala||AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday said that dissident MLAs should give up the hospitality of the BJP and the security of Haryana police if they want to hold a dialogue with the party. Asked whether the doors for dissidents are open, Surjewala said that they should first hold a dialogue with the party on the condition that the legislators should give up the security of Haryana police in Manesar, and the hospitality and friendship of the BJP. He also said that Bihar police's interference in connection with a probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death was unfair because it was the jurisdiction of Maharashtra Police. "Bihar police cannot interfere in the jurisdiction of Maharashtra police. Such a situation may lead to anarchy, because enforcing law in a state is the responsibility of the state government," he told reporters outside Hotel Suryagarh where the party MLAs are staying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rebel-mlas-should-give-up-bjps-hospitality-if-they-want-dialogue-with-congress-surjewala-869365.html
04-08-2020||National Politics||Ramraj is antithetical to injustice: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to PM Modi||A day ahead of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony for construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure release of Dr Kafeel Khan from jail, stating that “Ramraj is antithetical to injustice.” Chowdhury in his letter to the Prime Minister on Tuesday stated that while Dr Khan was booked under the National Security Act (NSA) for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), no charges were brought against him (Chowdhury) even as he vehemently opposed CAA. “Even international forums like the United Nations also has been persuading you for the release of Kafeel Khan. Sir, I firmly believe that Ramraj is simply antithetical to injustice, discrimination and retribution,” stated Chowdhury. He also said that he was surprised to see a medical practitioner like Dr Khan being implicated despite the freedom of expression being enshrined in the Constitution. “I do pay my humble request to your kind self to ensure the riddance of the doctor from the harrowing days in jail...” stated Chowdhury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ramraj-is-antithetical-to-injustice-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-to-pm-modi-869499.html
04-08-2020||National Politics||Sometimes dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition: Advani on Ram Temple||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, BJP patriarch L K Advani on Tuesday recalled the "pivotal duty" he had performed in carrying out the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in 1990. “Sometimes significant dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition, but when they are finally realised, the wait becomes very worthwhile. One such dream, close to my heart is now getting fulfilled,” said Advani, whose name along with that another member BJP’s Margdarshak Mandal Murali Manohar Joshi, does not figure in the list of invitees for the high profile event. Advani in his statement on Tuesday also expressed his gratitude to the “scores of Saints, Leaders and people from India and the world over who made valuable contributions and sacrifices in the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement.” Advani (92) will not be attending, in person, the Bhoomipujan (groundbreaking) ceremony at Ayodhya during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation for the construction of the temple. Both Advani and Joshi could be attending the event through video conferencing. Advani, the architect of the party’s temple movement. said he was very happy that "due to the decisive verdict of the Supreme Court" in November last year, the construction of Ram Mandir is getting started in an environment of tranquillity. The party patriarch recalled how destiny had made him “perform a pivotal role"  in the form of the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in 1990, "which helped galvanise the aspirations, energies and passions of its countless participants.” Advani’s Ram Rath Yatra was stopped and he was arrested on October 23, 1990, in Bihar as per the orders of then-state Chief Minister Lalu Prasad. Advani in his statement on Tuesday also expressed his gratitude to the “scores of Saints, Leaders and people from India and the world over who made valuable contributions and sacrifices in the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement.” Advani said “Sometimes significant dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition, but when they are finally realised, the wait becomes very worthwhile. One such dream, close to my heart is now getting fulfilled.”  “It is indeed a historical and emotional day not only for me, but for all Indians. A grand Mandir for Shri Ram at Ram Janmabhoomi has been a desire and mission for the Bharatiya Janata Party,” he said. Noting that Ram occupies an esteemed place in India’s cultural and civilizational heritage and is an embodiment of grace, dignity and decorum, he said “ it is his belief that this temple will inspire all Indians to imbibe Ram's virtues. The Mandir will “represent India as a strong, prosperous, peaceful and harmonious nation” with justice for all and exclusion of none so that we can truly usher in Ram Rajya, the epitome of good governance, Advani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sometimes-dreams-in-one-s-life-take-a-long-time-to-fruition-advani-on-ram-temple-869538.html
04-08-2020||National Politics||Hope 'bhoomi poojan' event of Ram temple becomes a celebration of national unity: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said Lord Ram belongs to everyone and hoped the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya becomes a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony. In a statement ahead of the 'bhoomi poojan' of the Ram temple on Wednesday, she said for ages Lord Ram's character has served as a source of unity for the entire Indian sub-continent. The Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh said Ramayana has left an indelible mark on the civilisation of the world. "The 'Bhoomi poojan' ceremony of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya has been scheduled for August 5. Hope this event becomes a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony in accordance with the message of Lord Ram and with his blessings," she said. This is probably the first time a member of the Gandhi family has come out with a bold statement in devotion of Lord Ram. The Congress has over the years sought to present itself as a secular party and did not openly embrace Hinduism, and this marks a shift. Priyanka said Lord Ram has always been a binding thread for humanity and human good in India's ethos from times immemorial. "Ram is courage, Ram is unity, Ram is tolerance, Ram is fraternity. Ram belongs to everyone. Lord Ram is the good and well being of all. This is why Lord Ram is called 'Maryada Purshottam' (the epitome of principled conduct and righteousness)," she said in her statement. "Lord Ram symbolises sacrifice as also shelter. Ram belongs both to 'Sabri' as also to 'Sugriv'. Ram belong to 'Valmiki' as also to 'Bhasa'. Ram belongs to 'Kamban' as also to 'Ezhuthachan'. Ram belongs to 'Kabir', to 'Tulsidas' and to 'Raidas'. Ram personifies each one of us," she said, describing Ram an assimilation of all cultures, castes, class and religions and beyond any such barriers of language, regions or castes. Mahatma Gandhi's 'Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram' bestows divine wisdom and equanimity and Waris Ali Shah says, 'Rab is Ram', she said in her brief statement. Priyanka also quoted noted poet Maithali Sharan Gupt, saying he described Ram as "the strength of the oppressed and the voiceless", while Mahapran Nirala described Lord Ram in his classical words as "the power of eternal truth". She said from times immemorial, Lord Ram, Sita and the legendary tale of the Ramayana are luminously etched in our cultural, spiritual and religious memory. "The Indian psyche has always been inspired and encapsulated the spirit of Dharma, righteousness, duty, sacrifice, compassion, love, bravery and service, that runs through Ramayana," she said. Priyanka said from north to south, from east to west, the 'Ramkatha' has manifested itself in immeasurable forms, noting that as the Lord has infinite incarnations, 'Ramkatha' has infinite forms. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday attend a public function on laying of the foundation stone of 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir' at Ayodhya, the Prime Minister's Office said. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir'. Ayodhya is all decked up for the bhoomi poojan that will be attended at the Ram Janmabhoomi by 175 people, who figure in a select guest list of seers and politicians. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in Jaisalmer that "politics should have 'dharma' instead of having a politics of 'dharma'". Earlier, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari also narrated Mahatma Gandhi's favourite bhajan in a video and sent best wishes to fellow citizens ahead of the 'bhoomi poojan' of Ram Temple at Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hope-bhoomi-poojan-event-of-ram-temple-becomes-a-celebration-of-national-unity-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-869546.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||A year of upheaval in Jammu and Kashmir under direct rule from Delhi||Volatile Indian-administered Kashmir has endured a tumultuous year since Prime Minister Narendra Modi revoked its autonomy last August. Ahead of Wednesday's one-year anniversary, AFP examines the background to the contentious move, the harsh security crackdown and its aftermath, and a deadly June border clash with China. India and Pakistan have fought two wars over the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir since it was divided in 1947, and both still see it as fully their own -- although China also controls small parts, and claims more. A referendum mandated by a UN resolution in 1948 has never taken place. For the past three decades, a revolt against Indian rule -- backed by Pakistan, Delhi alleges -- and a muscular response has left tens of thousands dead, mostly civilians. India and Pakistan regularly exchange fire across their de-facto frontier, and in February last year a suicide bomber killed 40 Indian troops -- pushing the two nations to the brink of another war. Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party has long seen Muslim-majority Kashmir's special status -- with partial autonomy and its own flag and constitution -- as a historical wrong.That status had "given nothing but terrorism, separatism, nepotism and big corruption" Modi said. But his "historic decision" would bring prosperity and peace.His change put Kashmir under direct rule from New Delhi and downgraded the state by splitting it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. An accompanying security operation was swift and heavy, with New Delhi sending in tens of thousands of troops to join the estimated half a million already there. Seven million people in the Kashmir Valley were put under complete security lockdown for weeks, with freedom of movement severely restricted and gatherings banned. Landlines, mobile phones and internet access were cut for months. Around 7,000 people were taken into custody -- including three former chief ministers. Hundreds remain under house arrest or behind bars, mostly without charge. Young men told AFP and other foreign media that they were detained and tortured by soldiers. Authorities deny the allegations. India insists the security measures were temporary and has bristled at foreign criticism of what it calls a purely internal matter. But beyond sharp words from Malaysia, Turkey and UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet -- and some unease in Brussels and Washington -- international reaction has been muted. This is despite strenuous efforts by Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan -- who likened Modi to Adolf Hitler -- to see India criticised at the United Nations. Pakistan was backed by China, which was irked by the change to Ladakh's status, calling it "unacceptable" and worsening Beijing's long-prickly ties with India. In June, 20 Indian troops were killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers on their Ladakh border, the first combat deaths there since the 1970s. Life remains hard in Kashmir, with hundreds of checkpoints still in place and internet coverage patchy and slow.  The economic effect has been dire, with half a million jobs lost in the region by the end of 2019, the Kashmir chamber of commerce says. Coronavirus lockdown measures have only added to the hardship, both for the economy and people's lives. Children have had barely any schooling for a year. Security operations against militants in Kashmir have accelerated, putting 2020 on course to be one of the bloodiest years for some time. India has also granted tens of thousands of people from outside the region the same rights as Kashmiris, meaning they can now buy land for the first time. Critics say this is an attempt to change the demographic makeup of the region. Companies from outside India have also been given a string of mining concessions, often riding roughshod over environmental rules in the region, critics say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-year-of-upheaval-in-jammu-and-kashmir-under-direct-rule-from-delhi-869296.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Tuesday opened heavy fire and shelled forward areas along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, drawing retaliation from Indian troops, officials said.  They said the Pakistan Army also heavily shelled forward areas along the LoC in Dabraj belt of Mankote sector. "At about 0700 hours, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Krishnagati sector of district Poonch", a read defence spokesman said.  The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire 47 times last month and shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri, Poonch, Kupwara and Baramulla districts on a daily basis in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-869298.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||IED found in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||Security forces on Tuesday detected an improvised explosive device (IED) in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Army personnel found the IED by the roadside at Hamrey in Pattan area of Baramulla district around 5 am, a police official said. He said a bomb disposal squad was rushed to the spot and the IED was destroyed without causing any harm to life or property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ied-found-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-869303.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||'Ram, roti, rashtra' complementary to each other: Uttar Pradesh Deputy CM||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Tuesday said that "Ram, Rashtra and Roti" are complementary to each other and asserted that the Lord Ram temple here will symbolise and strengthen "national unity". He spoke to PTI in an interview a day before the "bhoomi pujan" for the Ram temple here. "I am of the view that Ram, Rashtra (nation) and Roti (food) are complementary to each other. The temple which is going to be built at Ram Janmabhoomi marks the culmination of a nearly 500-year-old battle in which a countless number of Ram bhakts attained martyrdom," Maurya said. The Ram temple movement in the past had assumed such a shape that virtually the entire country was linked to it, he said, adding that when someone sees the issue through the Hindu-Muslim prism, he tells them that it should not be seen from this point of view. "After fighting the British, we got Independence on August 15, 1947. In the same way, I feel that November 9, 2019, is equally important as it is when the Supreme Court, through its judgement, paved the way for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. "But, now August 5 has become even more important, because from this day the work of building a grand temple for Lord Ram will commence," Maurya said. Asked whether he considers the Ram temple movement at par with the freedom struggle, he parried a direct reply and said, "A grand temple for Ram Lalla is going to be built, and it will be a strong temple for the country which will symbolise national unity. This will strengthen national unity, and divisive forces will be isolated." On leaders of opposition parties attacking the BJP on going ahead with the "bhoomi pujan" on August 5, Maurya said, "There are a number of leaders who are giving unsolicited advice. These people are pained and peeved over the process of construction of Ram temple. "These were the people who mocked us by coining slogans like 'Ramlalla hum aayenge, Mandir wohi banaayenge, taareekh nahi bataayenge' (Lord Ram, we will come and build the temple, but not tell the date of its construction). These were the people who had also questioned the existence of Ramsetu," he said. He also said that things are moving as per the wish of Lord Ram, and no one should try to create any roadblock nor try to give any advice. Maurya's statement assumes importance in the backdrop of CPI MP Binoy Viswam's letter to Union minister Prakash Javadekar, opposing the telecast of the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the temple on Doordarshan as it would be "contrary to the accepted norms of national integrity". "An e-bhoomi pujan can be done. The ground-breaking ceremony can be held through video-conference. This is an event of joy, and lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony. Will we allow the spread of coronavirus?" Thackeray had said.         NCP chief Sharad Pawar had said some people think building a temple will help eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic. "Eradication of Covid-19 is the priority of the Maharashtra government, but some people think constructing a temple will help in its mitigation," Pawar had told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-roti-rashtra-complementary-to-each-other-uttar-pradesh-deputy-cm-869324.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||DU exams: Barely a week to go, students grapple with multiple challenges||"I could not even charge my phone for two-and-a-half days since there was no electricity. Even those with internet access say they will face issues in taking the exams," he said. Kumar claimed many students were also not able to take online classes. The online open-book exams (OBE) for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students of Delhi University are scheduled to begin from August 10 and like Kumar, many others are facing connectivity issues or do not have the study material with them. "The university is saying that it will provide another chance for students to take exams in offline mode. But it is still unclear when they will hold the exams," another student said on condition of anonymity. "Final year students also have to apply to other universities for their masters. How will we do it if we do not take online exams and wait for the offline exams? We will have to waste a year," he said. Another student said he had gone home for the mid-semester break in March when the lockdown was announced and he did not have any study material with him. "I have been stuck in my hometown in Uttar Pradesh. I did not bring my study material here. It is such a big university and they did not even make efforts to make the study material available online or arrange something so that students could study," he said. "Several claims are being made about the success of online classes but many students were unable to avail their benefits," he added. During mock OBEs conducted by the university, too, students had complained of problems like server crash and inability to upload question papers. Many took to Twitter to raise the issues using hashtags like #DuAgainstOnlineExam. Pankaj Garg, a former Academic Council member, said students have flagged various issues. Many students did not even take the mock exams because they know the situation isn't conducive. In one college, 23 out of 46 students of a department flagged issues they faced during mock exams. In another college, 38 out of 52 students were unable to take online classes, said a professor who did not wish to be named. Earlier, the OBEs were scheduled to start from July 1. They were later postponed to July 10 and subsequently to August. Another student said, "We are still not sure whether the exams will finally start on August 10. It (repeated postponement) has been causing stress for students." Abha Dev Habib, a Miranda House professor, said, "Students are upset and their pleas are not being heard. Even the courts have not heard their pleas. They are facing a plight similar to what migrant labourers faced during the lockdown." The DUTA has been demanding cancellation of OBEs and that students be evaluated on the basis of their past performance and internal assessment. However, the university has not budged from its stand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-exams-barely-a-week-to-go-students-grapple-with-multiple-challenges-869338.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||We call it Ravan Janmabhoomi: Temple priest to celebrate foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya||Nearly 650 km from Ayodhya, a priest of a temple dedicated to demon king Ravan is eagerly awaiting the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple. Tucked away in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Bisrakh area is a temple dedicated to Ravan, the dark figure in the epic Ramayana who was killed by Lord Ram. Mahant Ramdas of the Ravan temple said he will distribute sweets after the conclusion of the 'bhoomi poojan' ceremony in the temple town of Ayodhya on August 5. "I am very happy that the bhoomi pujan for the temple of Lord Ram is taking place in Ayodhya. After the ceremony, I will distribute 'ladoos' and celebrate the happy moment. The bhoomi poojan for the temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya is indeed a very good development. I am happy as a grand temple will be built there," he told PTI. Mahant Ramdas said, "If Ravan was not there, then no one would have known about Shri Ram. And in the absence of Lord Ram, no one would have known anything about Ravan". According to local folklore, Bisrakh is the birthplace of Ravan and, "we call it the Ravan Janambhoomi," the priest said. Describing Ravan as a knowledgeable person and an expert in many fields, he said, after abducting Sita, he kept her at Ashok Vatika, and did not take her to his palace. "Apart from this, he posted women to guard Sita. If Lord Ram is called 'maryaadaa purshottam' (the person who upheld dignity), then I think Ravan also to some extent can be considered as a person who upheld dignity (of people in various aspects)," he said The temple in Bisrakh has idols of Lord Shiva, Parvati and Kuber. "The temple does not close even during the night. Devotees coming here offer prayers to Lord Shiva, Kuber and even Ravan. Around 20 per cent of devotees who come here worship Ravan," acccording to Mahant Ramdas. According to Ramayana, Ravan abducts Lord Ram's wife Sita and takes her to his kingdom of Lanka, where he keeps her in captivity in Ashok Vatika. Later, Lord Ram, with the support of 'vanara' King Sugriv and his army of 'vanars', attacks Lanka, kills Ravan, and rescues Sita. PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-call-it-ravan-janmabhoomi-temple-priest-to-celebrate-foundation-laying-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-869387.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Airtel expands 4G footprint deeper into rural pockets of Ladakh||Over a dozen remote villages in the twin districts of Leh and Kargil in the Union Territory of Ladakh got their first 4G experience on Tuesday over Bharti Airtel's ultra-fast network, a company spokesperson said. Airtel was the first operator to launch the 4G services in Ladakh and has the widest 4G footprint in the region, the spokesperson said. "Airtel is the first operator to bring high-speed mobile broadband to these villages including Sankoo, Lankarche, Ghumri, Barchey, Sanjak, Garkone in Kargil and Achinathang, Lehdo, Tia and Skurbuchan in Leh," he said. He said the company's network teams have worked relentlessly to overcome harsh terrain and difficult weather conditions to take mobile broadband to even remote geographies. "This is another milestone in our journey to build a digitally connected Ladakh and take 4G to the last mile. We remain committed to the government's Digital India vision and will continue to invest and reinforce our 4G infrastructure in Ladakh to bring best-in-class services to customers," Manu Sood, Hub CEO – Upper North, Bharti Airtel, said. He said Airtel is rapidly expanding its 4G footprint in rural hamlets of Ladakh and connecting the region to the digital superhighway. Airtel's 4G services continue to give a boost to the local community and enable local residents to enjoy digital services like HD quality video streaming, superfast downloads and uploads, high-speed internet browsing, the spokesperson said. He said the rollouts are part of Project Leap – Airtel's nationwide network initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/airtel-expands-4g-footprint-deeper-into-rural-pockets-of-ladakh-869399.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||At least 26 infants shifted from hospital after staff contracts Covid-19||At least 26 infants from the sick newborn care unit of state-run Gajra Raja Medical College (GRMC) here were shifted to private nursing homes after some staff from paediatrics department tested Covid-19 positive, an official said on Tuesday. The sick newborn care unit (SNCU) at GRMC's Kamla Raja Hospital was shut after four junior doctors and a nurse from paediatrics department tested positive for coronavirus, Gwalior's chief medical and health officer (CMHO) V K Gupta said. Of 56 infants admitted in the facility, 26 were shifted to private nursing homes on Monday, 10 were discharged and 20 were moved to other wards where their mothers are admitted, he said. For now, infants will be admitted to the district hospital's SNCU till the facility at Kamla Raja Hospital reopens, he said. All doctors and staff of the hospital's paediatrics department have undergone Covid-19 test and the decision about reopening the SNCU will be taken based on their reports, the CMHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-26-infants-shifted-from-hospital-after-staff-contracts-covid-19-869419.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||J&K govt to terminate jobs of 500 employees for alleged involvement in 'anti-national' activities||Jammu and Kashmir government has begun a process to terminate services of 500 of the employees allegedly involved in anti-national activities, sources told DH. They said a committee, headed by the Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, has been constituted to examine and recommend dismissal of employees from their services for partaking in anti-national activities. “The committee was formed in the backdrop of intelligence reports which suggested that a section of government employees was proactively promoting anti-India hatred, assailing New Delhi’s decisions of 5 August 2019, trolling and threatening politicians, officers and businesspersons on social media,” sources said. On 30 July 2020, J&K General Administration Department (GAD) invoked Article 311(2)(c), a special provision of the Constitution of India for the purpose of terminating the services of the employees or reducing their ranks without holding an inquiry but on the basis of relevant records and other collateral evidence. The Article was not applicable to Jammu & Kashmir earlier, when it enjoyed the special status granted to it under Article 370 of the Constitution. Dispensing with some previous checks and balances, the GAD order reads: “The recommendations in respect of such cases shall be supported by relevant records which may include a copy of the interrogation report and other collateral evidence to justify dispensing with the holding of an inquiry in the interest of security of the State.” The Law Department and GAD would process and scrutinise the cases but clearly the opinion of the Home Department and police would be pivotal in taking a decision. This is not the first time since the 1990s that the government has decided to act against employees on grounds of involvement in anti-national activities. When President’s rule was imposed in 1990, among the officials dismissed on such grounds was Naeem Akthar, senior leader of the People’s Democratic Party, who also served as a cabinet minister in the previous PDP-BJP government. Similar action was taken in 1995 and 2016. Both times, however, the officials were reinstated later. After the split of the erstwhile State into two union territories (UTs) last August, the total number of the J&K UT employees is around 450000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-to-terminate-jobs-of-500-employees-for-alleged-involvement-in-anti-national-activities-869428.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||PIL in Delhi High Court to ban illegal online labs which are collecting samples for Covid-19 tests||A PIL was on Tuesday moved in the Delhi High Court seeking a ban on allegedly illegal online health service aggregators from collecting diagnostic samples for testing of Covid-19 infection, saying such entities are "misrepresenting themselves as medical diagnostic laboratories". The petition, which is likely to be listed for hearing on Wednesday, contended that such health service aggregators pose the "biggest threat to life and safety of the common people". The plea by a doctor, Rohit Jain, also seeks directions to the Centre, Delhi government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to issue "guidelines for registration and minimum standards for sample collection centers operated by online aggregators and the minimum qualification for taking samples by representative of aggregators".  The petition, filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, further seeks that such aggregators be registered with state pollution control bodies to ensure they comply with the rules for disposal of biomedical waste Jain, in his plea, contends that there is lack of regulations to control online health service aggregators and their "unfettered operation" through online websites is causing confusion among the general public about their legitimacy and legality. The petition further claims that many of the online health service aggregators are operating illegally as they are neither accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)  nor approved by ICMR or any other regulatory body. It alleges that many of the online health service aggregators are also not following the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 for proper disposal of bio-medical waste.  "However, the illegal and fake online health service aggregators are not registered with state pollution control boards or any pollution control committee as prescribed under the law and these aggregators are dumping the bio-medical waste in open and vulnerable areas," the petition claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-high-court-to-ban-illegal-online-labs-which-are-collecting-samples-for-covid-19-tests-869464.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 patient escapes from care centre near Shimla||A coronavirus patient, who was admitted to a dedicated Covid care centre in Himachal Pradesh's Shimla district, has escaped, police said on Tuesday. A resident of Kashmir, the Covid-19 patient was admitted to the centre in Mashobra, around 10 km from Shimla, on July 14, they said. According to police, the patient escaped on Sunday night and reached Jammu on Monday, they said. The Jammu and Kashmir authorities were informed and a first information report (FIR) was registered against the man at Shimla's Dhalli Police Station under relevant sections, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-escapes-from-care-centre-near-shimla-869467.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||UP: Dalits kept away from Ayodhya event, alleges Apna Dal (S) MLA||Apna Dal (S) MLA Chowdhury Amar Singh has claimed that Dalits were ignored while invitations were extended for the ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Talking to reporters on Monday, he said that the haste shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the construction of the temple should also be shown for giving houses and pension to poor. Modi is scheduled to attend the big event on Wednesday for which preparations are in full swing. "Dalits and backwards have been deprived of attending the Ayodhya bhoomi pujan event. The haste which PM showed for the temple should also be shown for giving house and pension to poor," the MLA from Apna Dal (S), an ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, said. "The face of those who struggled for the temple is not seen. They are being ignored. The trust constituted for the construction of the temple does not have people from backward, SC and ST communities. It is a 'Ved Pratha trust' and seems that Lord Ram is only of the BJP," he said. The MLA from Shohratgarh constitutency further said that President Ram Nath Kovind should also be invited for the event. "We remember that under Congress rule, the then President Buta Singh did 'shilanyas' and he was an SC," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dalits-kept-away-from-ayodhya-event-alleges-apna-dal-s-mla-869470.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt creating 80 check dams to improve soil-moisture regime, groundwater levels in Asola Bhatti||The Delhi forest department is building 80 check dams in Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary to check soil erosion and replenish groundwater levels to improve vegetation in an area considered the lungs of the city, officials said Tuesday. During monsoon, when it rains, the runoff cascades down with high speed, taking soil and seeds along into the city's drains. The barriers will inhibit the surface runoff by capturing and preventing sediment from flowing downhill, Deputy Conservator of Forests (South) Amit Anand said. It will help improve soil quality, which in-turn will improve vegetation, and increase the rate of groundwater recharge in the area, he said. Spread over 4,845 acres, the sanctuary is located on the Southern Ridge, a part of the northern terminal of Aravalli Hills, one of the oldest mountain ranges in the world. It is considered the lungs of Delhi and a potential shelterbelt against desert storms and the shifting sand dunes. Also, the Southern Ridge, with an annual recharge potential of 20 million cubic metres, could provide natural mineral water for the entire city. Freed from the grip of illegal sand miners, the sanctuary is returning to its glory. But, in the absence of good soil-moisture content and silt, only small trees can grow there. "We start from the top level of the ridge and gradually go down, slowing down the rainwater enough at the top itself, assisting percolation into the soil," the official said. "It means that the nutrient-rich silt will start depositing from the top itself," he said. The forest department has planned a series of check dams on each monsoon stream. "The first of these has been completed in the forest area behind Sangam Vihar. We are planning more dams near the Neeli Jheel and Shahurpur area," Anand said. "If we are able to create enough check dams, we can turn these seasonal streams into perennial sources of water over a period of time, improving soil moisture regime and groundwater table," he said. Sohail Madan, the centre manager of Bombay Natural History Society, which has been assisting the government in the project, said due to the steep slopes in Asola Bhatti area, the rainwater doesn't stay at one place and flows down rapidly into the sewage. “So, we have identified a number of streams, some as long as nine kilometers, for the construction of check dams,” he said. Three types of check dams – gabion structures, embankments, and grass dams – are being built on each stream. “By the time water flows down from the gabion structure to the grass dam, its velocity is reduced substantially. The idea is to inhibit the runoff at places, for it to percolate down in the forest only for groundwater recharge,” Madan said. “We have created grass dams at the end, so it makes a grassland. We undertook a pilot project last year, where we used lots of grass dams. A good grassland has developed because of that,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-creating-80-check-dams-to-improve-soil-moisture-regime-groundwater-levels-in-asola-bhatti-869492.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Bhoomi pujan: An event sans the architects of the Ram Temple movement||Amid the grand preparations for Wednesday's ground breaking ceremony at Ayodhya, many, especially the old timers, would surely miss the absence of almost all those who had spearheaded the Ram Temple movement. Senior BJP leader LK Advani, who, as the then president of the saffron party, had embarked on a 'Rath Yatra' from Somnath in Gujarat to Ayodhya in 1990 and had been arrested in Bihar by the then Chief Minister of the state Lalu Prasad Yadav, would be witnessing the ceremony via video conferencing. The official reason cited for Advani's absence was his old age and the Covid-19 pandemic. Another key figure in the movement and senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi too would be absent and like Advani, would witness the event via video conferencing. The reason for his absence also was old age and pandemic. Senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh, who was the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, when the Babri Mosque had been demolished by thousands of karsevaks on December 6, 1991, was also advised to skip the ceremony owing to his old age. Singh had earlier said that he had been invited and had also expressed his willingness to attend the ceremony. Even former Faizabad MP and firebrand saffron leader Vinay Katiyar was not among the list of the invitees. A disappointed Katiyar said that his role had ended with the demolition of the mosque. While the BJP leaders here preferred to toe the official line, a few seers and opposition leaders slammed the saffron party for ignoring the architects of the Ram Temple. "It (BJP) does not want to give any credit to the old timers....a majority of those, who will be present at the ceremony, had no role in the Ram Temple movement," said a prominent Ayodhya-based seer preferring anonymity. "These leaders (Advani, Kalyan, Joshi) should have been invited...the event has been reduced one party show," senior Congress leader Pramod Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhoomi-pujan-an-event-sans-the-architects-of-the-ram-temple-movement-869496.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Padma Shri Mohammad Sharif gets invite to attend ‘bhoomi pujan’, but participation doubtful’||Padma Shri Mohammad Sharif, who is popularly known as “Sharif Chacha” received a formal invitation on Tuesday to attend the August 5 ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony for building a Ram temple in Ayodhya but he may not be able to participate in the event due to his ill health. "My father, 82, formally got an invitation for the Ram temple Bhoomi Pujan ceremony this afternoon. His participation in the event is doubtful as he is suffering from kidney disease for past some months and cannot walk easily," Sharif's son Mohammad Sageer told PTI. He is undergoing ultrasound tests to ascertain his health conditions and it would depend upon test results whether he can attend the event, he said. Sharif, a cycle mechanic, was involved in the cremation of unclaimed dead bodies for the past 27 years and was given Padma Shri in January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/padma-shri-mohammad-sharif-gets-invite-to-attend-bhoomi-pujan-but-participation-doubtful-869509.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya awaits its big day, outsiders not welcome||Police barricades, yellow banners, walls with a fresh coat of paint and the sounds of bhajan mark parts of Ayodhya as the city awaits its big day Wednesday, when the first brick will be laid for the Ram temple. Ayodhya is decked up for the bhoomi pujan that will be attended at the Ram Janmabhoomi by 175 people, who figure in a select guest list of seers and politicians topped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Concerned over the spread of coronavirus, the authorities are encouraging others not to come to the temple town, asking them to mark the occasion by celebrating at their homes. The groundbreaking ceremony will be telecast live. Roads leading to Ayodhya display hoardings with the picture of the proposed Ram temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Around the town’s Hanumangarhi area – named after a well-known temple which Modi will visit on Wednesday – both police sirens and ‘bhajans’ in praise of Ram are heard. Most of the shops in the locality wear a new look, with their fronts painted in bright yellow. A large number of policemen were deployed there on Tuesday. Some sat in the sweet shops, waiting for their next instructions. Roads leading into the area are barricaded. Yards of yellow cloth and marigold garlands were being hung on poles. Even on the day before the event, security checks on vehicles heading to Ayodhya begin from adjoining Barabanki district itself on the Lucknow-Ayodhya road. Policemen take down details, including mobile numbers of the travellers. Senior Superintendent of Police Deepak Kumar said the focus of the force is on maintaining the Covid-19 protocol. “So we are not going to allow any outsider to enter Ayodhya city,” he said. Prohibitory orders are also in force and not more than four people will be allowed to gather. “The markets and shops will remain open but with strict adherence to the Covid protocol,” he said. Outsiders will be stopped from entering the city, but Ayodhya residents will be allowed in if they produce any identification document. “We are also carrying out random checks on people living in Ayodhya to ensure that no outsiders are staying here,” he said. The city’s temples and mosques will remain open, but no other religious event – except for the bhoomi pujan – will take place on Wednesday. Pickets have been set up at sensitive points in the city. Sub-inspector Ram Chandra Yadav and constables Avnish Kumar and Ankit Chaudhary man the Terhi Bazar Chauraha picket near the Ram Janmabhoomi site. "We are here for the past some days, and were on duty on the Rakshabandhan day. Duty comes first and only after that come other things in life, like festivals," Yadav said. Mayank Gupta, who runs a restaurant, was handing out food packets to policemen, his customers. "For the last two months, I have been providing tiffin to them twice a day. There are around 100 policemen to whom I supply tiffin," Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-awaits-its-big-day-outsiders-not-welcome-869511.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Ram Lalla's own tailors in Ayodhya||This tailoring shop may appear to be less than ordinary for someone from the big towns, but in Ayodhya it is very famous. Only Ram Lalla's (Ram, the child) clothes are stitched at this shop, situated in a narrow lane, not very far from the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex. The tailoring shop is run by two brothers, Bhagwat Lal and Shankar Lal. For the past forty years the duo has been stitching the dresses for Ram Lalla only. The banner, hung outside the shop says it all. ''Yehan bhagwan ke kapdon ki silayi hoti hai'' (Gods' dresses are stitched here), it says. The brothers have stitched the two dresses of Ram Lalla, which will be worn by him on Wednesday, the day of 'bhoomi pujan'. ''Ram Lalla will be dressed in green at the time of bhoomi pujan and then in saffron,'' Bhagwat Lal said. ''We gave it (stitching dresses for Ram Lalla) everything we knew hoping that they would be liked by the god,'' he told DH from Ayodhya over the phone. Silk was used for stitching the dresses for Ram Lalla, he said. The dresses have 'navgraha' (nine planets considered auspicious in Hindu mythology) stitched in gold thread. The brothers were so particular about stitching dresses for Ram Lalla only that they get their dresses stitched elsewhere. ''We are very happy that ultimately we will be able to see a grand Ram Temple in our lifetime,'' said Bhagwat Lal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-lallas-own-tailors-in-ayodhya-869513.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya turns into fortress ahead of 'bhumi poojan', Trust likens event to Independence Day||The temple town of Ayodhya has virtually turned into a fortress ahead of Wednesday's 'bhoomi pujan' for the proposed Ram temple, likened to the Independence Day by the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teert Trust, which was overseeing construction of the temple. The borders of the town have been sealed completely and the entry of outsiders, without passes, has been banned. The residents of the town have been asked to keep identification proof. The area around the Janmabhoomi has been declared a red zone and no one is being allowed in without specially issued security passes, police sources said. Movement of buses and other commercial vehicles will also be banned on the National Highway 24 between Barabanki and Ayodhya, according to the police sources. Prime minister Narendra Modi will be laying the foundation stone of the Ram temple in the presence of prominent saints from across the country. Trust general secretary Champat Rai sought to liken the 'bhoomi pujan' day to Independence Day. "It is as historic as the Independence Day...the people of the country are as happy as they must have been on winning the Kargil War or on nuclear explosion," he said. Terming the Babri Mosque a symbol of 'slavery', Rai said that for the first time a 500-year-old symbol of slavery was removed with the concurrence of the judiciary. A festive atmosphere prevailed in Ayodhya with loudspeakers atop important temples and ashrams as well as shops blaring couplets of the Ramcharitmanas, the Hindu epic penned by Goswami Tulsidas. The temple town has been decorated with colourful arches on the way leading to the Ram Janmabhoomi while yellow and saffron flags fluttered on the rooftops of houses and shops. The bright illumination at the temples, ashrams and mutts as well as at the houses in Ayodhya make one think as if it is 'Diwali'. Over five thousand coloured pitchers, to be decorated with green mango leaves, will be placed on the way from Saket Degree College to the Janmabhoomi on Wednesday. Modi will land at the specially made helipad inside the College, and from there drive down to the venue. A 'maha aarti' will be held on Wednesday on the bank of the holy Saryu river with 2,100 earthen lamps, the NGO, which is organising the event, said in Ayodhya on Tuesday. All the guests, who would be attending the ceremony will be given silver coins engraved with the portraits of Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman and Hanuman. All the temples, ashrams and mutts in Ayodhya were sanitised on Tuesday as a precautionary measure owing to the Covid-19 scare. Officials said that social distancing protocol will be followed strictly during the ceremony. There will be adequate distance between the chairs at the venue, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-turns-into-fortress-ahead-of-bhumi-poojan-trust-likens-event-to-independence-day-869488.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||PM Modi to attend foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya: PMO||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday attend a public function on laying of the foundation stone of 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir' at Ayodhya, the Prime Minister's Office said.  Prior to the function, the prime minister will take part in 'pooja' and 'darshan' at Hanumangarhi, a statement by the PMO said on Tuesday. Modi's visit to Ayodhya for the foundation stone laying ceremony is now officially confirmed. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir', the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-attend-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-pmo-869524.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||AAP government's resistance to monitoring of testing in Delhi disapproved by High Court||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday disapproved of the AAP government "resistance" to monitoring of its Covid-19 testing strategy, saying the administration appears to have developed "cold feet" as it was questioning maintainability of a plea for augmenting of testing numbers in the national capital on "technical" grounds. Delhi government contended before a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that once the main petition was disposed of, it could not have been revived by an entirely separate application which was a substantive petition in itself and was moved by a person who was not party to the initial plea. It also argued that another bench, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, in a separate matter, had expressed satisfaction with Delhi government's efforts with regard to ramping up testing in the national capital and therefore, the instant matter may not be entertained any further. Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam further told the court that the instant petition initially pertained only to expediting testing and declaration of results and was disposed of on May 4, but was later revived by an application which sought several reliefs including augmenting of testing in the national capital. Disagreeing with the stand of the Delhi government, the bench said, "If you are going to get technical with us, we will take another recourse. We are not powerless. In the interests of citizens of Delhi, we have no hesitation in saying that we need to keep you on your toes and we will not let you rest on your laurels for a moment." "At this time, too much is at stake and if you think these technicalities will impress us, we are sorry. Do you think this will fetter us? Do you think under Article 226 we can be fettered from arriving at a conclusion in the best interests of the public at large? Why is the Delhi government getting cold feet? That is the impression we are getting. Why cold feet now," the court asked. Satyakam denied that the Delhi government has developed any cold feet and said that this stand was taken by it earlier also. Petitioner-lawyer Rakesh Malhotra, who moved the initial disposed of petition and is now representing the applicant, opposed the Delhi government stand. The court further noted that the order passed by the bench headed by the Chief Justice related to "preparedness of the Delhi government to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic on several aspects including, providing adequate helpline numbers, sufficient numbers of ambulances, ensuring availability of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits and testing through RAT at government hospitals and dispensaries". However, in the instant matter, the focus of the court has been on ramping up testing in Delhi not just through RAT, but also through RT-PCR, CB-NAAT and true NAT, it said. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research.   Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) is a recently introduced polymerase chain raction (PCR) based method for detection of TB. TrueNat is an indigenously developed portable version of CBNAAT and was also meant for detecting tuberculosis (TB). The bench said that in this background, "the resistance of the Delhi government to this court monitoring the progress made in ramping up the testing, is incomprehensible when admittedly, this is not an adversarial litigation". It further said,"..it is purely in the interest of the citizens of Delhi that all government departments and agencies act in tandem and work collectively to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic for larger public good. "The technical plea taken by the GNCTD on the maintainability of an application in a disposed of matter would have engaged this court had it been a routine litigation between two private parties. This is not so here." The court further said that in public interest litigations, it can monitor the steps taken by the authorities to ensure that its directions are being implemented in letter and spirit.  "The history of the instant case which has been elaborated hereinabove shows that this court in the instant writ petition is monitoring the steps taken by the authorities for conducting tests for identifying Covid-19 patients to ensure that the pandemic does not spread.  "The present petition is not in the nature of adversarial litigation and has been filed for a specific purpose and to serve public cause. The jurisdiction of the High Court to continuously monitor the situation even in a disposed of petition cannot be curtailed by taking such a technical plea," the bench said and declined to close the matter as requested by the Delhi government. It, thereafter, proceeded to examine the Delhi government status report which claimed that its testing numbers of 27,604 RT/PCR tests per million was double the national average of 13,647 tests per million. Delhi government also told the bench about the second round of sero surveillance that it has initiated, independent of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), in the national capital since August 1. Satyakam also told the court that RAT testing numbers cited in his status report referred to tests carried out in June at hotspots, containment zones and healthcare settings and for other areas RT/PCR tests were conducted as per ICMR advisories. After perusing the status report, the court asked the Delhi government to seek clarification from the ICMR with regard to RAT and RT/PCR testing norms and to "strictly follow" the same, instead of "interpreting" the guidelines "contrary to what ICMR has proposed". After obtaining the necessary clarification, the Delhi government will have to file a fresh status report, the bench said and listed the matter for further hearing on August 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-governments-resistance-to-monitoring-of-testing-in-delhi-disapproved-by-high-court-869589.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Places of worship to open in Jammu and Kashmir on August 16||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday decided to open religious premises and places of worship from August 16 but extended other standard operating procedures for Covid-19 containment till August 31.   "Major decision by J&K Government. All religious places and places of worship to open in Jammu & Kashmir from August 16, 2020. Religious processions and large religious gatherings remain strictly prohibited," government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said in a tweet. According to an order issued by the chief secretary, a separate SOP will be issued for opening of religious places.  Meanwhile, the administration has declared all districts of Kashmir except Bandipora as red zones while Ramban is the only district in Jammu division to be included in this category.  Doda and Kishtwar districts are placed in green zones while rest of the seven districts in Jammu region and Bandipora district have been categorised as orange zones.  The government has asked the people to follow the SOPs for respective zones or face penal action in case of any violation. Red zones are the ones with a large number of coronavirus cases while the orange zones have lesser positive cases. A green zone is one that has not reported any Covid-19 positive case in 28 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/places-of-worship-to-open-in-jammu-and-kashmir-on-august-16-869604.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Abdullah invites politicians for meeting, one year since Article 370 abrogation||Amid continuing political uncertainty, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah has invited leaders of political parties for a meeting on August 5, one year since the abrogation of former state’s special status under Article 370. The meeting has been scheduled at posh Gupkar residence of Abdullah, where last year on August 4 ‘Gupkar declaration’ was forged collectively by all the J&K parties vowing to protect the special status of the erstwhile state.  Immediately after signing the ‘Gupkar declaration’ most of the leaders were either taken to custody or placed under home detention. Sources privy to the developments told DH that the meeting is scheduled to start at 11 am and invitations for the same have been sent to leaders of National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Congress, CPI (M) and other smaller parties. Besides NC president Farooq Abdullah, his son and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, NC MPs Hasnain Masoodi and Mohammad Akbar Lone, J&K Congress President G A Mir, PC chief Sajad Lone CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami are likely to attend to meet, they said. A leader who received the invite said the aim of the meeting is to deliberate over the prevailing political mess across J&K since August 5, 2019. “During the meet the future strategy about how to retrieve special status of J&K is on the agenda. As most of the leadership remained under detention since last August, no deliberations could take place over this important issue,” he said. However, authorities have deployed police and other paramilitary forces personnel in strength in and around the residences of political leaders ahead of the first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two UTs. A senior official said that they have directions not to allow any politician to move out of his residences for some more time. “The meeting won’t be allowed to happen as there is apprehension of law and order problems on Wednesday. As precautionary restrictions have been imposed across the Valley to prevent any violence,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abdullah-invites-politicians-for-meeting-one-year-since-article-370-abrogation-869605.html
04-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi Development Authority concealed facts about debris dumped on Yamuna floodplains: National Green Tribunal panel||An NGT-appointed monitoring committee panned the Delhi Development Authority Tuesday for telling it that the Yamuna floodplains were free of dumped waste, saying its claims were “not reliable” and "amounted to concealment of facts". The two-member panel said in a letter to the DDA vice-chairman that there have been many media reports on dumping of debris and protective masks on the floodplains over the last few days. It said the case of debris was particularly shocking as the DDA had assured it in May and June that there was complete CCTV surveillance to check dumping. It asked the DDA vice-chairman to institute a system that is "efficient and reliable enough" to actively prevent ingress on the floodplains. When it is being reported so frequently on social media with graphic details the DDA must respond promptly, it said. The land-owning agency responsible for guarding the floodplains, however, said its reports submitted to the Yamuna Monitoring Committee were about "other debris", which has been removed. It had told the panel that "more than 4,600 cubic metres of construction and demolition waste had been collected and the floodplains were free of such dumped material”. The committee, comprising retired NGT expert-member B S Sajawan and former Delhi Chief Secretary Shailaja Chandra, had asked the DDA to deploy 100 security guards in addition to the existing 100 to protect the floodplains against dumping of waste, but the agency told it “40 additional security guards were sufficient”, the panel said in the letter. “From the reports which were flashed across several newspapers, shared on WhatsApp and repeated with damaging Twitter videos giving all location, all details, it was evident that the reports given to the YMC were not reliable. The claims had clearly been made without checking the ground situation and amounted to concealment of facts,” it said. A senior DDA official said the agency has conducted an inspection on Friday along with the NGO which raised the issue of dumping before the NGT panel. "They are talking of dumping of concrete during the construction of the Delhi Metro, Signature Bridge and flyovers over the last so many years. DDA gave the report of other debris lying on the floodplain which has been removed," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-development-authority-concealed-facts-about-debris-dumped-on-yamuna-floodplains-national-green-tribunal-panel-869607.html
04-08-2020||Opinion||Ram Mandir: Is BJP set for UP 2022, India 2024?||‘Ram Mandir’ has been a central theme of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) politics for over three decades. It is no surprise, therefore, that the party wants to make as much of a spectacle of the iconic bhoomi pujan as possible despite a looming pandemic. The selection of August 5 for the laying of the foundation bricks is also significant. Exactly a year earlier on August 5, 2019, the Modi government had fulfilled another important item on the Hindutva agenda – that of scrapping Article 370. That Prime Minister Narendra Modi will himself attend the event and lay a silver brick at the Ram temple is also significant. Now that one of its long-time promises is close to fulfillment, it’s worth charting out how the event will fetch the BJP dividends in the months and years to come.      The UP picture Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls in 2022. The single biggest impact of the Ram mandir construction – although the actual completion of the grand temple may take up to 2024 – will be on the politics of India’s most populous state and one with the power to influence the political narrative in the Hindi belt. In 2017, BJP won a resounding victory in the state after a gap of 15 years. Since then, the party has consolidated its gain in the heartland state. It had 43 per cent of the vote in UP in the 2014 general elections. This went down by two per cent in the 2017 Assembly polls in the course of a triangular fight with the Congress-Samajwadi Party on one side and the Bahujan Samaj Party on the other. In the 2019 general elections, the Saffron party got a whopping 50 per cent of the vote in another triangular fight against the BSP-SP alliance and the Congress. Even at the peak of its popularity in the 1993 Assembly polls, when the BJP was riding high on a Hindutva wave months after the demolition of the Babri masjid, the BJP could win only 177 of 403 seats and 33 per cent of total votes. An SP-BSP alliance came to power after the BJP failed to muster up majority numbers. Compare that to the current scenario and it is clear that something has fundamentally changed for the BJP in UP since 2014. One aspect has to do with the projection of Narendra Modi as the ‘Hindu hriday samrat’. His contesting and winning from the ‘holy’ city of Varanasi has been a political masterstroke. But it wasn’t the Modi persona alone that did the trick for the BJP. In a new kind of social engineering, the BJP was able to gain significantly among the non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits, even as the two dominant caste groups i.e Yadavs and Jatavs, continued to remain loyal to the SP and BSP respectively. Along with the BJP’s existing support base among the upper castes, the BJP was able to achieve a Hindu rainbow coalition that had not been seen earlier in the state. In many ways, the success or failure of this coalition is likely to determine the BJP's ability to dominate the state’s politics in the future. It is interesting to note that while the BJP has often found itself in a corner on Dalit issues, it continues with its special reach to community, as it did even in the run-up to the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple. Then there is the rivalry between Thakurs, the community CM Yogi Adityanath hails from, and Brahmins. Given the many differences between the various caste groups in the state, 'Mandir' is likely to become a key symbol in its quest to forge a lasting pan-Hindu coalition. Lok Sabha 2024 When the ruling party faces the next general elections in 2024, 40 years after its disastrous show of winning only two Lok Sabha seats in 1984, the political landscape would be a completely altered one from what existed then. The Congress is now a shadow of its former self after the battering it has received in the last two general elections. In the meanwhile, leaders of several regional parties have become old – from Sharad Pawar in Maharashtra to Naveen Patnaik in Odisha and Mayawati in UP. In parties where there is a next generation in the picture, like the SP in UP and the RJD in Bihar, sons have failed to find the kind of popularity that fathers did. The BJP has emerged as the behemoth of Indian politics and the Ram temple is proof that the BJP has arrived, so to speak, and is here to stay. Of course, this picture is incomplete without mentioning Modi. While 2014 was a vote for change against Congress as much as a vote for Modi, and the 2019 general elections was a vote for ‘Moditva’, the 2024 battle will be about showcasing what it means to have a Hindu party and a Hindu PM at the helm for 10 years. When the BJP goes to polls in 2024, it will be showcasing the Ram temple, the jewel in its crown, among other achievements such as the Citizenship Amendment Act, the abrogation of Article 370 and mainstreaming of Jammu and Kashmir, and the passage of triple talaq bill, which many consider a step forward towards a Uniform Civil Code. The BJP’s showcasing of its Hindutva achievements much more aggressively also needs to be seen in the background of a growing recognition that there is something amiss in the  government's handling of the Covid-19  pandemic, the economy tanking and showing no signs of reviving and a sense that the Chinese aren’t about to go back quietly in Ladakh. These are factors that may still linger on when the next general elections, and before that a string of state elections from Bihar in 2020 to West Bengal in 2021 to UP in 2022, roll around.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ram-mandir-is-bjp-set-for-up-2022-india-2024-869384.html
04-08-2020||South||Telangana Covid-19 tally reaches 68,946; 1,286 new cases||Telangana witnessed 1,286 new Covid-19 cases and 12 more fatalities, taking the tally of those infected by the virus in the state to 68,946. Out of the new cases, 391 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), a considerable fall compared to the previous days, followed by Ranga Reddy 121 and Karimnagar 101, a state government bulletin said on Tuesday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 3. The case fatality rate in the state stood at 0.81 percent, while it was 2.11 percent at the national level, it said. As many as 49,675 people recovered from the infectious disease so far, while 18,708 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 72 percent in the state, while it was 65.77 percent in the country. The bulletin said 13,787 samples were tested on August 3 taking the cumulative to past five lakh. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent while that due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The state government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and sufficient beds are available in state-run hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals and laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-covid-19-tally-reaches-68946-1286-new-cases-869360.html
04-08-2020||South||75-year-old woman allegedly raped brutally in Kerala||In a gruesome incident, a 75-year old lady was allegedly raped brutally and injuries inflicted on her body and internal organs on the rural parts of Ernakulam district in Kerala. The incident took place near Puthenkurish, about 20 kilometres from Kochi city. The victim is now battling for life at a private medical college in Kollencherry. Four persons, including two women, were learnt to be taken into custody by the police in this connection. Local police said that a case was registered at Puthenkurish police station for various sections, including rape and atrocities towards SC/ST community member. According to police sources, the victim was staying at Kollencherry. One of her family friends reportedly took her to her house at Pankode, which is close to Kollencherry, on Sunday. She was later admitted to a nearby private hospital with the injuries and later shifted to the medical college. The hospital authorities reported the matter to the police. Injuries were inflicted using sharp objects all over her body. An emergency surgery was performed owing to injuries to internal organs. The Kerala Women's Commission directed the government to meet the treatment expenses of the victim and to ensure proper investigation to nab the accused. The commission chairperson M C Josephine called on the victim. The suspects in the case were allegedly involved in sexual offences earlier also, said local sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/75-year-old-woman-allegedly-raped-brutally-in-kerala-869364.html
04-08-2020||South||Woman dies of coronavirus in Puducherry, toll climbs to 57||A 55-year-old woman died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Puducherry while 168 fresh cases were reported, pushing the aggregate in the union territory to 4,146. A release from Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar on Tuesday said the woman patient was admitted to JIPMER hospital here at 5.10 am on Monday with the progressive onset of breathlessness and she had a pulmonary embolism. The woman died four hours later, the official said adding she had no co-morbidity. The Director said the overall active cases in the Union Territory was 1,552 and the total number of people who tested positive for the virus were 4,146. He said 96 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours ending 10 am. on Tuesday. Of the 42,322 samples tested so far in the Union Territory, 37,719 came out negative and results of the examination of the remaining samples were awaited. The 168 new cases were identified after examination of 812 samples during the last 24 hours showing 20.7 per cent positivity. The rate of fatality was 1.4 per cent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-puducherry-toll-climbs-to-57-869397.html
04-08-2020||South||CPI (M) leader Sunnam Rajaiah dies of Covid-19 in Telangana||Senior CPI (M) leader and former MLA in Telangana, Sunnam Rajaiah, who is known for his simplicity, died of Covid-19. Following the announcement of his demise, condolences began pouring in from across political divide. He was 62. Rajaiah, who represented Bhadrachalam in the Legislative Assembly thrice (1999, 2004 and 2014), died while being shifted to a hospital in Vijayawada late on Monday night, CPI (M) sources said here on Tuesday. He is survived by a wife and four children, they said. Rajaiah, who is remembered for taking up the cause of tribals, led a simple life. There were occasions when he was spotted coming to the state assembly in an autorickshaw or a two-wheeler. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, former CPI General Secretary S Sudhakar Reddy and several other political party leaders condoled the demise of Rajaiah. Expressing grief over the demise of Rajaiah, Sudhakar Reddy said the departed leader was a dedicated Communist who remained committed to the party in spite of various hurdles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpi-m-leader-sunnam-rajaiah-dies-of-covid-19-in-telangana-869409.html
04-08-2020||South||3-year-old boy dies of injuries after fall; father hurt while fleeing from wild elephant in Kerala||A three-year-old boy died of injuries suffered in a fall when his father carrying him escaped from a wild elephant near a forest fringe tribal hamlet at Nelliyampathy near here, police said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday night when the boy with his father and other relatives were returning to their village, police said. As they took to their heels on seeing the jumbo, Renish, son of Ramachandran from the 30 Acre Colony, fell down and was injured, they said. "The boy's father was also injured. The boy succumbed to injuries at a hospital," a police official told PTI. Police said investigations were on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-year-old-boy-dies-of-injuries-after-fall-father-hurt-while-fleeing-from-wild-elephant-in-kerala-869423.html
04-08-2020||South||RSS to open new supermarkets in Kerala to counteract state's CAA boycott: Report||After the Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in January, the BJP held numerous meetings, especially in muslim-dominated areas of the State to explain the legislation. This move, however, was not well-received. Towns and junctions where the meetings were supposed to be held were lardely deserted on the day of the meetings. Traders and shopkeepers too shut down their shops and businesses, the publication said. To counter this reaction, the Sangh Parivar decided to increase the number of its supermarkets in the Left-ruled state. The Akshayashree Mission—the Sangh Parivar’s co-operative—started six years ago and had 24 supermarket outlets, named Samrudhi, till last year. After the CAA protests, 10 more supermarkets have been opened and 40 additional stores have been registered. “There were already a few stores under the Akshayasree Mission; the new ones have been opened as a response to the boycott of the BJP’s pro-CAA campaign. These outlets have been launched spontaneously by workers wherever they were boycotted,” the state general secretary of the Hindu Aikya Vedi, the Kerala unit of the Sangh Parivar told the publication. While the supermarkets are limited to selling groceries and vegetables for now, the state general secretary of Sahakar Bharati, Aji Kumar, told the news outlet that the RSS is looking to expand its reach. Several self-help groups under the Akshayashree Mission are currently into food processing and making incense sticks which will be sold in the supermarkets. The organisation is planning to pursue textiles and restaurants next, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-to-open-new-supermarkets-in-kerala-to-counteract-states-caa-boycott-report-869424.html
04-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh initiates special safety drive in industrial units after series of mishaps||The Andhra Pradesh government has initiated a special drive in all the industrial units in the state to ensure safety and environmental compliance, to be completed in three months. The move comes in the wake of a series of industrial mishaps in the state in the last few months, especially in Visakhapatnam, that claimed at-least 30 lives. On Tuesday, another industrial mishap took place in Visakhapatnam. A fire in a pharma unit in Atchutapuram SEZ, however, was without any life loss. The Jaganmohan Reddy government’s special drive is based on the recommendations of a high-power committee which probed the 7 May styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers unit near Visakhapatnam. While the LG gas leak claimed 12 lives, three more died later, according to the police. Three more industrial mishaps took place in Visakhapatnam since then, in which 14 workers were killed. “There is an immediate need to organize a special drive of inspections for ensuring compliance of all the safety protocols and environmental norms by all the industrial units in Andhra Pradesh,” the orders issues by the industries and commerce department on Tuesday said. The drive would cover all hazardous chemical industries covered under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989, all industries which store, manufacture or handle hazardous materials/chemicals notified under MSIHC Rules irrespective of threshold quantity of the chemicals storage, all units which store, manufacture or handle explosive substances as defined under the Explosives Act and Petroleum Act and all the red category industrial units. For the purpose of the special drive, the government is constituting district level joint committees with the Joint Collector in charge for Industries & Commerce as the Chairman, and officials of factories, pollution control board, electricity, and fire etc., departments as members. Apart from ensuring compliance on part of the occupier of the industrial units and the officials concerned, the committee shall ensure that the local crisis group as provided under Chemical Accidents Emergency (Planning, Preparedness and Response) Rules, 1996 is formed for all four categories of the industries covered under the special drive. State Disaster Response Force to become an integral part of the onsite, off-site mock drills and implementation of emergency plans in all hazardous industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-initiates-special-safety-drive-in-industrial-units-after-series-of-mishaps-869426.html
04-08-2020||South||Over 200 people evacuated in Nilgiris over heavy rains: Tamil Nadu govt||In view of heavy rains in the Nilgiris district, over 200 people have been evacuated and traffic has been restored on the Udhagamandalam-Gudalur national highway in the hills, the Tamil Nadu government said on Tuesday. As many as 112 officials have been deployed in connection with the relief work in the Nilgiris which experienced 62.64 mm (average) rainfall on Monday, Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R B Udhayakumar said. Referring to the heavy downpour in areas including Avalanchi, Dewala and Naduvattam and the fast filling Pilloor reservoir, he said a total of 227 people belonging to areas that witnessed flooding in Gudalur taluk have been safely sheltered in schools in the region. "There was a landslide on a small scale in a village in Gudalur taluk and it (mudslides/debris removed) has now been set right...traffic on the Udhagamandalam-Gudalur national highway was affected due to a tree fall and the fallen tree has been removed and traffic restored," he told reporters here. The Met department has forecast heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts between August 4 and 8. Meanwhile, a Coimbatore report said a flood alert was sounded to people living on the banks of Bhavani river in Mettupalayam in the district, to move to safe places, as surplus water was released from Pilloor dam. As the water storage level stood at 97 feet, as against the capacity of 100 feet, over 20,000 cusecs of water is being released through four sluice gates to the river in anticipation of the level touching full capacity. With heavy rains for the last two days in the catchment area and in the Nilgiris, the inflow into the dam was over 12,000 cusecs, the district Collector K Rajamani said. In view of the flood threat, the people living on the banks were advised to move to safer places and cautioned not to venture into the river either for taking bath or washing clothes, he said in a release. Meanwhile, Noyyal river in the city was also in spate, following good rains in the catchment areas of Kovai Kutralam, Chadiyaru, Narasipuram rivers, official sources said. As the inflow increased in Noyyal river near Perur, ponds and lakes are filling up as water from Chithirachavadi check dam was released, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-200-people-evacuated-in-nilgiris-over-heavy-rains-tamil-nadu-govt-869453.html
04-08-2020||South||Online rummy addiction led treasury official in Kerala to swindle Rs 2 crore from district collector's account||A treasury official in Kerala swindled Rs 2 crore from the account of a district collector's official account allegedly by making use of loopholes in the banking software. It was suspected that addition to online rummy game had prompted M R Bijulal, a senior account of a sub-treasury in the state capital, to swindle the funds. He is now absconding and would face summary suspension. Prima faice assumption of investigation agencies was that Bijulal allegedly transferred Rs 2 crore from the Thiruvananthapuram district collector's account for tribal welfare funds to his treasury account using a fake cheque. Username and password of a former sub-treasury officer who retired from service was used for passing the transaction as the retired officer's account was not yet deactivated. Bijulal swiftly transferred the amount to another personal account in his name and his wife's name and deleted the initial transaction from the district collector's account treasury banking system. But since the amount were already transferred from the beneficiary account, the amount was not reversed. Since Rs 1.38 crore was transferred to savings bank accounts in treasury itself, it could be already recovered, while Rs 62 lakh was yet to be traced. An audio clip purported to be that of Bijulal's wife Simi said that Bijulal used to spend money on online rummy playing and it could have prompted him to swindle the funds. He had recently mentioned about huge losses caused by online rummy game, she said. The police FIR on the incident says that he had been swindling money since December last, which poses serious suspicions on how the higher authorities remained unaware of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/online-rummy-addiction-led-treasury-official-in-kerala-to-swindle-rs-2-crore-from-district-collectors-account-869484.html
04-08-2020||South||Language politics should not come in the way of students' interests: BJP||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP on Tuesday appealed to political parties opposed to the three-language formula suggested in the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 not to allow politics to come in the way of students' interests. State BJP President L Murugan also asked them not to shut the doors for the students of other states from learning Tamil. Maintaining that the political parties in the state are making false claims about Sanskrit or Hindi imposition under the NEP, Murugan said Tamil Nadu's rejection of the three-language formula might discourage the students of other states from learning Tamil as one of their languages. Questioning the rationale in comparing the situation during the anti-Hindi agitations in the 1960s to the present time, Murugan on Tuesday asked, "is the situation during 1968 and 2020 the same?" "Have not times or views changed," he said in a statement here. When Tamil Nadu boycotts a third language at a time when the students from the state are given an opportunity to learn an additional Indian language like Malayalam, Telugu or Kannada, does not this stand create a situation where students from other states could boycott learning Tamil, the BJP leader sought to know. "The NEP does not make it mandatory to learn Hindi or Sanskrit. Now that a conducive environment has been created under the new policy, children will be keen on learning more languages," Murugan said. Already CBSE and matriculation schools in the state teach various languages to the students. Following dual language policy will mean that students in state government schools will be denied the opportunity to learn more languages, he claimed. Amid stiff resistance from the opposition bloc led by the DMK, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday made it clear the state government will not follow the three-language formula proposed in NEP 2020 and announced that the existing two-language system will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/language-politics-should-not-come-in-the-way-of-students-interests-bjp-869495.html
04-08-2020||South||NIA opposes bail plea of Swapna Suresh in gold smuggling case; Says over Rs 100 cr worth gold smuggled||Strongly opposing the bail plea of Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh, the NIA on Tuesday alleged in a special court here that she along with four co-accused had illegally brought in gold worth over Rs 100 crore through diplomatic channel since November last year. In a detailed counter to the bail application moved by Suresh, the National Investigation Agency, probing the sensational case, also submitted that she had knowledge that the smuggled gold would be used for subversive activities and threaten the country's security and monetary stability. "The accused A-1 to A-5 (Sarith, Suresh, Faisal Fareed, Sandeep Nair and Ramees) and others colluded and conspired to make use of this channel and smuggle gold along with the materials genuinely required by the foreign diplomats at the consulate of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. Hence, instead of sending just the materials required by Consulate staff, co-conspirators including Fareed in UAE packed gold into various materials neatly hidden and submitted the baggage to the Air Cargo authorities at UAE," the NIA said. On earlier occasions, since November 2019, when such baggage reached Thiruvananthapuram Airport, Sarith collected it and handed over to Nair who in turn had taken it to his house and other places, opened it with the help of Ramees and other associates, the agency said. "The gold is then handed over to persons known and directed by A-5 to be used in lieu of cash for unlawful activities including the funding of such activities," the NIA said and submitted that using this process, the five accused had smuggled in gold around 20 times since November 2019. "The total quantity of gold smuggled is to the tune of approximately 200 kgs, which is worth more than Rs 100 crores," it said in the counter. Asserting that intensive investigation was required in the case to add value to the prima-facie findings that the gold smuggled could have been so used for anti-national activities, NIA said apart from Fareed, who is currently in UAE, other persons from the foreign country were also involved in such smuggling during earlier occasions. "The petitioner also knew about the antecedents of all the accused while she transacted with them. It is also learnt during the investigation that the initial money required for obtaining gold was funded by various persons with dubious antecedents and the money was sent abroad through hawala channel. The source of gold smuggled from UAE is also under investigation," the agency said in the counter. The NIA said there was prima facie evidence to the effect that the accused intentionally committed the act which will fall directly under Section 15 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. "It is revealed during investigation that the petitioner, as well as other accused, had knowledge that their actions would threaten the security including economic security and affect monetary stability of India", NIA said. The agency also submitted the case diary before the court for its consideration. The Court adjourned the matter to Thursday. In her plea, Suresh alleged she was implicated in the crime on a wild imagination without any basis and the case was an offshoot of the "political rivalry" between the state and central governments, triggered by the colourful and fictitious stories aired by the media. She claimed there was no prima facie evidence to attract an offence under Sections 15, 16 and 17 of UAPA. Suresh and Sandeep Nair were arrested from Bengaluru on July 11 by the NIA. So far ten people have been arrested by it in the case, which also led to the suspension of senior IAS officer M Sivasankar after allegations about his links to Suresh surfaced. The case related to the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-opposes-bail-plea-of-swapna-suresh-in-gold-smuggling-case-says-over-rs-100-cr-worth-gold-smuggled-869510.html
04-08-2020||South||75-year-old woman raped in Kerala||A 75-year-old lady was allegedly raped and injuries were inflicted on her body and internal organs in a rural area of Ernakulam district in Kerala. The incident took place near Puthenkurish, about 20 kilometres from Kochi city. The victim is now battling for life at a private medical college in Kollencherry. Four people, including two women, were learned to be taken into custody by the police in this connection. A case was registered at Puthenkurish police station for various sections, including rape and atrocities towards an SC/ST community member. According to police sources, the victim was staying at Kollencherry. One of her family friends reportedly took her to her house at Pankode, which is close to Kollencherry, on Sunday. She was later admitted to a nearby private hospital with the injuries and later shifted to a medical college. Hospital authorities reported the matter to the police. Emergency surgery was performed owing to injuries to internal organs. The Kerala Women's Commission directed the government to meet the treatment expenses of the victim and to ensure proper investigation to nab the accused. The suspects in the case were allegedly involved in sexual offences earlier also, said local sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/75-year-old-woman-raped-in-kerala-869514.html
04-08-2020||South||Visually challenged youth from Kerala clears civil services exam||A visually challenged youth from Kerala was among those who cleared the civil service examination. Gokul S, who secured rank 804, is fully blind by birth. He is a native of Thiruvananthapuram. Sharing his joy with a section of media, Gokul said that the confidence given by his parents mainly helped him achieve this. Gokul, who cleared the civil services in the first attempt, said that since the preliminary examinations took place soon after his PG exams, he could not focus much on preparations, even as he had been preparing for civil services earlier onward. Gokul said that his first choice was IAS and second IFS and he may think about a second attempt if he did not get the desired allotment. About ten Malayalis were reported to be among the first 100 rank holders, including the fifth rank holder Jeydev C S.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/visually-challenged-youth-from-kerala-clears-civil-services-exam-869525.html
04-08-2020||South||Resentment over engaging police for Covid-19 contact tracing in Kerala||The decision of Kerala government to entrust the responsibilities of Covid-19 contact tracing, containment and checking quarantine violations to the police has triggered protests. While Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the left front government was implementing police rule in Kerala, BJP leaders flayed that Covid-19 could not be curbed using police lathi. Outfits of doctors also expressed protest over the decision to entrust the duties of health workers to police. Meanwhile, there was resentment in police also over overburdening with work. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday announced the decision to entrust the additional responsibilities to the police. He maintained that laxities in the fight against Covid-19 led to a fresh spike of Covid-19 cases in the state. Meanwhile, 1,083 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala, while 1,021 recovered. Three more deaths were also reported, taking the toll in the state to 87.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-over-engaging-police-for-covid-19-contact-tracing-in-kerala-869527.html
04-08-2020||South||DMK MLA meets BJP President in Delhi; asks Stalin to cut ties with Congress||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) suffered an embarrassment on Tuesday when its sitting MLA, Ku. Ka. Selvam, met BJP President J P Nadda in New Delhi and questioned the party leadership over ties with Congress. Just stopping short of joining the BJP officially, Selvam, considered close to DMK President M K Stalin, spoke in the saffron party’s voice during his interaction with journalists after meeting Nadda by declaring that the DMK should snap its ties with the Congress. In a direct attack on Stalin, Selvam also said internal party elections should be held in the DMK and needled him for not condemning YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam’s disparaging remarks against Lord Murugan. The legislator won the 2016 assembly polls from Thousand Lights assembly constituency that was represented by Stalin four times in the past. Tamil television channels and social media were abuzz with speculation that Selvam was to join the BJP on Tuesday evening. However, it was an anti-climax of sorts when Selvam declared he had “not joined the BJP” but flew to the national capital only to request Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to “sanction two elevators” for a railway station in his constituency. Sources said it is just a matter of time Selvam joins the BJP. “DMK President M K Stalin should sever all ties with Rahul Gandhi and (Gandhi) family who have criticized the good work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Selvam told reporters, reading from a sheet, often fumbling. He also dared the DMK leadership to act against him. Political analysts said Selvam targeting the DMK leadership could be part of the BJP’s plan to embarrass the Dravidian party and its leader Stalin ahead of the 2021 assembly polls. BJP could have tapped Selvam with the help of V P Duraisamy, a long-time DMK man who jumped the ship to the saffron party in May, as it was an open secret that the legislator was sulking. An MGR loyalist, Selvam, who joined the DMK in 1990s after quitting the AIADMK, was upset over not being appointed as Chennai West district secretary of the DMK following incumbent J Anbazhagan’s demise in June. With the party preferring a low-weight Sitrarasu who was backed by Stalin’s son and youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi for the post, Selvam was upset. Intense speculation that Udhayanidhi might test his electoral fortunes from his constituency in the next elections could have also led to Selvam exploring other options. Political commentator Prof. Ramu Manivannan said the BJP was following the same model that it implemented in other states in Tamil Nadu as well. “The BJP has sent a clear signal that it is in Tamil Nadu for a long haul. But the popularity of any party will have to be tested in elections and not through manipulations. On the other hand, the DMK must demonstrate confidence in facing the 2021 polls,” Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics & Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-meets-bjp-president-in-delhi-asks-stalin-to-cut-ties-with-congress-869531.html
04-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh High Court halts Jagan's capital moves for 10 days||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has put a freeze of 10 days on the Jaganmohan Reddy government's further move towards the formation of three capitals in the state. Following governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s assent to the capital decentralization bills, a gazette notification of the acts was issued by the government on Friday. The much contentious blueprint is being opposed by the principal opposition TDP and other parties. The Amaravati locals, especially the region’s farmers are in a protest mode since 17 December, when chief minister Reddy announced his intention to dismantle former CM Chandrababu Naidu’s plans of a world-class, mega capital in the Guntur district. The High Court on Tuesday reviewed the petitions by the agitated locals and based on the government side’s appeal for time to file a counter, posted the matter to 14 August while putting a stay on the acts’ implementation.    The Reddy government had, in January, introduced two bills in the legislature - one to strip the Amaravati region of its capital status and other to set up three capitals for the state – the executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The Andhra Pradesh Decentralization and Inclusive Development of All Regions bill, 2020 and another one to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 were approved by the assembly twice - on 20 January and 16 June. On Monday, leader of the opposition Naidu dared CM Reddy to withdraw his three capitals decision within 48 hours or abolish the state legislative assembly to seek fresh public mandate on his decision of three capitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-halts-jagans-capital-moves-for-10-days-869532.html
04-08-2020||South||Seven Tamil Nadu fishermen go missing amid rough sea conditions||Seven fishermen from this island town are missing while over 4,000 others aborted fishing and safely returned to the shores early Tuesday following rough sea conditions, an official said. The seven fishermen were among those who put out to sea in 622 mechanised boats on Monday afternoon as against the usual practice of leaving early in the day as the sea conditions were unafavourable, Assistant Director of Fisheries Rajendran said. The rough sea and gusty winds forced the fishermen to return early this morning but seven fishermen in a boat owned by Bakkiyam did not come back, he said. Meanwhile, Ramanathapuram MP Navaskani has appealed to the Naval authorities to help in locating and rescuing the missing fishermen. Officials said search operations have been hampered by the weather conditions. As a low-pressure area formed in North Bay of Bengal off West Bengal coast, the Met office on Tuesday said high waves in the range of 3.5-4.1 meters are likely from Tuesday evening till 11.30 pm on Thursday along the coast of Southern Tamil Nadu from Colachel to Dhanushkodi. It has also advised fishermen not to venture into these areas during the period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-tamil-nadu-fishermen-go-missing-amid-rough-sea-conditions-869540.html
04-08-2020||South||Two visually-challenged persons from Tamil Nadu clear UPSC exam||Braving all odds, two visually challenged persons from Tamil Nadu, including a woman, have cleared the Civil Services exams, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. While Purnasundari cleared the coveted exams in her fourth attempt, Balanagendran emerged successful in his ninth attempt. Purnasundari, whose all-India ranking is 286, lost her vision when she was studying first standard, but nothing stopped her from pursuing the dream of joining the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). Having prepared for exams and interviews with the help of audiobooks, Purnasundari said it was her hard work and perseverance that has brought her where she is today. “I wrote my exams in Tamil language having studied in Tamil medium since childhood. It was difficult but I was very adamant in pursuing my dreams and I am happy today that I could make it to the civil services. I will continue to work hard for the betterment of society,” she told DH. Purnasundari, who hails from Madurai and wants to opt for IAS, says it was audiobooks that helped her prepare for the exams as she could not read. “I found it difficult to source audiobooks, but I did finally. Without audiobooks, I could not have prepared for the exams,” she added. For Balanagendran, who cleared the exams in his ninth attempt, too, technology came handy for preparations. He says he could not have achieved the feat but for the support he received from his family, who “never treated me differently.” “I have been visually challenged since birth and this has never come in the way of pursuing my dreams. And my family stood behind me like a rock. Civil services are always enticing, and I have learnt from my mistakes. Mistakes help you chart the path for success, and I am finally there in my ninth attempt,” Balanagendran told DH. Though he did not rely on audiobooks, Balanagendran said technology helped him to access books in PDF format for his preparations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-visually-challenged-persons-from-tamil-nadu-clear-upsc-exam-869542.html
04-08-2020||South||Kasargod native involved in ISIS attack on Afghanistan prison||ISIS member K P Ijaz, who was reported to be involved in the recent suicide attack on a prison at Jalalabad in Afghan, was among the 21 Malayalis who joined the group from Kerala in 2016. A native of Padanna in Kasargod, Ijaz was also accompanied by his wife Reffela. Ijaz was aged 36 and was a doctor. Many other couples and even children were among those joined IS and many of them were reported killed. Video footage, purported to be of two women in the group, recently surfaced. They were expressing interest to return to India. Intelligence sources said that it was almost confirmed Ijaz was the one involved in the Afghan prison attack. Three others involved were also said to be Indians and their identity was being verified. At least 98 Malayalis joined ISIS from Kerala over the last few years and many Malayalis joined ISIS from Gulf countries also. At least 28 Malayalis were reportedly killed in encounters so far. A recent UN report on terrorism warned that there were significant numbers of ISIS terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-native-involved-in-isis-attack-on-afghanistan-prison-869543.html
04-08-2020||South||Another Hyderabad hospital charging exorbitant rates barred from treating Covid-19 patients||The Telangana government has barred another major private hospital in Hyderabad from Covid-19 treatment, after several complaints of excessive billing. The state government had, from 15 June, allowed Covid-19 tests and treatment in private hospitals while capping the rates. While treatment in ICU is fixed at Rs 7500 per day without ventilator support and Rs 9000 with ventilator use, for isolation, one has to pay only Rs 4000 per day, health minister Eatala Rajender had announced. However, many such Covid-19 hospitals were found to have been operating in blatant defiance of government rules. “In spite of clear ceiling guidelines, it has been observed that Ms Virinchi Hospital, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad has been charging exorbitant rates, improper and surplus billing and not adhering to the ceiling guidelines,” said a statement from the director, Public Health & Family Welfare, on Tuesday, adding that the complaints against the said hospital as given by various sources were found to be correct. Stating the “public interest is of paramount importance”, the DPH has under the Public Health Act-1897 and the Telangana Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration& Regulation) Act-2002, revoked the permission to Ms Virinchi Hospital for treatment of Covid-19 cases. On Monday, the DPH had revoked such permission to Ms Deccan Hospital, following similar complaints against the hospital in Somajiguda. “Henceforth Virinchi Hospital is not permitted to admit and treat any confirmed or suspected cases of Covid-19. The patients who are already admitted in the Hospital shall be treated until the time of recovery and charged as per the government orders. Failure to comply with the instructions of the government shall lead to cancellation of the hospital registration in total,” the DPH stated. Similar notice was given to the Deccan Hospital. Telangana has recorded a total of 68,946 positive cases till Tuesday, out of which officials say 49,675 have recovered. The state has 563 Covid-19 related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-hyderabad-hospital-charging-exorbitant-rates-barred-from-treating-covid-19-patients-869549.html
04-08-2020||South||Madras HC asks TN govt to supply eggs, sanitary napkins to students till reopening of schools||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Tamil Nadu government to supply eggs to children enrolled under the noon meal scheme along with dry rations from their schools till the Covid-19 lockdown is in force. Passing orders on a petition seeking to ensure supply of nutritious food during the lockdown, a bench of Justices M M Sundresh and R Hemalatha said girl students should get sanitary napkins till reopening of schools. Once schools are reopened, cooked food can be provided to students as usual, it noted. Petitioner R Sudha, an advocate, had submitted that the students were missing out on eggs which used to be given as part of the noon meal and also wanted napkins to be supplied to the girl students during the lockdown. The court had on Monday pulled up the state after it submitted that eggs cannot be distributed to children as it would affect social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-asks-tn-govt-to-supply-eggs-sanitary-napkins-to-students-till-reopening-of-schools-869554.html
04-08-2020||State||153 new Covid-19 cases, 7 more deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Among the fresh cases, Mangaluru taluk has the highest of 119 cases, followed by 12 from other districts, 11 from Bantwal, six from Belthangady, four from Puttur, one from Sullia. On the other hand, 124 infected have been discharged from hospitals, thus taking the total discharges to 2854. A total of 3138 infected are undergoing treatment in hospitals and in home isolation. 7 fatalities Dakshina Kannada recorded seven more fatalities on Monday, taking the total death toll to 176. According to the state bulletin issued by the department of health and family welfare, the deceased were in the age group of 50 to 86 and were suffering from comorbid conditions along with Covid-19. Majority of them were suffering from cold, fever, breathlessness, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disorder, cardiac-related issues. 126 cases in Udupi Udupi district registered 126 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, thus taking the tally to 4,800. Already, 2,812 have been discharged in the district and 1,952 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals or are under home isolation in the district. According to officials, 39 with symptoms of SARI, ILI, coronavirus have been admitted to isolation wards in the hospitals. Further, a total of 1,122 samples were collected in the district for testing. This includes 966 from those suspected of having the virus, 30 from ILI symptoms patients and 108 from Covid hotspots. Of the 126 cases, 58 are from Udupi, 34 from Kundapura, 28 from Karkala and 6 from other districts. A total of 116 persons have recovered and discharged on Monday. As manu as 1116 infected are in home isolation in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/153-new-covid-19-cases-7-more-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada-869280.html
04-08-2020||State||Kerala to start daily passes for commuters to Mangaluru||The Kerala government and Kasargod district administration have decided to resume the daily pass system for those commuting to Mangaluru from Kasargod. The decision was taken during the interaction between Kerala Revenue Minister Chandrasekharan, officials and elected representatives via video conference on Monday. The Kasargod district administration had stopped the issue of daily passes from July 6 for entry and exit from Talapady border. This had inconvenienced hundreds of employees, who visited Mangaluru daily to eke a living. A majority of them were working in private sectors and were on the verge of losing their jobs. The minister said the Kasaragod district administration will resume issuing of passes for daily commuters between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. But they should undergo rapid antigen test for every week to renew their passes. "Similarly, one-time interstate passes will be issued for those who want to take part in marriages, funeral and other functions in both states. Even they should undergo antigen test after returning from the functions,” the minister added. As per the previous order, daily commuters, especially employees, had to stay in Mangaluru for 28 days before returning to Kasargod. Later, Kerala government relaxed rules on July 23 allowing only bank employees from Kasaragod to travel daily in their private vehicles to their workplace in Dakshina Kannada. Many launched an online campaign with the hashtag #Openthe border and #Savemyjob requesting the Kasaragod district collector to allow them to commute daily to Mangaluru and back. The minister had said there were no restrictions on the transportation of essential commodities. However, the vehicles should be sanitised before entering Kerala. The drivers and staff, who return from Karnataka, should undergo an antigen test after seven days of their return, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kerala-to-start-daily-passes-for-commuters-to-mangaluru-869289.html
04-08-2020||State||Courts in Davengere will remain shut for two days||Principal District & Sessions court will remain closed on August 4 and 5 as five employes of the court tested positive for Covid-19. Principal District & Sessions Court Judge Geetha K B stated that all court halls in the court complex will remain shut for two days as they have to be sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/courts-in-davengere-will-remain-shut-for-two-days-869347.html
04-08-2020||State||Karnataka: Threat of landslides increases in Charmadi Ghat amid downpour||Incessant rain that has been lashing the region has increased the threat of landslides in the Charmadi Ghat. A tree was uprooted and fell at the second curve of Charmadi Ghat on Tuesday morning. On Monday night, minor landslides had occurred at several locations along the Charmadi Ghat road.  The authorities have made arrangements to clear the muds on the road to facilitate the movement of vehicles. Puttur recorded 9.6 cm rainfall and Belthangady recorded 9.2 cm rainfall in the last 24 hours (ending 8.30 am on Tuesday). In Chikkamagaluru The intensity of rain gained momentum in the Malnad area in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday. A huge tree was uprooted and fell on Mudigere-Sakleshpura road disrupting the movement of vehicles. Kottigehara experienced the highest rainfall of 13.3 cm in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-threat-of-landslides-increases-in-charmadi-ghat-amid-downpour-869349.html
04-08-2020||State||MLA, wife test positive for Covid -19 in Shivamogga||Sagar MLA H Halappa tested positive for Covid -19 on Tuesday. The MLA, his wife and his driver all tested positive for the virus. They are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru. Halappa took charge as MSIL chairman in Bengaluru recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-shivamogga-869374.html
04-08-2020||State||16,000 cusecs water released from Kabini dam||With copious rains in the Kabini catchment areas, around 16,000 cusecs water was released into the river from the Kabini dam, in H D Kote taluk, on Tuesday morning. The office of the Executive Engineer, Kabini Reservoir Division, H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district, had issued a flood alert earlier, asking the people residing in villages on the downstream of the river, to move to safer places. The inflow into the dam has increased to 13,000 cusecs on Tuesday morning. As there is heavy rain in the Kabini catchment areas, the inflow into the dam is expected to rise further. As the dam has reached the maximum level, the outflow may rise up to 20,000 cusecs, the flood alert cautioned. The officials have requested the people of villages living on both sides of the river downstream to shift to safer places, along with their property and cattle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/16000-cusecs-water-released-from-kabini-dam-869389.html
04-08-2020||State||Nanjangud-based Jubilant produces API for remdesivir||Jubilant Generics, from Nanjangud in the Mysuru district, which was in the news as a Covid-19 cluster in March and April, is now manufacturing Active Pharma Ingredient (API) for remdesivir, launched by Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, under the brand name ‘Jubi-R’. The first Covid-19 patient related to Jubilant Generics was identified on March 26, in Mysuru. When the Covid count clocked 90 in Mysuru district, 74 of them were either directly or indirectly related to Jubilant Generics. However, all of them recovered. Lyophilized injection Jubilant Generics Limited (Jubilant), a subsidiary of Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, has launched remdesivir ‘Jubi-R’ for injection at a price of Rs 4,700 per vial of 100 mg (lyophilized injection). In a press release, Shyam S Bhartia, chairman and managing director of Jubilant said, “The company will provide the drug to over 1,000 hospitals providing Covid treatment across India. Jubilant’s 24-hour helpline will enhance access to Jubi-R. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation, the not-for-profit organisation of Jubilant Group, is launching programmes to increase the accessibility of Jubi-R to patients below the poverty line and to frontline paramedical staff”. Antiviral drug Hari S Bhartia, co-chairman, Jubilant, said, “In May, Jubilant entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences that granted the right to register, manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational drug remdesivir in 127 countries, including India. Remdesivir is the only antiviral drug that has received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed Covid in adults and children”. He said, “On July 20, Jubilant received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and market the investigational antiviral drug remdesivir (Jubi-R) for restricted emergency use in India for treatment of severe Covid-19. Jubi-R should be administered intravenously in a hospital setting, under the supervision of a medical practitioner”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nanjangud-based-jubilant-produces-api-for-remdesivir-869398.html
04-08-2020||State||Karnataka govt failed to utilise lockdown to check Covid-19 spread: R V Deshpande||Former minister R V Deshpande on Tuesday charged the government of failing to utilise the lockdown period to make preparations required to check the spread of Convid-19. He said the State Government should have learnt lessons from Covid-19 management in Dharavi, Mumbai. "Covid positive cases are increasing in the State day by day due to negligence and unpreparedness of the government. There is lack of coordination between ministers, and officials were also transferred repeatedly. Rapid antigen tests should have begun much earlier while healthcare infrastructure should have been improved prior itself," he said. Better incentives should be given to Covid warriors and clarity should be given about the distribution of food kits to labourers, he demanded while lamenting that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is not as assertive as earlier due to which  control over the administration is lost. Congress supported the government in its efforts to check the pandemic but the government has totally failed in Covid management and a kind of anarchy is prevailing. When the issue of irregularity in the procurement of ventilators, PPE kits, masks and oxygen machines were brought to light by the Congress leaders, BJP issued notice to Congress, which is unprecedented in a democracy. It would be respectable if the government ordered a probe by a sitting high court judge into the matter, Deshpande noted. Reacting on the Ram Mandir issue, Deshpande said, "Congress welcomed the Supreme Court decision on Ram Mandir. All Indians should respect the principles propagated by Ram and the Ram Mandir construction work should be carried on by winning the confidence of all Indians instead of using it as a divisive tactic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-failed-to-utilise-lockdown-to-check-covid-19-spread-r-v-deshpande-869458.html
04-08-2020||State||Covid-19 vaccine trial begins in Belagavi hospital||Human clinical trials of Covaxin, an anti-Covid vaccine began at Jeevan Rekha hospital in the city on Tuesday. The vaccine is developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Jeevan Rekha Hospital is among the 12 facilities identified by the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting clinical trials and the only facility from the state. In the first phase, vaccine has been administered to 375 persons across the country and the progress has been on expected lines, Director Dr Amit Bhate told DH. Volunteers in the age group of 18 to 55 years had been shortlisted after thorough screening. Dr Bhate said, first day of the vaccine being administered is calculated as zero day and second dose would be given on 14th day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-trial-begins-in-belagavi-hospital-869575.html
04-08-2020||State||State information commission to hear RTI cases via WhatsApp||In a move that has come as a big relief for right to information (RTI) activists who were worried over delay in hearing of second appeals, the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) has begun proceedings through video conference, where parties can log in via WhatsApp. Though the KIC has 10 commissioners, hearing of cases had become a challenge during Covid times. The commissioners held several meetings to come up with a modality to settle the RTI appeals whose pending list was growing everyday. It was decided to conduct hearing via video conference. “Appellants can now log into the KIC website and submit their name, phone number and case number. The commission will consider the case and send a link for them prior to the hearing. They can log in via WhatsApp or a channel developed by Cisco,” Chief Information Commissioner N C Srinivasa told DH. He said the commission has tested several tools before zeroing in on the two modes. “We do not know how long Covid-19 will persist. During the meeting with commissioners, it was decided to enable the KIC to work smoothly even in the long-term scenario,” he said. He said the idea to include WhatsApp as an option was aimed at convenience. “Even those who are not familiar with technology are usually familiar with WhatsApp. Even otherwise, accessing the app is easy and can be done from any place with a little help,” hesaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-information-commission-to-hear-rti-cases-via-whatsapp-869576.html
04-08-2020||State||Tiger walks 300 km from Maharasthra to Kali reserve||A male tiger has traversed 300 km in two years, in search of a new home, from Sahyadri Tiger Reserve under Chandoli National Park in Maharashtra to Kali Tiger Reserve in Joida, Uttara Kannada. The first photographic evidence of the tiger was at Maharashtra’s Nandurbar in 2018. The big cat was camera-trapped several times at Kali Tiger Reserve in April/May 2020, according to the Forest officials. The tiger’s 300-km journey from Maharashtra to Dandeli Karnataka over two years has been recorded in cameras installed at various places in both the states. Although the distance between the two tiger reserves is 225 km, the big cat has travelled more, claim the officials. Maria Christu Raju, Deputy Conservator of Forests and Director, Kali Tiger Reserve told DH,” Cameras have been fixed at many places in the Kali Tiger Reserve spread over 1,300 sqkm. About 25 adult tigers have been camera-trapped in the reserve in 2020. Tigers keep changing their habitat for various reasons.” In 2008-09, a male tiger had covered a distance of 200 km from Bhadra Tiger Reserve in Chikkamagaluru to Anshi range in Kali reserve. The tiger was camera-trapped at various points through the journey. The ‘walker’ A male tiger, referred to as T1C1 by wildlife officials, walked into the record books traversing more than 3,000 km. The tiger, nicknamed, walker’ had several back and forth journeys between Tipeshwar in Maharashtra and Adilabad forest in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tiger-walks-300-km-from-maharasthra-to-kali-reserve-869593.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah tests positive for coronavirus||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister, in a tweet, said that he has been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution.  The 71-year-old leader of opposition in the state assembly has requested all those who have come into contact with him to quarantine themselves. "Siddaramiah has been admitted to Manipal Hospitals for evaluation of fever and the antigen test for Covid-19 is positive. He is doing well and is stable currently. He is undergoing appropriate evaluation and management by a multidisciplinary team of doctors," said Dr Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman, Manipal Hospitals.  "I have been tested positive for #Covid19 & also been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution. I request all those who had come in contact with me to check out for symptoms & to quarantine themselves," Siddaramaiah said in a tweet.   I request all those who had come in contact with me to check out for symptoms & to quarantine themselves. Siddaramaiah's son Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah said his father had a fever since Monday morning and was admitted to hospital in the night. "He was confirmed with corona infection after the antigen test was conducted," he said in a tweet. ನಿನ್ನೆ ಬೆಳಿಗ್ಗೆಯಿಂದ ತಂದೆಯವರಿಗೆ ಜ್ವರ ಬಂದಿದ್ದು ರಾತ್ರಿ ಆಸ್ಪತ್ರೆಗೆ ದಾಖಲಾಗಿದ್ದರು. Corona antigen test ಮಾಡಲಾಗಿ ಅವರಿಗೆ ಕೊರೋನ ಸೋಂಕು ತಗುಲಿರುವುದು ಧೃಢಪಟ್ಟಿದೆ. ಇತ್ತೀಚೆಗೆ ಅವರ ಸಂಪರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದವರು quarantine ಆಗಬೇಕೆಂದು ಕೇಳಿಕೊಳ್ಳುತ್ತೇನೆ. Siddaramaiah has also been admitted to Manipal Hospital where Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is undergoing treatment for coronavirus. Yediyurappa was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night after he tested positive for coronavirus, and doctors have said he was "doing well" and is "clinically stable". State Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted wishing for Siddaramaiah's speedy recovery and said he was in constant touch with Manipal hospital doctors. "His (Siddaramaiah) health is stable and there is no need to worry." ವಿಪಕ್ಷನಾಯರು, ಮಾಜಿ ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿ ಸನ್ಮಾನ್ಯ ಶ್ರೀ ಸಿದ್ದರಾಮಯ್ಯನವರಿಗೆ ಕೋವಿಡ್‌ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್‌ ಬಂದಿರುವುದು ತಿಳಿದು ಬಂದಿದೆ. ರಾಜ್ಯ ಕಂಡ ಆದರ್ಶ ರಾಜಕಾರಣಿ ಅವರು. ಅವರಿಗೆ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್‌ ಬಂದಿರುವುದು ನನಗೆ ನೋವಾಗಿದೆ.ಆದಷ್ಟು ಬೇಗನೆ ಅವರು ಚೇತರಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಗುಣಮುಖರಾಗಲಿ ಎಂದು ದೇವರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-869270.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shortage of organ donors amid Covid-19 adds to Karnataka's woes||The cost of the Covid-19 pandemic is immense, and some of those badly affected but seldom discussed are those in need of organ transplants. Since most people are staying indoors, road accidents have reduced considerably. However, there are others, particularly those in need of liver transplants, who are stuck in a painful situation. Acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) patients are some of the worst affected. ACLF patients are those with pre-existing liver problems who develop liver-failure like symptoms. There are several factors behind this decrease in organ donors. To begin with, hospitals have fewer patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for non-coronavirus related issues. Therefore, there are fewer brain-dead patients who would normally provide the organs to be donated. Hospitals in general have concentrated their resources on Covid-related action, therefore, there is a smaller availability of experts who could counsel family members towards organ donation. Transplant coordinator at Jeevasarthakathe, KU Manjula told the source that she witnessed at least eight organs being transplanted from brain-dead bodies, per month. There have been none since April. She claims that there are at least 3,000 people awaiting kidney donations. Organ transplants include donations by a living person, like a liver lobe or kidney, or from a brain-dead person after all attempts to revive them have failed. It appears only living donations from kith and kin are taking place right now. Dr Mohan Kumar, Consultant Urologist and Renal Transplant Surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, pointed out to the source how even donations from brain dead people come with their own risk, due to the pandemic. “Even if a patient is brain dead, we can’t be sure if he or she is Covid-19 negative or not as swab tests have only an efficacy of 60%. Since the donor is a healthy person, we as doctors are at a moral dilemma if to put them at a life threatening risk in this post-pandemic time. So for one there is a shortage of cadaver (brain dead) donors and there is the other issue of doctors unwilling to put healthy patients at risk,” he said. The result is that several people suffering from kidney failure have to undergo dialysis, since a transplant is not a viable option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shortage-of-organ-donors-amid-covid-19-adds-to-karnatakas-woes-869466.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to receive 1,279 ventilators under PM-CARES||Getting to 'Work from Hospital' mode, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a review meeting with officials on increasing ventilator beds in Karnataka. According to a statement by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Karnataka received a fresh batch of 681 ventilators from the Central government under PM-CARES fund recently and another 1,279 ventilators were expected by the end of August. In the review meeting held over phone, the CM directed authorities to appoint the necessary staff like an anaesthetists, paramedics and nurses required to utilise the ventilators. "All the ventilators should be installed immediately," he said. Of the 681 ventilators received under PM-CARES, 166 were installed in Bengaluru city and 169 in other parts of the state. The remaining 346 ventilators will be installed by the end of this week. Following proposals made by private hospitals to employ their ventilators to treat Covid patients, Yediyurappa asked officials to consider the same. These ventilators will be used 'temporarily for Covid purposes' after the government and private hospitals agree on terms and conditions, the CMO statement said. Yediyurappa, it can be recalled, is under observation at Manipal Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-receive-1279-ventilators-under-pm-cares-869483.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka temples to offer special prayers for Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan'||The Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department has issued a circular requesting all temples of the state to offer special prayers during the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. The decision, according to the circular, was based on instructions issued by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. A statement issued by Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the prayers were to ensure that the event is held smoothly so that the temple is constructed soon. The special prayers will also seek "the welfare of all the citizens of the country," Poojary said. Temple priests will have to maintain Covid-19 guidelines when prayers are held at temples, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-temples-to-offer-special-prayers-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-869512.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 imposed in parts of Karnataka for Ram Temple bhoomi pujan||Prohibitory orders have been imposed at several places in Karnataka aimed at maintaining law and order in the state, in view of the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Places where prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC (banning assembly of four or more people) have been imposed include Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Dharwad and Mangaluru. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday reviewed the security preparedness ahead of the 'bhoomi poojan' in Ayodhya tomorrow with senior home department and police officials. In a video statement released after the meeting, Bommai said district administrations- Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police- depending on the local situation have been given the powers to impose section 144. District administrations can take decisions regarding banning sale of liquor, he said. Also, Taluk Executive Magistrates or Tahsildars have been asked to be present at their respective headquarters for the complete day tomorrow. The minister said it is the duty and responsibility of every citizen to abide by the Supreme Court's verdict on the Ram Mandir issue and asserted there will be no room for any controversial statements or untoward incidents with regard to Ram Mandir and the groundbreaking ceremony. Calling for maintenance of peace and order in the state, he said, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as per the government of India guidelines no public meetings or events will be allowed in this regard. Expressing confidence of cooperation from all quarters in the maintenance of peace and order, he thanked people for it. Last November, the apex court paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the site in Ayodhya. Noting that all senior police officials have been asked to remain on ground and conduct patrols in sensitive areas, Bommai said officials have also been asked to be vigilant on social media activities and immediate action should be taken against those indulging in activities of instigation. Peace committee meetings should be held at the police station level, adequate deployment of security personnel at places of worship and prayers, and conducting drone surveys in sensitive and crowded areas are among the other instructions given to the officials, he said. The minister asked officials to issue warnings to those involved in communal acts in the past and those who had been arrested under the Goonda act. If required they should be taken into preventive custody and strong action will be taken against those violating law and indulging in violence by booking them under the Goonda act, Bommai said. Tight vigilance will be maintained in border districts and check posts, he said, adding that Commissioners of Bengaluru and Mangaluru along with senior officials have been asked to be extra vigilant and take everyone into confidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prohibitory-orders-under-section-144-imposed-in-parts-of-karnataka-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-869515.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa under treatment for Covid-19, holds review meeting from hospital||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday held a review meeting with officials from a hospital where he has been admitted for Covid-19, on increasing ventilator beds in the state. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a review meeting over phone with officials regarding increase of ventilator beds in the state today," his office said in a statement. Yediyurappa is undergoing treatment for coronavirus at Manipal Hospital. He was admitted on Sunday night after he tested positive for Covid-19 and doctors have said he is "doing well" and is "clinically stable". According to the release, 681 ventilators have been received by Karnataka from the Centre under PM-CARES. Another 1,279 ventilators allotted to the state by the union Government of India, will be received this month. Of the 681 ventilators, 166 were installed in Bengaluru city and 169 in other parts of the state, it said, adding that the remaining 346 would be installed by the end of this week. The Chief Minister also asked officials to appoint necessary staff like anaesthetics, paramedics and nurses who are required to utilise these ventilators immediately, the CMO statement said. He also directed considering the requests of private hospitals in Bengaluru for ventilators temporarily for Covid purposes and decide the terms and conditions, it added. Meanwhile, Manipal Hospital said in a release that the Chief Minister continues to remain stable since his admission and has been responding to treatment. "He is cheerful and attending to his activities. He is closely being monitored by an expert panel of doctors," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-under-treatment-for-covid-19-holds-review-meeting-from-hospital-869544.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees biggest Covid-19 daily spike with 6,259 new cases||Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 6,259 new infections, taking the total active cases to 73,846. The previous highest was on July 30 with 6,128. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,035 cases and 30 deaths on Tuesday. As many as 15 districts reported cases in triple digits. But on Tuesday, the state discharged more patients than it admitted. In all, 6,777 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 69,272.   With a record 110 new deaths, the death toll reached 2,704. The total number of cases have reached 1.45 lakh.  The state conducted 42,458 tests, the highest in a single day in the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-biggest-covid-19-daily-spike-with-6259-new-cases-869550.html
04-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC asks govt to clarify flaws in Covid-19 death certificates||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to clarify on the inconsistency in the issuance of death certificates during Covid-19.  The bench quoted provisions under the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, and directed the government not to mention Covid-19 unnecessarily in the death certificates, when the cause of death is not confirmed. A bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Sreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar observed that the stand taken by the BBMP runs contrary to the circular issued by the state government in regard to issuance of death certificates. The bench explained the situation with an example saying it would be unnecessary to enter ‘Covid-19’ as cause of death in the death certificate if a person dies in a road accident, but also tested positive for Covid-19. The bench observed that unless required to mention the cause of death, it is not mandatory to mention that the deceased suffered from Covid-19. The High Court asked the government to consider enhancing insurance cover to pourakarmikas on a par with the Union Government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme (PMGKS). During the hearing, the government clarified that anganwadi workers, police officers, home guards, municipalworkers, prison staff and pourakarmikas are not covered under PMGKS. The government, however, said that they are covered by a state government insurance scheme. “The amount payable under the central scheme is Rs 50 lakh, while the state has scaled it down to Rs 30 lakh. It is rightly submitted across the bar that prima facie there is no difference in duties rendered by these workers. Therefore, the government must consider enhancing the upper limit payable under its insurance scheme and make it on a par with the central government scheme. State government must take a call on this immediately,’’ the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-asks-govt-to-clarify-flaws-in-covid-19-death-certificates-869579.html
04-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Heavy rains lash Mumbai, suburbs||Heavy rains pounded the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and parts of coastal North Konkan belt paralyzing the road and rail services on Tuesday. Parts of the MMR received between 150 to 200 mm rainfall on an average, according to data collected from the Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. The BMC has asked people of Mumbai to stay indoors and step out only when necessary. Heavy rainfall was also reported from Thane, Palghar and Raigad, the three districts that adjoin the financial capital of Mumbai. The weathermen had forecast similar weather conditions on Wednesday and Thursday. In Mumbai, a landslide along the Western Express Highway in Kandivli has slowed down the movement on the arterial road, while traffic moved in snail’s pace in the Eastern Express Highway. Colaba 220, Santacruz 254, Ram Mandir 152, Mira Road 152, Mahalaxmi 172, Vidyavihar 159 mm. Most of the stations in Thane and NM reported more than 150 mm . Trend to continue for next 48 hrs RED ALERT IS ON FOR MUMBAI, THANE..,” tweeted KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD. Heavy waterlogging was witnessed in chronic spots of Sion, Hindmata, King’s Circle, Dadar, Postal Colony, Andheri and Malad subways, Jogesghwari, Dahisar. The rivers including Mithi, Oshiwara, Poisar and Dahisar are flowing in full force and people in slums alongside have been asked to exercise precautions. The catchment areas and dense forests in Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary too received heavy rainfall. The bus services in Mumbai and its suburbs was affected because of waterlogging. The Central Railway and Western Railway suburban services too were badly affected. Several services have been suspended and outstation trains are being rescheduled. People involved in essential services are facing difficulties. “Mumbai and around rain updates at 7:45 am on Aug. 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-heavy-rains-lash-mumbai-suburbs-869272.html
04-08-2020||West||Heavy rain in Thane; man electrocuted, building plaster falls||A person got electrocuted after accidentally touching an electric pole in Maharashtra's Thane city on Tuesday morning following heavy overnight rains, police said. The man was standing near a temple in Ovla area on Ghodbunder Road when he accidentally touched the electric pole and got electrocuted around 8.30 am, an official from Kasarwadavali police station said. The body was sent to the civil hospital for postmortem, he said, adding that the deceased was yet to be identified. In another incident, a part of the ceiling plaster of a building in a housing complex in Vartak Nagar fell down in the morning, but there was no report of any casualty, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. Local firemen and disaster management personnel rushed to the spot to carry out relief work, he said. Throughout the night, fire stations in the city received more than a dozen calls about tree falls in various areas, he said, adding there was no casualty in the incidents. Heavy rains lashed Thane and neighbouring Palghar district since Monday night, throwing normal life out of gear. Many low-lying areas in both the districts were inundated. In Palghar, there was no report any casualty due to the heavy rains, the district disaster control room said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-in-thane-man-electrocuted-building-plaster-falls-869362.html
04-08-2020||West||Heavy rains: Holiday declared for government offices in Mumbai||The Maharashtra government announced a holiday for all its offices in Mumbai city and suburbs on Tuesday in view of the heavy rainfall in the metropolis and neighbouring areas. Heavy showers caused water-logging at several places in the city and disrupted local train services and road traffic movement. "Due to the heavy rainfall in Mumbai and the suburban region and prediction of (more) heavy rainfall by the IMD, holiday has been declared for all state government offices in the Mumbai and Mumbai suburban region today, the state relief and rehabilitation department said in an official communication. Local train services were suspended on certain routes due to inundation on tracks after a heavy overnight downpour. A landslide on the Western Express Highway in suburban Kandivali affected vehicular movement from the western suburbs towards south Mumbai, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-holiday-declared-for-government-offices-in-mumbai-869385.html
04-08-2020||West||High Court adjourns virtual hearings after heavy rainfall in Mumbai||The Bombay High Court adjourned its virtual hearings in various cases on Tuesday in view of the heavy rains that lashed the city overnight and in the morning. Five benches of the high court, including a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, adjourned the matters as many staff members could not reach the court in south Mumbai, an official said. The high court will hear the matters on Wednesday, the official said. The bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta was to hear public interest litigation filed by one Sameet Thakkar, seeking probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death to be transferred from Mumbai Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT). Another bench headed by Justice R D Dhanuka was to hear the bail plea of Sudha Bharadwaj, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, and a plea filed by Vernon Gonsalves, another accused in the case, seeking to be tested for coronavirus. Heavy rainfall in the city since Monday night led to water-logging in several low-lying areas and affected local train services and road traffic movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-adjourns-virtual-hearings-after-heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-869390.html
04-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Maharashtra government, Congress slams Bihar for CBI probe recommendation||The ruling NCP and Congress in Maharashtra on Tuesday slammed the Bihar government for recommending a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, saying the move encroaches upon rights of the state government and helps the BJP in "destruction" of Constitution. Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik said the Nitish Kumar government was probably trying to divert attention from its "failure" in combating Covid-19 by recommending a CBI probe. Hours earlier, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said in Patna that his government had made the recommendation after the deceased actor's father made a request. Malik said the decision of the Bihar government undermines the federal structure. "Do they (Bihar government) have jurisdiction over a crime that has taken place in Maharashtra?" Malik asked. The NCP is the second largest constituent in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The other partner being the Congress. Maharashtra home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh had said there was no need for a CBI probe into the case as the Mumbai police were capable of handling the matter. The recommendation for a CBI probe came at a time when the Mumbai Police and Bihar Police are locked in a bitter turf war over investigating the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found handing at his apartment in Bandra here in June. An FIR has been registered in Patna on the complaint of the late actor's father K K Singh against his son's girlfriend and budding actress Rhea Chakraborty and others. "Tomorrow, for instance, suppose a case is registered against a person living in Mumbai for a crime that has taken place in Uttar Pradesh, will the Maharashtra government too register a case in Mumbai and go for investigation in Uttar Pradesh?"It is a question of jurisdiction," Malik said. He said the way the Bihar government is behaving, it is creating a crisis. "It is akin to encroaching upon the rights of another state, which is not healthy in a democratic set up," he added. The NCP leader said the matter is being probed by the Mumbai Police properly, and denounced the politics being played over it. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant accused the BJP government of helping the BJP in "destruction of Constitution" with the CBI probe decision. Nitish Kumar-led JD (U) helms the Bihar government in alliance with the BJP. "Modi govt & BJP destroying Democratic structure in India. Sad to see BJP'S alliance partners helping them in this destruction of the constitution which will permanently damage our federal structure for dismal political gains. Hope our courts share our concern for the country!" Sawant tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-maharashtra-government-congress-slams-bihar-for-cbi-probe-recommendation-869431.html
04-08-2020||West||Woman, two children swept away in flooded drain in Mumbai||A 35-year-old woman and her two children have swept away in a swollen nullah after their house collapsed due to heavy rainfall in suburban Santacruz here on Tuesday afternoon, an official said. The incident took place at around 11.30 am in Dhobighat locality, where a ground plus one-storey house attached to a nullah collapsed as rains lashed the area, the official from the fire brigade said. A woman and her three children, aged between one to seven years, fell into the flooded nullah and were swept away, he said. While the police managed to rescue a two-year-old girl before the fire brigade arrived at around 12.15 pm, a search is underway for the woman and her two other children, he said. At least two fire engines, an ambulance, NDRF and other rescue teams have been pressed into service, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-two-children-swept-away-in-flooded-drain-in-mumbai-869448.html
04-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput and his ex-manager Disha Salian were murdered: Narayan Rane||Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane on Tuesday claimed that both actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his ex-manager Disha Salian were murdered. "The Mumbai police is an efficient organisation and the probe should have been carried out accordingly," Rane told a news conference in Mumbai, adding that the police instead are trying to save people who were in power. “Who all were there in the party that was held on 8 June and 13 June, find them out,” he said, and suggested that a Maharashtra minister too was in the party. Rane alleged that on 8 June, Disha Salian was raped and then murdered, while on 14 June, Sushant Singh Rajput was murdered. “That Disha Salian was raped was evident from the post-mortem report,” he said. Both these incidents are linked, the senior politician suggested. “It is not difficult to find out who was issuing threatening calls to Sushant Singh Rajput,” he said. Salian fell from a highrise in Malad, a Mumbai suburb, during the intervening night of 8 and 9 June. A few days, Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide at his rented accommodation in Bandra. The state BJP unit has supported the demand for a CBI probe into the two incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-and-his-ex-manager-disha-salian-were-murdered-narayan-rane-869473.html
04-08-2020||West||At least 7 killed in rain-related incidents in Mumbai, Konkan belt||At least seven people were killed as heavy overnight rains pounded the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra on Tuesday. The road and rail services were paralysed in the financial capital of Mumbai, which recorded over 200 mm ran fall from midnight till morning. According to weathermen, similar weather conditions would prevail on Wednesday and Thursday. At Owala in Ghodbunder Road in Thane, a 15-year-old died of electrocution, while a woman was drowned in Ghansoli in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai. In Mumbai’s Santacruz area, four people fell in nullah after a retaining wall collapsed. The body of a one-and-a-half-year old girl was recovered by firemen, while three persons were reported missing and have swept away in flood waters. Reports reaching here from Ratnagiri said that one person died of drowning. As heavy rains lashed MMR, the Maharashtra government declared public holiday in Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban twin districts – and asked people to stay indoors. In Mumbai, a landslide along the Western Express Highway in Kandivli has slowed down the movement on the arterial road, while traffic moved in snail’s pace in the Eastern Express Highway. Heavy waterlogging was witnessed in chronic spots of Sion, Hindmata, King’s Circle, Dadar, Postal Colony, Andheri and Malad subways, Jogesghwari, Dahisar. Maharashtra’s tourism minister Aditya Thackeray and Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar together inspected the situation in central parts of the city. The rivers including Mithi, Oshiwara, Poisar and Dahisar are flowing in full force and people in slums alongside have been asked to exercise precautions. The catchment areas and dense forests in Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary too received heavy rainfall. The bus services in Mumbai and its suburbs was affected because of waterlogging. The Central Railway and Western Railway suburban services too were badly affected. Several services have been suspended and outstation trains are being rescheduled. There was, however, not much impact on people at large, as majority of them are working from home, because of the Covid-19 pandemic driven lockdown. People involved in essential services are facing difficulties. “Mumbai and around rain updates at 7.45 am on 4 th Aug Colaba 220, Santacruz 254, Ram Mandir 152, Mira Road 152, Mahalaxmi 172, Vidyavihar 159 mm. Most of the stations in Thane and NM reported more than 150 mm . Trend to continue for next 48 hrs RED ALERT IS ON FOR MUMBAI, THANE..,” tweeted KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-least-7-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-in-mumbai-konkan-belt-869477.html
04-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death: We have faith in Mumbai police, says MVA as Bihar recommends CBI probe||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided to back the Mumbai police hours after the Nitish Kumar-government in Bihar recommended a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “We are with the Mumbai Police, we back the Mumbai Police, we have faith in Mumbai Police,” said state’s transport and parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab. According to him, Nitish Kumar is politicising the issue. “Nitish Kumar is not the director general of police of Maharashtra....he is simply politicizing the issue,” said Parab, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. The Congress in Maharashtra accused the BJP and the Narendra Modi of destroying the democratic structure of India. “It is sad to see BJP's alliance partners helping them in this destruction of constitution which will permanently damage our federal structure for dismal political gains. Hope our courts share our concern for the country,” state Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said. “The act of BJP and its its alliance partners of usurpation of constitutional rights of state causing destruction of federal structure , their utter disregard for law, constitution and democracy is our concern,” he said. It may be recalled, state home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh had earlier ruled out a CBI probe. “The Mumbai Police is investigating the case professionally,” he said on Monday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-we-have-faith-in-mumbai-police-says-mva-as-bihar-recommends-cbi-probe-869493.html
04-08-2020||West||Gujarat government's action to contain Covid-19 comes under court scanner yet again||The action of the state government to contain the coronavirus has once again come under the scanner of Gujarat High Court, which has sought a report on action being taken to contain the virus spread in Surat, the city which has overtaken Ahmedabad in terms of most number of active cases as well as daily reporting of positive cases. By Tuesday, Surat had 3,800 active cases compared to 3500 in Ahmedabad. The bench has said while seeking a report, "After having witnessed what happened in Ahmedabad, the state should have been more careful in tackling the situation in the city of Surat. We are informed that the delayed response from the state and city administration is responsible for the current situation in the city of Surat, which has gone from bad to worse. The Health Department of the State Government knew that Surat would erupt in a matter of time. We are informed that the testing was not ramped up. Even the basic awareness to remove the fear psychosis about the disease is found lacking. According to many experts, Surat had to only replicate the readily available and lauded “Ahmedabad Model." The bench has been monitoring the state government's Covid-19 fight for nearly three months, forcing the state government to lift curbs on testing, build medical infrastructure, penalise private hospitals, among others. The high court has also taken note of reports on no testing laboratories available in 11 districts such as Bharuch, Surendranagar, Dahod, Panchmahals, Mahisagar, Botad, Kheda, Morbi, Chhotaudepur, Anand, and Aravalli districts. These districts don't have any testing facility available. The data has revealed that in nine of the districts the cases are rising. "In such circumstances referred to above, we would like to know before we proceed to issue appropriate directions in the aforesaid regard the stance of the state government. We call upon the state government to explain as to why we should not direct that testing laboratories in the aforesaid eleven districts should be set up at the earliest," the bench has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-governments-action-to-contain-covid-19-comes-under-court-scanner-yet-again-869529.html
04-08-2020||West||Aaditya Thackeray speaks out on his name being involved in Sushant Singh Rajput's death, says it's 'dirty politics'||Amid attacks by opposition BJP and campaigns in social media platforms vis-à-vis deaths of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his ex-manager Disha Salian, Maharashtra’s tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray broke his silence, saying that it is dirty politics. Aaditya, the son of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, had preferred to keep mum for over a week’s time after his name was dragged vis-à-vis the two cases. "This is low level, dirty politics,” the 30-year-old Aaditya, who holds portfolios of environment, tourism and protocol, said in a press statement on Tuesday evening. “I am not connected in any manner to the case….I am not going to lose patience,” the Shiv Sena leader said. “The Maharashtra government is making all-out efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic… Given the government’s success and popularity, those who cannot digest it have started obnoxious politics with the Sushant Singh Rajput case,” he said. He said the “cinema industry” or Bollywood is an integral part of Mumbai. “The livelihood of thousands of people is depended on Bollywood….I have relations with many of the people in Bollywood but that is not a crime,” he said. Aaditya said the Thackeray family as a whole and he personally were being targeted in unnecessary slander by disgruntled political elements, though he took no names. "I am not even remotely connected to the case. I wish to say as the grandson of Hinduruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray, that I will never do anything that would hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and Thackeray family,” he said. The junior Thackeray added that Mumbai Police and Maharashtra Police that enjoy a global reputation, are investigating the case in-depth. “But only those who don’t have faith in the law are indulging in such scurrilous allegations to misguide the investigations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-thackeray-speaks-out-on-his-name-being-involved-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-says-its-dirty-politics-869536.html
04-08-2020||West||Former Mumbai civic chief gets UN job to combat non-communicable diseases||High-profile IAS officer from Maharashtra, Praveen Pardeshi, who was unceremoniously shunted out from the position of Mumbai’s municipal commissioner in May because of the alleged failure in controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, will take up an assignment as the Global Programme Coordinator for Defeat of NCD Partnership (D-1 level) under United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) for 11 months. According to the UNITAR website, the Defeat-NCD Partnership was established in January 2018 to help tackle the most significant global health challenge of the century: Premature death, sickness and disability from and the associated social and economic impacts of certain non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Having done two previous overseas assignments with the UNO, Pardeshi was given a special relaxation of maximum permissible limit of 7 years for foreign assignments during his entire career. The state government sent the Centre a proposal to this effect last month when the officer conveyed about the UN offer. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved it on Tuesday and asked the Uddhav Thackeray-government to immediately release Pardeshi, who holds the charge of additional chief secretary-1 (urban development). A 1985-batch IAS officer, he could have been in the race for the post of Maharashtra chief secretary, but he is considered close to leader of opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-mumbai-civic-chief-gets-un-job-to-combat-non-communicable-diseases-869539.html
04-08-2020||West||Me, my family being targeted for no reason in Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday said he and his family are being targeted for no reason in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case and stressed he is nowhere related to the matter. The Shiv Sena leader said dirty politics is being played following the death of the Bollywood actor and without naming anyone, added that the allegation being levelled is political stomach-ache stemming from frustration. The tourism minister said he is a grandson of Shiv Sena founder the late Bal Thackeray and will not commit any act that will hurt the image of Maharashtra and his family. In a statement he shared on Twitter, Aaditya Thackeray said the Maharashtra government is making all the efforts to combat Covid-19 and perhaps those who are sulking due to the MVAs popularity have started playing the dirty politics in connection with the death case. Mud-slinging is being indulged in against me and the Thackeray family for no reason in connection with Sushants suicide. This is a kind of political stomach-ache stemming from frustration. It is blot on humanity to seek mileage out of someone's death. In fact, I am nowhere related to this episode, Aaditya Thackeray asserted. He said Bollywood is an important part of Mumbai and thousands of people are dependent on the film industry for employment. The 30-year-old son of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he shares cordial rapport with many people from Bollywood and added it is no crime. He claimed efforts are being made to divert the probe into Rajput's death, an episode being investigated separately by the Mumbai police and their Patna counterparts. Aaditya Thackeray further said Rajputs death is unfortunate and equally shocking and added the Mumbai Police are probing the matter in detail. The Maharashtra Police are reputed in the world. But those who do not believe in law are stoking dust of baseless allegations to divert the probe. As a grandson of Hinduhridaysamrat (King of Hindus' heart) Balasaheb Thackeray, I want to tell, that I will not commit any act that will harm the reputation of Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena and the Thackeray family. Those who are making baseless allegations should understand this, he said. The minister further said anyone who has special information regarding the case should submit it to the police who will definitely probe in that direction. I am exercising restraint in this case even today. None should remain under the illusion that the government and Thackeray family can be defamed by engaging in mud-slinging thus. This much for now, he added. Earlier in the day, BJP leader Narayan Rane had said Rajput's death should be probed as "murder". Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Mumbai Police had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) and an investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/me-my-family-being-targeted-for-no-reason-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-aaditya-thackeray-869541.html
