05-08-2020||First Edit||Inappropriate for a Prime Minister to be associated with the bhoomi pujan||The first question that arises about the ‘bhoomipujan’ for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, to be done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, is whether this is the right time for it. The nation is in the grip of a pandemic with over 50,000 people getting infected every day, many dying and the scourge spreading and aggravating by the day. The economy is in the doldrums and large numbers of people have lost their jobs and livelihood, and it’s is worsening. There is a national security threat on the border with China. Starting the construction of the Ram temple and making a big celebration of it in this situation does not reflect well on the priorities of the government. Is it such an urgent matter that it cannot wait for some months? The chosen date of August 5 is significant because it marks the first anniversary of the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. That underlines the political importance of the event for all those who are behind it and involved in it.  It is the obvious politics of the event that makes it wrong and inappropriate for the Prime Minister to be associated with it. He will not just be involved in it, but will be the main participant, presiding over it. It is not right for the Prime Minister of the country, who is oath-bound to protect a secular Constitution, to be at the centre-stage of an event that is the culmination of a divisive and fractious political campaign. The nation has accepted the Supreme Court's verdict on Ayodhya, but there is no reason for the Government of India to be involved in the construction of the temple, which is what the Prime Minister’s presence and participation shows. Even the State-owned information and publicity systems have been deployed in its service. This happens only in a religious State.  That is the message that the Prime Minister perhaps wants to send out through the launching of the construction of the temple. The temple at Ayodhya is at the heart of the BJP’s politics, and the party's and the entire Sangh Parivar’s campaign in the last few decades has revolved around it. The Prime Minister will be talking and acting that politics in Ayodhya and the temple will be its symbol. But the point needs to be made again that it is wrong to obfuscate the difference between the government and the party and between the Prime Minister and the politician in matters that are of crucial importance to the nature of the State and the working of the Constitution that underlies it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/inappropriate-for-a-prime-minister-to-be-associated-with-the-bhoomi-pujan-869636.html
05-08-2020||First Edit||PM Modi's speech at Ram Temple bhumi pujan: Triumphalist hyperbole||There were two strands in the speech that Prime Minister Narendra Modi made after doing the ‘bhoomipujan’ for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. One was the assertion that the temple should be built on the foundation of mutual love and brotherhood and that Ram is the common thread of unity in diversity in the country. He also acknowledged the various traditions of Ram and Ramayan in the country’s different regions and also mentioned their many versions in other parts of the world. He was also right in stating that Ram embodied India’s culture and its values and that fraternity and friendship should cement the bricks of the temple that is to be built there. These are sentiments and views which are well-accepted and which have defined religious faith and the lives of people for generations in the country.   But there was another, and a contradictory, strand that sought to claim the ownership of Ram, to appropriate his name, image and the popular sentiments associated with him, and to use the entire plan for construction of the temple for political purposes. The Prime Minister tried to elevate the Ramjanmabhoomi movement to the level of the freedom struggle and said August 5 would be as important to the country as August 15. Even the licence for hyperbole would not justify this statement. There is no comparison between the freedom struggle, which was a unifying struggle in which all sections of the country took part, and the Ramjanmabhoomi agitation, which was intended to polarise society and has been divisive. The success of the movement and the construction of the temple does not change that reality. History should not be created or rewritten to suit the politics, and so any equation between the freedom struggle and the temple movement is wholly untenable. It would also be wrong to consider the temple as a symbol of nationalist feelings, because nationalism should not be based on religious icons, institutions and ideas.  Even when the ideas of love, unity and brotherhood were underlined and it was asserted that the temple was for everyone, the triumphalist tone and the assertion of ownership of the campaign and the temple will not be missed. It will also be noted that the ceremony was entirely dominated by those who were associated with the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. Most people in the country did not participate in the movement but they consider Ram important and are devoted to him. Ram and his temple should belong to all of them. For that, the politics around Ram should stop and the real Ram, who unified hearts and lived in all his different versions and traditions, should find his place in the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-modis-speech-at-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-triumphalist-hyperbole-870011.html
05-08-2020||In Perspective||Death, be not proud||Life is never easy. But it’s not all darkness. Nor all sunshine. It’s frittering light and shadows. It’s ungraspable and forever elusive even to the learned, the mighty and the mystics. Why kill yourself then when life is all mystery? The alleged suicide of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput a few weeks ago (it’s being contested as murder by his family) has gripped the attention of the urban middle class. I mention ‘urban’ because suicides are increasingly a phenomenon of towns and cities. In rural India, suicides are largely by farmers. They are driven to death, overwhelmed by debt and under duress, hounded by moneylenders. But mostly, people in rural areas, despite their travails and hardships, are stoic and cheerful. Their way of life and beliefs and faith gives them rare strength and they somehow get on with life imbued with hope and live with zest. If you ask a farmer during times of stress and uncertainty, how he’s coping, pat comes the reply in the form of an old Kannada proverb: “He who brings you to the world, won’t he provide for you!”  To return to the subject of suicides in our cities and our alienated, high-pressure lives, Rajput’s death is on prime-time television because anything Bollywood, even unedifying gossip, is titillating. Raucous TV debates are often misleading and miss the woods for the trees. Rajput’s suicide reveals a larger problem that has afflicted our urban society. Suicides of urban youth are on the rise among those who are aspirational but whose hopes are dashed on the rocky seas as they embark on life’s voyage, akin to the frail boats that often toss about hither and thither and finally founder. We also read many stories of successful individuals working in technology companies, film and TV actors, high-profile entrepreneurs, senior civil servants and even police officers suddenly pulling the trigger or jumping off the bridge one day. Extreme disappointment, depression, grief, loneliness, rejection, unrequited love, infidelity, betrayal of friends, pressure of debtors or fear of humiliation pushed them over the edge. They felt in their solitude and in the dark recesses of their minds, life was too much to bear. Life was not worth it. “Life is unfair,” as John Kennedy said. Killing oneself and killing others are the twin puzzling paradoxes and malaise of our times. A hundred years ago, taking one’s own life and murdering others were the dominant themes -- crimes of passion and crimes of logic. People committed suicide for philosophical reasons and ideas, and murders and executions were carried out on ideological grounds swept away under the inexorable march of history. In the last half a century, there are increasing instances of people in various parts of the world feeling betrayed by an unjust world, and some unhinged lone wolves and hundreds of others radicalised, embrace a cause and are taking the extreme step of taking their own lives by blowing themselves up while simultaneously murdering hundreds of innocents. We will not dwell on these complex, macabre psychological issues that move terrorists and individual psychopaths who kill themselves after killing others. Let’s return to suicide in modern societies. Russian novelist Dostoevsky’s nihilistic characters advocated suicide, convinced that God did not exist and hence life was not worth living. Bertrand Russel quipped, “I would never die for my beliefs because I might be wrong!” Galileo, when threatened with death for propagating his scientific ideas, wisely abandoned them. Albert Camus speaks of the absurd predicament of human beings, “the human need for meaning, and the unreasonable silence of the world,” that drive men to dark despair and death. Tagore’s lyrical lines expresses it more luminously. “What language is thine, O sea? / The language of eternal question. What language is thy answer, O sky? / The language of eternal silence.” Looking at our mysterious universe, Tagore invokes wonder instead of despair. Camus’ central message in his book The Myth of Sisyphus, which explores the problem of suicide in our times, where life suddenly seems meaningless and unbearable and unjust, affirms an outlook and philosophy “that is a lucid invitation to live and to create, in the very midst of the desert” even if one does not believe in God, even when our condition seems wretched and hopeless and we feel condemned by forces we feel we can neither overcome nor comprehend. Whether one believes in God or not, the answer must be sought through surrender to the Creator or by living with awareness or revolting against one’s fate and overcoming it. Saint Thyagaraja sang “Ma Kelara Vicharamu...”  -- “Why should I worry, when you are there my Lord, you hold the strings and our destiny…We are your puppets...”  Deliverance is not to be sought through death but by embracing life and living and facing our fate. “Amor Fati -- love your fate -- which is, in fact, your life,” said Nietzsche. Our fate that we suffer today was sown by our past actions. It follows then, we can also change our future and create our destiny by choosing new paths and acting anew with hope and courage, though “made weak by time and fate, but strong in will, to strive, to seek, to find and not to yield.” Therein lies our purpose and all our glory. Jnanapeeth Awardee DaRa Bendre, the revered Kannada poet who knew poverty, love, suffering and death and joy, mocked death with gentle humour with these memorable lines: I do not fear death Because while I live, It doesn’t come When it comes, I’m not there. (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/death-be-not-proud-869639.html
05-08-2020||In Perspective||Crimes against women: Is immolation the only way out?||Look at what our lives have become. The insensitivity of our political class is becoming more manifest by the day. On July 16, a woman and her daughter felt compelled to set themselves on fire outside Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s office in Lucknow because of police inaction in a land dispute in Amethi. The mother and daughter were rushed to a hospital, where the mother died three days later. Amethi is a high- profile constituency. It was the bastion of the Gandhi family for several years and is the constituency from which the BJP’s Smriti Irani won the last Lok Sabha election. Surely, a woman leader of her prominence should have ordered an enquiry as to why these two women from her constituency were forced to take this extreme step. The mother’s death should be a wake-up call for the Yogi government given that there have been a spate of immolations outside his office and residence. In April, four rape victims had made similar bids to immolate themselves outside his residence, in the hope of getting attention and justice from the authorities. One of these victims was working in a school in Lucknow, where she claims she was ‘sexually exploited’ by the principal. She believes the police diluted her complaint, allowing the principal to get bail. Once out on bail, the principal started harassing her. She again went to file a case against him, which the police refused to register. Having no recourse from his constant harassment, the victim immolated herself outside the CM’s residence. Another case was of a 22-year-old woman who tried to immolate herself, claiming she had been raped by a man near Barabanki in UP. When she went to the police, the cops refused to register her complaint. On April 2, yet another rape victim made a similar attempt at self-immolation outside the CM’s residence. In her case also, the cops had refused to register an FIR. She, too, was from Barabanki. Another horrendous story is of a rape survivor and her mother who tried to self-immolate themselves in August last year at Unnao’s Makhi police station. This is the same district where the infamous Unnao rape had taken place, with a vulnerable 17-year-old girl accusing BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar of raping her. He retaliated by getting her father and aunt killed. Sengar is presently in jail while the girl lives incognito in another state. Shruti Kumar, who teaches at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, believes women are resorting to self-immolation bids as a means of getting justice. “They have suffered so much pain, horror and indignation and they feel this is the only step left that they can take,” Kumar says. The irony is that in most such cases where the woman commits or attempts suicide, the police rush to register an FIR posthumously, which was the victim’s primary demand in the first place.  One of the most poignant incidents that has seared the conscience of the nation is that of a Dalit farmer couple consuming pesticide in front of their young children and police officers in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district. That, too, happened on July 16. The couple took this extreme step because the authorities had brought in a JCB to destroy their crops and their home in order to evict them from their land as they wanted to set up a college there. They were rushed to hospital, where they are recovering. Instead of showing sympathy at their plight, the police have registered two FIRs against both the farmer and his wife. Public suicides are being taken recourse to across the country. Just two months ago, a woman committed suicide in front of her two daughters by consuming pesticide outside the police headquarters in Rohtak. Her suicide note accused two cops of having raped her and that senior officers were shielding the accused. Following her death, the police rushed to turn her written complaint into an FIR. But again, this was a case of too little, too late. Former Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Uttar Pradesh, Prakash Singh, believes the main reason why FIRs are not being registered is because there is pressure from the government on the police to keep the crime statistics low. “There is an attempt to doctor the figures and to show only marginal fluctuations,” said Prakash Singh. It is well known that the police, instead of trying to check the incidence of crime, deliberately keep crime statistics low. This amounts to window-dressing and much of this distortion comes at the cost of women’s sense of security and justice.  The Covid-19 pandemic may have seen a significant drop in accidents, burglary and theft but cases of crime against women continue to rise. To cite an example from Karnataka, from the 1,500 crimes against women reported between March 24 and May 30, there were 64 rape cases, 38 dowry deaths, 716 molestation cases, 176 cases of cruelty and 215 cybercrimes, an increase from cases reported last year. The story is the same in other states. Our political leaders suffer from a warped sense of priority. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Rawat has not hesitated to allot Rs 13 crore to 13 akhadas for the construction of residential facilities for seers for the coming Kumbh Mela, but claims he has no money to create rehabilitation centres for rape victims in a state that has seen an alarming rise in rape cases. The police are the most visible face of the government. Surely, expecting them to deal with women who are victims of crime in a sympathetic manner is not asking for too much?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/crimes-against-women-is-immolation-the-only-way-out-870013.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangalore varsity gears up to conduct exams for final semester in September||Preparations are underway to conduct examinations for final semester students at Mangalore University (MU) and backlog papers of previous semesters in order to help students clear their courses without wasting an academic year, the university's Vice Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said.   Talking about the students from outside the state, who are unable to visit their respective colleges/university to attend the exams, the Vice Chancellor said they will be given an opportunity may be in January, when normalcy returns, to write exams as freshers only.  A section of students from North-Eastern states, especially from Manipur, had enquired about the possibility of conducting the exams under the supervision of Manipur University. Accordingly, the registrar has written to the Vice Chancellor and registrars of Manipur University seeking permission to conduct the exams for the final year students in Manipur, Yadapadithaya said. Subject experts can make videos of experiments in the laboratory and upload it on the university's website. Also, PG departments have been asked to conduct webinars for students. Earlier, in the academic council meeting, a member brought up the issue of a final year student of Speech and Hearing course from Bhutan, who was worried over his exam as he might not be able to return to India due to flight restrictions. To this, Registrar Evaluation Dr P L Dharma and the Vice Chancellor said options like conducting the exam in the nearest university in Bhutan would be explored. The student can also take up the exam when the situation comes to normal as a fresh candidate, they said. The registrar said the answer scripts would be digitally evaluated. Utilising the computer laboratories of the colleges, the lecturers will evaluate the scanned answer scripts of the students, he said. The university will work to adopt 10 government schools as suggested by Prof M R Doreswamy, the advisor to the state government on education reforms, the VC said. BASLP to continue  The academic council of the university has decided to continue Bachelor in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology courses offered in five affiliated colleges under the science faculty of the university for the time being.  In fact, the additional chief secretary to the education department had asked to shift it to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences jurisdiction. Registrar Raju Mogaveera and Finance Officer Dr B Narayana were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangalore-varsity-gears-up-to-conduct-exams-for-final-semester-in-september-869687.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||As rain lashes Dakshina Kannada, water level rises in rivers||With rain lashing across Dakshina Kannada, the water level in Netharavathi, Kumaradhara and Phalguni rivers has increased drastically. The heavy rain has also doubled the vulnerability of Charmadi Ghat stretch, which is prone to landslides. On Monday night, a landslide occurred at Malayamarutha guest house on Charmadi Ghat. On Tuesday, trees were uprooted and crashed on the second curve of the Charmadi Ghat. The uprooted trees were later cleared by the labourers. There was no damage to vehicles as the movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat had been banned in the night. Without proper stormwater drains, inundated roads in Mangaluru caused inconvenience to the motorists. A jackfruit tree crashed and partially damaged a house in Shaktinagar. Drivers of a pick-up truck and an autorickshaw in Beltangady taluk had a narrow escape when trees crashed on their vehicles. The roof of a house collapsed at Parambude in Mundooru village and five inmates of the house had a miraculous escape. The gusty wind uprooted many electricity poles in Siddakatte. A house and a cowshed belonging to a person called Thimmakka were damaged when a tree fell on it at Kallaje in Balnadu, Puttur. Many trees were uprooted at Bellipady cross on Puttur-Uppinangady road and disrupted the movement of vehicles for a few hours. The Snanaghatta of Kukke Subrahmanya has been submerged with the rise in the water level of Kumaradhara River. The river is flowing at a dangerous level at the Snanaghatta. The low-lying areas in Subrahmanya too have been inundated. In the past 24 hours, Dakshina Kannada district received an average of 73.1 mm rainfall. Sullia received highest of 94.6 mm rain followed by Belthangady-92.8 mm, Puttur-72.9 mm, Bantwal-64.4 mm and Mangaluru-40.8 mm. The water level in Nethravathi River stood at 5.9 metres as against the danger level of 6.5 metres in Bantwal while it was 16 metres in Uppinangady.   The uprooting of trees and electricity poles on Kolandu state highway disrupted the movement of vehicles on Vittal-Salethur road. As a result, vehicles were left stranded on the road for hours. The rain has gained momentum in Udupi district. The sea erosion has also intensified at Kota Padukere. All the boulders dumped as a precautionary measure had been washed away by the waves. The sea is rough. In the past 24 hours, Udupi district received an average of 6.4 cm rainfall. As many as 32 electricity poles had been uprooted in many parts of the district. With the Kubja River overflowing, water has inundated the sanctum sanctorum of Kamalashile Brahmi Durgaparameshwari Temple in Kundapur. Paddy fields and coconut gardens have been inundated following the flood in Sauparnika River at Arehole, Navunda, Badakere, Maravante, Nada, Hadavu and Senapura villages in Baindoor. The villages on the river banks are inundated and the residents have been using a boat to commute. A 66-year-old woman was washed away in the floodwaters in Moorooru in Kalthodu village. The deceased is Sooru, wife of Modooru Poojary. The incident occurred when she had gone to pick the fallen arecanuts in the arecanut garden. Pics: With Kubja River overflowing, water had inundated the sanctum sanctorum of Kamalashile Brahmi Durgaparameshwari Temple in Kundapur. The risen water-level in the inundated snanaghatta of Kumardhara at Kukke Subrahmanya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/as-rain-lashes-dakshina-kannada-water-level-rises-in-rivers-869720.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ram Mandir 'bhoomi pujan' first step to end slavery culture, says K S Eshwarappa||District Incharge Minister K S Eshwarappa said Ram Mandir foundation stone laying ceremony, which is being held in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, is the first step towards ending slavery culture and restoring the Hindu culture in the birthplace of Lord Rama.  Speaking to media persons in Shivamogga on Wednesday, he said that mosques were constructed by demolishing temples in Kashi and Mathura. So, there is a need to build Hindu temples in both the places and restore the Hindu culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-first-step-to-end-slavery-culture-says-k-s-eshwarappa-869735.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar temples hold special pujas in the wake of Ram Mandir 'bhoomi pujan'||As the Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed 'bhoomi pujan' for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, all the temples in Chamarajanagar and Hassan district, coming under Muzrai department, organised special pujas and rituals on Wednesday. The circular issued by the Department of Religious Endowment directed even the other temples to organise special pujas on the occasion. All Sri Ram temples in the region were decorated as part of the 'bhoomi pujan' at Ayodhya and also conducted pujas. Vishwa Hindu Parishad had given a call for a celebration of the event by decorating houses with flowers and buntings and performing special pujas. Special pujas were performed at Sri Rama temple at Javagal, in Hassan district. Special abhishekas, archanas, bhajans, uyyalotsava was held followed by distribution of panakam and prasad to the devotees. However, it was a low-key affair in Mandya and was limited with the people performing pujas at their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-temples-hold-special-pujas-in-the-wake-of-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-869770.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ram Mandir: Special pujas at temples, houses in dists||As the Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed Bhoomi puja for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, all the temples in Chamarajanagar and parts of Hassan and Mandya district, coming under Muzrai department, organised special pujas and rituals, on Wednesday. All Sri Ram temples in Chamarajanagar district were decorated as part ofthe bhoomi puja at Ayodhya and also conducted special pujas. Vishwa Hindu Parishat has given a call for a celebration of the event, by decorating the houses with flowers and buntings, and performing special pujas. Special pujas were performed at Sri Rama temple at Sita Rama Anjaneya temple in Hassan city, Javagal, and other places in Hassan district. Special abhishekas, archanas, bhajans, uyyalotsava was held followed by distribution of panaka and prasada to the devotees. In Mandya, the BJP workers sent a parcel of foundation stones weighing 40 kg to Ayodhya, through speed post. The stones had a carving ‘Ram’ on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ram-mandir-special-pujas-at-temples-houses-in-dists-869948.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Black panther spotted at BRT range||For the first time, a black panther was spotted at Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve, recently. The picture of the panther was captured in the camera trap, at Byluru wildlife range, coming under the BRT limits. A black panther was also spotted at the Bandipur and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in Tamil Nadu. BRT, which was announced as the Wildlife Sanctuary in 1987, was announced as Tiger Reserve in 2011. The region shares its border with the Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary and Sathyamangala Tiger Reserve. The region has tigers, leopards and many wild animals. Now, black panther has been added to the list. According to the Forest department officials, the picture of the black panther has been captured at the cameras installed near Yedeyaralli corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/black-panther-spotted-at-brt-range-869950.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain claims one life; heavy rain in Sakleshpur taluk||A 50-year-old man died and two others sustained serious injuries after a tree collapsed on him, at Annuru, in H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district, on Wednesday. The deceased is Mahadeva Gowda. Hanumantha Shetty, 70, and Nanjundaswamy 50, are the injured. They sought refuge under the tree, when the tree collapsed. Around 40,000 cusec water is being released from Kabini dam, creating a fear of flood in the region. The Bidarahalli bridge has submerged and the Hadinaru Kalu Mantapa in Nanjangud has also partially submerged. The taluk administration has issued warning for the people to move to safer places. Periyapatna and parts of the district has received heavy rain. Heavy rain pounded Sakleshpur taluk in Hassan district on Tuesday and Wednesday, leaving hundreds of trees uprooted. The roofs of several houses were blown away. A coconut tree collapsed on the house damaging it at Kesaganahalli in the taluk. Several trees have uprooted at Vanaguru, Bisile, Agani and Goddu villages. Around 400 electricity poles have collapsed, disconnecting power supply to several villages for the past two days. Normal life was paralysed in the taluk. Several parts of the district including Arkalgud and Konanur also received good rain.  The inflow to the Hemavathy dam has increased. Yagachi and Vatehole dams have filled and it has been decided to release water into the river. Paddy, that was transplanted at several fields were inundated in rainwater. Coconut, arecanut and plantain trees have collapsed at the coffee plantations. Soil has caved in at several places on the railway track on Sakleshpur-Kukke Subramanya route and the department personnel have cleared it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-claims-one-life-heavy-rain-in-sakleshpur-taluk-869951.html
05-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru celebrates Ram Mandir foundation laying ceremony||The BJP leaders and the workers celebrated the foundation stone laying ceremony of the historic Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, by organising several events, in parts of the city on Wednesday. BJP workers celebrated the event with religious fervour as Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the construction of Ram Mandir. Special events were organised at BJP party office in the city. Floral tributes were offered to the portrait of Lord Ram. BJP district unit president T S Srivatsa recalled the struggle of the leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Ashok Singhal, for the construction of Ram Mandir. The leaders have made remarkable contributions and many sacrificed their life for Ram Janmabhoomi, he said. He called upon the people to offer puja to Lord Ram at their residences, to mark the day. The party workers raised slogans hailing Lord Ram and also distributed sweets. MLA L Nagendra, leaders Suresh Babu, Rajendra, Shivakumar and others were present. BJP MLA S A Ramdass had organised a variety of events at his Krishnaraja (KR) Assembly segment. Special pujas were organised at his office in Vidyaranyapuram.  The MLA, corporators and his supporters also paid floral tributes to the idols of Lord Ram, Sita, Lakshman and Hanuman at his office. The MLA also felicitated Kar sevaks  Subhramanya Bhat, Krishnamurthy and Umesh, on the occasion. As a mark of the celebration, Raghavendra Bhat, also executive member of Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association, had organised special events in front of his hotel at Saraswathipuram. A man dressed up like Ram was the major attraction. Prasada was distributed to the people throughout the day and special pujas organised from dawn-to-dusk. The party had planned for a live telecast of PM laying foundation stone, but due to the restriction imposed by the district administration, it was cancelled. In order to ensure safety, the city police had clamped prohibitory orders, under Section 144 of IPC and Column 31 of Karnataka Police Act, across the city. However, no untoward incident was reported on the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-celebrates-ram-mandir-foundation-laying-ceremony-869955.html
05-08-2020||Main Article||Ayodhya Ram Mandir: The colour of a conquest||A 22-kilogram silver brick marks the symbolic laying of the foundations of what we are promised will be a grand temple to Lord Ram at the spot in Ayodhya where the disputed Babri Masjid once stood. Some will see it as the culmination of a long battle to reclaim the site or to protect it, depending on the point of view. One side lost, the other won. There are many who will say that both sides, and all those in between, lost; such have been the wages of using religion to divide the people. The honours from the winning side are today led by the Prime Minister in Ayodhya. But is it the end of a battle or merely a milestone, albeit an important one, in a battle that continues to rage in the hearts and minds of many citizens? “Since man is a moment in astronomic time, a transient guest of the earth…a composite of body, character and mind…,” as the historians Will and Ariel Durant wrote, we must ask not only of the celebrations or frustrations of today but equally of how the act of today might stand in the light of a latter-day assessment. That will of course depend on who makes that latter-day assessment, or when it is made, and that may well depend on which way India goes from here. This is significant because the events of today carry the colour of a conquest, not the mark of conciliation or cooperation. It is not insignificant that August 5 also marks the first anniversary of the writing down of Article 370 in the troubled state of J&K. There are barricades across J&K and a curfew for two days. There are laddus being distributed in Ayodhya. The imagery is just too stark to be missed. But what we do tend to miss is that in the midst of all this, China has crossed the line. The Prime Minister’s party can now say they met the electoral promise on the Ram temple as outlined in the 2019 manifesto. Since the electorate gave the BJP a robust second mandate, the story had to be drawn to a close. The long running serial had to end. And for the BJP, it’s in good time as well. This is as close to the important Assembly elections in Bihar as it could get. The inauguration of the temple itself is set for a time that will be close to the next national elections. In the longer term, the dynamic that the colour of a conquest unleashes cannot be easily fathomed. To understand this, we can look back to ask how and why is it that the Indian cultural ethos, the belief systems, the philosophical base of the most fundamental of inquiries into the nature of the universe – all of this has taken birth, grown root, flowered, survived, even thrived through millennia without any hint of a conquest from the side generating this mighty body of knowledge? This is the knowledge that has informed generations on the path to good living. So, do we now need militant Hindutva to “protect” what the most violent of invaders could not destroy? Or will this variety of “protection”, mixed with a generous amount of naked political self-interest and a lot of prejudice, be the exact kind of attack that will undermine this heritage? It is well said that “no civilization anywhere in the world, with the probable exception of China, has been as continuous as that of India. While the civilisations of Egypt, Babylonia and Assyria have disappeared, in India the ideas emanating from the Vedic times continue to be a living force.” That comes from the official Indian Gazetteer recordings on Hinduism, which also notes: “Receptivity and all-comprehensiveness, it has been aptly stated, are the main characteristics of Hinduism. Since it has no difficulty in bringing diverse faiths within its ever-widening fold, it has something to offer to almost all minds.” The strength of Hinduism, said Monier-Williams, lies in its “infinite adaptability to the infinite diversity of human character and human tendencies.” He wrote: “It has its highly spiritual and abstract side suited to the philosopher, its practical and concrete side congenial to the man of the world, its aesthetic and ceremonial side attuned to the man of poetic feeling and imagination, and its quiescent, contemplative aspect that has its appeal for the man of peace and the lover of seclusion.” There is peace, not violence; poetry, not militancy. That is the way the story has often been told, and offers a sense of pride, and is celebrated. That is also the secret of long-haul survival and growth in an everlasting inquiry into the human condition. Who should understand this better than the RSS, not only at the top but across the line with some of the acclaimed professionals and high achievers who are among its ranks – officially as members or the many who offer unofficial support from the outside? A story helps illustrate this well. This is from the time the RSS was banned by the PV Narasimha Rao government after the 1992 demolition of the Babri Masjid. In Nagpur, in an interview around those days with this writer, a functionary of the RSS was completely unperturbed. He said it did not matter that the RSS was banned; the organisation could well take another name and continue with its work. What he understood quite correctly was that an organisation is not about outward structures and forms, which can be banned, but about the thought that cannot be banned. It is the thinking that will continue to exert and generate its own energy and action. The question is, therefore, what are we thinking today? How do we look at the rich heritage of Indian thought that has enlightened the path for so many for so long? Will militant Hindutva, marked as it is by violence, pushed by power, and driven as an agenda at the cost of goodwill and togetherness, make for a nation that modern-day Indians would want? (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/ayodhya-ram-mandir-the-colour-of-a-conquest-869638.html
05-08-2020||Main Article||New Education Policy 2020: The way of the future||Writing in 1961, in his celebrated preface to Frantz Fanon’s ‘The Wretched of the Earth’, Jean Paul Sartre described the colonial process and I quote “Not so very long ago, … the European élite undertook to manufacture a native élite. They picked out promising adolescents; they branded them, as with a red-hot iron, with the principles of western culture, they stuffed their mouths full with high-sounding phrases, grand glutinous words that stuck to the teeth. After a short stay in the mother country they were sent home, whitewashed”. This was as true of British colonial legacy in India; and in more ways than one, remains the dark cloud that hangs over an otherwise bright future of the young nation that we are. For a country like India, with over half the population under the age of 25 years, education – the manner in which knowledge is produced, shared, and responds to social and economic inequality – is central to a self-assured future and for expanding its intellectual and economic horizons. As inheritors of the British colonial legacy, for far too long, we have been Macaulay’s children. The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 provides both the vision and the broad institutional framework to decolonise education in India. The NEP must be commended for charting a pathway to foster the spirit of intellectual freedom in India’s youth; and advancing a paradigm that will finally enable Indian education to find itself and India’s children to speak in their own voice. The NEP is not merely an interpreter of the maladies that afflict India’s education. First, it serves to constitute, step by step, the dialectic that education is, at its heart, all about knowledge construction, especially in young minds; and second, the conviction that this needs to be both understood and corrected if the people of our country, together with those in government, care enough to do what is necessary. Four features of the NEP stand out because they address the deep-rooted problems that afflict school education. First, the universalization of Early Childhood Care Education (ECCE) and the extension of the Right to Education (RTE) Act to cover all children from ages 3-18, thus aligning with Sustainable Development Goal 4 – “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning for all.” There can be little doubt that ECCE constitutes the weakest link in India’s school education and works to the great disadvantage of children in rural India. Poor ECCE adversely impacts learning outcomes over the long-term. Integrating the anganwadis into the elementary school system is an important innovation that NEP brings to ensure the seamless transition of children to formal schooling.   Second, the focus on developing foundational literacy and numeracy by Class 5, since this constitutes a key problem area for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. The NEP points out that “Numerous studies show that in the current educational system, once students fall behind, they tend to maintain flat learning curves for years, perpetually, unable to catch up.” This will be supported by the 5+3+3+4 curriculum and pedagogical structure. Combined with the emphasis that the NEP lays on mathematical thinking and developing the scientific temper, the paradigm shift is complete in preparing a child to face the challenges of the 21st century. Third, the NEP removes the rigid separation between the Arts and the Sciences, between Curricular and extra-Curricular learning, and between Vocational and Academic streams. Fourth, the NEP reiterates the most important principle of learning: that a child learns best in her own language. So, the NEP proposes that the medium of instruction till Class 5 should be in the mother tongue, the home language, or the regional language. The objective is to enable “development of multilingual skills in children”. For too long, speaking English well has been mistaken for intelligence; and far too many of our children, at least in urban India, know no other language but English. So finally, this important step should help exorcise Macaulay’s ghost. There are several other important changes that are commendable, such as the ‘low-stake’ board exams to shift the emphasis to concepts, analysis, and knowledge application; the Gender Inclusion Fund, a much-needed instrument to advance gender equity. I would point to just one fatal flaw in the NEP, and that is on the question of equity in the higher education sector. Ironically, it is when the NEP dwells on higher education that it begins to weaken both in its vision and in its resolve. It fails to address the condition of and the crisis in knowledge, as much as it fails to address the political economy of the extant higher education system. In the last two decades, governments at the Centre and in the states have actively promoted higher education as an industry to be developed by private investors. Less known is the fact that many, if not all, of these private colleges and universities, or education shops, if you will, are owned by politicians. Indeed, there would be few politicians worth their name who do not own engineering, medical or other degree colleges. Consider this: we had fewer than 150 universities at the turn of the century; by 2010, the country had over a thousand. Many of these universities are characterised by mediocrity and greed, both anathema to all that the NEP seeks to achieve. It is not coincidence that, in parallel with the proliferation of these ‘education for profit’ peddlers, there has been a steady and accelerated withdrawal of the state from higher education. Both the UPA and the NDA governments have followed the same policy – that higher education cannot be advanced without private enterprise. This becomes a specious argument when the private enterprise resides amongst the party bigwigs; and the universities and colleges of higher learning are predatory pricing pools. Clearly, there is need for a transparent and objective framework that eliminates conflict of interest in higher education. Government cannot be policymaker, licensor and regulator rolled into one. This is one aspect on which the NEP fails. The NEP must be welcomed, for it will transform school education. We will have to wait longer to gain the pre-eminence necessary in higher education. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/new-education-policy-2020-the-way-of-the-future-870009.html
05-08-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru BJP workers offer prayers, light diyas ahead of Ram Mandir 'bhoomi pujan'||BJP workers in Mysuru are in celebration mood as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya Uttar Pradesh today. The party leaders and workers are seen celebrating the day at their houses as the district administration has restricted any celebration in public. The party had made elaborate arrangements to telecast the event in front of ML A S A Ramdas's office. But, it was cancelled following the restrictions  However, the MLA has called his supports to offer prayer at their houses. According to the MLA, prayer will be offered at 10,000 houses. BJP district unit president T S Srivatsa has called the people to lit lamps and distribute sweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-bjp-workers-offer-prayers-light-diyas-ahead-of-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-869733.html
05-08-2020||National||Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan: Muslim invitees to the big event||The grand ceremony of Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan is all set to be held on August 5 in Ayodhya. Invitation for the event has reportedly been sent to around 175 people, and it includes some Muslim dignitaries as well. Iqbal Ansari, a litigant for the Muslim party in the Ayodhya land dispute case, has been invited for the event. Ansari himself confirmed it saying he would gift a copy of the Ramcharitmanas to the PM at the event. Syed Waseem Rizvi, UP Shia Waqf Board Chairman, is the second Muslim name in the list of invitees. Rizvi, who has always been in support of construction of the Ram Mandir, said that he would surely attend the event. Mohammad Sharif, an 80-year-old Padma Shri awardee, has also been invited. Known for his work of performing last rites of unclaimed bodies of Hindus and Muslims for many years, Sharif, however, might not be able to attend the event due to his health issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-muslim-invitees-to-the-big-event-869631.html
05-08-2020||National||Ahead of the historic Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony, a timeline of the Ayodhya Ramjanmabhoomi dispute||The long saga of political and social turmoil over the demolition of Babri Masjid and the demand to build Ram Temple in Ayodhya will finally come to an end on August 5. The Ram Temple's 'bhoomi pujan' will put an end to decades-long battle as the ceremony would mark the formal commencement of the much-promised mandir's construction.  Ayodhya is decked up for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the Ram Janmabhoomi. The Trust has invited 175 guests, who figure in a select list of seers and politicians topped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Concerned over the spread of coronavirus, the authorities are encouraging others not to come to the temple town, asking them to mark the occasion by celebrating at their homes.  As the historic moment will mark an end to the decades-long battle, DH recaps the important landmarks that have brought the Ayodhya dispute to where it is today. 1992 December 6 - Babri Masjid demolished by some 2,00,000 karsevaks. December 16  -  The Liberhan Ayodhya Commission of Inquiry was set up by the Congress government headed by PV Narasimha Rao. 1993 April 3 - Acquisition of Certain Area at Ayodhya Act is passed due to the acquisition of land in the disputed area. Ismail Faruqui and others file a written petition challenging some aspects of the act. 1994 The Supreme Court in the Ismail Faruqui case says that ‘Mosque’ is not integral to Islam owing to the fact that  ‘Namaz’ can be offered anywhere. 2002 The three-judge bench begins hearing on determining who the land belongs to. The Archaeological Survey of India is directed to verify the presence of a temple in the site of Babri Masjid.  2003 In the Mohd. Aslam Alias Bhure vs. Union of India & Others case, Supreme Court says that no religious activity shall be conducted in the disputed land.  Archaeological Survey of India finds evidence of the presence of a temple under the mosque. The findings are disputed by Muslim organisations.  2009 June 30 - Liberhan Commission submits its final report. The findings of the report, however, weren't made public.  2010 The High Court rules that the disputed land be divided into three parts. One-third of the allotted to Ram Lalla Virajman, who was represented by the Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha, one-third would go to the Sunni Waqf Board and the remaining one-third to the Nirmohi Akhara. The case moves on to the Supreme Court following the verdict by the High Court. 2011 May 9 - Supreme Court stays the High Court order.  2016 Subramanian Swamy files plea to the Supreme Court for the construction of a Hindu temple in the disputed land.  2017 March 21 - The Supreme Court suggests out of court settlement. May 30 - Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, L K Advani and Vinay Katiyar are all charged with criminal conspiracy to demolish the Babri Masjid.  August 8 - UP Shia Central Waqf Board tells the Supreme Court that the mosque can be constructed at a close distance to the demolition site.  August 11 - The Supreme Court schedules hearing of 13 appeals in the title dispute on December 5, 2017. November 20 - UP Shia Central Waqf board tells Supreme Court that temple can be built in Ayodhya and a mosque in Lucknow.  December 1 - 32 civil rights activists file a plea to the Supreme Court challenging the verdict of 2010 Allahabad case.  December 5 - The final hearings in the Ayodhya land dispute begin. The bench includes former Chief Justice of India Dipak Mishra.  2018 February 8 - Supreme Court begins the hearings for the civil appeals. March 14 - Supreme Court rejects interim pleas. Tells them to intervene as parties in the case. The interim pleas include the one from Subramanian Swamy.  April 6 - Rajeev Dhavan files a plea to the Supreme Court requesting for the 1994 judgement to be referred to a five-judge bench.September 27 - Supreme Court declines the request for constituting a larger bench. The case would move forward with a three-judge bench.  October 29 - A three-judge bench, headed by current CJI Ranjan Gogoi, says that “the appropriate Bench will fix the schedule with regard to the hearing of appeals in the case”.  2019 January 4 - A two-judge bench says that an ‘appropriate bench’ will take up the case from January 10.  January 8 - The Supreme Court notifies that a five-judge bench will take up the case moving forward. The bench, headed by Ranjan Gogoi, would consist of India's five most senior Supreme Court judges.  January 20 - Justice UU Lalit recuses himself and the hearing is postponed.  January 29 - The hearing gets postponed again as Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer are replaced with Justices NV Ramana and UU Lalit. February 26 - A court-monitored mediation process between the parties involved is proposed by the Supreme Court.  March 8 - Justice F M I  Kalifulla, as Chairman, spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar and senior advocate Sriram Panchu are chosen as the mediators for the Ayodhya land dispute.  May 10 - The three-member mediation team submits the final report to the Supreme Court.  September-October 2019: The Supreme Court hears several appeals for 40 days and reserve judgment. November 11, 2019 - The Supreme Court delivered the much-awaited verdict. They dismissed the appeal of the Shia Waqf Board in the politically sensitive Ram Janmbhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case in Ayodhya and held that the land belongs to the government as per revenue records. Then, the apex court said in its verdict in the politically-sensitive case of Ram Janmbhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute in Ayodhya that the Nirmohi Akhara is not a shebait or devotee of the deity Ram Lalla.  Finally, in a historic judgement, the Supreme Court gave the disputed land to Hindus, while Muslim parties will get alternate land. According to SC, there is no evidence that Muslims abandoned mosque. Hindus always believed that the birthplace of Lord Ram was in the inner courtyard of the mosque. It has been clearly established that Muslims offered prayer inside the inner courtyard and Hindus offered prayers in the outer courtyard. The apex court gave Centre three months to set up a trust. Once it is formed, the government will hand over the land to the trust. Sunni Waqf Board to get 5 acres of land in a prominent place in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-the-historic-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-ceremony-a-timeline-of-the-ayodhya-ramjanmabhoomi-dispute-869662.html
05-08-2020||National||From L K Advani to Gogoi: Significant people behind Ram Temple movement in Ayodhya||The Ayodhya Ram Mandir groundbreaking ceremony marks an era-defining moment in the Indian history, as the decades-long battle finally nears an end. The path for the movement was paved by prominent personalities, right from the placement of Lord Ram’s idol in the Babri Masjid to the Supreme Court’s landmark verdict. Mughal Emperor Babur’s commander Mir Baqi built the Babri Masjid, a three-domed mosque, in around 1528, as per orders from the ruler, on the banks of the Sarayu river. The dispute over the site of Babri Masjid dates back centuries with Hindus contending that the invading Muslim armies had razed an existing Ram temple to erect the mosque. Many succeeded and some failed in their attempts in accomplishing their goals in this historic feat. Here’s a look at them: Lord Ram enters the Masjid:  Mahant Raghubar Das, the saint who is touted by many supporters now for initiating the legal battle, filed a plea in Faizabad district court seeking permission to build a canopy outside the disputed structure in 1885. The court had dismissed his petition. It was this plea that turned the clash into a legal dispute. In 1949, the idols of Lord Ram were placed inside the mosque. Paramhans Ramchandra Das, a sadhu, was the city president for the Hindu Mahasabha then. Although he was not named an accused in the case, he admitted to The New York Times in 1991 in an interview saying, "I am the very man who put the idol inside the masjid." Ramchandra Das, filed the second suit on December 5, 1950, by seeking similar reliefs as Visharad. However, it was withdrawn on September 18, 1990. Das was later termed an accused in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case. He passed away in July 2003. Gopal Singh Visharad, a Hindu devotee, on January 16, 1950, alleged that he was being prevented by government officials from entering the inner courtyard to worship. He filed the first suit for the rights to worship the idols of Ram Lalla in the Faizabad district court. The Nirmohi Akhara, a Hindu sect, on December 17, 1959, filed a third suit claiming that its absolute right of managing the affairs of the site and the temple had been impacted by the magistrate's order and sought that the management and charge of the temple and site be handed over to it. The then Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru wanted the idols to be removed from the premises.  Thereafter, Faizabad’s Deputy Commissioner then, K K Nayar was issued a notice on the matter, but he did not allow removal of idols. He allowed them to remain inside the temple, where the priests were given the consent to perform daily worship. He proposed that the mosque should be attached by excluding both Hindus and Muslims, with the exception of a minimum number of pujaris. Subsequently, terming the situation as an emergent one, the Additional City Magistrate of Faizabad-cum-Ayodhya on December 29, 1949, issued an order attaching the disputed site. The ACM entrusted the site to Priya Datt Ram, chairman of the Municipal Board, who was also appointed as the receiver. Both the Sunni Wakf Board and the Akhil Bharatiya Ramayana Mahasabha (ABRM) filed civil suits in a local court staking their respective claim to the site. The land was declared to be under dispute, and the gates remained locked.  Ashok Singhal leads the way The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), under late Ashok Singhal, conceptualised the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in 1984 and began mobilising sadhus and Hindu groups nationwide. Singhal was a metallurgy engineering graduate from Banaras Hindu University and became a full-time RSS pracharak in 1942.  Singhal, born in Agra on October 2, 1926, was the international working president of the Vishva Hindu Parishad for over 20 years and spearheaded the Ayodhya Ram Janmabhoomi movement. He adopted an aggressive style in the "karsevak" campaign in the build-up to the demolition of the Babri Masjid in December 1992. He died on November 17, 2015 at the age of 89, along with two other high-profile accused Giriraj Kishore and Vishnu Hari Dalmia. The proceedings against them have been abated. "The demise of Ashok Singhal ji is a deep personal loss. He was an institution in himself, whose life was centred around serving the nation," Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted on the leader’s demise. The demise of Ashok Singhal ji is a deep personal loss. He was an institution in himself, whose life was centred around serving the nation. Union Minister Amit Shah, paying his tributes to Singhal's third death anniversary, said, "His struggle for Ram Janmabhoomi and Ram Sethu movement and awakening the religion was commendable.” राम जन्मभूमि आन्दोलन के पुरोधा अशोक सिंघल जी ने एक अतिसंपन्न परिवार से आने के बाद भी सभी सुख और वैभव को त्याग कर जीवन भर एक सन्यासी के रूप में देश और धर्म की सेवा की। राम जन्मभूमि व रामसेतु आन्दोलन और धर्म जागरण के लिए उनका संघर्ष वन्दनीय था। Salil Singhal, the nephew of late VHP leader Ashok Singhal, will be the "yajmaan" (ritual patron) at the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony. ‘Mandir Wahi Banayenge’: Advani against the Yadavs L K Advani was at the centre of the BJP's rise through the late 80s and early 90s as it rode the movement. He became the BJP president in 1989 and set the ball rolling for the movement, not wasting any time along with key party leaders such as Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. Advani is considered a key figure in the campaign, as his "Ram Rath Yatra" in 1990 from Somnath in Gujarat to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, to mobilise the masses for building the Ram temple had set things in motion immediately. As the mob looked up to the veteran BJP leader, before proceeding Advani concluded his speech saying, "Saugandh Ram Ki Khaatein Hain, Mandir Wahi Banayenge (We take a vow in the name of Rama: we will build the temple exactly there).”  The 'Rath Yatra' was to end in Ayodhya on October 30, 1990, but was cut short after the then Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav ordered Advani's arrest in Samastipur, citing the alleged communal tension it had caused. Many 'karsevaks' were killed in police firing in Ayodhya on the same day, as the then Uttar Pradesh CM Mulayam Singh Yadav used force to stop them from reaching the disputed site.  The Samajwadi Party founder, in an August 2013 Parliament session, claimed that the party office in Lucknow was attacked after the Uttar Pradesh government’s crackdown on the VHP’s yatra. Hindutva groups put the death toll at over 55 but the police said it was 17. As the Ram temple wave picked up steam, a considerable section of backward castes warmed up to the BJP, which formed its first government in Uttar Pradesh with Kalyan Singh becoming chief minister in 1991. The Congress and Babri Masjid’s demolition The Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992, by ‘karsevaks’, during the tenure of the then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao. The shocking event alienated the Muslims, traditional supporters of the Congress, from the party. Ahead of this, 33 were accused including Kalyan Singh, Advani, Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Rithambara, Sakshi Maharaj, Champat Rai and Ram Vilas Vedanti. A special CBI court in Lucknow completed on July 28, 2020, the recording of statements of the accused. The post-demolition period was also the toughest time Rao had to face in his tenure as prime minister as knives were out for him from leaders of the Hindi heartland such as Arjun Singh and a few others, who felt that the prime minister was hell-bent on finishing off the Congress in northern India. Rao, whose tenure saw the government usher in landmark economic reforms, was sidelined by the Congress after the party's loss in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections. Rao died on December 9, 2004, with the Congress even refusing permission to keep his dead body in state at the party headquarters. Rajiv Gandhi on February 1, 1986, got the permission for starting prayers at the disputed site and got the locks opened. Thereafter, the 'shilanyas puja' was held in 1989, according to the Congress. Party spokesperson in 2019, claimed that Rajiv Gandhi had also given permission to construct a Ram temple near the mosque and launched his party's campaign for the Lok Sabha and Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections from the state by declaring the establishment of "Ram Rajya" in the country. Supreme Court’s verdict: The apex court in a unanimous verdict on November 9, 2019, cleared the way for the construction of a Ram Temple at the disputed site at Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot a 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a mosque. In one of the most important and anticipated judgements in India's history, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by the then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi put an end to the more than a century-old dispute that has torn the social fabric of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-l-k-advani-to-gogoi-significant-people-behind-ram-temple-movement-in-ayodhya-869663.html
05-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 5||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 19 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 19,54,549 as of August 5   205 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 40,570   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 10,57,805  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-5-869667.html
05-08-2020||National||Restrictions in Kashmir valley on first anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||Restrictions, mainly due to the Covid-19 pandemic, were enforced in the Kashmir valley a day ahead of the first anniversary of revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which has not been accepted by mainstream regional parties with the National Conference dubbing it as a "day of mourning". The Srinagar administration, which had announced a 48-hour-long curfew beginning Tuesday morning, issued a fresh order in the evening saying the curfew had been lifted as the day remained incident-free but made it clear that restrictions would continue in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. An order was issued by Deputy Commissioner Shahid Choudhury on Tuesday saying that after assessing the situation in the area, it has been decided to prematurely end the curfew which was slated to continue till Wednesday night. The order, however, states that restrictions ordered earlier under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Disaster Management Act, in view of the prevailing situation due to Covid-19, will remain enforced across the district as directed through an order issued on July 31. Choudhury said avoiding public gatherings is an important part of the efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and urged the general public to ensure strict compliance with all preventive guidelines and protocols that the government has issued in regard to it. He has directed for strict adherence to the restrictions as ordered. Curfew was imposed in Srinagar for two days, beginning Tuesday, as authorities apprehended violent protests in view of plans of separatists and Pakistan-sponsored groups to observe August 5 as black day. Police and CRPF personnel have been deployed in strength across the Valley to ensure that the plans of separatists to disturb peace do not succeed, officials said. In other districts, the administration has imposed strict restrictions on the movement of people over the next two days. The reason given by the authorities for these restrictions was containment of Covid-19 infection. Barricades were set up at hundreds of places in the Valley including Srinagar city to regulate movement of essential services and during emergencies while concertina wires have been laid to block some parts of the roads, the officials said. Meanwhile, political parties in Kashmir have maintained that constitutional changes affected last year in respect of Jammu and Kashmir were not acceptable to the people. National Conference spokesperson Imran Dar said the party will mark August 5 as the "day of mourning" and said his party would continue to fight for the people's rights constitutionally and legally. "Although the people of JK have been at the receiving end, we don't want to put them through added trepidation. Our struggle has always been peaceful, we will continue with that proclivity of ours until our rights are restored," he said. Dar said August 5 is "the darkest patch in the history of Jammu and Kashmir marking the forcible, illegal and unconstitutional infringement of the rights of its people" and added that actions of last year were betrayal and breach of faith. He said the measures have destroyed the space for mainstream leaders in J&K and ditched their cause "which they have nurtured with their blood over the years". Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference said the decision of the Union government to revoke special status of the erstwhile state was not acceptable to the people. "Decisions taken on and after August 5 (2019) are not acceptable to people. These decisions have been thrust on the people of Kashmir and are bereft of any acceptance or legitimacy amongst the masses," Peoples Conference said in a statement. CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said all the promises made by the Centre at the time of abrogating article 370 last year proved to be a mirage. "It has been a year since the BJP government scrapped J&K’s special status under Article 370, 35A, demoted the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah justified the decision on the floor of the house saying it would end decades-long militancy, separatism and corruption in the region and bring development, jobs and prosperity. "However, one year down the line, promises proved to be a mirage and the claims a hoax. None of the aforementioned claims pass the test of reality," Tarigami said in a statement issued Tuesday. A little-known organisation -- Jammu Kashmir Workers Party -- expressed happiness over the abrogation of the special status saying removing Article 370 led to integration of the state with the country. The party said the abrogation of these articles was supplemented by a streak of promises that were made by the government and added that the "time is ripe for the fulfilment of those promises".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-in-kashmir-valley-on-first-anniversary-of-article-370-abrogation-869671.html
05-08-2020||National||Ayodhya Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony: Watch Live||The long saga of political and social turmoil over the demolition of Babri Masjid and the demand to build Ram Temple in Ayodhya will finally come to an end on August 5. The Ram Temple's 'bhoomi pujan' will put an end to decades-long battle as the ceremony would mark the formal commencement of the much-promised mandir's construction.  Ayodhya is decked up for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the Ram Janmabhoomi. The Trust has invited 175 guests, who figure in a select list of seers and politicians topped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Concerned over the spread of coronavirus, the authorities are encouraging others not to come to the temple town, asking them to mark the occasion by celebrating at their homes.  How one can watch the ceremony from home? Here is a guide for prospective viewers: Time:  The ceremony will start from 12:30 pm and the laying of the foundation stone of Ram Mandir will be done at 12.40 pm. Where to watch:  One can watch the ceremony live in Doordarshan's YouTube Channel and also in their Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-ram-temple-groundbreaking-ceremony-watch-live-869680.html
05-08-2020||National||DH toon: Inappropriate for a Prime Minister to be associated with the bhoomi pujan||The first question that arises about the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, to be done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, is whether this is the right time for it. The nation is in the grip of a pandemic with over 50,000 people getting infected every day, many dying and the scourge spreading and aggravating by the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-inappropriate-for-a-prime-minister-to-be-associated-with-the-bhoomi-pujan-869683.html
05-08-2020||National||10 key facts about the Ram Mandir and the groundbreaking ceremony||With the Babri Masjid-Ram Janamabhoomi dispute finally coming to fruition, the proponents of Ram Mandir will see the foundations of the temple being laid down at Ayodhya today. As the country gears to celebrate the occasion amidst the coronavirus pandemic, here are 10 things you need to know about the 'bhoomi pujan' or groundbreaking ceremony and the Ram Mandir, which will begin construction after the ceremony: 1. PM Narendra Modi, who is invited to the ceremony, will be planting a Parijaat sapling on the temple premises as it is considered ‘holy’, news agency ANI reported. 3. Tribal priests from Jharkhand have left for Ayodhya and are carrying the soil and water of the rivers of the State for the Ram Mandir Bhoomi Pujan ceremony. 4. A caged gangway has been built for devotees going for the darshan of Ram Lalla at the makeshift temple to protect them from the menace of monkeys. Municipal authorities and the animal husbandry department have been asked to keep premises safe. An Information department official said that catapults and wooden batons will be used to keep the monkeys away but fruit and grams are the most effective weapon. 5. PM Modi will unveil a plaque and release commemorative postage stamps to mark the occasion of the inauguration of the Ram temple, the PMO said. 6. Former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh and Congress leader Kamal Nath has sent 11 silver bricks for the foundation laying ceremony. 7. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, a spiritual leader, who tried to mediate and bring all the disputed parties to a negotiation has not been invited to the ceremony in Ayodhya. 8. Coming from a family of architects, Chandrakant Sompura, the temple architect, was asked to design the temple 30 years ago. His father, Prabhashankar Sompura designed and oversaw the reconstruction of the Somnath Temple. 9. Sompura said that he has followed the popular North Indian Nagara style of architecture to design the temple. The temple will now have 5 instead of 2 domes to accommodate more devotees and a ‘shikhara’ or a tower built over the sanctum sanctorum. 10. BJP leader LK Advani, was one of the key charioteers of the Ram Mandir movement. Advani, 92, who will not be attending the event in person, on Tuesday recalled how destiny had made him “perform a pivotal role" in the form of the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in 1990, "which helped galvanise the aspirations, energies and passions of its countless participants.” Advani’s Ram Rath Yatra was stopped and he was arrested on October 23, 1990, in Bihar as per the orders of then-state Chief Minister Lalu Prasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-key-facts-about-the-ram-mandir-and-the-groundbreaking-ceremony-869694.html
05-08-2020||National||PM Modi leaves for Ayodhya to lay foundation stone of Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday morning left for Ayodhya where he will lay the foundation stone of Ram temple. The Prime Minister's Office shared a picture of Modi boarding an Air Force plane. He was dressed in traditional dhoti-kurta. "PM Narendra Modi leaves for Ayodhya," the PMO tweeted. A helicopter would fly him to Ayodhya from Lucknow.   Prior to the function, the prime minister will take part in 'pooja' and 'darshan' at Hanumangarhi, a statement by the PMO said on Tuesday. From Hanumangarhi, the prime minister will travel to 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi' where he will take part in pooja and darshan of 'Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman'. He will also plant a Parijat (Indian night jasmine) sapling. Modi will subsequently perform 'bhoomi poojan', the statement said. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on the 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-for-ayodhya-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ram-temple-869705.html
05-08-2020||National||Shocked and saddened: PM Narendra Modi on explosion in Beirut||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed shock at the loss of lives in a massive explosion that rocked Beirut and said India's thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families and the injured. More than 70 people were killed and 3,000 injured in the explosion in the Lebanese capital on Tuesday that flattened much of the city's port. "Shocked and saddened by the large explosion in Beirut city leading to loss of life and property. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families and the injured," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet quoting Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shocked-and-saddened-pm-narendra-modi-on-explosion-in-beirut-869729.html
05-08-2020||National||Shiv Sena releases controversial ad on Babri demolition ahead of Ram Temple ceremony||Ahead of the Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana released an ad showing an image of Ram and the proposed Ram Temple superimposed on the Babri Masjid. The Marathi text roughly translates to: "Those who did this, I am proud of them" and has images of Raj Thackeray, Uddhav Thackeray and Aaditya Thackeray. The advertisement was given by Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-releases-controversial-ad-on-babri-demolition-ahead-of-ram-temple-ceremony-869732.html
05-08-2020||National||From sacred soil to gold bricks: Contributions made for Ram Mandir||Pious soil and water from all major religious sites, places of national importance and sacred rivers on the nation reached Ayodhya for the construction of the temple at Ram Janmabhoomi on July 31, the official account of the temple trust Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra tweeted on August 1. The foundation-laying ceremony will have water and soil from Badrinath Temple, Uttarakhand, Raigad Fort, Mahad, Ranganathswami Mandir, Tiruchirappalli, and Mahakaleshwar Mandir, Ujjain. Additionally, it will also have earthly elements from places of national importance such as soil and water from the important places of life of freedom fighters like Chandrashekhar Azad and Birsa Munda. In a statement, the trust said, “Sacred soil from more than 2,000 teerth sthan and water from more than 100 rivers has been brought to Ayodhya for Bhoomi Pujan. Pujya Shankaracharya and Sants have sent many auspicious materials for Bhoomi Pujan.” Pious Soil & water from all the major religious sites, places of national importance and sacred rivers of the nation are reaching Ayodhya for the construction of the grand temple at Shri Ramjanmbhoomi. Devotees of the deity have started arriving in Ayodhya and have been handing over soil that will be collectively used to plaster the ground of the site of the puja. Another devotee, Mohammad Faiz Khan travelled 800 km from Chhattisgarh and brought soil from the alleged birthplace of Ram’s mother Kaushalya. Closer home, the Karnataka unit of Vishwa Prasad Parishad told news agencies, “Suttur mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra sent water from Cauvery and Kapila. Dharmasthala Manjunatha Dharmadhikari Veerendra Heggade sent water from Netravati river while Sringeri Shankaracharya Sri Bharati Tirtha collected water from Tunga, Bhadravati and Sharavati.” The soil has been sent from temples of Chamundeshwari in Mysuru, Sri Krishna in Udupi, Manjunatheshwara in Dharmasthala, Rambhapuri in Balehonnur in Chikkamagaluru district, Siddaganga mutt in Tumakuru and Datta Peetha. Two brothers, Radhey Shyam Pander and Shabd Vaigyanik Mahakavi Triphala have collected water from 151 rivers, three seas and soil from 16 places in Sri Lanka and have brought to Ayodhya to be used as part of the puja, ANI reported A self-proclaimed descendant of Mughals, Prince Yakub Habeebuddin Tucy, has announced that he will donate a gold brick to the PM for the construction of the temple.  On July 21, the UP unit of Indian Bullions Association donated 33 kg of silver bricks to be used as part of the Bhoomi Pujan.  ANI reported that sadhus from Tamil Nadu brought two bricks of gold and silver, with ‘Shri Ram’ etched in Tamil on them. The Ahmedabad Jain community-contributed 24 kg of silver bricks for the construction of the temple. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath donated Rs 11 lakh to the trust while the Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya donated Rs 6.6 lakh. Shiv Sena has contributed Rs one crore for the construction of the temple, Shiv Sena MP Anil Desai on Sunday told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-sacred-soil-to-gold-bricks-contributions-made-for-ram-mandir-869744.html
05-08-2020||National||Zydus Cadila to commence phase II clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine from August 6||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Wednesday said the phase I clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, has been completed and it will commence phase II clinical trials from August 6. "ZyCoV-D was found to be safe and well tolerated in the phase I clinical trial. The company will now commence phase II clinical trials from the 6th of August, 2020. "The company reports that the doses of the vaccine administered to healthy volunteers in phase I clinical trial, which began on July 15, 2020, has been well-tolerated," Cadila Healthcare, the listed entity of the group, said in a regulatory filing. Zydus Cadila Chairman Pankaj R Patel said the phase I dosing to establish the safety of ZyCoV-D is an important milestone. "All the subjects in phase I clinical trial were closely monitored in a clinical pharmacological unit for 24 hours post-dosing for safety and for 7 days thereafter and the vaccine was found to be very safe. We now begin the phase II clinical trials and look forward to evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine in a larger population,” he added. Last month, Zydus had received approval from domestic authorities to start human trials for its Covid-19 vaccine contender - the second Indian pharmaceutical firm to get such nod amid a surge in novel coronavirus infections worldwide. It got approval a few days after India's first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate COVAXIN, developed by city-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology, got the nod for human clinical trials from the Drug Controller General of India Shares of Cadila Healthcare were trading at Rs 407.20 apiece on BSE, up 1.08 percent from its previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-to-commence-phase-ii-clinical-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-from-august-6-869745.html
05-08-2020||National||Famous Patna laddoos to be distributed in Ayodhya on the occasion of the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Mandir||Out of the 1.25 lakh laddoos, 51,000 will be handed over to the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to be distributed to devotees who will be attending the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Temple. Mahavir Mandir trustee Acharya Kishore Kunal said, “The remaining laddoos will be sent to the temples in Janaki’s birthplace at Sitamarhi in Bihar and around 25 pilgrimage places where it is believed that Lord Ram’s padchinhas (footprints) lie. Laddoos will also be distributed among devotees of Lord Ram and Hanuman in different parts of Bihar on August 5. These laddoos are being made with pure cow ghee,” he said. The gram flour laddoos are famous in Patna for their taste, texture and size. They are loaded with cashews, raisins and cardamom which gives it a unique taste. In addition to this, the trust had made a donation of Rs 2 crore to the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and will give Rs 10 crore for the construction of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/famous-patna-laddoos-to-be-distributed-in-ayodhya-on-the-occasion-of-the-foundation-laying-ceremony-of-ram-mandir-869761.html
05-08-2020||National||Mothers should continue to breastfeed infants even if they are Covid-19: Women and Child Development Ministry||The Women and Child Development Ministry has instructed all field functionaries and healthcare providers to reassure mothers to initiate and continue to breastfeed their infants as per guidelines even if they have tested positive for Covid-19. Noting that breastfeeding helps to protect a baby even if the mother is infected with coronavirus, the WCD ministry said the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare must be followed by those who are suspected or confirmed to have infected with the coronavirus. Reassuring mothers, the WCD ministry said the coronavirus has not been found in amniotic fluid or breast milk which means that the virus is not being transmitted during pregnancy or through breast milk. "Field functionaries/healthcare providers should reassure and support all mothers to initiate and continue to breastfeed their infants as per the guidelines of WHO and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare - even if they are suspected or confirmed to have Covid-19," the ministry tweeted. "Wash your hands thoroughly with soap or sanitizer before and after contact with your child. In case of complementary feeding, feed the infant or young child with a cup and wash hands with soap and water before handling cups, bottles, teats etc and limit the number of caregivers feeding the infant," it said in another tweet. The WHO on Tuesday also said the risk of Covid-19 infection from breastfeeding is negligible and has never been documented, calling for greater support for the practice. The comments came made during World Breastfeeding Week which is observed every year from August 1 to 7. It aims to promote exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life which yields health benefits, provides critical nutrients and protects from deadly diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mothers-should-continue-to-breastfeed-infants-even-if-they-are-covid-19-women-and-child-development-ministry-869763.html
05-08-2020||National||Ayodhya, Kashmir: Twin triumphs for Modi and Hindu nationalists?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday laid the foundation for a temple at a flashpoint holy site exactly a year after imposing direct rule on Muslim-majority Kashmir -- twin triumphs for his Hindu nationalist government. The site of Ayodhya and divided Kashmir have been two of the most divisive communal issues of the past 30 years in India, and Modi has attempted to draw a line under both in his second term. For his fans both steps confirm Modi as a decisive, visionary leader, and India's most important in decades. His critics see him as remoulding the country as a Hindu nation, at the expense of India's 200 million Muslims, and taking it in authoritarian direction. "Modi has certainly been India's most transformative leader in recent memory," Micheal Kugelman from the Wilson Center told AFP. "This has made him wildly popular, but also highly controversial and quite divisive." The holy city of Ayodhya in northern India has long been a fault line in India's religious divisions, and has been the spark for some of its worst sectarian violence. Devout Hindus believe that Lord Ram, the warrior god, was born there some 7,000 years ago but that a mosque was constructed on top of his birthplace in the 16th century. In the 1980s a Hindu movement began to agitate for the mosque to be removed and in 1992 a mob demolished it with shovels, pickaxes and their bare hands. This triggered religious riots that killed 2,000 people, most of them Muslims. A lengthy legal battle ensued but in November, in a major victory for the BJP, India's top court awarded the site to Hindus, allowing a temple "touching the sky" to be built. "(It's) a huge achievement for (Modi). He is going to make his position permanently in history purely on the strength of this temple," biographer Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay told AFP. Further cementing his place in India's annals is Kashmir, divided between India and Pakistan since 1947, the spark for two wars and the source of much bloodshed. The BJP has long seen the special status enjoyed by the part of Kashmir controlled by India as a historical wrong, and on August 5 last year Modi abolished it. An accompanying security operation turned the region into a fortress for weeks with all telecommunications cut and thousands taken into custody. Now, people from outside Kashmir are being granted domicile rights for the first time, giving them the right to buy land and claim government jobs. This has stoked fears that Modi wants to change Muslim-majority Kashmir's demographic and religious makeup along the lines of Israel's actions in the West Bank. "What I see unfolding is a Hindu settler colonial project in the making," Mona Bhan from Syracuse University told AFP. Other actions have also alarmed Modi's critics and delighted his fans. Last year a new law made it easier for millions of illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries to get citizenship, but not if they are Muslims. A "citizenship list" in Assam state left off millions who were unable to prove they were Indian, many of them Muslims, a process many fear the BJP wants to roll out nationwide. More may be in the pipeline. On the BJP's wishlist is a uniform civil code, doing away with personal laws for religious minorities in areas such as marriage, family and death -- a policy aimed primarily at Muslims. "Clearly, it's full speed ahead with the Hindu nationalist agenda," Kugelman said. "The government knows it has some major challenges with the economy and the pandemic. By focusing on the social agenda... it can distract its rank and file and shore up political support."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-kashmir-twin-triumphs-for-modi-and-hindu-nationalists-869774.html
05-08-2020||National||A long wait ends today: PM Narendra Modi after ‘bhoomi pujan'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, describing it as the instrument to unite the country. “Ram is the thread that strings together India's unity in diversity… the process of construction of the Ram Temple is an attempt to unite the nation,” the Prime Minister said after laying the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya, recalling the multitudinous references to Ram and Ramayana in languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Odiya, Bengali, Kashmiri, Malayalam. Modi also sought to draw parallels in the freedom struggle and the Ram temple movement. “Just as August 15 is representative of sacrifices by people all across the country towards the freedom struggle, this day marks the immense dedication and continuous struggle across generations for the Ram temple,” the Prime Minister said. “The more power a nation has, the greater its capacity to further peace,” the PM said quoting a couplet amid the stand-off with China over the boundary issue. The Prime Minister said the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple marked a golden chapter in the history of the nation. “Every heart is illuminated; it is an emotional moment for the entire country... A long wait ends today,” he said. The Prime Minister said that the raging pandemic has forced certain restrictions on the foundation stone laying ceremony. Earlier, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat also said that the invitation could not be extended to many considering the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister expressed hope that the temple will serve as an inspiration for the entire humanity for ages to come. Modi recalled the vision of Ram Rajya laid out by Mahatma Gandhi. He said the teachings of Ram, which have continued to guide the country, include: no one should be poor or unhappy; men and women should be equally happy; farmers and animal keepers should always be happy. “The old, the young and the doctors should always be protected; it is the duty of all to protect those seeking asylum; homeland is more than heaven,” Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-long-wait-ends-today-pm-narendra-modi-after-bhoomi-pujan-869779.html
05-08-2020||National||RSS and other like-minded groups worked for 30 years to fulfil Ram temple resolve: Mohan Bhagwat||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and other like-minded organisations worked for nearly 30 years to fulfil the resolve of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said here on Wednesday. Bhagwat was one of the selected invitees at the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of a Ram temple at the site where a large number of Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. The RSS chief mentioned BJP patriarch L K Advani and the late VHP leader Ashok Singhal among others for their contribution to the temple movement. This day brings the confidence needed to make India self-reliant, Bhagwat told the gathering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-and-other-like-minded-groups-worked-for-30-years-to-fulfil-ram-temple-resolve-mohan-bhagwat-869784.html
05-08-2020||National||SC rejects Bishop Franco Mulakkal's plea for discharge in nun rape case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a plea by Jalandhar's former Catholic Bishop Franco Mulakkal to discharge him in the nun rape case, saying there is no merit in his petition. "You don't have a case," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Mulakkal. In his plea, he alleged he has been framed in the case out of a feeling of revenge on objecting to financial dealings of the victim. "We are not saying anything on merit but we are dismissing the plea for discharge," the bench said, after a brief hearing. The Kerala government, as well as the victim, have also filed a plea opposing his petition. Among other grounds, Mulakkal contended there were discrepancies in the nun's version, warranting his discharge in the case. He challenged the Kerala High Court's order of July 7 rejecting his plea for discharge. He was arrested in September 2018 in the case on a complaint made by the nun in the Missionaries of Jesus Congregation, alleging he raped her multiple times between 2014 and 2016 in Kottayam. The Kerala police had filed a charge sheet against him. He was released on bail in October 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-bishop-franco-mulakkals-plea-for-discharge-in-nun-rape-case-869793.html
05-08-2020||National||National Green Tribunal says serious violations of environmental norms at Panipat Co Operative Sugar Mill||The National Green Tribunal Wednesday said there were serious violations of environmental norms in the functioning of Panipat Co-Operative Sugar and distillery unit in Haryana. The green panel directed the state pollution control board (SPCB) to ensure that the units do not start working unless remedial measures are adopted and a joint Committee of SPCB and CPCB certifies them. “It is clear that there are serious violations of environmental norms in the functioning of both units. There are violations of the Water Act, the Air Act and the Environment Protection Act which are criminal offences,” the tribunal said. Compensation may have to assessed and recovered on the polluter pays principle, a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. “Groundwater is being illegally extracted which may seriously and irreversibly affect the environment. The units are said to be lying closed. The state pollution control board may ensure that the units do not start working unless remedial measures are adopted and the joint Committee certifies that suitable remedial measures have been duly adopted,” the bench said. The NGT directed the committee, comprising officials from Central Pollution Control Board and SPCB, to file status of compliance as on January 31, 2021 by e-mail. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by councillor Pramod Devi and others against pollution caused by the sugar and distillery units of Panipat Co-Operative sugar mill. The units are using old boilers which do not function properly resulting in air pollution, the plea said. According to the petition, even though closure notice was issued by the CPCB, the unit is still working resulting in air and water pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-green-tribunal-says-serious-violations-of-environmental-norms-at-panipat-co-operative-sugar-mill-869796.html
05-08-2020||National||Those forgetting kar sevaks' sacrifices are 'Ram drohi': Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday said those who forget the sacrifices of 'kar sevaks' at the time of 'bhoomi pujan' of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhyawill be "Ram drohi". The 'bhoomi pujan' event is of the entire country and Hindus. But what is this adamant stand that nobody should get credit, the Sena wondered in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. It claimed the ceremony is "personality centric and political party centric". "The soil where the Ram temple will be constructed has the smell of sacrifices of 'kar sevaks'. Those who forget that will be Ram drohi," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished in December 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. In November last year, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town. The Shiv Sena lamented that former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who delivered the historic verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri mosque case, was not invited for the ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya. Even the Shiv Sena, which played a role in the demolition of the Babri mosque, was not invited, it said. "It has to be accepted that the legal issue was resolved during Modi's tenure. Otherwise, Gogoi wouldn't have been made the Rajya sabha member after his retirement," the Shiv Sena said. It said Iqbal Ansari of the Babri action committee got an invite for the function. Ansari stretched the legal battle for 30 years and "Gogoi took Lord Ram out of the legal tangle", the Marathi daily said. Workers of the VHP, Bajrang Dal, Shiv Sena, RSS "faced lathis and bullets and many laid down their lives in the movement for the Ram temple construction," it said. With the 'bhoomi pujan' on Wednesday, politics over the issue of Ram temple should end once and for all, the Shiv Sena said. It said sentiments of the Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the Left parties should have been considered. BJP leader Subramanian Swamy has credited (late Congress leaders) P V Narasimha Rao and Rajiv Gandhi for the Ram temple, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-forgetting-kar-sevaks-sacrifices-are-ram-drohi-shiv-sena-869797.html
05-08-2020||National||52,509 fresh infections push India's Covid-19 tally to 19,08,254; death toll climbs to 39,795||India's Covid-19 infection tally raced past 19 lakh on Wednesday, two days after it crossed the 18-lakh mark, with 52,509 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus in a day, while the recoveries have mounted to 12,82,215, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases in the country surged to 19,08,254 while the death toll climbed to 39,795 with 857 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has risen to 67.19 per cent while the fatality rate has further dropped to 2.09 per cent, the data stated. There are 5,86,244 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which contribute 30.72 per cent of the total caseload. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the seventh consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 2,14,84,402 samples have been tested up to August 4 with 6,19,652 samples being tested on Tuesday. Of the 857 fresh deaths reported, 300 are from Maharashtra, 110 from Karnataka, 108 from Tamil Nadu, 67 from Andhra Pradesh, 54 from West Bengal, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 25 from Gujarat, 20 from Punjab, 17 each from Rajasthan and Bihar, 13 from Telangana, 12 each from Madhya Pradesh and Delhi and 10 from Jammu and Kashmir. Nine fatalities have been reported from Odisha, eight each from Chhattisgarh and Haryana, six from Assam, five from Uttarakhand, four from Goa, three from Kerala and Jharkhand, two each from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry and Tripura, while Chandigarh has recorded one fatality each. Of the total 39,795 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 16,142 followed by 4,349 in Tamil Nadu, 4,033 in Delhi, 2,704 in Karnataka, 2,533 in Gujarat, 1,817 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,785 in West Bengal, 1,604 in Andhra Pradesh and 962 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 732 people have died of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, 576 in Telangana, 462 in Punjab, 448 in Haryana, 417 in Jammu and Kashmir, 347 in Bihar, 216 in Odisha, 128 in Jharkhand, 115 in Assam, 95 in Uttarakhand, 87 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 69 deaths, Goa 60, Puducherry 58, Tripura 30, Chandigarh 20, Himachal Pradesh 14, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 12, Ladakh and Manipur seven each, Meghalaya and Nagaland five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/52509-fresh-infections-push-indias-covid-19-tally-to-1908254-death-toll-climbs-to-39795-869798.html
05-08-2020||National||How foreign media covered Ayodhya Ram Temple ceremony||The grand inauguration of the construction of the Ram temple, or the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ in Ayodhya, is seen as one of the most high-profile events in the recent history of independent India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid a silver brick as a symbolic beginning to the construction of the temple. Celebrations erupted across the globe with hymn-chanting in famous temples of India and also at the Times Square, in New York, where images of Lord Ram were beamed across billboards. Along with wall-to-wall coverage of the event by the Indian media, several foreign news organisations have also chipped in to contextualise the grand event for the global audience. Here is how foreign media covered the event: Albeit celebrations across the world, foreign media was quick to point out the incidental significance of the day. August 5 marks one year of abrogation of Article 370 that gave special status to Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-foreign-media-covered-ayodhya-ram-temple-ceremony-869799.html
05-08-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown effects: Men learn culinary skills, share house work||The coronavirus-enforced lockdown has changed the perception that kitchen and household chores are a woman's domain, as men are also pitching in to share the domestic workload and in the process also learning and upgrading their culinary skills. With people remaining indoors and many getting used to the concept of work from home, what has caught everyone's eye is men making a foray into the kitchen at home, trying their hands at cooking and showcasing their dish-making skills on social media. "In the film 'English Vinglish', there is a dialogue where Sridevi says cooking is an art for men while duty for women. But, the art of cooking is not new to men with some of the top chefs being men," Anjali Bhat, a software professional juggling between work from home and domestic chores, told PTI. "The perception that household chores is a woman's domain has changed now," she said. Parikshit Joshi, an advertising professional, said before he got married, he detested going into the kitchen and reluctantly helped in washing the utensils. "However, during the over 100-day lockdown and being home-bound, I started sharing some kitchen work. I started going out twice a week to buy vegetables," he said. "Looking at the fresh vegetables, I started thanking the nature for its gifts to us. I started with a typical Maharashtrian breakfast dish of 'kanda-poha' and then graduated to cooking palak-pulao (spinach rice), rotis and vegetables," he said. Last week, he tried making 'Misal-Pav', a spicy Maharashtrian dish, and earned praise from his wife and daughter, he said. "I feel nobody is born a good cook and one learns by working on it. Cooking is so selfless, makes you stress-free and helps you feed your near ones with their favourite dishes. I would say this is the biggest discovery of last 100 days," Joshi said. Saket Shinde,who works in a private firm, said his contribution to household chores before the lockdown was only limited to buying groceries as per the list given to him, and calling an electrician, a plumber or carpenter whenever required. "The absence of a househelp during the lockdown made it necessary for all family members to share the household work. So, I took up washing utensils while the other members indulged in cooking and cleaning the house," he said. Prajakta Singh, a media professional working from home, said even though her husband prepares breakfast, she has to clean the kitchen after he finishes cooking. But, the lockdown has taught families to adjust to each other rather than picking faults, she said. "With my husband preparing the breakfast, I can focus on other household chores and prepare other meals early so that both of us can complete the domestic work and then do our professional work," she said. Sorab Ghaswalla, founder of a digital marketing and content services firm, said, "As a husband, I would always help my wife at home. We had house help before the COVID-19 outbreak, but on their weekly offs or whenever they were absent, I would join my wife in doing the household tasks." "I was never of the view that household chores are the sole domain of a woman. A man is equally responsible. But, as the task of doing household work fell on the family itself following the lockdown, I decided to do more," he said. "It was never about my share or her share. So, for example, one day I wash the utensils, and the next, I sweep the floor. Every morning, both of us decide who will do what. Of course, our children also chip in. After all, these are our utensils and clothes, so whats the big deal?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-effects-men-learn-culinary-skills-share-house-work-869801.html
05-08-2020||National||Maharashtra's BVA aims to intensify Covid-19 battle, launches 'Mission Super 30'||The campaign will also be assisted by Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVMC). The campaign is aimed at testing the maximum number of people to ensure the gravity of the virus spread and measures that need to be taken to prevent it. According to the campaign, the patients that are Covid-19 suspects can be sent to quarantine centres while the ones who have tested positive can be sent to government hospitals for treatment. "The whole idea is to keep a deadline for identifying the severity of the virus. The more the people are tested, the better will be our result in curbing the spread," said Hitendra Thakur, BVA president and MLA, Vasai. Besides rapid testing, distribution of safety gear will also be a part of the campaign. "The campaign also aims at distributing around 10,000 masks and as many COVID kits. Aside from that, 500 temperature guns and 500 oxymeters would be made available for people," said Kshitij Thakur, BVA MLA from Nallasopara. Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, BVA has been carrying out a slew of measures to provide relief to Covid-19 patients and also lending a helping hand to the government to cope with the crisis. They plan to continue their efforts until the virus is flattened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtras-bva-aims-to-intensify-covid-19-battle-launches-mission-super-30-869805.html
05-08-2020||National||More parliamentary panels pick Covid-19 for discussion||The Covid-19 outbreak continued to attract the attention of Parliamentary Committees with four more panels choosing various aspects of the pandemic to scrutinise the government's preparedness and actions in dealing with the situation. The Parliamentary Standing Committees on Science and Technology, Home Affairs, Labour and Health have already held one meeting each on the aspects of the pandemic and government response. Now, the Standing Committees of Human Resources Development, Commerce and External Affairs as well as Committee on Estimates have decided to discuss the pandemic. The Standing Committee on HRD headed by senior BJP MP Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe will be meeting on August 10 to discuss 'Preparedness of School, Higher and Technical Education Sectors during Covid-19 pandemic' at a time when the academic activities have gone for a toss. Educational institutions are closed till August 30 with no clarity about when they could reopen as several states are reluctant to start academic activities amid a spread of Covid-19 cases. The panel is likely to ask the government about its digital education plans even as a section has been arguing that overemphasis on this mode could be detrimental as a large section of students does not have access to such accessories. Also, the exam calendar may also come up during the discussion. Headed by BJP MP P P Chaudhary, the panel on External Affairs will meet on August 11 to talk about ‘Covid-19 Pandemic – Global Response, India’s Contribution and the way forward’. It has summoned officials from the Ministries of External Affairs, Education, Women and Child Development, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and Labour for briefings. The Standing Committee on Commerce headed by YSR Congress MP V Vijayasai Reddy wants to look at 'Attracting investment in post-Covid Economy: Challenges and Opportunities for India' even as the government has announced Rs 20 lakh crore under the 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' (Self-Reliant India Programme) during the national lockdown.    It will also look at the opportunities and challenges before the country at a time New Delhi is trying to shake off the Chinese imprint in various sectors following the border row. The Committee on Estimates has also chosen to take up discussions related to the virus with the topic being 'Impact of Covid-19 pandemic on Budget Allocation and Utilisation on the various Sectors viz. tourism, aviation, hospitality, power, etc. and steps for employment generation'. Meanwhile, the Standing Committee on Labour, which had discussed Covid-19 and the labour situation on July 20, will be briefed by officials from the Ministries of Rural Development and Skill Development on August 7 on social security and welfare measures for inter-state migrant, unorganized and informal sector workers. This meeting is likely to touch upon Covid-19 as the lockdown had resulted in a mass exodus of migrant labourers to their home states. The first meeting on Covid-19 was held on July 10 when the Standing Committee on Science and Technology headed by senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh took up the issue of "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future". In the meeting, top officials said that a Covid-19 vaccine is expected only after a year while the panel on Home Affairs led by Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma on July 15 asked officials to check black marketing of Covid-19 drugs like Remdesivir. The panel on Health held the meeting on August 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-parliamentary-panels-pick-covid-19-for-discussion-869812.html
05-08-2020||National||Ayodhya Ram Mandir: Leaders hope development would pave way for harmony||Leaders across the political spectrum on Wednesday welcomed the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, hoping the development would pave the way for national unity and harmony. Various leaders hailed the historic event, and hoped the country progressed further and that people follow the ideals of Lord Ram.   Their reactions come on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Ayodhya to lay the first brick of the Ram temple. West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee said, "Hindu Muslim Sikh Isaai, Aapas mein hain Bhai Bhai! Mera Bharat Mahaan, Mahaan Hamara Hindustan." "Our country has always upheld the age-old legacy of unity in diversity, and we must preserve this to our last breath," she tweeted. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sent his best wishes to fellow citizens on the bhoomi poojan of the Ram temple. "May we continue to receive Lord Ram's blessings. May his blessings also help the country get rid of poverty, starvation and poverty and India emerges as the world's most powerful country and guide the world in the coming times. Jai Shri Ram. Jai Bajrang Bali," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Union minister and BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said today is a historic day and we can all feel the joy of this moment. "The grand Ram temple is also the temple of the country. It is also a celebration of India's pride, self respect and our spiritual inheritance," he said in Hindi. Extending best wishes to people on the bhoomi poojan function, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said "We hope the ideals of sacrifice, duty, compassion, generosity, unity, fraternity, harmony and courtesy preached by Lord Ram will become the guiding force for the country." Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot stressed that there was a need to focus on establishment of an egalitarian society based on values espoused by Lord Ram. "Lord Ram holds a unique place in our culture & civilization. His life teaches us the importance of truth, justice, equality of all, compassion & brotherhood. We need to focus on establishing an egalitarian society based on the values espoused by #LordRam," he said in a tweet. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav also hoped the present and future generations will sincerely follow the path shown by 'Maryada Purushottam' and will do good to all and bring peace. Another BJP leader Suresh Prabhu termed it as a glorious moment in India's history and said, "We all are lucky to witness this moment". Another Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said Lord Ram epitomises justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness and firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude and courage. "These values are much needed in such dark times. If they spread throughout the land, Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry. JaiShriRam," he tweeted. The consecration of the Ram temple in Ayodhya today heralds the end of a three-decade long BJP-led political movement in the country, which saw the saffron party surge from a negligible presence in Lok Sabha to an absolute majority today. It was in 1990 that then BJP president L K Advani embarked on the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya to galvanise support for the temple and challenge the hegemony of the Congress in Indian politics. The Rath Yatra started soon after the VHP performed 'Shilanyas' at the temple site on November 9, 1989.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-ram-mandir-leaders-hope-development-would-pave-way-for-harmony-869815.html
05-08-2020||National||PM Modi performs ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event at the site where a large number of devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. The guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the COVID-19 crisis. As a priest chanted Sanskrit ‘shlokas’ and the ground-breaking ceremony got under way under a giant marquee decorated in shades of reds and yellows, Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing and sat a safe distance away from each other. Slogans of ‘Bharat Mataki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended and the prime minister laid the foundation of the temple. Bhajans and ‘shlokas’ were heard as the town, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Most shops were painted in bright yellow. The prime minister arrived in Ayodhya in a helicopter where Adityanath among others received him. Before the function to lay the foundation stone of the 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir', the prime minister took part in prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple. From there, he travelled to the 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi' where he performed prayers at the 'Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman'. He also planted a Parijat (Indian night jasmine) sapling. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on the 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir'. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Delivering a unanimous judgement on a case that had long polarised the country, the court said the faith of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the site was undisputed The Ram Janmabhoomi movement got a fillip in 1990 with then BJP president L K Advani’s ‘rath yatra’. Two years later, in December 1992, the 16th century Mughal-era Babri Masjid, built on what a large sections believe is Lord Ram’s birthplace, was demolished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-performs-bhoomi-pujan-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-869823.html
05-08-2020||National||More businesses in India re-open even as Covid-19 cases surge||India reported on Wednesday 52,509 new cases over the novel coronavirus, taking its tally of infections to more than 1.91 million, nevertheless authorities eased restrictions aimed at limiting its spread, allowing gyms and yoga studios to open. India is one of the world's hardest-hit countries, with nearly 40,000 people dead of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. But the health ministry said India's fatality rate was now 2.10%, the lowest since the outbreak first appeared. The government has been struggling to stop the spread of the virus while also trying to minimise the economic damage and the hardships lockdowns inflict on the poor. Authorities in the financial hub of Mumbai allowed shops in malls to reopen after more than four months of lockdown, as the number of cases in the city that was hard hit by the outbreak has begun to slowly decline. Cinemas remain closed and restaurants in most parts of the country are offering only limited services. On testing for the virus, the ministry said 15,119 tests were being conducted for every million people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-businesses-in-india-re-open-even-as-covid-19-cases-surge-869831.html
05-08-2020||National||IPS officer asked me to pressurise Rhea Chakraborty: DCP Dahiya||A senior Mumbai police official has claimed that the IPS brother-in-law of Sushant Singh Rajput had asked him to call the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty to police station and pressurise her. Deputy Commissioner of Police Paramjitsingh Dahiya told a TV channel that O P Singh, brother-in-law of Rajput and senior IPS officer of Haryana police, had made the request in February this year. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. "Singh asked me to call Rhea Chakraborty to the police station informally and pressurise her," said Dahiya, who was the zonal police head of Bandra region till April 1. Dahiya said Singh told him that Rajput's family felt Rhea was "controlling" the actor and wanted her out of his life. Dahiya said the actor's family did not submit a written complaint. He said O P Singh made the informal request (to pressurise Rhea) to him through WhatsApp messages on February 18 and 25. The DCP said Singh visited Mumbai on February 5 and told him to inform Rajput that he was in Mumbai. He also requested that a person called Miranda be kept in a day's police custody, without any complaint or investigation, Dahiya said. The DCP said he "politely and firmly" told Singh that it was not possible for him to call anyone to the police station and keep him in custody as it was against procedure. Dahiya said he asked Singh to file a written complaint based on which the matter would be investigated. The written complaint never came, he added. Rajput's father K K Singh has released a video saying he alerted Mumbai police on February 25 that his sons life was in danger. On Monday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh said the family didnt raise any suspicion when the city police recorded their statements on June 16. "At that moment, they didnt raise any suspicion and also didn't complain about any lapse in our investigation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-asked-me-to-pressurise-rhea-chakraborty-dcp-dahiya-869832.html
05-08-2020||National||From PM Narendra Modi to Iqbal Ansari, leaders who attended Ram Temple ceremony||Bhajans and Shlokas were heard as Ayodhya, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple.  As many as 175 eminent guests including 135 seers attended the Ram Mandir Bhoomi Pujan ceremony on Wednesday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Mohan Bhagwat - the chief of the BJP's ideological mentor Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and around 170 spiritual leaders attended the ceremony. Iqbal Ansari, a litigant in the temple-mosque dispute, was the first person to be invited.  BJP veterans LK Advani - who led the Ram temple movement in the 1990s - and Murli Manohar Joshi watched the event through video-conference because of coronavirus precautions. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, tasked with building the temple, reportedly sent last-minute invites to the two leaders, who were the face of the temple movement. Uma Bharti, another key BJP leader of the temple campaign, attended the ceremony in Ayodhya after previously saying she would stay away as a coronavirus precaution.  Other prominent names on the guest list included  BJP president JP Nadda, MLA Lallu Singh, BJP leader Vinay Katiyar, UP deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, UP Cabinet ministers Suresh Khanna and Chaudhary Lakshmi Narayan Singh, Pawan Singhal from VHP leader Ashok Singhal’s family, Narendra Giri of Akhada Parishad, Sadhvi Ritambhara, yoga guru Ramdev, spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, BHU Jyotish Department HoD Vinay Pandey. Salil Singhal, the nephew of late VHP leader Ashok Singhal, was the "yajmaan" (ritual patron) at the ceremony. Hindu seers from Nepal also attended the ceremony. The historic ceremony went on till 2 pm after the inscription of the temple was inaugurated.  On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Delivering an unanimous judgement on a case that had long polarised the country, the court said the faith of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the site was undisputed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-pm-narendra-modi-to-iqbal-ansari-leaders-who-attended-ram-temple-ceremony-869840.html
05-08-2020||National||Maharashtra Flash flood: Five-year-old trapped on tree for hours; rescued||A five-year-old girl was rescued after she was left clinging to a tree for over four hours during a flash flood due to heavy rains in Dahanu taluka of Maharashtra's Palghar district on Wednesday, an official said. As heavy rains lashed the district on Tuesday night, the girl's house in Shenshai got flooded, prompting her family to walk to a safer place in the early hours of the day, the district official said. While crossing a bridge along the way, the girl got separated from her parents due to the strong water current and climbed a tree, he said. The girl remained clinging to a tree branch for over four hours, before being rescued by villagers at around 6 am, the official said. The child was rushed to a hospital, where she is presently undergoing treatment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-flash-flood-five-year-old-trapped-on-tree-for-hours-rescued-869844.html
05-08-2020||National||ED gets custody of three people in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday obtained the custody of three people, including main accused Swapna Suresh, in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling-money laundering case, officials said. The agency got their custody from a special NIA court in Thiruvananthapuram, they said. The ED has got the custody of Sarith PS, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair who were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) earlier, in this case, they said. The three will be questioned and their statements recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the officials said. The central probe agency had filed a PMLA case last month to probe the alleged gold smuggling using a 'diplomatic bag' after studying an NIA FIR. The central agency will investigate if proceeds of crime were generated by the accused by the laundering of funds that were earned through the alleged gold smuggling racket. The case emerged on July 5 when gold, weighing over 30 kg, was seized by the Customs Department from the "diplomatic baggage" that had landed by air cargo at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport from the Gulf. The seized gold is stated to be worth nearly Rs 15 crore. The ED is the fourth central agency that is probing the accused involved in the case after the Customs, NIA and the Income Tax Department. The NIA had arrested the prime accused in the case, Swapna Suresh and her associate Sandeep Nair, from Bengaluru on July 11. Sarith P S, also a former employee of the UAE consulate in Kerala, was arrested by the Customs Department after the gold was seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-gets-custody-of-three-people-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-869852.html
05-08-2020||National||Alert issued for people on banks of Panchganga in Kolhapur||The Kolhapur district administration in western Maharashtra has asked the people living on the banks of the Panchganga river to remain alert and shift to safer locations in view of heavy rain. The district is experiencing heavy showers for the last two days, Kolhapur Collector Daulat Desai said. "Looking at the heavy rainfall, the Panchganga will cross the warning level (39 feet) at Rajaram Weir in Kolhapur during the night," he said. The danger level of the river at Rajaram Weir is 43 feet. People on the banks of the river should be alert and move to safer places with their livestock, he added. "For the last couple of days, the district is witnessing 150 mm rainfall every day which is leading to an increase in the level of the Panchganga," he said. Around 90 weirs in the district have gone underwater, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alert-issued-for-people-on-banks-of-panchganga-in-kolhapur-869856.html
05-08-2020||National||Leading Indian-origin doctor appointed New York City’s new health commissioner||Dr Dave A Chokshi, a 39-year-old Indian-origin physician with expertise in public health, has been appointed as New York City’s new health commissioner by Mayor Bill de Blasio who praised him for playing a crucial role in addressing the unprecedented coronavirus challenges faced by the city. Chokshi was named Commissioner of the City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene on Tuesday after serving health commissioner Dr Oxiris Barbot resigned from her post. Blasio said Chokshi has spent his career fighting for those too often left behind. The Mayor said at a news conference that Chokshi has an “extraordinary history” and as a child of immigrants, grew up with tremendous potential, and worked hard every step of the way to realise that potential. Chokshi recalled that opportunity propelled his grandfathers to move from small villages in Gujarat to Mumbai two generations ago. His father was the first in his family to immigrate to the United States, settling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where he was born and raised. A Rhodes Scholar, he has served as a White House Fellow in the Obama Administration and was the principal health advisor to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. In 2016, President Barack Obama appointed him to the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health. "I couldn't be prouder of our City's response in the face of a once-in-a-lifetime public health crisis,” Chokshi said, adding that he was honoured to serve the people of New York City. "Together, we will emerge from this pandemic as a stronger, fairer, and healthier city." New York currently has 4,46,691 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 32,801 deaths due to the infection, according to worldometres.info. He said that the Covid-19 pandemic has “unmasked how disease, racism, and economic dislocation intersect with devastating health consequences. He added that the epidemic is only the most recent example of the vicious cycles of illness and inequity that he has seen over his career. "Each of those experiences further forged my conviction that we must build toward better health systems with prevention at the center and a more proactive approach to avoidable human suffering.” “We are in a better place with Covid-19 than we were this spring thanks to the efforts of New Yorkers, the administration, the Health Department, and Health + Hospitals….The role of public health is central and clear. Just as with my patients in the clinic, our public health approach must begin with listening to patients.” He said for the city to succeed, “we must use science to diagnose problems and bring together everyone who can stop health threats before they start, whether Covid-19 or otherwise. For us to succeed, I will need to embody my core values of truth, justice, and kindness every day.” The Mayor’s office said in a statement that Chokshi has served at the highest level of local, state, and federal health agencies, including NYC Health + Hospitals, where he was in senior leadership roles over the past six years. As Chief Population Health Officer, Chokshi's team transformed healthcare delivery for over one million New Yorkers. Chokshi comes to the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene with experience in public health, clinical medicine, and health policy. He has served at the Louisiana Department of Health before and after Hurricane Katrina, with a focus on reshaping the State's healthcare system in the wake of the storm. As a Rhodes Scholar, he earned an MSc in global public health from the University of Oxford. Chokshi will continue his clinical practise at Bellevue Hospital, where he has taken care of patients as a primary care physician since 2014. He trained at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School and Brigham & Women's Hospital/Harvard Medical School. During his training, Chokshi did clinical work in Guatemala, Peru, Botswana, Ghana, and India. Chokshi also served on the Federal Emergency Management Agency delegation to New York City after Hurricane Sandy in 2012, coordinating with the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene on a door-knocking initiative to bring food and medication to stranded seniors in high rises across hard-hit areas of the city. As Special Advisor to New York City Health Commissioner Tom Farley, Chokshi contributed to the City's response to opioid addiction, obesity, and disease prevention in 2011. Former Surgeon General of the United States Dr Vivek Murthy said for the last 15 years, he has seen Chokshi “touch the lives of patients and communities in profound ways as a physician and public health leader. “He is of a rare breed of leaders who combine brilliance and strong judgement with humility and compassion. These qualities and his unfailing moral compass will serve New York City well as it faces the Covid-19 pandemic and longstanding public health challenges. In Dr Chokshi, New York has found a leader worthy of its trust and support,” he said. Meanwhile, a report in The New York Times said Barbot resigned to protest her “deep disappointment” with de Blasio’s handling of the pandemic. “I leave my post today with deep disappointment that during the most critical public health crisis in our lifetime, that the health department’s incomparable disease control expertise was not used to the degree it could have been,” Barbot said in her resignation email to de Blasio, according to The New York Times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leading-indian-origin-doctor-appointed-new-york-city-s-new-health-commissioner-869861.html
05-08-2020||National||Release prisoners, restore 4G internet in J&K: AI to New Delhi||Amnesty International (AI) India on Wednesday urged the government of India to immediately release political leaders, journalists and activists, besides restoring 4G mobile internet and decongest prisons in Jammu and Kashmir. In a statement on the first anniversary of abrogation of J&K’s special status, Avinash Kumar, Executive Director, AI India, said, “Over the last one year the government of India has been systematically dismantling all avenues for justice for the people of Jammu and Kashmir.” “With zero representation, protracted internet restrictions, arbitrary use of some of India’s most stringent laws, verbal orders of detention and crippling of the local media – most of this disproportionately higher in Kashmir - it’s been a complete year since we have heard the people of Jammu and Kashmir speak,” he said. “The government’s ruthless attempts to create a public opinion of ‘normalcy’ while curbing the freedom of the independent press, imprisoning the entire political leadership, arbitrarily arresting those likely to dissent and imposing communication restrictions have usurped the voice of the region,” Kumar added. The AI acknowledged that the government of India may have legitimate security concerns “which may merit reasonable restrictions on the right to freedom of expression in certain circumstances.” “But these restrictions must always be limited in duration and demonstrably proportionate as set out under Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), to which India is a state party,” a statement of the AI said. However, it said, in an ‘absolute violation’ of India’s international obligations, “the entire population of Kashmir has been deprived of their right to freedom of expression and opinion through protracted communication restrictions since the last one year.” “This has been compounded by a censored media, continuing detention of political leaders, arbitrary restrictions due to the pandemic with little to no redressal,” the statement added. The AI statement alleged that the government’s near-total control over the information coming out of the region was strengthened through use of repressive laws such as the Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA) and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). “AI India documented physical attacks on, harassment and intimidation of at least 18 journalists since 5 August 2019.” The AI termed the new media policy introduced by the J&K government as “draconian” which it said openly aims to create a sustained narrative on the functioning of the government in the media by checking on “anti-national activities, fake news and plagiarism.” On the detention of political leaders in Kashmir, the AI found that at least 70 of them- cutting across a wide political spectrum - were placed under administrative detention. However, it could not find a single case of detention of a political member belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – the ruling party in India. The AI India demands urged the government to restore 4G mobile internet, put an end to criminal investigations against journalists under PSA and UAPA and withdrawal of the new media policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/release-prisoners-restore-4g-internet-in-jk-ai-to-new-delhi-869877.html
05-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM lays foundation for Ram Temple in Ayodhya||In today’s episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya;  more than 100 people killed in Beirut explosion and Centre accepts a recommendation by the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.  Here is the top news of today, Wednesday: August 5, 2020: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, describing it as the instrument to unite the country. “Ram is the thread that strings together India's unity in diversity… the process of construction of the Ram Temple is an attempt to unite the nation,” the Prime Minister said after laying the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya, recalling the multitudinous references to Ram and Ramayana in languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Odiya, Bengali, Kashmiri, Malayalam. Modi also sought to draw parallels in the freedom struggle and the Ram temple movement. “Just as August 15 is representative of sacrifices by people all across the country towards the freedom struggle, this day marks the immense dedication and continuous struggle across generations for the Ram temple,” the Prime Minister said. Rescuers searched for survivors in Beirut Wednesday after a cataclysmic explosion at the port sowed devastation across entire neighbourhoods, killing more than 100 people, wounding thousands and plunging Lebanon deeper into crisis. The blast, which appeared to have been caused by a fire igniting 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate left unsecured in a warehouse, was felt as far away as Cyprus, some 150 miles (240 kilometres) to the northwest. The governor of Beirut, Marwan Abboud, described the disaster as "an apocalyptic situation" he estimated might have made 300,000 people temporarily homeless and would cost the country in excess of $3 billion. The scale of the destruction was such that the Lebanese capital resembled the scene of an earthquake, with thousands of people left homeless and thousands more cramming into overwhelmed hospitals for treatment. The mushroom-shaped explosion - which seismologists said was logged as the equivalent of a 3.3 magnitude quake -- and the scope of the damage drew nuclear analogies in many people's accounts of the tragedy. Fireworks and ammonium nitrate appear to have been the fuel that ignited a massive explosion that rocked the Lebanese capital of Beirut, experts and videos of the blast suggest. The scale of the damage — from the epicentre of the explosion at the port of Beirut to the windows blown out kilometres (miles) away — resembles other blasts involving the chemical compound commonly used as an agricultural fertilizer. But the compound itself typically doesn't detonate on its own and requires another ignition source. That likely came from a fire that engulfed what initially appeared to be fireworks that were stored at the port. The Centre has accepted a recommendation by the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy asked the Maharashtra government to inform the court by next week about the progress made in the case related to the mysterious death of the actor on June 14. "As of now perhaps Mumbai police has registered case of unnatural death. The FIR in Patna has raised certain other issues also.This case has hogged too much of media time and attention. Sending a police officer to quarantine does not send a good message," the bench told senior advocate R Basant for the state government.   "Are you sending the right message?" the bench asked the counsel. It added that "so many eyes are on the Bihar police and Mumbai police and the courts. Please file a reply on the issues. Kindly ensure that everything is done in a professional manner.” The court was hearing a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty for transferring the FIR lodged by Bihar police on June 25 on a complaint by Rajput's father K K Singh to Mumbai. The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the state assembly speaker on a set of appeals filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP national secretary Satish Mishra on the issue of merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The matter will now be heard again on Thursday. The duo approached the division bench of the high court on Tuesday with an appeal against the order of a single judge refusing stay on the functioning of the six BSP MLAs as Congress legislators. On request, the matter was listed on Wednesday before the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta.  Both the parties had filed writ petitions challenging the decision of Speaker CP Joshi in September 2019 allowing merger of the six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The single bench had issued notices to the speaker and secretary of the assembly and the six MLAs on July 30 and directed them to submit replies on August 11. However, the court had not granted any interim relief. The parties had demanded a stay on the participation of the six MLAs in the proceeding in the House as Congress legislators. A group of influential Democratic lawmakers has urged the Trump administration to exempt healthcare workers from the temporary suspension of the entry of certain foreign workers including those on H-1B visas, the most sought-after among Indian IT professionals. President Donald Trump, in his June proclamation, banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including the H-1B, arguing that they eat into American jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. In a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf and Labour Secretary Eugene Scalia, the lawmakers on Tuesday said that the restrictions hit the healthcare at large and particularly for the rural and underserved communities that rely on immigrant physicians. Even though the proclamation provides relaxations to the individuals working on the COVID-19 related care and research, they said it is overly restrictive, and limiting the supply of healthcare workers during this crisis puts all Americans at risk. A 200-bed Covid Care Centre was inaugurated by Transport Minister Laxman Savadi at KSRTC Bus Terminal in Peenya.  On the occasion, the minister said the terminal, named after Basaveshwara, was lying unused for a decade since it was built and is now finally being put to use for a good cause. Officials said that in the second phase of the project, an additional 100 beds will be added to the capacity of the centre along with a 10-bed intensive care unit (ICU). The centre will provide 50% of its beds for KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC employees and their families. These patients will be treated free of cost. About 10% of the beds have been reserved for patients referred to from Rotary and Titan, which have funded the project. The remaining 40% of beds will have patients referred to by BBMP. These patients will be charged as per government indicated rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-lays-foundation-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-869881.html
05-08-2020||National||Ram Temple: Tamilians praise Ravana on Twitter||It was Lord Ram everywhere on Wednesday as a grand ceremony marked the foundation laying for a temple for him in Ayodhya. But three hashtags on Twitter -- #LandofRavana and #TamilPrideRavana and #LandOfRavanan – trended mostly by Tamil users of the microblogging site did not go unnoticed. As the rest of India celebrated Lord Ram, Tamil Twitter was lavishing praise on “demon king” Ravana, who is eulogised for his valour in Kambaramayanam, the Tamil version of Ramayana penned by Valmiki. Ravana, who is considered as demon king in North India for his animosity towards Lord Ram, is celebrated as the pride of Tamils by many who believe he ruled the race once upon a time. The hashtags were trending in India and in Chennai for the better part of Wednesday and of course, there were intense exchanges between lovers of Lord Ram and Ravana. However, hashtags praising Lord Ram and those related to the event was trending way above these three. Some people took objection to #LandofRavana and #TamilPrideRavana hashtags arguing that it was the handiwork of those who support the Dravidian ideology. The tweets praised Ravana, his valour, while some also posted videos of late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi questioning the existence of Lord Ram. Karunanidhi had made those remarks in 2017 at the height of a massive controversy over Ram Setu, a mythological bridge believed to have been built by Lord Ram across the Palk Straits.  “Tamils are not Hindus. So, Raman is not our God. #LandOfRavanan #LandOfRavana,” one tweet read. At 4 pm, #LandofRavana was mentioned in 33,000 tweets, while #TamilPrideRavana secured 23,000 mentions on Twitter. Former civil servant Sashikanth Senthil wrote: “#LandOfRavanan is trending on Twitter. When the whole country is silently witnessing the circus. There is still a group of committed hearts down south who will fight injustice to the end.” Tamil Twitter is known for trending hashtags that are quite opposite or contradictory to what is trending in the rest of India. On May 30, 2019, when Narendra Modi was sworn-in as Prime Minister for a second term, the Tamil Twitter trended a feel-good hashtag #PrayForNesamani based on a comedy sequence of popular comedian Vadivelu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-tamilians-praise-ravana-on-twitter-869883.html
05-08-2020||National||Ayodhya Ram Temple: Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad shares original document of the Indian Constitution||On the occasion of the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday shared a photo of the original document of the Constitution, which has a sketch illustrating the Ramayana story of Lord Ram, Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya. "Original document of the Constitution of India has a beautiful sketch of Lord Ram, Mata Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya after defeating Ravan. This is available at the beginning of the chapter related to Fundamental Rights. I felt like sharing this with you all," tweeted the Minister, who has earlier served as a standing lawyer representing Ram Lalla deity in the court.   The Union Minister also said, "It is a historic day. The construction of Ram Temple has started in Ayodhya today after sacrifices, wait and patience of generations. Indians and many people from across the world were waiting for this day for centuries." Prasad had represented Ram Lalla Virajman, a petitioner in the Ayodhya title suit dispute which was decided in September 2010 by the Allahabad High Court. The Allahabad High Court had ordered the disputed site to be equally distributed among the claimants. Prasad used to frequently appear in television news debate on the Ram Temple issue. In the Supreme Court, noted lawyer K Parasaran led the argument for Ram Lalla Virajman as Prasad was the Union Law Minister when the apex court took the matter for hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-ram-temple-union-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-shares-original-document-of-the-indian-constitution-869906.html
05-08-2020||National||Ram temple likely to be completed in three years, says Vishwa Hindu Parishad||The construction of the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya, whose 'bhoomi pujan' was performed on Wednesday, is expected to be completed in the next three years, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) said. VHP international president Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje said there is enthusiasm among Hindus across the world over the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram temple. He blamed the Congress for the delay in the temple's construction. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya for the temple at the spot where many devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born, marking the beginning of its construction. Kokje told PTI, "There is enthusiasm among Hindus across the world over the foundation stone laying for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. "The smooth manner in which the work of temple construction has been going on after the formation of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra by the central government is amazing." He said, "We hope that the Ram temple in Ayodhya will be completed in three years." Kokje, a former judge of the Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan high courts, said the temple will be constructed with a slight change in the model prepared by the VHP under which stones were being carved for the last three decades. "Our model has been modified slightly to give the Ram temple a grand appearance. We have already carved stones for two floors which will be used in the construction of the temple," the VHP leader said. The VHP, which spearheaded the Ram temple movement, started carving stones for the structure at its workshop in Ayodhya in 1990. Kokje said post-independence, the plan to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya lagged behind due to "vote bank" politics of the Congress. He said, "Now Congress leaders are trying to show themselves as friendly towards Hindus in the changed atmosphere in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-likely-to-be-completed-in-three-years-says-vishwa-hindu-parishad-869919.html
05-08-2020||National||ED summons Rhea Chakraborty over Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned actor Rhea Chakraborty for questioning on August 7 in connection with a money laundering case stemming from a complaint filed by Sushant Singh Rajput's father following his death, officials said on Wednesday. Chakraborty will be questioned and her statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they said. The questioning is linked to a money laundering case that was registered by the ED last week on the basis of a Bihar Police FIR in which Rajput's father has accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor's suicide. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-rhea-chakraborty-over-sushant-singh-rajput-case-869930.html
05-08-2020||National||Pakistan, China reiterate opposition to India's Jammu and Kashmir move||Pakistan on Wednesday observed the anniversary of India’s August 5, 2019 move on Jammu and Kashmir as “Youm-e-Istehsal” or the “day of exploitation”, even as its “iron-brother” China reiterated that the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi on the “disputed territory” was “illegal” and “invalid”. A year after the Modi Government decided to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories, Pakistan and China continued to oppose the move made by India. “It (the move by New Delhi) is a crime against humanity that has destroyed lives, crippled livelihoods, and imperilled the very identity of the people of Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (IIOJK),” Imran Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan, said. “Let me be absolutely clear: Pakistan will always be with its brothers and sisters in IIOJK.” He also said that Pakistan, as well as the people of Kashmir, would never accept the illegal actions and oppressive measures by India. Khan on Tuesday issued a new political map of Pakistan incorporating in Pakistan, not only India’s two Union Territories – Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir – but also Junagadh in its western state of Gujarat. A one-minute silence was observed across Pakistan on Wednesday as a mark of protest against India’s August 5, 2019 move on J&K. Pakistan’s President Arif Alvi and Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi led a rally in the capital of the country to express solidarity with the people of Kashmir. The Chinese Government too expressed concern over the situation in Kashmir. “China is highly concerned about the situation in Kashmir,” Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said. “Our position on the Kashmir issue is consistent and clear: First, the issue of Kashmir is a historical dispute between Pakistan and India, which should be settled in accordance with the United Nations Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India”. He said that any unilateral change of the status quo in the Kashmir region was “illegal and invalid”. The dispute should be properly resolved by India and Pakistan through dialogue and consultation in a peaceful manner, added Wang.   Beijing joined Islamabad in opposing the Modi Government’s move on J&K, not only out of solidarity with its “iron brother”, but also due to its own concern over the implication of New Delhi’s decision on the China-India territorial row in the western sector of the disputed boundary.  New Delhi has been steadfastly resisting moves by Pakistan and China to bring the issue of J&K back to the UN Security Council’s agenda. It has been maintaining that the 1972 Shimla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration by the two sides had left no scope for the UN or any third party to play any role in resolving the “outstanding issues” between the two South Asian neighbours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-china-reiterate-opposition-to-indias-jammu-and-kashmir-move-869932.html
05-08-2020||National||Supreme Court suggests cheaper treatment for Covid-19 in smaller towns||The Supreme Court Wednesday suggested that there should be cheaper treatment for Covid-19 infected patients in smaller towns and asked the Centre to consider the aspect of prompt release of claims by insurance companies which cannot keep their hands off at the time of pandemic. The apex court was told by the Centre that health is a state subject and primary responsibility in terms of management of Covid-19 rests with the states. In a report filed in the top court, the Centre proposed that states "may on a priority basis arrive at fair rates for private hospitals to ensure that there is no over-charging from Covid-19 patients or indiscriminate hikes for patients". A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which was hearing the pleas including the one filed by advocate Sachin Jain who has sought direction for regulating the cost of treatment of Covid-19 at private hospitals across the country, suggested that there should be cheaper treatment for coronavirus infected patients in smaller towns. The top court made the suggestion after counsel appearing for private hospitals said that uniform price capping may not be feasible as it may vary in big and smaller cities. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, observed that insurance companies cannot keep their hands off at the time of pandemic and the government should consider the aspect of prompt release of dues by them. The bench was told by an advocate appearing for private hospitals that price capping for Covid-19 treatment should not be made applicable in cases of co-morbidities. The apex court has posted the matter for further hearing after 15 days. The Centre, in its report filed in the apex court, has said that depending on number of cases and availability of health infrastructure in government set-up, states may consider exploring utilizing health facilities available in private sector to augment the available public health infrastructure for Covid-19. It said that many states have also fixed rates for treatment of Covid-19 and communicated the same to private hospitals. "The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is of the view that while the decision for utilizing services of private sector rests with the states, a normative guideline may be provided to states to facilitate them for arriving at reasonable rates for the private hospitals to undertake Covid-19 treatment," it said, while proposing the guiding principles in this regard. It said that states may arrive at rates for Covid-19 treatment after appropriate consultation with the stakeholders. "States may consider Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY and/or CGHS rates as the benchmark basic rates. Certain states have already fixed rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in their states. The criteria adopted by those states may also be examined by other states in their own context," it said. It further said that costing may consider parameters like categorization of hospitals, illness, beds, tier wise categorization of cities and hospitals and the cost "ideally" should be all inclusive. It said that Covid-19 treatment should be based on standard treatment protocols and on rational use of PPEs, as issued and circulated by the ministry, and states should set up a mechanism where such fair rates are given wide publicity and where grievances regarding overcharging can be redressed within fixed timeline. The Centre also proposed that states should set up oversight mechanisms for monitoring and enforcement of rates and shall ensure that treatment rates so finalized be widely disseminated not only at state headquarters level but also at district and sub-district level making full use of media. "The rates so fixed can be reviewed from time to time, keeping in view the possibility of reduction in costs of drugs, consumables and evolving clinical management protocols," it said. The Centre informed the bench that as per the court's direction, it had accorded personal hearing to all the parties, including petitioner Jain, on July 16 and the issue was deliberated upon. The top court had last month said that no one should be turned away from hospital due to higher cost of treatment. It had asked the government to consider framing guideline on the issue of cost of treatment for Covid-19 infection. In June, the apex court had asked private hospitals whether they were ready to provide treatment to Covid-19 infected patients at the charges prescribed under the government's Ayushman Bharat Scheme. The 'Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana' is aimed at providing health cover to poor and vulnerable persons in the country. In its affidavit filed earlier in the top court, the Centre had said, "It is therefore submitted that the Central Government, within its statutory powers or powers of delegated legislation, cannot make this particular bifurcation for the lack of a requisite statutory framework for the said classification". It had said that entire health infrastructure has been brought to most appropriate use for treatment of Covid-19 in the country and the Centre has taken several measures to strengthen public health facilities where medical care is provided free of cost to all patients. "The care cost in the private sector is not regulated by the Central Government," the affidavit had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-suggests-cheaper-treatment-for-covid-19-in-smaller-towns-869933.html
05-08-2020||National||PM's mother watches Ayodhya event on TV with folded hands||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nonagenarian mother watched the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya live on television at her residence near Gandhinagar on Wednesday. The state information department released the photos of Hiraben watching the event on TV. The photos showed her sitting on a chair with folded hands and watching the programme when PM Modi performed the bhoomi poojan. Hiraben lives with her younger son Pankaj Modi in Raysan area on the outskirts of Gandhinagar. The PM laid the foundation of the temple, bringing to fruition the BJP's 'mandir' movement that defined its politics for three decades and aided its ascendance to the heights of power. Celebrations were held in various parts of Gujarat on the occasion and special prayers were offered in many temples across the state. People also expressed their joy by distributing sweets and bursting crackers. Hoardings in celebration of the event were also put up in various cities of Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-mother-watches-ayodhya-event-on-tv-with-folded-hands-869935.html
05-08-2020||National||SC seeks info from Centre, NHRC on custodial deaths||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre and NHRC asking them to file data on custodial deaths.  A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran sought the details after hearing senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing as amicus curiae. The counsel pointed out alarming figures on such deaths. He pleaded for reviving the landmark 1986 case of D K Basu for issuing directions in case of custodial death, and torture. The court also sought to know if the state human rights panel was functioning in each State. In his plea, Singhvi said a dangerous trend has started lately wherein the elected representatives have made statements in public that tend to encourage, patronise and endorse custodial violence or deaths and encounter killings. According to the 2017-18 annual report of NHRC, as many as 1,636  intimations concerning death in judicial custody was received, including 148 related to death in police custody during the year.  The NHRC recommended prosecution in only two cases and departmental inquiry in only 38  cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-info-from-centre-nhrc-on-custodial-deaths-869937.html
05-08-2020||National||SC rejects Prashant Bhushan's plea in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a petition by activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan, challenging entertaining of a "defective" contempt plea in violation of his right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra dismissed the writ petition by Bhushan, which sought to recall the order on listing the petition by one Mahek Maheshwari against him on July 22 in a fresh contempt, and the July 24 order in 2009 contempt case for being "unconstitutional, illegal, void and non-est".  Maheshwari, a Gwalior-based lawyer, had filed a contempt petition against Bhushan which was converted into Suo Motu criminal contempt. After hearing senior advocate Dushyant Dave on behalf of Bhushan, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, declined to entertain the plea, pointing out alleged procedural irregularities. Bhushan also claimed to accept the petition by Maheshwari, filed without consent from the Attorney General or the Solicitor General, was illegal in terms of Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act. He also submitted the matter could not have been placed before a bench led by Justice Arun Mishra without providing him with a copy of the administrative order.  Meanwhile, the court reserved its judgement in the Suo Motu criminal contempt against Bhushan. The advocate issued the notice on July 22 for his tweet on June 27, wherein he accused four CJIs of "playing a role in the destruction of democracy". He faced the adverse action for another tweet on June 29, wherein he accused the current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and keeping "the SC in lockdown denying citizens their fundamental right to justice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-prashant-bhushans-plea-in-contempt-case-869939.html
05-08-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, West Bengal on plea for CBI probe into hanging of MLA||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea for seeking a CBI probe into the mysterious death of a West Bengal BJP MLA Debendra Nath Ray, who was found hanging from a tree, last month. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra sought a response from the CBI as well as the state government within six weeks on a petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha and journalist Savio Rodrigues. The petitioners sought the investigation into Ray's death by the central agency. The BJP has last month termed the death as "extremely shocking and deplorable" as it suspected role of the ruling TMC party workers. It also claimed the people believed that the MLA from Hemtabad, a reserved seat in Uttara Dinjapur, was first killed and then hung.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-west-bengal-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-hanging-of-mla-869942.html
05-08-2020||National||India hits out at China over comments on Jammu and Kashmir||India on Wednesday hit out at China for calling reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir as "illegal and invalid" and asserted that Beijing does not have any locus standi on the matter. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said China is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations. "We have noted the comments of the Chinese MFA spokesperson on the Indian Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Chinese side has no locus standi whatsoever on this matter and is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations," he said. India's reaction came hours after a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in Beijing that any unilateral change to status quo of Jammu and Kashmir is illegal and invalid. The Chinese spokesperson made the comments following a question by a Pakistani correspondent on the completion of one year of the revocation of special status to Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into two union territories--Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-china-over-comments-on-jammu-and-kashmir-869943.html
05-08-2020||National||Bhushan's tweets did attack independence of judiciary, Dave to SC||Senior advocate Dushyant Dave on Wednesday asked the Supreme Court to drop contempt proceedings against activist advocate Prashant Bhushan, making out a strong defence of the tweets made by him. He submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra that there was nothing wrong in criticising the judiciary. Those tweets, including the one related to CJI sitting on a high-end bike, did not attack the independence of the judiciary or caused obstruction in administration of justice, he said. Dave, also SC Bar Association President, referred to sexual harassment case against then CJI Ranjan Gogoi, saying all charges against the woman-employee were dropped and no contempt was issued against her. It showed she was speaking the truth. He referred to the matter related to Article 370, saying those petitions were not listed for months. Dave also referred to Tablighi Jamaat issue where the matter related to the media's alleged hate campaign was taken cognisance of but was not listed for a long time.   He said people like Bhushan took up cases which executive was not willing to. Bhushan's invaluable and untiring efforts in several landmark cases can't be ignored. Had he been pro-establishment, he would have been conferred with 'Padma Vibhushan', Dave said. "You are the parents of 130 crore Indians. We know politicians in our country. It is up to the SC to uphold rights of citizens," he submitted, saying he was perhaps appearing last time before the bench. The court reserved its judgement on the contempt notice issued to Bhushan for his tweets, one related to the CJI sitting on a bike and closing the Supreme Court and another on last four CJIs playing a role in the destruction of democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhushans-tweets-did-attack-independence-of-judiciary-dave-to-sc-869945.html
05-08-2020||National||'Ramrajya': Twitter reacts to Ram Temple ceremony||As the Ram Temple became a reality after prime minister Narendra Modi performed its 'bhoomi pujan' on Wednesday, the temple town of Ayodhya is all set for a complete makeover with a slew of developmental projects either launched or in the pipeline for the town. As this day marked another page in history, here is how people reacted to Ram mandir bhoomi pujan:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramrajya-twitter-reacts-to-ram-temple-ceremony-869949.html
05-08-2020||National||Twelve people killed in rain-related incidents as heavy rainfall batters parts of many states||Twelve people, including three children, were killed in rain-related incidents across the country as heavy rainfall lashed parts of Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra's Mumbai city and its neighbouring districts on Wednesday, affecting various services. Three fishermen, who ventured into a river near Kochi in Kerala, were reported missing after their country boats capsized in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. A fresh spell of rains drenched parts of the national capital on Wednesday, bringing relief from sultry weather. The rains inundated a few low-lying areas and affected traffic on some roads. The India Meteorological Department said rainfall occurred over many places in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida and Greater Noida. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 12.6 mm rainfall. The Lodhi Road and Palam weather stations gauged 18.5 mm and 14.4 mm precipitation. The mercury dropped slightly due to rains and settled at 35.4 degrees Celsius. Major rivers in Uttar Pradesh continued to flow above the danger mark at some places of the state where 536 villages in 16 districts have been hit by floods, officials said. The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri's Palia Kalan, the Saryu river at Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar, and the Rapti at Gorakhpur's Bird Ghat were flowing above the red mark. Five people -- three children and two women -- drowned when the boat in which they were crossing the overflowing Saryu (Ghaghra) river in Mau district capsized. The ill-fated boat was coming towards Teliakala village from Mau district and due to the overflowing river it went out of control and overturned. Heavy rains lashed parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts of Maharashtra, affecting some local train and bus services due to water-logging on rail tracks and roads, officials said. Rains also lashed Pune, Satara and Kolhapur districts in western Maharashtra, they said. Dahanu in Palghar recorded over 350 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Wednesday, while some areas in Thane received over 150 mm during the period, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Water-logging was reported in low-lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai. South Mumbai was badly hit as heavy rains led to water-logging on several roads and low-lying areas and to make the situation worse, several trees fell due to gusty winds, damaging vehicles, officials said. A five-year-old girl was rescued after she was left clinging to a tree for over four hours during a flash flood due to heavy rains in Dahanu taluka of Palghar district on Wednesday. Extremely heavy rains will continue to batter Mumbai and neighbouring areas until Thursday morning, the IMD said in a special bulletin. Five labourers died and two were injured when a newly constructed wall of a factory collapsed due to heavy rains near Silvassa city in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, police said. Landslides hit rail and road traffic on Goa-Karnataka borders, while low-lying villages were inundated, as incessant rains continued to pummel the coastal state for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. Rains continued in the south Bengal districts on Wednesday with a low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal. Meanwhile, low pressure has become well marked over northwest Bay of Bengal adjoining Odisha and West Bengal coasts, triggering widespread rainfall over Gangetic Bengal. Light to moderate rainfall was recorded in North and South 24 Parganas districts, East and West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly, Jhargram and East Burdwan. Heavy rainfall was reported from a few isolated pockets in these districts in the past 24 hours. The western districts of the state, including Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, also received rains. Debagram in Nadia district recorded highest 9 cm rainfall, followed by Burdwan, Panagarh and Barrackpore - each recording 7 cm rainfall. Heavy rains battered many parts of Odisha. Bhubaneswar recorded 149.4 mm rainfall in 24 hours and several low-lying areas experienced waterlogging. The weatherman issued an orange warning for several districts till Thursday, saying heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at some places in Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Sundargarh among others. In Tamil Nadu, incessant rains lashing the region under the influence of active South West Monsoon claimed two lives in hilly Nilgiris District in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday and disrupted normal life. Two men, aged 52 and 43, died when roadside trees fell on them in separate incidents at Kokkal and Fingerpost areas near the district-headquarter town of Udhagamandalam. Heavy rains have been lashing Nilgiris and parts of Coimbatore district, bordering Kerala, since the past few days, with some villages being marooned and several trees uprooted. Several rural areas in Coimbatore district also witnessed moderate to heavy rains for the last 24 hours, resulting in release of surplus water into Bhavani river from Pillur Dam in Mettupalayam, about 45 km from here. Thousands of banana plantations, which were ready for harvest, fell down due to heavy winds and rains at Chadivayal in Thondamuthur on the city outskirts, dealing a blow to the growers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twelve-people-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-as-heavy-rainfall-batters-parts-of-many-states-869952.html
05-08-2020||National||Ram Mandir foundation: VHP felicitates families of 2002 Sabarmti Express train carnage case||"Our aim of building a Ram mandir in Ayodhya is almost fulfilled with the bhoomi poojan ceremony performed by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our relatives sacrificed their lives for this day and I can say that their sacrifice hasn't gone in vain. It is a historical day for my family as our aim to build the temple is finally being realised now," said Janak Panchal who lost his brother Shailesh in Sabarmati Express train carnage case at Godhra railway station in 2002 while returning from Ayodhya after kar seva for the temple movement along with hundreds of other volunteers. Panchal, 58, recalled that he was also travelling in Sabarmati Express train on that fateful day 18 years ago when S-6 coach was set on fire leading to the death of 59 kar sevaks who were returning from Ayodhya. "My brother was one of the victims. I was also on the train but in another coach and that's why I was saved. Later, I helped in identifying dead bodies and bringing them to Sola civil hospital in Ahmedabad from where they were handed over to their relatives," he told DH after his felicitation.   In the same incident Vilas, 48, lost his father Sadashiv Jadhav who was also travelling in the coach S-6. He said, "This is a historic day for all of us. Today is the day that ended the disgrace of Hindu community which had been longing for a temple of Ramji at his birthplace. We will have a grand temple now for which we had been fighting for centuries. For me, this is like Diwali. We all are so happy." On February 27, 2002, a violent mob had set S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express on fire at Godhra railway station burning 59 kar sevaks to death. The dead bodies were sent to Sola civil hospital in Ahmedabad from where they were handed over to their relatives. The funerals were performed under full public view leading to tension and ultimately ended up in one of the worst communal riots in the state. So far, 33 persons, all residents of Godhra, have been sentenced in the carnage case. Meanwhile, in the function, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said that "Today ended the 500 years-long struggle for building the temple at Lord Ram's birthplace in Ayodhya. The temple had been destroyed by foreign invaders and erected a structure (dhancha) in that place. We had to deal with different kinds of fighting since then to free the birthplace for which hundreds and thousands were martyred. Those were not our times and everybody knows that it is only when the god wants certain things to happen. By everyone's effort, we completed one set of work on December 6. Since the construction of the temple was left and for that, the prime minister laid the foundation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-mandir-foundation-vhp-felicitates-families-of-2002-sabarmti-express-train-carnage-case-869969.html
05-08-2020||National||Coronil demand at 10 lakh packs a day: Baba Ramdev||Patanjali Ayurved is witnessing demand of around 10 lakh packs daily for its controversial Covid-19 immunity booster medicine Coronil, according to Yoga Guru Ramdev. The Haridwar-based company is struggling to meet the demand as it is able to supply only around one lakh packs, Ramdev said on Wednesday. "Today we have a demand of 10 lakh packs of Coronil daily and we are able to supply only one lakh,” he claimed. Stressing that Patanjali Ayurved had priced it only at Rs 500, Ramdev said, "Had we put a higher price of even Rs 5,000, in this Covid-19 times, we could have easily earned up to Rs 5,000 crore from this. But we have not done so.” The yoga guru behind the ayurved enterprise was speaking at a virtual series organised by industry body ASSOCHAM on Aatmanirbhar Bharat - 'Vocal for Local'. Earlier in June, Ramdev had claimed that Coronil can cure Covid-19 patients. However, the AYUSH Ministry immediately put restrictions on Patanjali over selling it. Later, the Union ministry confirmed that Patanjali can sell the product only as immunity booster but not as a cure for Covid-19. The Madras High Court had restrained Patanjali from using Coronil trademark till July 30, over a petition filed a Chennai-based company. Ramdev suggested industry leaders to work with honesty to build a brand on which the people have trust and it needs a long term approach. “To maintain that trust, you have to work honestly with dedication,” he said. He also asked people to have patience during the pandemic in order to come out of the health crisis. According to him, Patanjali has become a brand, which is a combined result of efforts, respect for traditional knowledge and hard work. “Now Patanjali has become a big brand…. the success mantra of Patanjali is - knowledge, faith, respect and efforts only,” he said. Several companies mocked on us with derision saying that Patanjali has faith but not science, he added. “Today we have over 500 scientists working for us. We could not have done this, if we had no knowledge about it,” he said. According to him though he believes in guru–shishya tradition, religion and culture but also believe in scientific temperament. “We have made our cow ghee a Rs 1,300-1,400 crore annual brand,” he said adding that several companies, operating in the segment, failed to create such a big brand in the segment. Patanjali group has an estimated turnover of around 10,500 crore. It had acquired debt-ridden Ruchi Soya in a corporate insolvency resolution process for around Rs 4,350 crore after competing with Adani Group. Ayurved had reported a turnover of Rs 8,329 crore in FY2018-19. However, total turnover of the group was higher as Patanjali Ayurved consists of its FMCG business and Ayurvedic medicines. Businesses like biscuits, noodles, dairy business, solar panels and apparels are not part of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronil-demand-at-10-lakh-packs-a-day-baba-ramdev-869985.html
05-08-2020||National||No love in absence of fear: PM Modi's message to China, Pakistan in Ayodhya||Latching on to the 'Ramcharitamanas', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday flagged that only a strong nation could usher in peace, underlining the need to strengthen India’s capabilities to defend herself. Modi quoted Lord Ram as saying: 'Bhay binu hoi na priti (there is no love in absence of fear)', which means only a militarily strong nation can bring peace. This was seen as a message for Pakistan and China that seem to have colluded to keep India’s northern and western borders active in the last few months. “India would be peaceful and happy as long as it continues to grow stronger. The same policy and practice of Lord Rama has been guiding India for many years,” he said. The Prime Minister’s comments come at a time when the stalemate in the eastern Ladakh where Chinese troops have kept Indian territory under their occupation is far from being over with the Indian Army preparing for the long haul in the winter months. Pakistan, on the other hand, has opened up a new front by publishing maps claiming the massive portions of Jammu and Kashmir. India on its part increased the troop presence in Ladakh and sternly told the Chinese military commanders to withdraw from the Indian territory for the disengagement negotiation to continue. In the middle of the crisis, New Delhi also received the first batch of five French Rafale fighter aircraft that has the potential to become a game-changer in the subcontinent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-love-in-absence-of-fear-pm-modis-message-to-china-pakistan-in-ayodhya-869996.html
05-08-2020||National||How Ram Lalla acquired personhood and became a legal entity||The Ayodhya Ram Mandir, managed by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust, saw its foundation being laid on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 2.77 acres of land that was contested for decades, now belong to Ram Lalla Virajman or the infant deity Ram.  Ram Lalla was one of the three contestants in the legal dispute. Read on to find out how exactly he acquired personhood.  The stakeholders in the matter -  Before the Supreme Court judgement on November 9, 2019, that settled the three-party dispute in the favour of Ram Lalla Virajman, the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute was a complicated and long-drawn matter. There were three stakeholders at its crux - the Nirmohi Akhara, who are a group of Hindu devotees worshipping Lord Ram, Triloki Nath Pandey representative of Ram Lalla Virajman (the installed Infant Ram deity), and the Sunni Wakf Board.  While the Nirmohi Akhara and Sunni Wakf Board received extensive media coverage as stakeholders of the issue, there was always an air of mystery around who exactly Ram Lalla Virajman was, and how he was treated as a legal entity.  So how did Ram Lalla become a juristic entity?  The idea of a juristic entity is that of a body being recognised as a human being with the same rights. A body or company can be recognised as a juristic entity, meaning they would have the same rights as a person.  In India, several entities, including deities, rivers like Ganga, and even corporations have been regarded as juristic entities. This means that Ram Lalla acquired personhood and could seek legal representation through a representative.  The history of the law -  Is every deity a legal entity?  The role of Sakhas -  It was with this legal history that Deoki Nandan Agarwal, a retired High Court judge, applied to become the sakha or ‘first-friend’ of Ram Lalla Virajman, the deity. Agarwal had been a devotee of Lord Ram and later a senior member of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad.  The titular dispute lasted so long that Ram lalla’s sakha changed several times.  Deoki Nandan Agarwal died on April 8, 2002. After his death, it was TP Verma, a professor of History, who was assigned as the next sakha to Ram Lalla. Post Verma’s ‘retirement’ from the position, Triloki Nath Pandey took the charge. Ram Lalla has since been deemed as a perpetual minor, treated as a juristic entity represented by his sakha during this long-drawn legal battle. Therefore, the once-disputed territory now belongs to Ram Lalla Virajman, who can seek legal counsel through his sakha, Triloki Nath Pandey. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust would suprevise the construction and management of the Ram Mandir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-ram-lalla-acquired-personhood-and-became-a-legal-entity-870001.html
05-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries now over twice the number of active cases as death toll tops 40k||India on Wednesday crossed the 40,000-mark in Covid-19 casualties, reporting higher single-day deaths than the worst-hit US and Brazil even as the total confirmed cases of the infectious disease were galloping to the 20 lakh-mark. However, on the positive side, the recovery rate among Covid-19 patients was getting better every day as 51,706 persons were cured and discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, the highest single-day recoveries so far. “The recoveries till now total up to 12,82,215, more than twice the active cases,” a health ministry official said. On Tuesday, the difference between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases had reached nearly seven lakh. “Due to the record highest daily recoveries, the active cases have reduced to 5,86,244 marginally on Tuesday when compared to 5,86,298 on Monday. As cases continued to pile up, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there was no need to be overawed by the increasing numbers as long as patients were identified in time, isolated and treated.  ' A Health Ministry statement said India had tested more than six lakh samples for Covid-19 for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, taking the total samples tested to 2.14 crore. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 19,24,649 confirmed cases of the infectious disease, while recoveries had touched 12,95,661 at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday. The total deaths had touched 40,057. Among the big cities, daily new cases appeared to have plateaued in Bengaluru and Kolkata, while Thane, Delhi, Pune were witnessing a steady decline. However, Mumbai still continued to report a high case fatality rate (CFR) of 5.5% as against the national average of 2.1% of the total cases. The CFR in Kolkata (3.4%) Delhi (2.9%), Thane (2.8%) and Pune (2.4%) was higher than the national average. The CFR was below the national average in Bengaluru (1.8%) and Guwahati (0.3%).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-now-over-twice-the-number-of-active-cases-as-death-toll-tops-40k-870003.html
05-08-2020||National||'Tamra Patra' sent by Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham put in Ram Temple base||A 'tamra patra' (copper sheet) specially prepared for the 'bhumi pujan' ceremony of the Ram Temple had been sent by the Shankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham. The 'tamra patra', which was put into the 'vedi' (the altar) of the Temple base along with the silver bricks by prime minister Narendra Modi, was engraved with a write up on the religious importance of the Ram Temple. The priest, who conducted the puja, mentioned the 'tamra patra' during the rituals before Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamra-patra-sent-by-kanchi-kamakoti-peetham-put-in-ram-temple-base-870014.html
05-08-2020||National||Modi smoothens rough edges of Hindutva politics in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday sought to smoothen the rough edges of his party’s hard-line Hindutva politics during his speech, after the groundbreaking (Bhoomi Pujan) ceremony for Ram temple at Ayodhya, reaching out to all sections of the society, while RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hailed Ram as a symbol of unity amid diversity of India. Bhagwat spoke of making “Man Ki Ayodhya” (Ayodhya of the heart) and embracing all by forgetting differences. Modi, along with the Ram of Valmiki Ramayana, also spoke of the Nirgun (formless) Rama of Kabir and Guru Nanak and the Ram of Mahatma Gandhi, who in his morning prayer sang ‘Ishwar Allah Tero Naam’. On the day a key promise of the Sangh Parivaar was fulfilled, party leaders made a conscious effort to tone down the rhetoric while projecting the temple as a symbol of national pride. The PM said: “We have to enjoin the stones of the Ram temple with mutual love and brotherhood, we have to take care of everybody’s sentiments. We have to carry out the development of all sections with everyone’s trust and taking everybody together. Ram is in favour of modernism, Ram is in favour of the change.” He gave examples from Ram’s life that symbolise harmony and equality, involving his relationship with the Kevat (the boatman), Shabari (Shabari shrines are common in scheduled caste hamlets) and the Vanvasis (tribals). He also mentioned Suheldev, the king of Shravasti, who had in 11th century defeated Ghazi Salar Masud, nephew of Mahmud of Ghazani. When Suheldev caught the imaginations of Hindu scheduled caste people, a political party was born. Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party led by OM Prakash Rajbhar in UP allied with BJP in 2014. Modi likened the Ayodhya issue to pre-1947 freedom struggle celebrated on August 15 in which everyone, irrespective of their caste, supported Gandhi. He said as the construction of Ram temple began with support from all sections of the society. Instead of the aggressive Jai Shri Ram slogan, Modi began his speech with ‘Siya Ram and Siyavar Ram’, a household chant in Hindu homes in Northern India. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu praised Iqbal Ansari, a litigant from the Muslim side in Ayodhya dispute, for attending the event. VHP working president Alok Kumar said: “Now we have to move towards the establishment of Ramatva (Ramahood) on earth and eradicate poverty, malaise, inequality, illiteracy and unemployment from the country. All should come together to ensure education and employment, food, clothing and shelter for all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-smoothens-rough-edges-of-hindutva-politics-in-ayodhya-870015.html
05-08-2020||National||Fresh plea filed in SC claims Sushant and his manager death interconnected, seeks CBI probe||A fresh plea was filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court seeking the CBI probe into the suspicious death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his former manager Disha Salian, saying both the cases were inter-connected. An advocate, Puneet Kaur Dhanda pointed out that social media is full of conspiracy theories and rumours about Salian, 28-year-old public relations executive. Recently, it was also reported that case files of Salian are missing or have been deleted by the Mumbai police. "Therefore, in these circumstances, it is necessary to provide redress to the death of Salian the investigation may kindly be referred to Central Bureau of Investigation," she contended.  Salian had died on June 8 in suspicious circumstances after a fall from a building, following a party at her boyfriend actor Rohan Rai's residence at Malad in Mumbai, days before alleged suicide of Rajput on June 14. The police had claimed her death was a suicide. The advocate sought a direction to the Mumbai police to place the files related to the deaths of Salian and Rajput and direct the court-monitored CBI probe. She has cited a news report, stating that Salian's deleted reports raised suspicion on the theory of involvement of prominent politician in Rajput's case. "The news article clearly revealed the involvement of many celebrities in the death of Salian and Rajput, including of Aditya Thackeray. Sushant knew something about Disha's death. He used to utter 'They Will Destroy Me', but never revealed who," the petitioner claimed. "A CBI probe into Salian and Rajput's murders is necessary in the present scenario. The petitioner wants a fair trial in their murder case without the interference of politicians," she said in her plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-plea-filed-in-sc-claims-sushant-and-his-manager-death-interconnected-seeks-cbi-probe-870016.html
05-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan HC issues notice to Speaker C P Joshi over merger of BSP MLAs||The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the state assembly Speaker on a set of appeals filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP national secretary Satish Mishra on the issue of merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The matter will now be heard again on Thursday. The duo approached the division bench of the high court on Tuesday with an appeal against the order of a single judge refusing stay on the functioning of the six BSP MLAs as Congress legislators. On request, the matter was listed on Wednesday before the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta.  Both the parties had filed writ petitions challenging the decision of Speaker CP Joshi in September 2019 allowing merger of the six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The single bench had issued notices to the speaker and secretary of the assembly and the six MLAs on July 30 and directed them to submit replies on August 11. However, the court had not granted any interim relief. The parties had demanded a stay on the participation of the six MLAs in the proceeding in the House as Congress legislators. Against this, the BJP MLA and BSP had filed separate appeals on Tuesday and made a mention for urgent listing of the same before the division bench. Six BSP MLAs-- Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha-- had defected to the Congress in September last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-hc-issues-notice-to-speaker-c-p-joshi-over-merger-of-bsp-mlas-869726.html
05-08-2020||National Politics||When L K Advani was arrested in Bihar during Ram Rath Yatra||BJP patriarch L K Advani was not able to attend the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony in Ayodhya on Wednesday, but it was he who actually laid the foundation of Ram Temple movement three decades back. On September 25, 1990, L K Advani, the then tallest BJP leader, along with his confidant Pramod Mahajan, started his Rath Yatra after offering puja at Somnath Temple in Gujarat. The plan was chalked out such that after covering till Bihar, the yatra would eventually culminate at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh where Advani would lay the foundation for the construction of a majestic Ram Temple. The idea was strongly opposed by the then Prime Minister V P Singh, whose National Front Government was supported by the BJP as well as the Left. Amid political turbulence, Advani's rath entered Bihar on October 19, 1990. Lalu Prasad was then the Bihar chief minister, who had sworn in barely seven months ago. Lalu was in constant touch with the Prime Minister and kept V P Singh abreast with the volatile situation. As Advani's chariot (a swanky air-conditioned bus) entered Dhanbad (now in Jharkhand, but then in undivided Bihar), Lalu reportedly asked its Deputy Commissioner (DC) Afzal Amanullah to detain the BJP leader. Amanullah was the son-in-law of Syed Shahabuddin (the IFS officer-turned-Parliamentarian), who was also the then convenor of the Babri Masjid Action Committee. The Dhanbad DC, apprehending communal strife, avoided detaining Advani. On October 23, Advani's rath entered Patna where the BJP veteran addressed a huge gathering amid chanting of slogans: 'Kasam Ram ki khatein hain, Mandir wahin banayenge.'  The frenzy was seen to be believed. The same day, Advani moved ahead and stopped at Samastipur to spend his night at Samastipur Circuit House. After constant confabulations with the prime minister, Lalu eventually decided that time had come to detain Advani, or else, the communal harmony in the country may be disturbed. He asked the District Magistrate R K Singh, one of the most competent IAS officers (who later became Union Home Secretary during P Chidambaram's tenure before joining the BJP and eventually becoming Union Minister in Narendra Modi Cabinet), to arrest Advani. In the wee hours of October 24, 1990, Singh knocked Advani's doors and showed him his arrest warrant. "Along with Pramod Mahajan, Advani was flown to the picturesque location of Masanjore IB (Inspection Bungalow), 35 km from Dumka (then in undivided Bihar, now in Jharkhand), in a helicopter," recounted P C Choudhary, who was then the Executive Engineer of Dumka and the Irrigation Department IB was under his jurisdiction. "There were four rooms in the Inspection Bungalow. Two rooms were allocated to Advani and Mahajan, while Singh and the then Dumka SP stayed in the other two rooms to ensure fool-proof security to the top BJP leaders," Choudhary told Deccan Herald. Soon after Advani's arrest, Atal Bihari Vajpayee marched to Rashtrapati Bhavan and withdrew support to the VP Singh government, thereby, leading to collapse of the 11-month-old National Front government. The rest, as they say, is history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-l-k-advani-was-arrested-in-bihar-during-ram-rath-yatra-869747.html
05-08-2020||National Politics||Lord Ram ultimate embodiment of supreme human values: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values and can never appear in cruelty, hatred or injustice. The former Congress president's reaction came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the 'bhoomi poojan' of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's 'mandir' movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Maryada Purshottam Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values. He is the core of humanism embedded deep in our hearts". "Ram is love, he can never appear in hatred. Ram is compassion, he can never appear in cruelty. Ram is justice, he can never appear in injustice," he said. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event at the site where a large number of devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. The guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lord-ram-ultimate-embodiment-of-supreme-human-values-rahul-gandhi-869851.html
05-08-2020||National Politics||Congress immerses in 'Ram dhun' as PM Modi launches Ayodhya temple construction||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, Congress leaders sang paeans to Lord Ram, marking a significant shift in the political stand by a party that was opposed to the temple movement. Though Congress President Sonia Gandhi has not spoken a word on the Ram Temple ceremony, her children – Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi has spoken in favour to the temple and subtly highlighting the all-encompassing character of Ram as against the “divisive” politics practised by the RSS-BJP. “Maryada Purshottam Ram manifests the best human qualities. He is an expression of the core tenet of humanity that dwells deep in our mind,” Rahul said on Twitter. “Ram is love. He can never be the manifestation of hatred. Ram is compassion. He can never be the manifestation of cruelty. Ram is justice. He can never be a manifestation of injustice,” the former Congress President said. After Congress came out in support of the Ram Temple on Tuesday, Congress leaders across age groups celebrated the launch of the construction of the temple in Ayodhya and raising the slogan ‘Jai Shri Ram’ once associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the BJP. Nonagenarian Motilal Vora, a former Uttar Pradesh Governor, greeted the nation on the auspicious occasion of the foundation stone laying ceremony, while young leader Rajini Nayak broke into verse to celebrate the occasion. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said crores of devotees of Ram were eager to see a Ram Temple in Ayodhya. “Their wish is fulfilled,” Sharma said. However, he also pointed out that keeping matters of faith and politics separate was beneficial to the long-term health of the country, society and democracy. The Congress’ embrace of Ram is seen as an attempt to portray that it too is the keeper of Hindu interests, a message it had found difficult to convey in the BJP’s aggressive pursuit of Hindutva.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-immerses-in-ram-dhun-as-pm-modi-launches-ayodhya-temple-construction-869960.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Jamia girl among top 40 in UPSC results in fifth attempt||For 26-year-old Ruchi Bindal, it was a case of being fifth time lucky as she secured the 39th all-India rank in UPSC’s Civil Services Exam, the results for which were announced on Tuesday, and dedicated her success to her late grandfather who passed away just days before her crucial interview. Bindal received coaching at the Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) of the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University where she had enrolled last year. "This was my fifth attempt. After failing four times, it was difficult for me to pick up myself but my family motivated me to not lose hope. The feeling of clearing UPSC is just sinking in," she told PTI over the phone. Bindal's father is a businessman while her mother is a homemaker. She did her graduation in BA programme from Delhi University's Lady Shri Ram College and her post-graduation in Conflict Analysis and Peace Building from Jamia Millia Islamia. She had lost her grandfather on March 16, a few days before her March 23 interview, which was subsequently postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "I want to dedicate this day to my grandfather as it was his dream to see me succeed. I miss him terribly and wish he was here," she said.   It was her family's dream to see her as an IAS officer, she said, adding that it became her dream only when she entered LSR as she was exposed to various administrative policies and how the administration works. "I focussed on getting into the services only after I learnt about various administrative policies. For my preparations, I relied on expanding my knowledge base and brushing it up daily. I did a lot of mock tests," she added. She said in serving the nation as a civil servant, she wants to work against child marriage and do something positive for transgenders. Thirty candidates who received coaching and training in JMI's RCA have been selected in UPSC'S Civil Services Exam 2019. Out of the 30, 25 were residing in RCA and five were trained at the mock interview programme of the centre, a statement from the varsity said. "This is the biggest selected group in the country from any public coaching centre," it added. Out of 30 selected candidates, six are expected to get IAS, eight are likely to get IPS and the remaining candidates will get IRS, Audit & Account Service, IRTS and other allied services of Group-A as per their ranking and choices. Bindal, who secured 39th rank is the best performer from the RCA this year. Six out of 30 selected candidates are women. Professor Najma Akhtar, Vice Chancellor, JMI said the consistently high performance of RCA, JMI, trained students in civil services examinations year after year was a matter of great pride and satisfaction for the university. "We expect better results in the coming years," she said in the statement. Last year Junaid Ahmad, third rank holder in UPSC Civil Services Exam, was the star performer from the RCA, JMI, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-girl-among-top-40-in-upsc-results-in-fifth-attempt-869668.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi police nabs sharp-shooter after brief exchange of fire||The Delhi Police has arrested an alleged sharp-shooter of the Kaushal Gang after a brief exchange of fire in Rohini area, officials said on Tuesday. Kapil, a resident of Gurgaon in Haryana, was recently involved in two firing incidents, they said. “On Monday, police received information that Kapil, who was involved in recent incidents of firing for extortion, would come on a motorbike near Japanese Park, Rohini, between 8 pm to 9 pm to meet his associates. “At 8.20 pm, a person was seen coming on a red-coloured bike. Police signalled him to stop him, but the accused took out his pistol and fired at the police. Police also fired and one bullet hit him in the leg after which he was apprehended,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. Interrogation revealed that Kapil hails from Shahpur Jat village, near Pataudi, Haryana. He knew Kaushal since his childhood as the mother of Kaushal was also from the same village. He wanted to become a gangster-like Kaushal, the DCP said. He was arrested in February 2020 by the Gurgaon Police and sent to Bhondasi jail where he met one Sachin who used to talk about Kaushal. Kapil got bail after 16 days and a few days later, Sachin met him and told him that he has been chosen by Kaushal for some work, Yadav said. On Friday, Sachin told him that he received a message from Kaushal to teach a lesson to the owner of a sweets shop as he did not pay the demanded money of Rs 50 lakh, he said Thereafter, Sachin and Kapil went to the outlet at Hari Nagar and gave a paper slip, demanding the money, to one of the staff and both of them fired bullets indiscriminately, police said. On Saturday, Sachin, Kapil and one other person went to a luxury car showroom. They gave a paper slip to the person sitting at the reception desk there as well demanding Rs 1 crore, the DCP said. They fired in and outside the showroom and fled, he added. Police said Kaushal had directed Kapil and Sachin to fire upon Om Sweets in Hari Nagar on Friday and Kunj Motors, Meharuli-Gurgaon Road on Saturday. One motorcycle, one pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from his possession, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-nabs-sharp-shooter-after-brief-exchange-of-fire-869684.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya, India's flashpoint holy site||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundations on Wednesday for a "grand" new Hindu temple at a flashpoint holy site that has been the spark for some of India's worst sectarian violence. AFP looks at the history of the three-acre patch of land in the holy northern town of Ayodhya and why it has long been an explosive source of contention between India's majority Hindus and minority Muslims. Hindus and Muslims have for decades been bitterly divided over the 16th-century Babri mosque in Ayodhya. Hindus believe the mosque was built on the ruins of an ancient temple dedicated to their god Ram, who is also believed to have been born on or near the site. Tensions boiled over in 1992 when a Hindu mob tore the mosque to the ground, sparking religious violence that left about 2,000 dead across India. Hindus believe a Muslim conqueror razed the Ram temple in the 1500s to make way for the mosque. The British erected a fence in the 19th century to separate places of worship so that Muslims could worship in the inner court and Hindus the outer. But in 1949, idols of Lord Ram appeared inside the mosque, allegedly placed by Hindus. In 1984, a group of Hindus formed a committee to "liberate" the birthplace of Ram and build a temple at the disputed site. The movement was headed by L K Advani, a senior figure in the ruling BJP, now headed by Modi. Its supporters began travelling to the site to demand a temple be built. On December 6, 1992 a huge crowd converged on the mosque site to symbolically and provocatively lay the first stone of the new temple. The 200,000-strong mob broke through police cordons, first smashing three domes to rubble before reducing the rest of the historic mosque to ruins. The destruction triggered some of the worst religious riots since India's bloody partition in 1947. Ten years later a trainload of Hindu activists were burned alive as they returned from Ayodhya, sparking retaliatory riots in Gujarat state that left upwards of 1,000 people dead, again most of them Muslims. In November India's highest court finally settled a decades-long, arcane legal fight that even saw the infant Ram represented by a lawyer. The ruling awarded the site to Hindus, in a major victory for Modi and the BJP. The Muslim side were given a nearby location to construct a "prominent" new mosque. To shouts of "Hail Lord Ram", Modi said in parliament in February that the new temple would be "grand". His right-hand man, Home Minister Amit Shah, said it would "touch the sky". Wednesday's ceremony, held at a time recommended by astrologers and involving 135 "revered saints", will use soil from almost 2,000 holy sites around India and water of about 100 holy rivers. Silver bricks will be used in the foundations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-indias-flashpoint-holy-site-869711.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||How 'Mandir Wahin Banega' gained prominence||The 5th of August in 2020 will be remembered as the date when the much-anticipated and long-awaited Ram Mandir construction finally began.  Ever since the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992, the Ram Temple has been a topic of intense discussion in Indian society, engulfing the socio-cultural and political spheres. With this ‘bhoomi pujan', a lot of narratives will finally be put to rest. The oft-used and probably most famous slogan that defined this saga - 'mandir wahi banega' - has run its course as the promised construction is finally taking place. The phrase must now look to change its grammatical tense. 'Mandir wahi banega' has been synonymous with the Ayodhya tale. It has remained in vogue ever since some outfits decided and declared that a Ram Mandir should replace the Babri Masjid. When and how did the term originate? No one seems to know for sure. It's like those age-old phrases, the folktales whose presence is perceived but whose birth remains in mystery.  'Mandir wahi banega' has been present so long that it has formed a discourse like a river that slowly and steadily carves out a route for itself. And like a river's tributaries, the phrase has assumed different meanings and distinct reasons for popularity in people's minds. For those who believed in the Ram Temple and worked tirelessly for the idea to take a realistic shape, the phrase has been a motto, a mandatory chant. For the fanatics, the phrase has been a symbol of intense hope, carrying a streak of inevitability. Those in opposition, on the other hand, used it as a symbol of taunts and mockery. As it became prominent, jokes and memes were created, giving it a humorous flavour. Stand-up comedians began to use it as a symbol in performances, with Kunal Kamra using it time and again to put forth his ideas. There were even songs made from the slogan, with people using it for festivities, dancing in a frenzy.  Arguably, no other phrase with a religious context has gained as much prominence in India as this one. So much so that about two years ago, a Bhojpuri film was made with the title Mandir Wahi Banayenge. According to an article in The Hindu published in 2018, when searching for the 'Ram Janmabhooomi' site on the Google Maps app on a mobile, 'mandir yahi banega' appeared as a point of interest, close to the disputed site. Google attributed the lapse to "unhelpful edits suggested by users” and said that it had "fixed the issue" by taking steps to get the marker removed. And can politics be far behind? Over the years, many politicians have used the phrase to appeal to voters with promises that the temple would be built. Others pointed out that while the phrase might sound serious, the dream would always remain a distant reality. On June 18, 2019, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj took his oath in the Parliament and ended his speech with the chant, "Jai Shree Ram". In response, one of the MPs said, "Mandir wahi banayenge". In December 2017 on the eve of the Gujarat Assembly elections, a song on Mandir Wahi Banayenge was played at a Yogi Adityanath rally. These are fragments in an immense chapter of Indian politics where 'mandir wahi banega' was forged into a decisive factor in elections. 'Mandir wahi banega' will soon mould itself into something more present, something that indicates the completion of the mission. The slogan, however, will also live on as the representation of a riveting phase in the consciousness of modern India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-mandir-wahin-banega-gained-prominence-869715.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||UP minister Brajesh Pathak tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Brajesh Pathak on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, and asked people who came in contact with him recently to get themselves tested as per norms. "After symptoms of coronavirus, I got tested on advice of doctors. I tested positive for Covid-19. Those who came in contact with me in past few days are requested to follow government guidelines and quarantine themselves and get themselves tested," Law minister Pathak said in a tweet. कोरोना के प्रारंभिक लक्षण लगने पर डॉक्टरों के परामर्श पर कराई गई कोविड-19की जाँच में मेरी रिपोर्ट positiveआयी है।अतःविगत दिनों मेरे संपर्क में आने वाले लोगों से अनुरोध है कि कृपया सरकार द्वारा निर्धारित कोविड-19की गाइडलाइंस के अनुसार स्वयं को क्वारंटाइन कर जाँच कराने का कष्ट करें Till Tuesday, Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 1 lakh-mark while the death toll climbed to 1,817. UP minister Kamal Rani Varun succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Sunday. There are 41,222 active coronavirus cases in the state and 57,271 people have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad had said. The state's infection tally stands at 1,00,310, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-brajesh-pathak-tests-positive-for-covid-19-869728.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Curbs remain in place in Kashmir valley||Curfew-like restrictions, mainly to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, remained enforced in Kashmir on Wednesday as the union territory marks the first anniversary of revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Police and CRPF personnel were deployed in strength across the valley, especially Srinagar city, to ensure that the plans of separatists to disturb peace do not succeed,  officials said. The officials said police vehicles, fitted with public address system, went around localities soon after daybreak announcing the imposition of strict restrictions for combating Covid-19 spread.   "There is a ban on assembly of more than three persons and people are requested not to violate the law and stay indoors," the police said.  Barricades have been set up at hundreds of places in the valley including Srinagar city to regulate the movement of essential services and emergencies, while concertina wires have been laid to block some parts of the roads, the officials said. Authorities in Srinagar had on Monday announced that curfew will be imposed in Srinagar city in view of inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property as the separatist and Pakistan-sponsored groups were planning to observe 5 August – the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status -- as a “Black Day”. However, the order imposing curfew was suddenly withdrawn on Tuesday evening.  An official spokesman said the decision to revoke the curfew order was taken as Tuesday passed off with any untoward incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curbs-remain-in-place-in-kashmir-valley-869740.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Detergent in sewage responsible for toxic foam in Yamuna: DPCC to NGT Panel||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has told an NGT-appointed panel for monitoring pollution in the Yamuna that sewage containing detergent was responsible for the toxic foam seen in the river in July. The two-member Yamuna Monitoring Committee, comprising retired National Green Tribunal expert member B S Sajawan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra, had last month asked the Central Pollution Control Board, DPCC and Industries Commissioner to take prompt action to detect the source of the froth in the river and act against those responsible. "The presence of dhobi ghats, direct release of sewage containing phosphate detergents, industrial effluent and the turbulence caused near the barrages have been found responsible for the presence of foam in the river,” the DPCC told the Yamuna Monitoring Committee. The YMC, however, has asked the DPCC to furnish a detailed report within a week. "No detailed report on other quality parameters has been furnished. The YMC was expecting a much more comprehensive analysis; instead a serious matter has been disposed of with a terse finding that the presence of sodium tripolyphosphate in the detergents was responsible for the foam,” it said in a letter to the DPCC.   Twenty-three drains join the Yamuna in the Delhi stretch of the river, all of which carry treated and untreated sewage and industrial effluent. “A detailed analysis linking pollution to the quality of wastewater in different drains and quality parameters assessed at different locations would have given a better idea of the major hotspots of pollution along the length of the river so that attention could be focused on those drains, spots and catchment areas responsible for causing increased pollution,” it said. The DPCC has nine river quality monitoring stations along the length of the Yamuna. The panel has now directed the DPCC to undertake a comprehensive assessment of pollution in the river, drain joining the river and quality parameters measured along its length, and submit a report within one week. The panel also asked the DPCC to submit a detailed compliance report along with punitive action taken against defaulting industries, drain owning agencies and individuals causing pollution by August 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/detergent-in-sewage-responsible-for-toxic-foam-in-yamuna-dpcc-to-ngt-panel-869749.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Here’s why Ram Lalla is dressed in green clothes and a saffron border||While some believe the colour chosen signifies harmony between communities, the reason for the colour green is because the diety has a fixed-hue attire for each day of the week. Ram Lalla will adorn a nine-gem encrusted emerald-tinged dress on the day of the Bhoomi Pujan. In addition to the day-specific colour, the orange border marks the auspiciousness of the occasion.  Having stitched the diety’s clothes for over three-and-a-half decades, Babulal and his sons have meticulously put together well-crafted pieces for an entire week, and will continue the legacy. "My father late Babulal started stitching the clothes of Ram Lalla in 1985. He used to carry our sewing machine to the Ramjanmabhoomi and stitch the clothes with me and my elder brother in tow," Shankarlal, 54, told PTI on Monday. The diety’s clothes will be changed to a bright orange dress later in the day. "The clothes are made using soft material such as 'makhmal' (velvet). After all, they are for Ram Lalla who is a child. The green dress has been made keeping in mind the day-specific colour, while orange is considered auspicious," he said. The special dress for the ceremony has nine gems stitched in golden thread. "There is grandeur in the clothes of the Lord as well," he added. "A day-specific colour scheme is followed for the dresses worn by Lord Ram. On Monday the dress is white, on Tuesday it is red, while on Wednesday it is the turn of the green dress for the Lord," Shankarlal said. On Thursdays the idol is dressed in yellow, Fridays are for cream-coloured dresses, on Saturdays, it is the turn of blue clothes while on Sundays pink clothes adorn the deity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/here-s-why-ram-lalla-is-dressed-in-green-clothes-and-a-saffron-border-869750.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||J&K leaders stopped from attending meeting at Farooq Abdullah's residence||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday foiled a meeting of mainstream political leaders in Srinagar scheduled to be held at Gupkar residence of National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah as no participant was allowed to reach the venue. The meeting had been called at Abdullah's posh residence Gupkar, where last year on August 4 ‘Gupkar declaration’ was forged collectively by all the Jammu and Kashmir parties vowing to protect the special status of the erstwhile state. Eyewitnesses told DH that the road leading to the residence of Abdullah was sealed with pools of concertina wire and no movement was allowed. The leaders who were scheduled to attend the meeting said they had been placed under house detention and were asked not to venture out of their homes. The meeting had been called by Abdullah, also a former chief minister of J&K, to chalk out “political strategy on Article 370” which was abrogated by the central government last year on this day. Besides the NC, the leaders of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Congress, CPI (M) and other smaller parties had been invited for the crucial meeting, which was being held on the first anniversary of abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. While questioning the rationale behind scuttling the meeting, octogenarian Abdullah said, “They (BJP government) claim a political process has started in Kashmir, but not a single leader was allowed to reach my residence (for the meeting).” He said all the participants, who were supposed to attend the meeting, have been placed under house arrest. CPI (M) leader and former legislator, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said he was asked not to venture out of his home today. “Is this the normalcy which the government is talking about How can you claim normalcy when the leaders are not even being allowed to meet,” he told DH over the phone. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to vent his anger. While sharing pictures of barricaded Gupkar road, he tweeted:  “One year on, this is Gupkar road today - police vehicles opposite our gates, concertina wire strung across the road at regular intervals & no vehicles allowed. My father had called a meeting of leaders of MAINSTREAM parties to deliberate on the current situation.” In another tweet, while sharing pictures of BJP members celebrating the first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370, he said, “BJP displaying its hypocrisy. They can gather & celebrate. The rest of us can’t even meet to discuss what’s happening in J&K.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-leaders-stopped-from-attending-meeting-at-farooq-abdullahs-residence-869757.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||SC refers plea against 10% EWS quota to Constitution bench||The Supreme Court on Wednesday referred the challenge to the Centre's decision to grant 10% reservation in jobs and education to candidates of economically weaker sections (EWS) to the Constitution bench for adjudication. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai said the matter would be adjudicated by the Constitution bench. The court has reserved its order in the matter on July 31, 2019. A batch of petitions filed by NGOs Janhit Abhiyan, Youth for Equality, among others challenged the validity of Constitution (103rd Amendment) Act, 2019 on the ground that economic criterion cannot be the sole basis for reservation. They claimed the decision violated the principle of the basic structure of the Constitution and breached the overall 50% ceiling of reservation as mandated under the Indra Sawhney case (Mandal Commission), 1992. The 10% quota for economically weaker sections in government jobs and higher educational institutions, including in private sector, became the law of the land after President Ram Nath Kovind on January 12, 2019, gave his assent to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refers-plea-against-10-ews-quota-to-constitution-bench-869767.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Crucial moments in the Ayodhya kar sevak journey||In the discourse of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, the name of one group is frequently mentioned, credited as an instrumental force behind the construction of the Ram Temple. The kar sevaks are a group who have pushed their demand for the temple in Ayodhya for decades and struggled vehemently to achieve it. There were pivotal moments in this kar sevak journey.  In September 1990, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), and the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) campaigned for the Ram Temple to be built at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. The situation took a grave turn when BJP leader L K Advani conducted a rath yatra, aiming to conclude it at Ayodhya. A large crowd followed him and soon, a huge group was marching towards the disputed site. Uttar Pradesh's then chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav decided to thwart the procession and announced a complete lockdown in the state. Yadav reassured the public: "No bird would be able to fly into Ayodhya."  There was tension in the air on Oct. 30, 1990, as the police had barred all bus and train services to Ayodhya but that did not deter the kar sevaks. They reached there on foot and some swam across the Sarayu River. The disputed structure was barricaded and according to the Liberhan Commission report, a mammoth 28,000 personnel of the Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary were deployed in Ayodhya.  It was around 10 am when a large group of kar sevaks headed towards the site, led by Vamadev, Mahant Nratyagopal Das and Ashok Singhal of the VHP. The police tried to stop them and a clash erupted.  Almost an hour later, a sadhu managed to gain control of an Armed Constabulary bus and drove it through the barricades, with others following on foot. This dealt a blow to the security forces who began pursuing about 5,000 of the kar sevaks. A saffron flag was then hoisted on top of the Babri Masjid.  And then, tragedy struck. On the orders of the government, the security personnel fired on the crowd. Many people died from head wounds. There was a stampede at the Sarayu Bridge, which killed more people.  On Nov. 2, the kar sevaks proceeded again towards the Babri Masjid and there was another clash. The police tried to disperse the crowd with tear gas and baton charges. Some kar sevaks managed to reach the mosque and partially damaged it. The police opened fire for the second time in 72 hours. The kar sevaks were chased through alleys, and in one location, later named Shaheed Gali or Martyr’s Alley, police killed many kar sevaks – this included the Kothari Brothers, who were allegedly dragged out of a house. Later, Mulayam Singh Yadav would describe the firing order as "painful yet necessary as it was ordered by the high court to maintain peace, law, and order till the judgment comes out." Another fateful day came on Dec. 6, 1992, when the RSS and its affiliates organised a rally involving 150,000 VHP and BJP kar sevaks at the disputed site. Leaders like Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti gave speeches as the crowd grew restless.  At around noon, a young man managed to slip past the cordon, climbed the Babri Masjid and brandished a saffron flag. It was seen as a signal by the mob, who then stormed the structure. The police cordon placed to protect the structure was vastly outnumbered. The mob attacked the building with axes, hammers and grappling hooks. Within a few hours, the entire structure made from mud and chalk was levelled.  The incident changed the course of modern India's history and started a bitter battle between different factions who struggled to claim supremacy over the disputed land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crucial-moments-in-the-ayodhya-kar-sevak-journey-869772.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||PM Modi offers prayers at Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya||Ahead of the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday offered prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple here. Accompanied by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the prime minister arrived at the temple dressed in traditional dhoti-kurta. Modi was gifted a headgear by the chief priest of the temple. After spending some time at the temple, he headed to 'Shree Ram Janmabhoomi' where he will take part in pooja and darshan of 'Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman'. He will subsequently perform 'bhoomi pujan' there. On the significance of visiting Hanuman temple first, Hanuman Garhi Mahant Raju Das said that according to legends, it is believed that no work is complete without the blessings of Lord Hanuman. Seventy-six steps lead to Hanuman Garhi which is one of the most popular Hanuman temples in North India. The shrine houses Hanuman's mother, Anjani, with a young Hanuman sitting on her lap. About this temple, the Mahant said, "When Lord Ram returned to Ayodhya after conquering Ravana, he gave this place to Hanuman ji to live, so its called Hanuman Garhi or Hanuman Kot. From here, it is believed that Lord Hanuman used to protect Ramkot."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-offers-prayers-at-hanumangarhi-temple-in-ayodhya-869780.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||BJP celebrates first anniversary of revocation of J&K's special status in Kashmir||The BJP's Kashmir unit on Wednesday celebrated the first anniversary of the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and accused those protesting the constitutional changes of being sympathisers of ISIS.  BJP leaders and workers unfurled the national flag at the party office and distributed sweets. "We are celebrating the completion of one year of abrogation of Article 370 (provisions) and the positive changes that it brought in Jammu and Kashmir," BJP leader Altaf Thakur told reporters at the party office in Jawahar Nagar here. Thakur said the abrogation of Article 370 provisions of the Constitution, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, had brought about many positive changes and put an end to stone pelting in Kashmir. "There used to be stone pelting during encounters that has stopped. There used to be ISIS flag, Pakistani flag...that has stopped. That is what we are celebrating," he added.  On some political parties in Kashmir observing 'Black Day' on Wednesday, Thakur said they were sympathisers of the ISIS. "Those who are in love with black are sympathisers of ISIS.... They should think what they are supporting," he said.  Thakur said the abrogation of Article 370 last year was "the only operation in the history in which not a single bullet was fired, not a single stone was pelted". He said while the separatist stranglehold on Kashmir has been broken after August 5 last year, stalwarts of separatism like Syed Ali Shah Geelani have realised that Pakistan is only fuelling violence. "It might be late but better late than never that even Geelani has realised that Pakistan is adopting use and throw policy with them. Pakistan is only interested in terrorism in Kashmir," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-celebrates-first-anniversary-of-revocation-of-jks-special-status-in-kashmir-869787.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Last absconding accused held in Ghaziabad journalist muder case||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday said they have arrested the last remaining accused in the journalist Vikram Joshi murder case. Joshi, 35, was shot in the head by goons near his home at Mata Colony in Vijay Nagar on the night of July 20 while he was on a two-wheeler with his two daughters. He had succumbed to the injuries on July 22 while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, Senior Superintendent of Police, Ghaziabad, Kalanidhi Naithani said. "Nine of the accused were arrested immediately after the incident. One accused, Akash Bihari, was absconding and searches were carried out for him. A reward of Rs 25,000 was also announced on his arrest. Akash has also been arrested early on Wednesday," Naithani said. "All accused in the case have been arrested now," he said. The family of Joshi had alleged that the local police took no action on complaints made earlier against the goons, who allegedly harassed his niece. Joshi had confronted the accused on July 16, after which a fight broke out between the two sides and one of the accused had got injured. The Ghaziabad Police had suspended the police station incharge of the area where Joshi was shot. The probe in the case was transferred from the local Vijay Nagar police station to the Kotwali Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/last-absconding-accused-held-in-ghaziabad-journalist-muder-case-869814.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya temple: Fifth-generation khadau seller hopes of more profit||As the temple will be built, Azam hopes his sale will increase with more tourists and pilgrims The family of Mohammad Azam of Ayodhya has been making ‘Khadaus’ (wooden footwear) which are primarily used by Hindu saints for several generations. It is also their primary source of income.  With the Ram Mandir being built in the temple town, Azam hopes that the footfall of tourists and pilgrims will increase. This will allow him to sell and produce more Khadaus in the future. Khadau possesses a great significance in the ethos of Hinduism particularly. In the mythological epic Ramayana, Bharat, Lord Ram’s younger brother had placed his khaduas on the throne of Ayodhya as symbol of his authority over the kingdom while Bharat waited for his return from exile.  Thus it is worshipped by many even today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-temple-fifth-generation-khadau-seller-hopes-of-more-profit-869821.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||PM's wisdom paved way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of the Ram temple issue and fulfilling the dream. The power of Indian democracy and judiciary under the leadership of PM Modi has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found through democratic and constitutional means, he said at the groundbreaking ceremony for the the temple here. "Prime Minister's foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue," he said. Yogi said people have struggled for 500 years for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Modi earlier performed the 'bhoomi pujan' of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's 'mandir' movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pms-wisdom-paved-way-for-peaceful-resolution-of-ram-temple-issue-adityanath-869825.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ram temple defines India's spirit of harmony, says President Ram Nath Kovind; Vice President Venkaiah Naidu reads Ramayana||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said the laying of the foundation of Ram Temple in Ayodhya defines India's spirit of social harmony and people's zeal while Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu read 'Ramayana' at his residence beside his family donating Rs 5 lakh for temple construction. Kovind tweeted, "felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India's spirit of social harmony and people's zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India." Felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India. The Vice President said the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will continue to remind and reinforce the ethos of our motherland which are universal in their application without any discrimination. Naidu, on his part along with his wife Usha at his official residence, read 'Ramayana', which narrates the life of Lord Rama, besides his family donating Rs 5 lakh for the construction of the temple in Ayodhya. The family also donated Rs 5 lakh for the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In a Facebook post, Naidu said the construction of a temple for Lord Rama at his birthplace is more a "re-coronation of the highest human values of truth, morality and ideals that the 'Maryada Purushottam' epitomized during his life". He said the construction of the temple is much more than a religious affair, as it stands as a tribute to the best of the timeless human values. "The Ram Temple in Ayodhya will continue to remind and reinforce the ethos of our mother land which are universal in their application without any discrimination. August 5, the day of Bhoomi Pujan for such a monument will go down as a red letter day in the annals of history of our country. I compliment all those including the parties to the land title suit for enabling a judicial resolution of the long standing dispute and making the temple a reality," he said. He also complimented Iqbal Ansari, son of late Hashim Ansari, one of the parties to the land title dispute, for urging the people to forget the past and move on in the true spirit of India. "Let this day mark the beginning of a new era of mutual respect for all faiths and harmonious coexistence that should spur the building of an India of the dreams of every aspiring citizen of our country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-defines-indias-spirit-of-harmony-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-reads-ramayana-869848.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Military bands to perform across India for Independence Day, express gratitude to corona warriors||In a first, military bands will perform for a fortnight across the country ahead of the Independence Day celebrations on August 15, officials said on Wednesday. The bands of the army, navy and police have performed at Porbandar, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Raipur, Amritsar, Guwahati, Allahabad and Kolkata so far, they said. The military bands are, for the first time, celebrating Independence Day by displaying their performances across the country, during the fortnight beginning August 1, it said. The military and police bands will perform on Wednesday afternoon at Vishakhapatnam, Nagpur and Gwalior.  On August 7, military bands are scheduled to perform in Srinagar and Kolkata. The tri-services band will be giving three performances in Delhi, one each at Red Fort, Rajpath and the India Gate on August 8, 9 and 12 respectively. "Military and police bands will also perform in Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Shimla and Almora on August 8; in Chennai, Nasirabad, ANC (Andaman & Nicobar Command) Flag Point and Dandi on August 9 and in Imphal, Bhopal and Jhansi on August 12," the statement said. The final performances in the series will be held on August 13 in Lucknow, Faizabad, Shillong, Madurai and Champaran, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/military-bands-to-perform-across-india-for-independence-day-express-gratitude-to-corona-warriors-869860.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||89 killed in lightning strikes in Madhya Pradesh in 6 months of 2020: India Meteorological Department||The IMD has alerted that due to the environmental changes, the threat of lightning during the current monsoon season has increased in Madhya Pradesh, where 89 people lost their lives due to lightning strikes in the first six months of this year. This figure of lightning strike victims in the state till June this year is more than what it was during the entire year in 2019, an official said. "In the current monsoon season, the threat of lightning strikes has increased as compared to last year due to the environmental changes," India Meteorological Department (IMD) senior scientist, Vedprakash Singh Chandel, told PTI on Wednesday. "Because of this, the wind speed during thunderstorm and hailstorm was found significantly high," he said. According to the official, in the last six months- from January to June- 89 people were killed in lightning strikes, as compared to 82 in entire 2019. Citing the figures of the last 30 years, Chandel said, "Due to the environmental changes, extreme weather conditions prevailed in the state, which resulted in heavy and strong rains in shorter duration, while the days of incessant rains have decreased." He said that the maximum effect of this was observed in Jabalpur, Rewa and Shahdol divisions, while it was comparatively less in Indore and Hoshangabad divisions. In the rest of the state, it had moderate effect. The senior scientist said that because of heavy rains with thunderstorms, the threat of trees and weak buildings collapsing has also increased. After the Met department's warning, the state disaster management authority has recommended fixing of lightning conductors on the building that are three-storey or above. It also urged the government to send alerts issued by the IMD up to the panchayat level, so that chances of loss of life and property due to lightning gets reduced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/89-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-madhya-pradesh-in-6-months-of-2020-india-meteorological-department-869871.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was discharged from a private hospital here on Wednesday after recovering from coronavirus infection, an official said. Doctors have advised Chouhan, who was in the hospital for 11 days, to stay in home-quarantine and monitor his health for a week, the official added. Chouhan, 61, tested positive for coronavirus on July 25. He tweeted on Sunday that he did not have any symptoms of the infection and would be discharged if he tested negative in the latest test. In a health bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Chirayu hospital where he was admitted said Chouhan had been asymptomatic for the past 10 days. The doctors who were treating him found that all his clinical parameters within normal limits, it said. "They (doctors) advised discharge as per the ICMR policy dated May 8, 2020, wherein patients can be discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset and no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge," the bulletin said. Chouhan, in a tweet, thanked the hospital staff and said there was no need to fear, but people should be careful. He urged people not to hide coronavirus symptoms, and consult a doctor and follow the guidelines. State BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said the chief minister was in sound health. Welcoming the news, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh advised Chouhan to follow all the isolation norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-discharged-from-hospital-869884.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya relives 'Ramayan' days; people throng shops with TV sets to watch Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan||From blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells to ceaseless chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Siyavar Ramchandra Ki Jai', streets of this temple town got immersed in a religious fervour on Wednesday as the foundation laying ceremony for a Ram Temple got underway here. Some jewellery shops in the famous Shrigaar Haat area turned into places for community television spots as passers-by and even some security personnel and media persons joined shopkeepers to watch the live telecast of 'bhoomi pujan' by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the temple and his speech. Many recalled that these scenes were similar to ones quite common in late 1980s when 'Ramayan' serial was telecast on Doordarshan and people used to gather at few houses and shops having TV sets. Rooftops of buildings in the area, close to Hanumangarhi Temple, became hubs and vantage points for video journalists and photographers, while roadside trees provided the much-needed shade to security forces deployed for the occasion.   Some shopkeepers were also seen distributing laddoos (sweets), while saffron flags with pictures of Lord Ram and Lord Hanuman were seen on many balconies, verandahs and rooftops. While only a few shops were open and police barricades stopped people well before the ceremony area, crowds gathered on rooftops with social distancing making way for heavy jostling among people to get a glimpse of what many described as a historic moment for Ayodhya, a Sanksrit word that means 'unconquerable' and has long been known as the birthplace of Lord Ram. Chants of Jai Shri Ram, blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells reached a crescendo the moment the word got around about Modi's arrival at the main venue, where access was highly restricted due to safeguard measures in place to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Another round of chants began when the prime minister began his speech with 'Jai Siya Ram' and crowds in front of TV sets also responded loudly to Modi's 'Siyavar Ramchandra ki Jai' slogan. Wearing a green-coloured mask, 60-year-old Shanti, who was glued to a TV set at a jewellery shop, said, "I feel extremely overwhelmed to experience this glorious and historic moment. I feel happy that now the Ram temple will be built." Mahendra Yadav, seated next to Shanti, said, "It is a very important moment in my life, and I am going to cherish it to the hilt. If possible, I will tell stories about this day to my grandchildren." Many were also seen reciting couplets of Ramcharit Manas quoted by Modi in his speech. Nagraj said, "Though, I am sitting at Shringaar Haat, I feel like sitting at the site of Bhoomipujan." Shiv Dayal Soni, a third-generation jeweller, said, "It was a different type of footfall at my shop today. I did not get any customers today and instead devotees came here and watched the live telecast of Bhoomipujan and the speech of Prime Minister Modi." Glued to TV at the same place, along with many passers-by and some security personnel, Savitri Soni said, "I feel proud to witness this momentous occasion. People coming here at the shop and watching this event on television gives me immense satisfaction. Today's scene reminds me of the first Ramayan serial, when people used to gather the house of a person having a television, and Ramayan was collectively viewed." As people were chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', a 'Chabiwala Baba' also arrived on the scene with a nearly 3-feet long key made of cardboard. When asked about the key, he said, "This is the key of knowledge and it has the power to bring transformation and change of heart."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-relives-ramayan-days-people-throng-shops-with-tv-sets-to-watch-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-869886.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya erupts in joy after Ram Temple brick laying ceremony||It was like they had been longing for this moment for centuries. Exactly at 12.44.08 pm, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick for the construction of the Ram Temple on Wednesday, the atmosphere in Ayodhya suddenly turned electric. Groups of people holding saffron flags came out of their homes in the temple town and its adjoining town of Faizabad and started celebrating on the road. The chant of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ rented the air in the narrow and cramped lanes in Ayodhya. It was heard almost everywhere in the twin towns. People distributed sweets among each other to celebrate the occasion. The loudspeakers atop the ashrams, temples and shops in the town began blaring the couplets of Ramcharitmanas. The town was filled with the sound of ringing of temple bells and conch shells. Students of numerous ‘Vedic’ schools, being run at the ashrams and mutts, also recited the ‘shlokas’ (Sanskrit verses) hailing the occasion. ‘’It is like a dream come true….I had never imagined that I would be able to witness this moment in my lifetime,’’ said octogenarian Satya Prakash Tripathi, who had sneaked into the temple town with a few youngsters from the neighbouring Basti district across the Saryu river. Tripathi said that he had lost all hopes that he would be able to see a grand Ram Temple. ‘’We had been waiting for this moment for the past 500 years,’’ said Munni Lal, who runs a tailoring shop near the famous Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya. Elsewhere in the town also, groups of people danced and sang ‘bhajans’ (religious songs). At many places, young boys donned costumes of Lord Rama and his consortium Sita and chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram’. The loud noise brought the army of monkeys out of their shelters on the trees and to the roofs of the houses. And for a change, the residents of the town were seen offering them sweets and fruits. ‘’We will cherish this moment forever……we will tell the coming generations about it,’’ said 40-year-old Rakesh Gupta, a resident of the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-erupts-in-joy-after-ram-temple-brick-laying-ceremony-869887.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||PM Modi warns India's adversaries, terms Ram Temple ‘bhumi pujan’ a golden chapter||As he prostrated before the ‘Ram Lalla’ minutes before laying the first brick for the Ram Temple in a gesture aimed at reassuring his party’s core vote bank, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for emulating ‘’social harmony’’ from Lord Rama and also signalled to India’s adversaries that the country would not hesitate to use force to gain their respect. Speaking before the invitees at the ceremony, mostly seers, after the groundbreaking ceremony, Modi termed the occasion as a ‘’golden chapter’’ in the country’s cultural history as he sought to compare it with the ecstasy felt by the countrymen on getting independence. Modi, who began his address with the chant of ‘Jai Siyaram’ (Sita and Rama) instead of the popular slogan of ‘Jai Shriram’, said that not only the country but many other nations in the world were also celebrating the occasion. ‘’Its an emotional occasion also….we have been waiting for this for centuries….the wait is now over….crores of people will not believe that they are witnessing this moment,’’ the prime minister said. Drawing from the Hindu epic ‘Ram Charit Manas’, authored by Tulsidas, the Prime Minister said that Lord Rama had taken help of every section of the society in his fight against Ravana. ‘’Lord Krishna too had been helped by the villagers in holding the Govardhan,’’ he said adding that Lord Rama was the symbol of social harmony. ‘’We have to take care of the feelings of every one….Lord Rama used to treat everyone equally but took special care of the poor,’’ he said. Modi also quoted from the same epic to drive home the message that a strong India only could gain respect from its adversaries. ‘’Bin bhai hohin na preeti’’ (there is no love without fear), he said referring to Lord Rama’s warning to the Sea, when the latter did not allow him and his army of monkeys to cross over to reach Lanka to fight Ravana. The Sea gave way when Lord Rama picked up his bow and arrow to attack it. The Prime Minister also sought to link the ceremony with the struggle for independence. ‘’Just like sacrifices for the nation’s independence, sacrifices were also made for the Ram Temple…..attempts were made to erase its existence but Rama continued to live in our hearts,’’ he said. Modi said that the Ram Temple would turn out to be a ‘’unifying factor’’ in the country and a symbol of our ‘’modern culture’’. He also referred to the Ramayanas written in different languages and said that though the stories might differ, the central focus of them all was one and that was Rama’s commitment to the truth. Earlier Modi visited the famous Hanumangarhi temple and later planted a sapling of ‘Parijat’ (nyctanthes arbor-tristis) tree at the Ram Janmabhoomi. The ‘bhumi pujan’ was performed amid chanting of Vedic mantras and Modi laid the first brick exactly at 12.44.08 PM, the auspicious moment fixed by the priests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-warns-indias-adversaries-terms-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-a-golden-chapter-869917.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Advani missing in PM Modi's address but Mohan Bhagwat remembers him||L K Advani, one of the main architects of the Ram Temple movement, did not find mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech after the bricklaying ceremony for the Temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who also spoke on the occasion, however, did mention Advani in his address. ''Advaniji apne ghar ein is karyakram ko dekh rahe honge'' (Advaniji must be watching this program at his home), Bhagwat said. He said that the former RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras had told him that it would take 20-30 years for the Ram Temple movement to yield results. ''It has yielded result in the 30th year,'' he added.  Bhagwat said that Ram Temple would give 'self confidence' to the people of the country, which was needed to make it 'atmanirbhar' (self dependent). He also asked the people to shun their differences and enmity. ''We will have to take everyone along if we are to develop,'' he said. Other than Advani, two other key players in the Ram Temple movement, Murli Manohar Joshi and Vinay Katiyar were also absent. The office-bearers of Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which was overseeing the Temple construction work, cited their old age and the pandemic for their absence. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and another important player in the movement Uma Bharti, however, made a last-minute entry into the program after saying earlier that she would remain in Ayodhya but stay away from the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/advani-missing-in-pm-modis-address-but-mohan-bhagwat-remembers-him-869921.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Muslims in Ayodhya celebrate Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony||Muslims in the twin towns of Ayodhya and Faizabad also joined their Hindu brethren in celebrating the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony on Wednesday. Residents in the Muslim localities in Chowk, Sadatganj and Dorahi were seen distributing sweets among the people after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Ram Temple. ‘’Now we can expect a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya in a few year's time….Lord Rama is the symbol of social and communal harmony,’’ said Rauf Khan, a resident of Ayodhya. Iqbal Ansari, the son of the oldest Babri litigant Hashim Ansari, said that it was a ‘’historic occasion’’ and every citizen of the country should celebrate it. Ansari, who attended the ceremony, said that the Ram Janmabhoomi issue had been settled by the Supreme Court. KA Khan, who was convenor of the Hilal Committee and a resident of Faizabad, said that there were very strong ‘’economic relations’’ between Hindus and Muslims in the twin towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-in-ayodhya-celebrate-ram-temple-groundbreaking-ceremony-869934.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Post Ram Temple, Ayodhya set for complete makeover||As the Ram Temple became a reality after prime minister Narendra Modi performed its 'bhumi pujan' on Wednesday, the temple town of Ayodhya is all set for a complete makeover with a slew of developmental projects either launched or in the pipeline for the town. Home to the birthplace of Lord Rama and hundreds of temples, ashrams and mutts, Ayodhya would soon have a swanky railway station, an international airport, a modern bus station along with hi-tech townships and river resorts. A new Ayodhya was being established on 400-hectare land, around ten kilometres from the present-day town. ''A hi-tech township will be developed on 500 acres there....it will have fie star hotels, river resorts and multi-story buildings,'' said a district official in Ayodhya. The project, which would be connected with the 'Ram Van Gaman Marg' (the way taken by Lord Rama to go to the forest with his consortium Sita and brother Luxman), would entail an expenditure of around Rs 1200 crore, the official said. Ayodhya, which currently has an airstrip, would soon have an international airport. A six highway would also be constructed linking Ayodhya with Lucknow and Gorakhpur. Modi gave an indication of what lay in store for Ayodhya, when he said that the temple town would emerge as an international tourist hub. ''The economy will change....opportunities will increase manifold...people from across the world will come here....everything will change,'' the prime minister said. ''Ram Temple will ensure all-round development of the town...the youths will not have to go to other parts of the country in search of employment,'' said Mayank Singh, a student of Saket Degree College in Ayodhya. Rakesh Singh, a real estate dealer in Faizabad, agrees. ''Real estate sector will provide thousands of jobs to the local youths here,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-ram-temple-ayodhya-set-for-complete-makeover-869936.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Confusion persists over when Ram Temple construction would begin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have performed the bricklaying ceremony for the Ram Temple but confusion still persisted over the beginning of the construction of the temple. It was expected that the Ram Temple construction would begin immediately after the brick laying ceremony. Sources, however, said that the map of the proposed Temple was yet to be cleared by the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). ''Temple construction can start only after the map is cleared by the ADA,'' said a senior district official in Ayodhya. Besides the results of the test of the soil of the land where the Temple would come up had not yet been received. ''Once the results are received then the construction company will decide about the depth of the base,'' the official said. It was also not clear how the stones, which had already been carved and kept at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad Workshop in Ayodhya, would be used in the temple. The president of Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which was overseeing the construction work, harped on this issue in his speech at the ceremony. ''The crores of Rambhakts want the Ram Temple construction work to start at the earliest,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/confusion-persists-over-when-ram-temple-construction-would-begin-869941.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Dr Ambedkar's statue desecrated by man; act caught on CCTV||An unidentified man allegedly desecrated the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in Pichore town in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpuri district, a police official said on Wednesday. The incident occurred on Tuesday night and was captured on CCTV cameras installed at the local bus stand, where the statue is located, he said. The incident triggered tension in the area with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) threatening to stage a protest on August 8. Inspector of Pichore town, Ajay Bhargava, announced a reward of Rs 5,000 to anyone providing information about the accused person, who was seen wearing a mask at the time of the offence. A case has been registered in this connection, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dr-ambedkars-statue-desecrated-by-man-act-caught-on-cctv-869959.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Ram Temple to be a unique example of Indian architecture||Spread over an area of more than 84,000 square feet, the proposed Ram Temple at Ayodhya would be a unique example of Indian architecture. The Ram Temple would be constructed in 'nagara' style of architecture, according to the chief architect of the temple, Chandrakant Sompura. The temple would be 360 feet long and 235 feet wide and would have three floors. The Sompuras, who have designed over a hundred temples across the world, wanted the Ram Temple to be one of the grandest temples in the world. The temple would have an octagonal 'shikhar' (top) with five 'mandaps' (halls). There would be separate 'mandaps' for 'keertans' (religious songs) and prayer. There would be 106 pillars of eight feet radius on every floor. The pillars would have the idols of 'yakhas' (the servants of Kuber, the God of wealth). Ram Lalla (the child Lord Rama) would be seated on a throne made with 9.5 kilograms of silver. The temple would consume three lakh cubic feet of sandstones. श्री राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर विश्व में भारतीय स्थापत्य कला का अनुपम उदाहरण होगा। जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के प्रस्तावित मॉडल के कुछ चित्र। Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir will be a unique example of Indian architecture. Here are some photos of the proposed model. The temple would also have a library, accommodation for the saints, a hostel and a museum. Sompura said that the temple would be completed in three years.  There were sharp differences among the saints' community over the design of the temple. A section of the saints wanted it to be grander and had demanded a change in its design. According to the sources, the design of the temple was not yet finalised and as such its construction might not start immediately despite the 'bhoomi pujan' on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-to-be-a-unique-example-of-indian-architecture-869972.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Can’t interfere with govt decision on banning use of social media by defence officers: Delhi High Court||If the government has concluded that permitting use of certain social networking websites, including Facebook and Instagram, by its defence personnel is enabling enemy countries gain an edge, the courts would be loath to interfere with the decision, the Delhi High Court said on Wednesday. It said warfare in today's world is not confined to "accession of territory" but extends to affecting the economy and "inciting civil unrest" by enemy nations. The high court’s order came while dismissing a senior Army officer's plea challenging the Indian Army's recent policy banning armed forces personnel from using 89 social networking platforms. A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon, while pronouncing the order, said, "Sorry we are dismissing. Thank you." The high court, while considering the controversy for the stage of admission only, said other means of communication are still available to the petitioner officer and the ban was with respect to certain social networking websites only. It dismissed the petition of Lieutenant Colonel P K Choudhary seeking a direction to the Director General of Military Intelligence to withdraw its June 6 policy by which all Indian Army personnel were ordered to delete their accounts from Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications. “We may also notice that warfare and inter-country rivalries and animosities today are not confined to accession of territory and destruction of installations and infrastructure of enemy countries but also extend to influencing and affecting the economies and political stability of enemy country including by inciting civil unrest and disturbance and influencing the political will of the citizens of the enemy country. “In such a scenario, if the government, after complete assessment, has concluded that permitting use of certain social networking websites by personnel of its defence forces is enabling the enemy countries to gain an edge, the courts would be loath to interfere. In the circumstances, no case for interference is made out. Dismissed,” the bench said. The court said on perusal of the policy if it had found it to be suffering from the vice of non-application of mind of being not based on any material on record or being without proper deliberations, it would have certainly proceeded to answer the legal issue raised in the petition on the ban. “However, once we are satisfied on the aforesaid parameters and find other means of communication to be still available to the petitioner and the ban being with respect to certain social networking websites only and more so, once we have found the petitioner himself to have been posting tweets which according to the ASG are in violation of the policy earlier in force qua use of social media, we do not deem it apposite to at the instance of the petitioner to go into the questions urged. “Rather, we do not appreciate the pleadings of the petitioner as a senior officer in the Army, of army personnel being treated as slaves and the government not trusting its army,” the bench said. The court said it was evident from the records produced that the earlier advisories and directives qua conduct and behaviours of army personnel on social networking sites have not been abided by some. “The material produced shows certain army personnel to be unsuspectingly answering all kinds of questions relating to their postings and whereabouts and postings and whereabouts of others merely on being told by a person befriended on social networking sites, of a defence background and which information when collated from a number of sources can easily convey a full picture to an expert espionage eye,” it noted. The bench said even if there is any error in the authorities issuing this policy and direction, without complying with the procedure prescribed in the Army Act, considering that the issue has an element of urgency and concerns the safety and security of the entire country, “we do not deem it necessary to, for the grievance of the petitioner only, render an adjudication on the questions urged and which may require us to refer to the documents and materials shown to us in confidence.” The court said besides stating that Facebook and Twitter are more convenient, no answer was forthcoming as to why the filial and other social needs of Choudhary cannot be fulfilled by other means of communication cited by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, which are still available. The Centre, represented by standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, had earlier told the court that the policy decision was taken as it was found that Facebook was a bug and it was infiltrating as a cyber warfare and there were so many instances of personnel being targeted. Choudhary, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir, said that he is an active user of Facebook and uses the platform to connect with his friends and family as most of them are settled abroad, including his elder daughter. The officer had sought a direction to the Ministry of Defence to withdraw the June 6 policy to ensure that the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel are not abrogated amended or modified by arbitrary executive action which is not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional. The petition had alleged that the policy which bans social media platforms is illegal, arbitrary, disproportionate and violates the fundamental rights of soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-t-interfere-with-govt-decision-on-banning-use-of-social-media-by-defence-officers-delhi-high-court-869977.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Celebrations at VHP office, nerve centre of Ram temple movement||Celebrations broke out at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad office in South Delhi on Wednesday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The Sankat Mochan Temple in R K Puram locality of Delhi, where the VHP office is located, was the nerve centre of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement launched in the 1980s where leaders such as Vishnu Hari Dalmia and Ashok Singhal sought guidance from various religious leaders. The 1984 Dharma Sansad was a key milestone in the temple movement, when VHP, RSS and BJP associated themselves with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. A huge room at the VHP office has been converted into a record room that is home to numerous court documents related to the prolonged court battle waged in local courts, the Allahabad High Court and the Supreme Court over the past couple of decades. “Now we have to bring the ideals and teachings of Bhagwan Sri Ram to the people, so that Ramatva (Ramahood) can be restored in Bharat,” Alok Kumar, Working President of the VHP said. For the VHP the mission was not just to build a temple at the birthplace of Lord Ram but to establish a ‘Ram Rajya’ as well, he asserted. “We have to move towards the establishment of Ramatva (Ramahood) on earth and eradicate poverty, malaise, inequality, illiteracy and unemployment from the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/celebrations-at-vhp-office-nerve-centre-of-ram-temple-movement-869987.html
05-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir LG G C Murmu resigns; likely to be next Comptroller Auditor General of India||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu on Wednesday put in his papers in the Wednesday evening and is likely to be appointed as the next Comptroller and Auditor General of India, sources said. Indications are that he is likely to succeed Rajiv Mehrishi as the next CAG, when the latter retires at the end of August. Mehrishi may be sent to Jammu and Kashmir as Murmu’s replacement. However, there was no official word on this. Murmu's resignation curiously came on the first anniversary of the Government revoking the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Murmu was appointed the Lieutenant Governor in October 25 last year and took charge as the first LG of Jammu and Kashmir six days later when the union territory came into being after the state's bifurcation. Earlier in the day, Army commander of Northern Command called on him to discuss the overall security management of the Union Territory, Recently, Murmu was rapped by the Election Commission over his repeated statements on assembly polls in the Union Territory, asking him to refrain from infringing upon its constitutionally mandated prerogative.   Murmu was Expenditure Secretary in the Ministry of Finance when he was appointed LG of Kashmir. A 1985-batch Gujarat cadre officer who hails from Odisha and set to retire November last year, Murmu was appointed Expenditure Secretary in March 2019. He is known for his implementation skills and was known to enjoy the trust and confidence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A post-graduate in political science who also holds MBA degree, Murmu was also questioned by the CBI in 2013 in connection with the alleged fake encounter case involving the killing of Ishrat Jahan and three others who were said to be accused of being involved in a plot to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lg-g-c-murmu-resigns-likely-to-be-next-comptroller-auditor-general-of-india-869999.html
05-08-2020||Opinion||Ram Mandir materialises. But at what cost? ||Telecast live by the state broadcaster, Doordarshan, and watched by millions of Indians, this is likely the biggest-ever Ramayan show to date. Being unenthusiastic about the ceremony, or not displaying jubilation by lighting lamps for the suggested days, will ensure 'justified' social profiling by others for future reference.  Enshrining the majoritarian narrative The 'calling out' of those who disagree with the majoritarian narrative on the Ram temple issue also underscores the righteousness with which the once partisan agitation is now invested. The stranglehold of religio-cultural nationalists is so complete that not one political party has commented on the inappropriateness of the mega-event, especially when pandemic-management requires complete attention and precautions remain necessary. But, this is too significant an event and there is great risk involved in assembling the top political leadership when the virulence of the virus remains unbridled. However, more worrying is the thought that permissions granted to the host of this show, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, would possibly not have been granted to any other body representing India's minority faiths for a similar event. The official patronage to the event is testimony to the fact that the separation between the State and (majority) religion is becoming absolutely non-existent.  In multi-faith nations like India, an overt partnership of one religion with the government will further alienate minorities from the mainstream. Over a long period of time, this could have an immense impact on social stability, economic growth and national security. Clearly, however, the rush to complete this phase of the temple reconstruction has a direct correlation with the area that the BJP and its leaders understand best – winning elections. Pandering to ‘Hindu subjugation’ Since the Ram Janmabhoomi Andolan was launched in 1984, its raison d'être has been the need to undo humiliation heaped on Hindus in history. There was historical precedent for this in the form of the Somnath Mandir ‘Jeernodhar’ (reconstruction). Additionally, it has been argued that Ram is not the diversely depicted character in multiple versions of the epic, who has several human streaks and common frailties, but is the never-do-wrong, super-human embodiment of India's 'oneness' and national character. Among several slogans that were full-throated in the course of the 36-year campaign, several emphasised that anyone wishing to continue living in India would have to swear in the name of Ram and promise support for building his temple at Ayodhya in place of the Babri Masjid. In conversations, leaders of the Sangh Parivar, including Modi, stated that though they had little reservations about citizens pursuing others faiths but it was necessary that minorities must consider the ideas and ideals of the majority community as their own. The campaign for the Ram temple at Ayodhya also spread disinformation on the reconstruction of Somnath temple on two counts. One, that Jawaharlal Nehru was opposed to the rebuilding of this Shiva temple, housing one of the 12 jyotirlingas in the country. The other canard was that the temple was built courtesy the single-minded pursuit of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. While both stories are intertwined, the popular belief centring Somnath is a classic example of how distortions of past events happen. After Mahmud of Ghazni wrecked the temple and desecrated the idol in 1026, the subsequent period till the mid-19th Century is not one of Hindu-Muslims animosity. At that time, the story of Hindu aggrievement and corresponding Muslim delight was introduced in the course of a debate in the House of Commons after a British Governor General directed the British Commander to Afghanistan to bring back the gates of Somnath, which turned out to unauthentic and unconnected with the temple. This sense of Hindu subjugation was an integral part of Sardar Patel's consciousness and when he got an opportunity in November 1947, he announced the government's intention to reconstruct the temple. The declaration did not have collective clearance, not even a consultation with Gandhi who by then was criss-crossing parts of India to douse communal flames. When the two met days after Patel's declaration, Gandhi realised that getting the Iron Man to withdraw the promise would be counterproductive and further inflame passions. However, he asked Patel to ensure that the government was not associated with reconstructing the temple and funds were not used for it from the State's exchequer and that the entire cost should be raised from people through donations. This separation between State and religion is now completely missing over the Ram temple; out of 15 members, 12 members were nominated by the Government of India. Jawaharlal Nehru also had a disagreement with President Rajendra Prasad over his decision to preside over the temple's inaugural ceremony. Although Prasad stuck to his decision, he reminded people in his address after the function, of the importance of interfaith harmony and hoped Somnath's reconstruction would not "open old wounds." Unlike the obsession of today's leaders with only 'their' religion, the President confessed that although a pious Hindu, his faith did not prevent him from visiting temples of other faiths, mosques and churches included. Given that the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony is being performed in these difficult times, reasons for this must be compelling. The Ayodhya campaign and various programmes associated with it have been a quasi bailout package for the Sangh Parivar/BJP at times and on other occasions, served to galvanise the agitation. Sticking to the pre-Covid-19 calendar is suggestive that the BJP feels the need to consolidate its core constituency in the wake of challenges the party may face due to inept handling of the medical crisis, the social ramifications and the economic downturn. The hope is obviously once again that the euphoria generated by the ceremony would be sufficient for the BJP to prevent erosion in support, albeit temporary. Although not empirically tested, any decline in popularity of either the party or the prime minister individually, cannot be but impermanent. Undoubtedly, the agitation has been the most effective mass movement in post-independence India and now the Ram temple's construction is no longer the solitary objective. In fact, the Ram temple will act as a mere stepping stone for more extensive goals. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ram-mandir-materialises-but-at-what-cost-869665.html
05-08-2020||Opinion||The rath yatra comes to an end, what next for BJP?||Not many will recall that the political “movement” to “liberate Rama’s birthplace” at Ayodhya predated Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984. The Khalistan-inspired militancy had scaled a peak in and around Punjab. The RSS and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), its militant arm, sensed a feeling of fear, insecurity and frustration among North India’s Hindus. The Sangh and VHP were bereft of a vehicle to disseminate their messages and harness popular support because the BJP, that was founded in 1980, was a toddler. They lacked a medium to draw people’s attention until the VHP set up the Ram Janmabhoomi Mukti Yagya Samiti to spearhead an “agitation” to “restore” a temple at Rama’s “birthplace” where stood the Babri mosque in 1983.  The launchpad was the “Ram Janaki rath yatra” that was to journey from Bihar’s Sitamarhi – believed to be the birth site of Sita and her adoptive father Janaka’s kingdom – to the banks of the Saryu river in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. The ‘yatra’, that traversed the heartland on a motorised vehicle embellished with Hindu motifs and religious totem, was the perfect platform for the VHP to spew its provocative speeches laced with mythological tales. The “yatra’s” last lap was cut short by Indira’s killing. The ensuing general elections delivered to the Congress its best ever verdict. The BJP read the mandate as the country’s “first pro-Hindutva election” because it purportedly funnelled the majority community’s “anger” against “Sikh terrorism” into mass votes. Signposts along the way Despite the VHP’s private misgivings, the BJP appropriated the Ram temple banner in 1990. L K Advani, the party president, led the “Ram rath yatra” from Somnath. The spur for the long peregrination was the BJP’s first significant showing in the 1989 general elections where it won 85 seats of which Uttar Pradesh contributed eight.  The BJP had a loose understanding with the Janata Dal, helmed by VP Singh, and contested 31 of the 85 seats in undivided Uttar Pradesh. It’s an unsettled debate on what catalysed the BJP’s performance: A ride on the back of the JD that fought the polls against Rajiv Gandhi’s omissions and commissions, symbolised by the Bofors deal, or Hindutva, reflected in the Congress’s flip-flop on faith. The Rajiv Gandhi government was seen to facilitate the Ayodhya temple construction but simultaneously it tried to appease Muslims by overturning a Supreme Court verdict on divorce maintenance that was read by the Islamic clergy as a direct intervention in Muslim personal law.  The BJP didn’t look back from then on. In the general elections that followed, it netted 120 seats in 1991 (of which UP’s share was 51), 161 in 1996 (52 from UP), 182 in 1998 (57 from UP) and 182 again in 1999 (but UP’s tally dived to 29). Uttar Pradesh’s significance is underscored by the fact that not only is the state the epicentre of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid conflict but the site of two other potential temple-mosque confrontations in Mathura and Varanasi. In the 2004 and 2009 elections, not only was the BJP voted out at the Centre but it lost its sheen in Uttar Pradesh, that returned only 10 seats both times.  The tide swiftly turned in 2014 when the BJP swept the Lok Sabha polls, winning 71 (plus two of the Apna Dal, its ally) of the 80 seats in Uttar Pradesh. It lost a few seats in 2019 from Uttar Pradesh (62) but its vote percentage was up by 7.35 percent in the five years.  Electoral benefits from the “movement” What does the data say about the role of the Ram temple in the elections? Was it pivotal, supplementary or peripheral? Ayodhya certainly gave the BJP the leg-up it needed to grow from the single-digit output in Uttar Pradesh in 1989. The demonstrably exponential rise in 1991, when it picked up 51 of the 84 seats it fought on, was credited to the temple. Despite the Mandal Commission being an overriding factor in east and parts of central Uttar Pradesh, the BJP got the near-total backing of the upper castes as well as slices of the backward caste and Dalit votes.  The year 1991 was the best showing Ayodhya turned in, in Uttar Pradesh. In 1996, the dynamics altered somewhat because Atal Bihari Vajpayee was projected as the BJP’s PM candidate and he represented Lucknow in the Lok Sabha. Despite him not being associated closely with the temple issue, the BJP’s playbook ensured Hindutva stayed in the backdrop as rhetoric and conviction. The 1998 election was presidential in nature because it was themed around Vajpayee. Expectedly, the BJP improved on its performance. While the promise of a “bhavya” (magnificent) temple was kept alive in its discourse, the 1999 election betrayed a sense of weariness among the BJP’s supporters. Neither Ram nor “nationalism”, that was disseminated through the Kargil “victory”, helped the BJP in Uttar Pradesh where the economy and agriculture took over. The BJP was down from 57 to 29 seats. 2004 was a low water mark because the Vajpayee charisma had faded, his effort to reconcile the pressure from the VHP and the Hindu clerics with the demands of the Muslim Personal Law Board and the Babri Masjid Action Committee failed and the cadre was demoralised. Finding a place for Mandir in BJP 2.0 The BJP fumbled with the temple except when the issue played itself out on its own with drama and spectacle from the Sangh “Parivar”. The 1993 assembly election—held a year after the mosque was felled—was the turning point. Popular wisdom granted the BJP an outright win for delivering on its “promise” to clear the land for a temple; ground realities were different. When the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party cemented an alliance, the dynamics changed, caste predominated the elections and the coalition of the OBCs and Dalits beat the BJP.  In 2014, Modi was the protagonist, the deus ex machina who lifted the BJP from the morass it had sunk into in Uttar Pradesh and saw to it its performance never flagged in the 2017 assembly and the 2019 general elections. The temple found an anodyne mention in the BJP’s election manifesto and the stump speeches. The promise of corruption-free and efficient governance, based on the successfully trumpeted “Gujarat model”, with an appeal to “nationalism” that in essence meant pulverising Pakistan and dealing with powerful nations on India’s terms, was an admixture that clicked in the north and west.  Will the resurrection of the temple add another dimension to the BJP’s politics, that revolves around Modi and “nationalism”?  Yogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, is expected to be the purveyor of Ayodhya in BJP 2.0. Modi has other issues to deal with. Adityanath is the spiritual heir of Mahant Avaidyanath, a forebear of the temple “movement” who likes many leading lights of the ‘80s and ‘90s is no more. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharati, the other dramatis personae in the events of yesteryears, are politically inactive.  The UP elections of 2022 will be the first test of the relevance and potency of Ayodhya, led by a different cast of characters from what the pilgrim town had known.  (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-rath-yatra-comes-to-an-end-what-next-for-bjp-869675.html
05-08-2020||Opinion||A year of humiliation, bruises for pro-Indian Kashmiris||For years I held the strongest belief that the future of Kashmir remained with India. Though I had shifted out of Kashmir years ago, yet in my heart, my Kashmiri identity remained, and continues to remain, supreme. This is true for most  Kashmiris, whether Muslims or Pandits. In a very polarised environment, I was trying to keep a neutral ground and batted for India. But that was till August 5, 2019. In the words inspired by a right-leaning TV anchor in a "sheer sudden move….[an] unexpected move, unpredictable move" the Special Status of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir was done away with by abrogating Article 370. This decision was taken unilaterally by the Central government and Home Minister Amit Shah became the face of this move. Back in 2018, and at the beginning of 2019, if you had asked me, I was all for the abrogation of the so-called Special Status of the then state. The law, in my opinion, served only the ends of the elite in Kashmir. What was there for me to crib about it? But the manner in which the consent for the abrogation of Article 370 and 35 A was made me feel extremely alienated.  An administration headed by a Governor who was not a Kashmiri, or a Dogra, or a Bakkarwal, Pahadi, Kargili, or Ladakhi – the major denominations in the valley – was made to sign off the change. We were told that he represented the view of Kashmiris since the law was changed to make the Governor stand in for the state’s non-existent Legislative Assembly. It made very little sense.  Governor Satya Pal Malik had only days before the move brushed aside any talk of abrogation of Special Status. And Malik wasn't alone in this. Many such people, including officials (not elected representatives), made a dark mockery of Kashmiri sentiments. But that wasn't all. The state was cut into pieces just like cake sectioned on a table. While Ladakhis might have got what they always wanted, the same could not be said of Kargilis. They were visibly upset with the move. It didn't stop with the partitioning of the state. Both new geographical areas, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, were made into Union Territories. It was tantamount to downgrading the status of J&K, although PM Narendra Modi promised that statehood to J&K would be restored at some point in the near future.  Most pro-Indian leaders, who over the years risked their lives for the cause and idea of India, were either put behind the bars, or kept under house arrest. Anyone who could mobilise a crowd of more than 10 people was arrested. Internet services and phone connections were snapped-- both landline and mobile. There was a virtual information blackout from Kashmir, except for internet access to a bunch of journalists believed to be close to the ruling dispensation.  The deadline to implement these moves was set three months later – on October 31, 2019. Pro-Indian Kashmiris turned swiftly towards what they had always fought for: The Constitution of India. They started filing pleas in Supreme Court against the move. The verdict didn't come in time and the government continued with its agenda.  Till date, people in the Muslim-dominated province of Jammu & Kashmir – the Kashmir Valley – haven’t seen 4G network on their phones. This at a time when the PM has been celebrating the digital prowess of India. Some mainstream politicians were able to walk free and some are still detained. And many still want to know what is wrong with India's Kashmir policy, if there is one? There is no clarity on what the Centre plans to do in the name of propping up a new political class in Kashmir. Things continue to remain shrouded in a lot of confusion and lack of transparency is a way of life.  The move is seen as part of BJP's hardline Hindutva ideology by many Kashmiris today. This is a worrying trend because many pro-India Kashmiris feel like they have been orphaned by the State by whom they stood all these years.   I conclude with a personal anecdote. Months after Article 370 was abrogated, a friend who never had faith in India called me up and mocked me saying, "Aapko Hindustan ka aayeein muabarak hai” (Congratulations to you for your belief of India.) I tried to reason with him, but this time, my position was much weaker. The reason? One decision taken without any consultation on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-year-of-humiliation-bruises-for-pro-indian-kashmiris-869869.html
05-08-2020||Panorama||Transform India's healthcare infrastructure||Health systems have contributed enormously to better health and, but their contribution could be greater, especially for marginalized people. With its billion-plus population and less-than-equitable access to healthcare, India has the responsibility to utilize these building blocks to transform its health system, especially in the wake of the pandemic. Recent experience of Covid-19 pandemic clearly depicts that in order to build a strong health system in India, there needs to exist an integrated system of primary-secondary and tertiary care institutions.  Multiple organizations interact to influence health systems service delivery, including the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, public and private sector players, non-health sectors and actors, administrators, non-governmental organizations, and professional associations. The role of the private sector is very critical as it strongly influences the service delivery of a health system. There is no one-size-fits-all way of maximizing synergies between various actors to strengthen health systems because local contexts vary significantly India’s health workforce consists broadly of health service providers, nursing professionals, para-medics, management professionals for health and hospital with enormous variation in their level and skill. An efficient health workforce is also available, responsive, and productive. To achieve this, managing dynamic labour markets and improving the distribution and performance of the existing health workforce is important. Suggestions for improvement during the pandemic include: increasing trained and skilled workforce in contract-tracing, case management; use of telemedicine and e-health for enhancing the accessibility and availability of various treatments and advises to the population at large. There is a strong need to develop district hospitals as the center of excellence for providing training, technical and professional support to public and private sector institutions in the district – local capacity needs to be strengthened. The generation and strategic use of information on health systems is an integral part of governance. A well-functioning health information system ensures the production, analysis, dissemination and use of reliable and timely health information by decision-makers at different levels.  Also, a well-oiled health system ensures equitable access to essential medical products, vaccines and technologies of assured quality, safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness, and their scientifically sound and cost-effective use. Recent experience strongly suggests revisiting the Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS) for district hospitals, sub-district hospitals, community health centers, primary health centers together are the nerves of the public health system in India, their standards in terms of service delivery, human resources, equipment, supplies, and infrastructure need to be re-visited.  A good health financing system raises adequate funds for health to ensure people can use needed services. There is an urgent need to increase public health spending in India. The National Health Policy, 2017 intends to increase the public health spending by 2.5% of GDP by 2025 from the current 1.3%. India’s health system is clearly underfunded, so the question arises: can we achieve the intended goal of National Health Policy with this speed and effort? India’s health financing policies should focus more on making the health system resilient, and improving health security, and universal health coverage requires total transformation in our policy, coupled with state governments increasing their health budget by more than 8% of their state budget.  Leadership and governance is the most complex but critical building block of India’s health system that identifies the role of the government and its relation to other actors whose activities impact health systems. Overseeing and guiding the private as well as public health system is key to ensure strategic policy frameworks exist and are combined with effective supervision, coalition building, providing appropriate regulations and incentives, attention to system-design, and ensuring accountability. The pandemic depicted that India’s health system requires a clear vision to enhance the standards of health for the population. (The writer is a Health Economist and Public Health Specialist. Currently Pro-President of IIHMR University, Jaipur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/transform-indias-healthcare-infrastructure-869642.html
05-08-2020||Panorama||NEP 2020: A progressive roadmap for school education||One of the opening statements of the National Education Policy 2020 affirms that “Education must build character, enable learners to be ethical, rational, compassionate, and caring, while at the same time prepare them for gainful and fulfilling employment.” A laudable objective indeed! This NEP, the first such document of this century, is a bold attempt to address these seminal aims of education. It has several redeeming features about it, though there might be some genuine concerns regarding certain aspects. School education gets a huge impetus in NEP 2020. Even by sheer numbers, it is quite impressive. Half the document is about school education. The word ‘school’ is mentioned over 300 times, and teachers more than 200 times. Children are referred to around 83 times. Do these numbers really matter? Yes, they do. Pre-primary Education Apart from the numbers, the document has for the first time brought to focus certain neglected segments. For instance, pre-primary get official recognition. It is given a formal status in the realm of school education, something not done before. Schooling, though informal, starts from age three. NCERT is expected to bring out ‘an excellent pedagogical framework’ suitable for children aged 3-8. The apex body will look at the best practices from within the country and abroad. Kindergarten education will get the primacy it deserves with this step.  So far, it was somewhere on the school education map.   The significance of early childhood care and education is anchored on the evidence that “85% of a child’s cumulative brain development occurs prior to the age of six, indicating the critical importance of appropriate care and stimulation of the brain in a child’s early years for its healthy growth and development.” The teacher A school is only as good as its teachers, goes a wise maxim. The centrality of the ‘teacher’ is a very inspiring aspect of the NEP, “recognising the teacher as the most respected and essential member of society.” Sadly, “the status of the teacher undoubtedly and unfortunately has dropped.” Efforts will be made to attract the best talent and thus revive the high status of this noble profession. A 4-year integrated B.Ed programme and scholarships to attract meritorious students to the profession, in-service professional development options, and career advancement will be dovetailed into the system. A teacher-student ratio of 1:30 maximum is another welcome development. In the socio-economically disadvantaged areas, the ratio suggested is 1:25, which is praise-worthy. An added condition is that every class will have at least one teacher, while adhering to the ratio.  While earlier policies on education laid emphasis on access and equity, this document wants to bring in quality, affordability and accountability as well. Quality Education Of course, quality has always been our main concern, especially the wide disparity in the quality of education children get in different schools. We need to make the curriculum useful, engaging and enjoyable for the children. It should be able to create holistic and well-rounded individuals equipped with the skills needed for the new century. While there is a need to curb the commercialisation of education by profiteering agencies, the document makes bold to say that all private institutions do not come under this category. There are ‘public-spirited philanthropic schools’ which serve the community well. Unfortunately, the regulatory regimes interfere in the honest work of these not-for-profit agencies, instead of stopping the exploitation of parents by the for-profit institutions. Good schools should not be stifled by the regulatory bodies, which is what happens oftentimes. Let them stop barking up the wrong trees, so to say. Private participation In NEP 2020, private participation in education is commended more than once. Accreditation and standard-setting are to be introduced to focus on developing and improving parameters which lead to better educational outcomes. The tendency to overly restrict schools, prevent innovation and creativity, and thereby demoralising principals, teachers and students should be stopped. Too much regulation stunts the growth of institutions of excellence. Support for gifted students and for those with special talents, with additional opportunities is also proposed. Many co-curricular activities are to be incorporated into the academic schedule to unearth and develop the latent talents of children.  Allocation for education is to be raised to 6% of GDP. If that is implemented, it would be a revolutionary step forward. The language issue   The language conundrum has taken a twist, to the utter surprise of many. The draft policy sought to give more prominence to Hindi, which kicked up a huge controversy. Maybe in deference to the sentiments of the various states, particularly of the southern states, the three-language formula is retained. The medium of instruction suggested till Class V is the regional language. The teaching of English is not expressly forbidden, which means English can be taught as a language at all levels. The premise, however, is that regional language is most suited for children till age eight. This may have been done to appease the regional linguistic zealots. This is one issue that is likely to be debated endlessly. Most parents will want their children to study English right from primary classes, for obvious reasons. Even the Supreme Court has endorsed the parents’ right to choose the language/s their children have to learn. English and computers are the two gifts of the last millennium to India. We have been enjoying their fruits all along. Shouldn’t we continue to nurture these two gifts for the future generations? Though ‘national integration’ is mentioned twice in the document, the word ‘secularism’ is conspicuous by its absence. Some might look askance at this omission, inadvertent or otherwise. In the final analysis, it’s a valiant attempt to get to the root of the problems that plague our system. Of course, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Much will depend on its successful implementation.  (The writer is Director, Little Rock Institute for Educational Leadership, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nep-2020-a-progressive-roadmap-for-school-education-869644.html
05-08-2020||Panorama||Uniform transport tariff for gas – a flawed idea||Speaking at the launch of the nation’s maiden online gas trading platform by Indian Gas Exchange (IGX), petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan alluded to “a new pipeline tariff policy that will replace existing practice of seven different pipeline operators charging separate rates and customers away from gas source paying more than those nearer to source.” Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) Chairman DK Saraf was even more specific when he spoke of a “single rate across pipelines so as to make the price of fuel uniform for customers across the country.”  According to the minister, “the new policy will help bring down the cost of natural gas, make it affordable in every part of the country and  facilitate development of gas market in eastern and northeastern part of the country.”   Currently, nearly 50% of India’s total natural gas requirement is imported as LNG (liquefied natural gas) which is re-gasified at plants set up at major terminals, namely Hazira and Dahej (Gujarat), Kochi (Kerala) and transported through a network of pipelines to consuming areas. The indigenous supplies (accounting for the balance 50%), mostly from western offshore fields, are also transported through pipelines. The cost of supplying gas to customers located near the source (such as those in Gujarat) is bound to be less than supplying to customers who are located far away in the hinterlands. Accordingly, under the existing arrangement, customers located near the source pay less whereas those far off pay more. The government intends to replace this by a ‘uniform’ tariff payable by all consumers. The idea is flawed.   There can only be two rational approaches for setting tariff -- (i) it is left entirely to the forces of demand and supply and to let the market decide tariff; (ii) cost-plus principle. Of course, tariff fixation using the latter method has to be based on norms in regard to factors such as the pipeline carrying capacity, volume of gas actually transported, permissible rate of return on investment, etc. At present, this principle is followed by operators for determining tariff.   If now, the government wants to do a ‘one country, one rate’ for all consumers, it will result in two anomalies. First, considering that operators have different cost structures (due to varying capital cost, overheads and operating expenses), prescribing uniform tariff for supplies from all operators will result in fortuitous gain for some, whose costs are lower, and loss for those whose costs are higher. Second, this will be tantamount to taking money from consumers located near the source and giving it to those who are far away. This is totally unjustified. An argument that the inherent disadvantage of a unit located away must be removed is not valid. This is because it may be better placed in some other respect, which has a bearing on its overall cost competitiveness.    To illustrate, let us compare two urea manufacturing units (gas is used for making urea), one located near the gas source and the other in the hinterland. Undoubtedly, the latter has to pay more for transportation of gas (albeit under cost-plus principle), but being near major fertiliser consumption areas, it saves on outward movement of the finished product, namely urea. The former may save on gas cost, but being away from major consuming areas has to spend more on movement of urea. On balance, the playing field is automatically leveled.   So, to ignore the holistic picture and see things in isolation would be unfair and illogical. Any policy intervention based on such a myopic view would only lead to distortions. In July 2015, the government had introduced a system of pooling cheaper domestic gas with expensive imported LNG to provide gas at ‘uniform’ delivered price to all urea manufacturing plants connected to the gas grid. If the base price can be uniform, goes the logic, why can’t the transport tariff be the same? The comparison is not on as the two situations are entirely different.  The gas pooling was forced by a peculiar system of an inter-ministerial committee undersecretary in the petroleum ministry deciding inter-sector allocation of domestic gas as also to individual manufacturers. This gas was cheap but in short supply, leading to an anomalous situation whereby some manufacturers would get a major share of their requirement (or even all it) from domestic gas, others had to contend with expensive imported LNG. Pooling of supplies from the two sources and delivering gas from the pool to all manufacturers hooked to the grid at the same price has removed this anomaly.  When it comes to transportation of gas, the variation in tariff has nothing to do with exercise of discretion in allocation of gas. Here, the tariff variation arises entirely due to the distance of the consuming unit from the supply source, and the charges are entirely formula-driven.    In view of the above, there is absolutely no merit in pursuing the uniform transport tariff idea for gas. Decades ago, we had a system of freight equalisation for steel – something akin to what is being proposed now for natural gas. It was eventually abolished as it was considered neither fair nor rational. The government should not intervene in areas where it ought not to. It should dismantle the existing regime of multiple prices for gas (there are at least half a dozen), deregulate import of LNG, hive off the handling and transportation infrastructure from the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and free up determination of transport tariff.    These areas should be left entirely to the market forces. However, an area which needs urgent attention is the tax structure. At present, natural gas is out of GST purview. Even as the excise duty on gas is nil, VAT varies from state to state from as low as 5% in Rajasthan to a high of 21% in Uttar Pradesh. Some states impose local levies, such as ‘purchase tax’ in Gujarat on that portion of gas used for making urea that is sold outside the state. This convoluted regime must go. Gas should be brought under GST and taxed at 5%.  (The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/uniform-transport-tariff-for-gas-a-flawed-idea-870006.html
05-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Memories of morning assembly||The piercing sunlight made its way through the Kaleidoscope of foliage and fell on the spacious playground of the school as I entered its portal after decades. The school brought back a plethora of memories, the morning assembly, the PT Class, lunch break and dispersal. I caressed the brick walls. Have they grown old like grey streaks in my hair?  Soon, I could visualize myself standing in prayer line reciting school choir. We had to maintain 'one-arm' distance between each other, in ascending order according to our height. I was average in height so I always stood in the middle of the assembly line, having the advantage to murmur and lip-sync. Bending forward, I used to pick up dry grass and sprinkle it on the white uniform of a girl standing in front of me. Once a dog graced our morning Assembly with its presence. The PT teacher was instructing the guards to get rid of it but our PT commander shouted at the top of his voice, “Ready for morning inspection”. It at once led to giggles and guffaws galore.  Lost in magical memories of those days now I think Assembly lines were not only emblems of spiritual spaces but also of fraternity and flamboyance. Marching on the ground left and right we often talked about pranks and fights. Our playful gang did it with dexterity and deft. Once during prayer, my friend said, “Did you sleep restfully at night?” We had a test on Math on that day nervously I blurted out, “No, I made a few mistakes.” Stupefied she nudged me as all laughed.  I remember in childhood, us cousins were made to stand in a line and recite our school prayer one by one. One of my youngest cousin was a student of Nursery. She sang her prayer excitedly ending on the note “Nursery B go”. In her school immediately after prayer, nursery B was instructed to leave, so she felt “Nursery B go” to be part of the prayer. Prayer in the morning acknowledged the universal presence of the divine spirit that binds and equalizes all of us. It taught us punctuality, piety and perseverance. To inculcate values of diligence and discipline. The principal also applauded the achievements of students. This gave students an opportunity to be in the spotlight.   Now I stood in lush green school ground with time transfixed and crystallized. My salute to my school which gave me memories heartful!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/memories-of-morning-assembly-870010.html
05-08-2020||Second Edit||Child-trafficking, a rising concern||Recent reports of babies being sold by poor families in Assam are reminders of the persistent problem of child-trafficking in many parts of the country. The problem is most serious in the backward states and regions of the country. It is poor families that are most vulnerable. Babies are often sold, and in many cases, snatched or kidnapped. According to reports from Assam, two families sold their babies because the lockdown had reduced them to penury. Trafficking happens not only in babies. Older children, especially girls, and women are major targets. There are organised trafficking networks and gangs operating at national and international levels. The UN Office on Drugs and Crimes has estimated that 70% of trafficking victims are women and girl children. According to other estimates, every 30 seconds, a child is trafficked for sex, slavery, or organ harvesting. The World Day Against Human Trafficking, which was observed last week, put the spotlight on various aspects of trafficking and the challenges in eliminating it.  The Centre has recently brought to the attention of state governments through the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) the possibility of an increase in trafficking and told them to involve local bodies in mapping the “vulnerability of households” so that parents are not forced to “sell” their children to meet financial needs. The NCPCR has adopted a methodology for a “family-centric approach to counter child-trafficking” and identified hotspots where social attention has to be paid. According to the National Human Rights Commission, 40,000 children are abducted in the country every year, and 11,000 of them are untraced. There is a view that this is an underestimate. Worse, it is a matter of serious concern that 25% of the trafficked children are not found at all. The situation becomes murkier if trafficking in women is also taken into consideration. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the number of missing women increased in the country from 1,74,021 in 2016 to 2,23,621 in 2018.  India does not have a sound and adequate legal framework to deal with trafficking. The Trafficking Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2018, was passed by the Lok Sabha but lapsed because the Rajya Sabha could not consider it. While the law has to be put in place, there is the need to prioritise the protection of women and children from trafficking. A concerted effort by law enforcement authorities, local self-government institutions, government departments, NGOs and the civil society is needed for this. There should be increased vigil and efforts against all trafficking in the coming weeks and months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/child-trafficking-a-rising-concern-869637.html
05-08-2020||South||Family of Kerala farmer who died in custody refuses to hold his funeral, demands officials' arrest||Even a week after the mysterious death of a farmer at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala, his family is unwilling to conduct his funeral demanding the arrest of all the forest officials accused. P P Mathai of Kudappanna near Chittar, about 30 kilometres from Pathanamthitta town, was found dead in a well on July 28 night, hours after he was taken into custody by a team of forest officials on charges of damaging surveillance cameras in the forest. While the forest officials claimed that Mathai jumped into the well after escaping from custody, the family alleged that it was a murder. Mathai's wife Sheeba said that the funeral would not be performed until all the accused were arrested and brought before the law. Mathai, who was running a farm, was the sole breadwinner of the family comprising his wife, two daughters, aged mother and two sisters. Sheeba said that if the family did not receive justice, they would have no option other than ending their lives. The post-mortem report suggested that Mathai died due to drowning and there were no other unnatural injuries on the body. Two forest officials were placed under suspension. While the police are probing into the mystery behind the death, the forest department is also probing into the alleged procedural lapses in taking Mathai into custody and the subsequent manipulations made in forest records. Pathanamthitta district police chief K G Simon said that the investigating officers had informed the family that a proper investigation was progressing and all accused would be brought before the law. Now it is for the family to make a decision on conducting the funeral. The body is kept in the mortuary of a private hospital. AICC general secretary and former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy called on Mathai's family the other day. He later sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking urgent intervention into the matter. He alleged that the forest officials did not follow norms for taking a person into custody. No efforts were made by the government to console the family, Chandy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/family-of-kerala-farmer-who-died-in-custody-refuses-to-hold-his-funeral-demands-officials-arrest-869777.html
05-08-2020||South||Lupin to sell generic Covid-19 drug favipiravir||A slew of generic drug manufacturers including Cipla Ltd, Sun Pharma and Hetero Labs have been developing favipiravir after India approved it as an as emergency treatment for mild to moderate Covid-19. Indian hospitals have suffered a shortage of critical Covid-19 drugs such as remdesivir in recent weeks, but the bottlenecks are expected to ease soon as manufacturers ramp up production. Favipiravir has shown promise in clinical trials in India and Russia but faces uncertain prospects in Japan, where it was originally developed by Fujifilm Holdings, after disappointing clinical studies. Lupin's version of the drug, called Covihalt, will be priced at 49 rupees (65 cents) per 200 mg-tablet, it said. Sun Pharma on Tuesday launched its own version, at 35 rupees, so far the cheapest in India. Shares in Lupin, one of India's top generic drug makers, were little changed in midday trading. Coronavirus infections in India topped 1.9 million on Wednesday, after rising by more than 50,000 for seven straight days. The country has the world's third most affected after the United States and Brazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lupin-to-sell-generic-covid-19-drug-favipiravir-869788.html
05-08-2020||South||After DMK MLA's praise for PM Narendra Modi, party suspends him||The DMK on Wednesday suspended its MLA Ku Ka Selvam from the party and relieved him of party posts a day after he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and met BJP president J P Nadda. The Dravidian party also sent the legislator a show-cause notice asking him why he should not be expelled from the primary membership of the party. DMK chief M K Stalin, in a party release said "DMK headquarters office secretary and executive committee member Ku Ka Selvam is relieved from the posts effective today." The party president said Selvam was suspended for violating party discipline and bringing disrepute and his explanation has been sought. During his visit to Delhi On Tuesday, Selvam, representing the Thousand Lights constituency here, praised Modi for good governance and extended his best wishes to him for efforts to construct the Ram temple at Ayodhya. Amid speculation that he was set to join the saffron party, Selvam had denied it and maintained he was in the national capital to meet Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to seek projects for his constituency. He said he utilised the opportunity to meet Nadda and urged him to develop Rameswaram and the places associated with Lord Ram, on a par with Ayodhya. The MLA, who could not be reached for comments, also had wanted Stalin to snap ties with the Congress and condemn "Karuppar Kootam" channel, for denigrating 'Kanda Sashti Kavacham' hymn in praise of Lord Muruga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-dmk-mlas-praise-for-pm-narendra-modi-party-suspends-him-869837.html
05-08-2020||South||Key accused in Treasury 'embezzlement' held||A suspended senior accountant, suspected to be the prime accused in the "embezzlement" of funds from a sub-treasury here, has been arrested, police said on Wednesday. M R Bijulal was arrested from his advocate's office behind the district court here, they said. "We have arrested the accused," an investigating officer told PTI. Meanwhile, a local channel aired an interview of Bijulal before the police came to arrest him, in which he was seen saying someone else has used his account to transfer money. "I have not committed any fraud. Someone else has used my account to commit the crime. I have not used anyone's ID or password to transfer the treasury fund," Bijulal was seen telling the channel. He also claimed that the money in his account was earned by him through an online rummy game which he plays regularly. Soon after the interview was aired, police reached his advocate's office and whisked him away. The Kerala government on August 3 transferred all but one official of a sub-treasury here in the wake of 'embezzlement' of funds from the District Collector's account as it dubbed the incident as a "serious cybercrime." The government had suspended Bijulal, a senior accountant of the Vanchiyoor sub-treasury for allegedly withdrawing around Rs two crore from the District Collector's official account illegally and depositing it into the accounts of himself and his wife, also a government employee, in the treasury. The department said the treasury lost at least Rs 61.23 lakh and that the balance amount was still in Bijulal's account, which along with that of his wife, have been frozen. Police had registered a case against the couple on charges of forgery and cheating. The incident came to light when the sub-treasury officer found the irregularities in the account in the name of the Collector, who in turn alerted the treasury director. The department said the fraud was committed using the ID and password of an employee who retired in May, prompting an inquiry on why it was still active. Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac has said a committee, including an official of the National Informatics Centre, has been formed to probe the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/key-accused-in-treasury-embezzlement-held-869858.html
05-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to allow gyms to open from August 10||After remaining closed for over four months as part of measures to fight Covid-19, gyms in Tamil Nadu are all set to resume services from August 10. The decision was taken by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, considering a representation from the Tamil Nadu Gym Owners and Trainers Welfare Association, the government said in an official release. Palaniswami ordered allowing gyms to resume operations from August 10 and the Centre has allowed such facilities to work from today, the government said. The gyms will be allowed to offer services only to people aged up to 50 years and Standard Operating Procedures, which will be issued separately for them, will have to be followed. Like other establishments, gyms were also closed on March 24 in Tamil Nadu as part of measures to fight Covid-19. While other businesses and activities were allowed in a phased manner to resume function, gyms have now been permitted to restart work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-allow-gyms-to-open-from-august-10-869879.html
05-08-2020||South||VIT announces rank list for B. Tech admissions||Of the first ten rank holders, two – Rishit Tyagi and Rahul George – are from Karnataka, three are from Telangana, two from West Bengal and one each from Kerala, Rajasthan, and Andhra Pradesh. A total of 1,83,059 candidates from 28 states, 8 union territories and twelve countries (Middle East, Indonesia, Nepal, Nigeria, Mauritius, Sri Lanka, UK, and Singapore), had applied for VIT B.Tech. Admissions in 2020. Admissions this year is based on marks obtained in 12th standard exams. “These ranks are for admission to the 36 B.Tech. and B.Des Programmes offered by VIT at its Vellore, Chennai, AP and Bhopal campuses,” the university said in a statement. Under the G V School Development Programme (GVSDP), Central and State board exam toppers would be given 100 per cent fee waiver for all the four years, the university said. The district toppers (one boy and one girl) in all the districts of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh who are studying in Govt. Schools in rural areas will be given 100 per cent fee waiver and exemption from hostel and mess fees under the STARS (Support The Advancement of Rural Students) scheme, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vit-announces-rank-list-for-b-tech-admissions-869905.html
05-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh Govt and ISB policy lab to drive evidence-based decisions for growth||The Andhra Pradesh Economic Development Board has entered into an MoU with the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad with the objective of economic recovery and growth monitoring especially the post-Covid-19 development and job creation in the state. The MoU would also nurture a think tank by setting up a “GoAP-ISB Policy Lab”, a public policy laboratory to drive evidence-based policy decisions. It aims to create a knowledge bank for strategic planning, policy analysis, data analytics and action-research essential for sustaining high rates of growth. The lab modelled on the lines of the Policy Lab in the UK Cabinet would enable greater synergistic functioning of departments and work towards the objective of economic monitoring, recovery and development, a press release said. JVN Subramanyam, CEO AP Economic Development Board and Prof Rajendra Srivastava, Dean, ISB exchanged the MoU in the presence of Mekapati Goutham Reddy, AP minister for industries, commerce, IT in a virtual event. “We are onboarding ISB as our knowledge partner to work on various initiatives in skill development, e-governance, turning Visakhapatnam into a growth engine, improving value addition in food processing etc. initiatives,” Reddy said. “We intend to generate data using randomized control trials (RCTs) and gather evidence to measure the impact of our policies and drive our decisions based on strong research evidence. This is truly cutting edge in the field of economics and public policy. Last year’s Nobel Prize winners were recognized for pioneering this experimental (RCT) approach to development economics,” the minister further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-and-isb-policy-lab-to-drive-evidence-based-decisions-for-growth-869908.html
05-08-2020||South||Two landslides disrupt road, rail traffic between Goa, Karnataka||Two landslides in Karnataka have disrupted road and rail traffic en route Goa, with the South Western Railway authorities being forced to divert the 12780 Hazrat Nizamuddin to Madgaon Goa Express on account of a landslide in its Karnataka sector.  The train which was scheduled to arrive at Goa’s Madgaon railway station early on Wednesday morning was diverted in wake of the landslide to the Castle Rock railway station, where a special bus service transported to the passengers to Goa’s Madgaon railway station and nearby areas.  “The Hazrat Nizamuddin Express was halted due to the landslide in the Goa-Karnataka ghat section after heavy rain. The train was diverted to the Castle Rock station from where passengers were accommodated in buses for the onward journey to Goa,” a South Western Railway spokesperson said.  Another landslide in the Chorla ghat section has also disrupted road traffic between Goa and Karnataka.  “There has been a landslide at Chorla ghat road. It will take six hours to clear the road. Public is advised to not travel via the road,” the state Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement issued here on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-landslides-disrupt-road-rail-traffic-between-goa-karnataka-869912.html
05-08-2020||South||Holy soil from Rameswaram, Kanchipuram and water from Kanyakumari used at Ayodhya Ram Temple bhoomi pujan||Holy soil from Rameswaram and Kanchipuram, holy water from the confluence of three oceans in Kanyakumari and gold and silver coins from the Kanchi Mutt are some of the materials that were sent from Tamil Nadu to be used in the bhoomi pujan for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had sent soil collected from Dhanushkodi near Rameswaram and holy water collected from River Cauvery and from Kanyakumari through courier, while the famous Kanchi Kamakodi Peetam transported materials it collected through a flight. The holy water in Kanyakumari was collected from ‘Triveni Sangamam’, the confluence of Bay of Bengal, Indian Ocean, and the Arabian Sea. VHP leaders said they have also sent soil collected from other famous temples across Tamil Nadu to Ayodhya. Tamil Nadu has several pilgrim centres associated with Lord Ram and Rameswaram is the most sacred among them. It is believed that it is from Dhanushkodi near the island of Rameswaram where Lord Ram broke the Ram Setu. He is also believed to have worshipped Lord Shiva, who is the presiding deity at the Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram. Besides soil collected from the famous Ekambaranathar Swamy, Kamakshi and other temples in Kanchipuram, the Kanchi Mutt has also sent gold and silver coins for the bhoomi pujan. Two bricks were also sent to Ayodhya to be used in the construction of the grand temple for Lord Ram. The mutt’s current head Sri Vijayendra Saraswathi said in a statement that his predecessor Sri Jayendra Saraswati (69th Pontiff) and the Kanchi mutt share a very close relationship with the Sri Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya. “This is God's will. The Acharya made several attempts on various occasions to have a temple for Sri Rama built in Ayodhya by holding talks with many groups. He wished for the temple to come up soon," the 70th Pontiff said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/holy-soil-from-rameswaram-kanchipuram-and-water-from-kanyakumari-used-at-ayodhya-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-869920.html
05-08-2020||South||Lawyer donates money from Hindu outfit to Muslim organisation for Covid-19 burial||Anbunithi, a lawyer by profession, was presented with an award and Rs 50,000 as cash prize by a Hindu organisation for his “good work” in helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic. The lawyer did not keep the money for himself but used it to set yet another example for religious harmony. Anbunithi donated the money to volunteers attached with the Villapuram Rahmat Masjid in Madurai who are involved in conducting the last rites of Covid-19 positive patients who belonged to under-privileged sections of the society. So far, the volunteers who owe allegiance to the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam have buried 62 coronavirus positive patients belonging to various faiths without charging any money from their families.  For 75 days, Anbunithi and a couple of his friends distributed three-square meals to lab technicians, sanitary workers and other labourers attached with the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. It was based on this noble act, the Andal Bakthargal Pervai decided to bestow an award and present Anbunithi with Rs 50,000. “I was happy that the organization recognized my work and gave me the cash prize. Since I came to know that volunteers were struggling to source funds for the burial of Covid-19 positive patients, I decided to donate the amount to the masjid. Every faith professes love and I thought my decision would help in maintaining religious harmony,” Anbunithi told DH. The lawyer, who is also associated with a political party, said he received the consent of Andal Bakthargal Pervai before donating the money to the Muslim outfit. “The Hindu organization was more than happy when I made known my decision to help a Muslim outfit that is involved in performing the last rites of Covid-19 positive patients. They had no objection,” Anbunithi added. Khadar Mohideen of the Villupuram Rahmat Masjid said they shell out anywhere between Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 for burying one Covid-19 positive patient due to strict enforcement of rules and the money donated by Anbunithi has come in handy. Performing last rites of several Covid-19 patients has become difficult as most of their family members were either quarantined at home or were hospitalized. “In such a scenario, the job was left to people like us. Most of the persons whom we buried belonged to poorer sections of the society and the majority of their family members were either under quarantine or were hospitalized. We never saw the faith of those people whom we buried. There were Muslims, Christians, and Hindus. Some Hindus here follow the custom of burial,” Mohideen told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lawyer-donates-money-from-hindu-outfit-to-muslim-organisation-for-covid-19-burial-869926.html
05-08-2020||South||Karnataka Minister says grand temples will be built in Kashi, Mathura also||Karnataka Minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday said grand Krishna and Vishwanatha temples would come up in Mathura and Kashi respectively after 'liberating' them and the two, along with Ayodhya, should emerge as places of devotion. "I am of the firm opinion that if not today, tomorrow, Mathura and Kashi temples will be liberated and grand temples would be built there," he told reporters in his home town Shivamogga, reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Eshwarappa, a former BJP state president, said the centres of Hindu belief, Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura were a kind of a symbol of 'slavery' as "temples of our Rama, Krishna and Vishwanath were destroyed and mosques built." "The demolition of Babri masjid on December 6, 1992 had pleased us all for we felt that the symbol of slavery is gone and now a decision has been taken to build a grand temple of lord Rama at Ayodhya," he said. Kashi, Mathura and Ayodhya, should emerge as places of devotion to the nation, Eshwarappa, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, said. "A place of devotion has to be built in both Kashi and Mathura. There too, grand temples have to be constructed. The mosques have to be removed from there," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-minister-says-grand-temples-will-be-built-in-kashi-mathura-also-869938.html
05-08-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown extended in Tirupati till August 14||To check the spike in Covid-19 cases, lockdown in Tirupati has further been extended till August 14, an official of the Municipal Corporation said here on Wednesday. However, shops selling vegetables and groceries, banks and other essential providers would be permitted to open between 6 AM and 2 PM daily, said the Municipal Commissioner P S Girisha. The lockdown would not impact pilgrims proceeding to the shrine of Lord Venkateswara in nearby Tirumala, he said. A few weeks ago, Tirupati reported at least 400 Covid-19 cases daily, but now the number has come to 200 cases, he said. After the lockdown was eased from June 1, Tirupati witnessed a surge in the cases, prompting the local authorities to enforce the shutdown here from June 20 to August 5. Again, the lockdown has been extended for nine more days till August 14 to check the spread of the dreaded virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-extended-in-tirupati-till-august-14-869940.html
05-08-2020||South||PM Modi laid foundation of Hindu Rashtra today, says AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi||A mandir or a mosque can never become the symbol of India, said AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi while protesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi attending the Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan event at Ayodhya on Wednesday. Owaisi said that by participating in the event,  the PM has breached his oath of office and the secularism enshrined in the constitution. “Today would be remembered as the day of victory of Hindutva and defeat of secularism,” the Hyderabad MP said.   “And by placing the silver brick there, PM Modi has laid the foundation of the Hindu Rashtra. This day marks the success of majoritarianism (in this country).” Referring to the PM’s Ayodhya speech at the R Prasaam Mandir foundation event, the Hyderabad MP said that a temple or a mosque can never be the symbol of India. “By saying that the mandir is the nation’s symbol, the PM has compelled his religion and ideology on the entire country. And thus, he endorsed majoritarianism,” Owaisi said in a press conference here. The lone AIMIM MP has also objected to Modi blending 5 August with 15 August as the day of deliverance. “And what was the RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat doing there? And what new India was he talking about?” Owaisi asked. The AIMIM chief also questioned the 'so-called secular' parties like the Congress that how the day can be called as a symbol of brotherhood.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-laid-foundation-of-hindu-rashtra-today-says-aimim-chief-asaduddin-owaisi-869953.html
05-08-2020||South||IUML resolution against Priyanka Gandhi's statement on Ram temple||The Indian Union Muslim League, which is a key coalition partner of Congress in Kerala, on Wednesday, expressed dissent over AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi's statement on Ayodhya Ram temple. IUML leadership that met at Panakkad in Malappuram district on Wednesday unanimously passed a resolution that Priyanka's statement was untimely and the IUML was expressing its dissent. The Muslim community is a decisive vote bank in Kerala, especially in many constituencies in North Kerala, including the Wayanad Lok Sabha seat being represented by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.  On Tuesday itself IUML MP E T Mohammed Basheer had expressed dissent over Priyanka's stand. Priyanka said that the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple would become a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony.  The IUML meeting chaired by party chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal observed that the party doesn't have any agenda of communal polarisation over the issue. During the demolition of Babri Masjid IUML took a stand that strengthened secularism. The party would continue with such a stand, the party observed.  Some senior Congress leaders were learnt to have held talks with the IUML leaders to pacify them. A Congress MP from central Kerala also reportedly wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi expressing concern over statements of some senior Congress leaders like Digvijay Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-resolution-against-priyanka-gandhis-statement-on-ram-temple-869957.html
05-08-2020||South||Tirupati Venkateshwara's nitya kalyanam goes online||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to take the Nitya Srivari Kalyanotsavam at the Tirumala temple online with the ceremony scheduled to be performed on a virtual platform, with devotee participation, from August 7.  The Srivari Kalyanam (celestial wedding of Lord Venkateshwara), one of the most popular ceremonies, is conducted every day in the temple. However, since March, due to the Covid-19 restrictions, the event was being held without devotees’ participation. The 'arjita seva' of the Srivari Nitya Kalyanotsavam would be performed in ekantham, the live telecast of which would start at 12 noon every day on the Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti Channel. “The participating devotees should dress traditionally and follow the archakas’ instructions making sankalpam with their names and gotras. The temple archakas will perform the ceremony on behalf of the devotees who procured online tickets. Devotees will also be sent Srivari Prasadam (uttarium, blouse, and akshintas) through the India post,” officials said. The TTD officials said that the online event would be the first of its kind, on popular demand of the devotees, and is following the success of the Sri Varalakshmi Vratam on a virtual platform last week.  Last week, the TTD also decided to start Kannada and Hindi broadcast of SVBC soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-venkateshwaras-nitya-kalyanam-goes-online-869963.html
05-08-2020||South||Kerala CM sets two-week target to contain Covid-19||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has set a two week target to officials to contain Covid-19 spread. It was as part of the decision to engage police for contact tracing and other steps for containing Covid-19 that the Chief Minister gave a two week target. State chief secretary Vishwas Mehta instructed the district police and health authorities to work in coordination to attain this. Vijayan said on Wednesday that the opposition parties and other vested interest groups were trying to spread a wrong interpretation that police were given the full charge of Covid-19 contact tracing and related activities. The police would be working in coordination with health department, he said. Meanwhile, 1,195 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, while 1,234 recovered. Seven more person died of Covid in the state taking the total Covid-19 deaths to 94.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-sets-two-week-target-to-contain-covid-19-869965.html
05-08-2020||South||Red alert in two districts in North Kerala||With the rain gaining strength in Kerala, a red alert has been sounded in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts and orange alert in seven other districts for Thursday. Four persons, including two girls, were reportedly killed in rain and rough weather-related incidents in North Kerala on Wednesday. At Wayanad, one girl drowned, while another girl died after a tree uprooted and fell on her. At Malappuram, one person was reported missing after a country boat capsised, while anther person reportedly drowned. IMD forecast heavy to very heavy rains in all district in central and North Kerala till August 9. During the last two years, Kerala witnessed floods and landslides during the month of August claiming over 600 lives. Hence adequate precautions like shifting people from landslide-prone areas were already initiated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/red-alert-in-two-districts-in-north-kerala-869974.html
05-08-2020||South||No surprise in Priyanka's pro-Ram temple stand: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that there was no surprise in Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi's pro-Ram temple statement as the Congress party always maintained a soft Hindutva stand, especially with regard to Babri masjid-Ram temple issue. Vijayan told reporters here on Wednesday that, if the Congress had taken a strong stand to protect nation's secularism, the nation could not have reached the present situation. All former Congress Prime Ministers like Rajiv Gandhi and P V Narasimha Rao took soft Hindutva stands right from the Babri Masjid demolition. Hence there was no surprise in the present stand of Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. He also added that the Indian Union Muslim League, which passed a resolution against Priyanka's statement on Wednesday, even stood with Congress all these times. Vijayan also said that the priority of the nation now was to fight Covid-19 as well as to address the poverty of thousands of people of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-surprise-in-priyankas-pro-ram-temple-stand-pinarayi-vijayan-869993.html
05-08-2020||South||PIL seeks censorship of adult content in social media||The Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the central and the state governments to reply within a month to a plea seeking a censor board for regulating adult content in the social media and OTT platforms. A bench of Justice MM Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha, admitting a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocate K Suthan, issued notices to the governments. The petitioner sought the court to also temporarily stop social media sites such as YouTube, Facebook Instagram and OTT platforms like Netflix, MX Player, Voot and Zee5 from uploading or telecasting any videos. A registered account alone was enough to start a channel, which provides a platform to upload videos in social media such as YouTube, Facebook and Instagram without any restriction or censor, he said. Further, the petitioner said there were several adult content videos in the social media which could have an adverse effect on the minds of school and college students. Hence the PIL, he said, adding the contents released in over-the-top (OTT) platforms, that are digitally streamed, need to be censored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pil-seeks-censorship-of-adult-content-in-social-media-869994.html
05-08-2020||South||Police Inspector suspended after video clip of his kicking a Dalit man goes viral||A police inspector in Srikakulam district was on Wednesday placed under suspension after a video clip of his purportedly kicking and abusing a Dalit man went viral. Director General of Police D G Sawang placed the Kasibugga inspector Venugopal under suspension and ordered an inquiry into the incident. This was the third such incident in the last fortnight where some police personnel were found behaving allegedly in a highhanded manner and in all these cases Dalit men were at the receiving end. The first incident happened in Rajamahendravaram, where a Dalit man had his head tonsured and was beaten up allegedly by police and the second at Chirala where a Dalit man died after local police allegedly beat him up. As former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted the Srikakulam video clip and alleged that the ruling YSR Congress men were behind the incident, the DGP responded saying "there is no involvement of any political party as alleged." The Srikakulam district Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar visited the Dalit man Marri Jagans house and enquired about the incident. Deputy Chief Minister (Revenue) Dharmana Krishna Das, who hails from the district, condemned the inspectors highhanded behavior and said the government was committed to the protection of Dalits. He said the Visakhapatnam Range Deputy Inspector General of Police has been asked to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. It all happened when Jagan went to lodge a complaint against an attack on him by some YSRC men after he questioned them over the house-sites issue. The video footage shows the inspector standing outside the Tekkali town police station when Jagan approaches with his mother. As Jagan is speaking, the inspector is seen kicking and also beating him. A video was later circulated in which Jagan claims there was nothing wrong with the inspector and it was he himself who spoke in a rash tone. "The inspector chided me for speaking in such a tone. He was so courteous towards me. He made me sit inside the police station and gave me lunch and cautioned me against getting into any tussle with others," Jagan is purportedly heard saying, even as someone is heard prompting certain words. He said some Dalit organisations, media and political parties were trying to politicise the issue. Jagans mother claimed the inspector treated her like a mother and "he looked like my son."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-inspector-suspended-after-video-clip-of-his-kicking-a-dalit-man-goes-viral-870007.html
05-08-2020||State||Sira MLA passes away after prolonged illness||JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana, admitted to Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road passed away in the late hours of Tuesday. According to the hospital, he was under treatment for prolonged illness and passed away at 10.45 pm. The MLA from Sira constituency in Tumakuru district was 69 years old. "He was suffering for a long period of time with advanced chronic liver disease. He was in a very critical state and was under treatment at the intensive care unit for secondary to septicaemia with multisystem organ failure," the hospital said in a statement. Earlier in the day, confusion had prevailed over the health of the MLA ministers in the state cabinet, JD(S) and Congress leaders released condolence messages over his death. Several tweets of ministers regarding the same was subsequently deleted. This had prompted Dr Manish Rai, Director of the hospital to clarify that he was still in a "very critical state". However, he breathed his last later in the day. JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda, in a message, condoled the demise.  "My association with him spanned over three decades," he said, adding that his demise has caused irreparable damage to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sira-mla-passes-away-after-prolonged-illness-869652.html
05-08-2020||State||NLSIU introduces 25% quota for Karnataka students||The National Law School Indian University (NLSIU) Bengaluru has introduced a new "Karnataka Students" category and announced 25% reservation in total seats. The institute asked students to update their eligibility criteria by August 17. In a notification issued by NLSIU reads: "this notification brings to the notice of the applicants a change in the seat matrix of NLSIU Bengaluru. Candidates are requested to update their eligibility criteria by August 17th, if applicable." The total number of seats available in BA LLB (Hons) programme has been increased from 80 to 120.  The NLSIU Act 2020 which came into effect on April 27th has introduced a new category of institutional preference for candidates who have studied for not less than 10 years in recognised educational institutions in Karnataka (Karnataka Students) these candidates shall be preferred for admission for up to 25% of the total seats available in the BA LLB (Hons) programme and LLM programme offered by NLSIU.  General category candidates who are Karnataka students shall benefit from a 5% concessions on the general merit cut off score obtained in CLAT 2020.  However, the institute stated that the implementation of the Karnataka students category shall be subject to the orders of High Court and Supreme Court in the ongoing litigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nlsiu-introduces-25-quota-for-karnataka-students-869653.html
05-08-2020||State||MLA G T Devegowda tests positive for Covid-19||MLA G T Devegowda tested positive for Covid-19 and he is isolated at home as per the suggestion by the doctor. The MLA tweeted claiming that he tested positive for Covid-19. The MLA is asymptomatic and the doctors suggested him for isolation. Devegowda also requested his supporters and others, who worked close to him, to be under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-g-t-devegowda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-869776.html
05-08-2020||State||Rain causes landslides in Karnataka's Western Ghats, train engine gets stuck||Heavy rains resulted in landslides on the railway track between Castlerock-Karanjali railway stations, which fall under the South Western Railways, on Wednesday and the engine of Nizamduddin-Vasco special train No 02780 was also entrapped. Official sources said, while the train was on its way from Castlerock to Karanjali, landslides due to heavy rains in the Western Ghats caused the train's engine to be trapped under rubble. A special engine was sent from Castlerock and the coaches were brought back to the railway station. About 142 passengers were trapped in the train and five buses have been sent from Belagavi to drop them to Madgaon in Goa. The track would be cleared for rail traffic after the rubble has been cleared, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rain-causes-landslides-in-karnatakas-western-ghats-train-engine-gets-stuck-869803.html
05-08-2020||State||Outflow from Kabini dam increased to 40,000 cusecs||With a large quantum of water entering the Kabini dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote taluk, the authorities have increased the outflow. The district administration has issued flood alert to the downstream villages. The outflow increased to 40,000 cusecs at 9.30 am. It was 22,058 cusec in the morning. While 600 cusec water was released to canal, 21,458 cusec water is released into river. Now, the quantum has been increased to both canal and river. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 TMC and the dam has stored 16.97 TMC. The dam has the capacity to store water up to 2284 foot and it has already reached 2,279.87 ft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/outflow-from-kabini-dam-increased-to-40000-cusecs-869830.html
05-08-2020||State||Covid-19 cases continue surginfg in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Among fresh cases, 67 were suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 20 had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). As many as 60 people who were primary contacts of the infected have tested positive. Contact tracing of 77 persons is underway while another person with international travel history has also tested positive. Among the infected, Mangaluru has the highest with 147 cases followed by 29 in Belthangady, Bantwal-19, Puttur-16, Sullia- 4. In addition, nine from other districts have also been tested positive. Four fatalities The total positive cases in the district stands at 6,393. As many as 73 persons were discharged on Tuesday, thus taking the total tally of discharged to 2,927. The district recorded four more fatalities, taking the total tally to 180. All four were suffering from comorbid conditions along with Covid-19 infection and hail from Mangaluru taluk. 6 fatalities in Udupi A total of 170 fresh cases has been recorded in Udupi district on Tuesday. The total cases in the district is 4,970. The district has 1,980 active cases undergoing treatment. As many as 53 persons with symptoms of ILI, SARI and Covid suspects have been admitted to isolation wards in the district. On Tuesday 1,700 samples have been collected for testing. This includes 1,195 from Covid-19 suspects, 250 from contacts and 173 from hotspots. The district has recorded six more fatalities, taking the toll to 42.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cases-continue-surginfg-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-869849.html
05-08-2020||State||Cooperation minister tests positive for Covid-19||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar tested positive for Covid-19, on Wednesday. He is the fourth member of the state Cabinet to contract the virus, after Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Agriculture Minister B C Patil and recently Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa were found Covid positive. Somashekar, who represents Yeshwanthpur constituency, and his son tested positive. “Both are asymptomatic,” according to sources. Meanwhile, one more legislator from Mysuru region tested positive for novel coronavirus. JD(S) MLA and former minister G T Devegowda on Wednesday contracted Covid-19, reports DHNS from Mysuru. The MLA from Chamundeshwari constituency had confirmed about this on his twitter account. He also urged his supporters and the people, who came in contact with him in the last few days, to self quarantine and undergo Covid tests, if necessary. The MLA is asymptomatic and healthy, according to the Health department. He is under home isolation as per the doctors advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cooperation-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-869980.html
05-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||40 Kannadigas crack UPSC, make Karnataka proud||A daughter of a school teacher from a remote hamlet in Kadur taluk, a former child artist with an impressive resume of 32 movies and an NLSIU alumni are among the 40 candidates who cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Civil Services Final-2019 exam, results of which were announced on Tuesday. Jeydev C S from Bengaluru was the highest placed Kannadiga, securing the 5th rank. Yashaswini B, daughter of a school teacher from a village in Chikkamagaluru district, bagged the 71st rank and emerged as the second topper from Karnataka. “I would love to serve Karnataka,” said Jeydev, an alumni of Frank Anthony Public school in Halasuru and a graduate from NLSIU, Bengaluru. “I have always wanted to work in the public sector. During graduation days at the National Law School, I was fortunate to understand how law and governance worked in tandem. The law school also had a history of graduates entering civil services, so that was inspiring.” Jeydev cleared the UPSC exam in his second attempt. For Yashaswini, a resident of a Gubbihali village in Kadur taluk, clearing UPSC was a dream come true. After studying in a government school in Kadur taluk, she graduated from RV College of Engineering. “Even though it was my childhood dream to become an IAS officer, it was during my engineering days that I began preparing for the exams,” she told DH. Yashaswini also cleared UPSC in her second attempt. During her first attempt, she secured 298 rank. “I prefer to serve in Karnataka and open to serve in any sector,” she added.  Cinema to civil servant Thirty-two movies, 48 Kannada TV serials and a national child artist award in 2005: that is Keerthana H S for you.  A resident of Nandini Layout, Keerthana secured the 167th rank and fulfilled her father’s dream. Hailing from Hoskere village in Kunigal taluk of Tumakuru district, Keerthana lost her father six years ago. “It was my father’s dream and I have achieved it,” she told DH. “I was in Kannada film industry until the age of 15. But later I focused on completing engineering and clearing civil services. I am happy that I have achieved it.” She had acted with several popular stars including Shivarj Kumar, Ramesh Aravind, Upendra. Currently Keerthana, who had cleared KAS, is serving as special nodal officer for Covid-19 at the BBMP. Meghana K T from Bengaluru is special among all the candidates. Visually challenged, she overcame her disabilities to bag 465th rank in her second attempt. Born in a middle class family, Meghana lost 70% of her vision after class 10 due to a retina problem. Though her parents wanted to see her become a doctor, she was forced to take up arts. “After completing graduation at Surana College, I joined a coaching institute to prepare for civil services. In the beginning it was difficult, later I started learning through audio and video contents. My mother used to read for me,” she shared with DH. Darshana Kumar H G is the only candidate who cleared the UPSC exam in Kannada medium this time. Though 8 candidates attempted in Kannada medium, Darshan, who haild from Aralekatte in Arasikere taluk of Hassan district, secured the 594rank. Having failed twice to clear the exam in English medium, Darshan tried his luck for a third time and opted for Kannada medium and emerged successful. He had even quit his well-paying job in the US to clear civil services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/40-kannadigas-crack-upsc-make-karnataka-proud-869632.html
05-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Siddaramaiah's fever subsides, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa 'comfortable'||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who was recently hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, is asymptomatic and has been clinically stable. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, who is also undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19, was also doing fine. While he was admitted with a fever, "presently he has no fever and his vital parameters are stable," a statement by Manipal Hospital said. Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah were admitted to the same hospital, within the span of 24 hours earlier this week. While Yediyurappa was admitted on Sunday evening, Siddarmaiah was admitted on Monday evening. On CM B S Yediyurappa, the Hospital said that his vital parameters were within normal limits. "He is comfortable and attending to his activities from his room. He continues to be closely monitored by expert specialists," it said. After Siddaramaiah's fever subsided, the hospital has started appropriate treatment. "His symptoms have improved since admission and he is comfortable at present," the Hospital said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-siddaramaiahs-fever-subsides-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-comfortable-869923.html
05-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC questions govt on treatment for non-Covid-19 patients||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) to furnish details about ways an aggrieved person could lodge complaint when turned away by private medical practitioners on non Covid-19 ailments. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka asked the KMC to also place on record whether any helpline number is available for the citizens. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by L Ramesh Naik, a Tumakuru-based advocate, on hardships faced by the citizens with non-Covid-19 health issues. He contended that it has been difficult for the citizens, especially pregnant women, to get immediate medical assistance for non Covid-19 issues. The counsel appearing for KMC submitted that deputy commissioners head the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Authorities at district level. He said that DCs and district health officers have been requested to take action on receiving complaints about denial of treatment and such related issues pertaining to non Covid-19 ailments. At this juncture the court asked for a report on protocol, if any in existence, to deal with such complaints and whether citizens have any helpline platform to reach out to the authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-questions-govt-on-treatment-for-non-covid-19-patients-869981.html
05-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka draws Rs 28,000 cr investment in 4 months||Despite the distressing economic scenario, Karnataka received an investment of around Rs 28,000 cr in the last four months, which is expected to generate around 45,000 jobs. According to the Commerce and Industries department, the investments were mostly related to expansion of existing units and the government had already cleared the proposals. Among the major investments during the current fiscal were: Rs 13,026 cr by JSW Vijayanagar Metallics Ltd; Rs 1,347 cr by Cerulean Energy Solutions Pvt Ltd and Rs 1,085 cr by Siemens Healthcare. The state high-level clearance committee cleared Rs 18,989 cr worth investment, generating 10,224 jobs according to the department. The state-level single window clearance committee approved projects worth Rs 5,679 cr and land audit committee cleared projects worth Rs 1,471 cr. The key sectors of investment include iron and steel, engineering, IT/ICT, infrastructure and automobile. Gunjan Krishna, Director, Department of Industries and Commerce told DH that all the investments were cleared by the government. “These are not just MoUs. The investors have filed applications and received all the required clearance,” she said. Investment proposals of around Rs 3,000 cr were under various stages of approval, she said. The proposals were received were during the fag end of the last fiscal, April, and recently in June and are being implemented during the current fiscal, she said. Other investments include Rs 900 cr by Epsilon Carbon Pvt Ltd; Rs 761-cr project by Vanya Steels Pvt Ltd; Rs 495 cr by Tata Consultancy Services and Rs 456 cr by Jaganmayi Regency Park Pvt Ltd among others, according to data released by the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-draws-rs-28000-cr-investment-in-4-months-869992.html
05-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Prayers offered at Shabari temple to mark Ram temple foundation laying ceremony ||Special puja and homa were performed at a temple in Shabari Kolla near Sureban pin Ramdurg taluk on Wednesday in celebration of foundation stone laying programme for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya.  Shabari Kolla has a temple dedicated to Shabari, a devotee of Ram, who had been awaiting his visit to her hut while he had been searching for Sita. The place also has temples of Ram, Laxman, Sita and Anjaneya. Its believed that the place has been connected with Lord Ram who had visited the place on his way to Kishkindha.   Prayers were held for peace, prosperity and homa was performed by BJP Belagavi Rural unit and Ramdurg block. Devotees and karsevaks who had participated in the Ram temple movement were felicitated on the occasion.  Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani, MLA Mahadevappa Yadwad, BJP Rural District President Sanjay Patil, General Secretary Raju Chikkangoudar and others were present at the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/prayers-offered-at-shabari-temple-to-mark-ram-mandirs-foundation-laying-ceremony-869739.html
05-08-2020||West||Congress leader, former Maharashtra CM Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar passes away||Senior Congressman and former Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar passed way on Wednesday. He was 92. Nilangekar was the 10th chief minister of Maharashtra, who served from June 3, 1985, to March 6, 1986. He was also the revenue minister in the Vilasrao Deshmukh government that came to power in 1999. His last rites will be conducted in Nilanga in Latur district. A veteran from the Marathwada region, he was also associated with the freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-leader-former-maharashtra-cm-shivajirao-patil-nilangekar-passes-away-869674.html
05-08-2020||West||PM Narendra Modi condoles death of ex Maharashtra CM Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the death of former Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar, saying he served the state diligently. Nilangekar died in Pune on Wednesday after a brief illness. He was 89. "Shri Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar Ji was a stalwart of Maharashtra politics. He served the state diligently, especially working for the welfare of farmers and the poor," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted quoting Modi.  "Anguished by his demise.My thoughts are with his family and supporters. Om Shanti," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-ex-maharashtra-cm-shivajirao-patil-nilangekar-869719.html
05-08-2020||West||Heavy rain in parts of Mumbai, Thane, Palghar||Heavy rains lashed parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts of Maharashtra on Wednesday morning, and the weather department has predicted more intense showers during the day in view of the thick cloud over the region. The weather station at Dahanu in Palghar recorded 364 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai centre's deputy director general K S Hosalikar said. Besides, the weather station at Bhayander in Thane recorded 169 mm rainfall while the one at Mira Road reported 159 mm during the same period, he said. As per IMD's website, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during the same period. Mumbai city and suburbs like Bandra and Kurla received rainfall in the range of 30 mm to 70 mm in the last 12 hours. "The cloud activity indicates that there would be one more intense rainfall day on Wednesday, Hosalikar tweeted. On Tuesday also, Mumbai and its neighbouring areas witnessed heavy rains, causing water-logging in several low lying areas and disrupting rail and road traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-in-parts-of-mumbai-thane-palghar-869722.html
05-08-2020||West||'Ram temple bhoomi pujan fulfilment of Bal Thackeray's dream'||With the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple being held in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena has termed the development as "fulfilment" of party founder Bal Thackeray's dream. The NCP, which is one of the constituents in the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said the ceremony is a "matter of joy" for all and that Lord Ram is the deity of Indians. "Fulfilment of Balasaheb's dream," reads a graphic Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut shared on Twitter. The graphic also depicts a temple and carries text "Shree Ram" and "garv se kaho hum Hindu hai (say with pride that we are Hindus)". The late Sena patriarch, termed by party followers as "Hinduhridaysamrat" (Emperor of Hindu hearts), was a strong proponent of the temple cause. State NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said he always worships at the temple of Lord Ram in his constituency in Sangli district. "Today 'bhoomi pujan' of Ram temple construction is being performed in Ayodhya. It is a matter of joy for all of us. We always worship with devotion in Lord Ram's temple built in my constituency. "Maryadapurushottam Prabhu Shri Ram will forever be deity of Indians," Patil tweeted with the hashtag "RamMandirAyodhya". Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-fulfilment-of-bal-thackerays-dream-869786.html
05-08-2020||West||Conspiracy to link Aaditya Thackeray to Sushant case: Shiv Sena||Mumbai, Aug 5 (PTI) Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday alleged a conspiracy to link state minister and Yuva Sena president Aaditya Thackeray to actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Though Raut didn't take any name, he said the Opposition still cannot digest the fact that the Sena-led government is in power in the state. "What has Aaditya Thackeray got to do with the Sushant Singh Rajput case? It seems the Opposition still cannot digest that the Shiv Sena-led government has come to power in the state," Raut told reporters. Those conspiring to link Aaditya Thackeray to the case will have to pay a heavy price for it, he said. Aaditya, son of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, had clarified on Tuesday that he was nowhere related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, and that he and his family are being targeted for no reason. He had said dirty politics has been played following the death of the Bollywood actor and without naming anyone, added that the allegation being levelled is political stomach-ache stemming from frustration. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Mumbai Police had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) and an investigation is underway. Patna Police had registered a case of abetment to suicide against Rajput's girlfriend and budding actress Rhea Chakraborty on the complaint of the late actor's father K K Singh. The registration of the case led to a turf war over jurisdiction of investigation between Mumbai Police and Bihar Police. The Bihar government on Tuesday recommended a CBI probe in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conspiracy-to-link-aaditya-thackeray-to-sushant-case-shiv-sena-869826.html
05-08-2020||West||Covid-19: 10,026 Maharashtra cops infected, death toll touches 107||The police personnel who tested positive for the disease included 1,035 officers, he said. "So far, 10,026 personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. Of them, 107 personnel, including 10 officers, have died," the official said, adding that more than 50 per cent of the casualties were reported from the Mumbai Police force. As of now, there are 1,859 active cases in the police force while 8,060 personnel have recovered from the disease. The official said there have been 324 incidents of attacks on police personnel so far during the implementation of the prohibitory orders amid the coronavirus-induced restrictions. Eighty-six police personnel were injured in those incidents, he said, adding that 65 health professionals were also attacked by anti-social elements in the state. Police arrested 886 people in connection with the assault cases, he said. Besides, at least 2,22,296 offences were registered for violation of prohibitory orders imposed under Indian Penal Code Section 188 and 13,771 people were arrested in this connection, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-10026-maharashtra-cops-infected-death-toll-touches-107-869835.html
05-08-2020||West||Rs 42L loss as some Shramik Specials ran empty: Maharashtra govt to Bombay High Court||Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state government, told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A S Gadkari that lakhs of migrant workers are now, in fact, coming back to Maharashtra from their native states. The bench was hearing a petition filed by a city-based trade union body, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, raising concerns over the plight of migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra amid the pandemic. Kumbhakoni said in the last month, the state government arranged for trains to ferry thousands of migrant workers but only 3,551 people boarded the trains. "The state government incurred a loss of around Rs 42 lakh, he said. He further told the court that a train was arranged from Pune to ferry 383 people to their native state, but on the day of the departure, only 49 people boarded the 24-coach train. "Lakhs of migrant workers who left the state at the beginning of the pandemic are now returning to Maharashtra, Kumbhakoni said. The petitioners advocate, Ronita Bhattacharya, on Wednesday told the court that there are still several migrant workers waiting to go back to their native states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. The bench said the petitioner needs to ascertain the number of migrant workers who wish to go back to their native states. "Another thing that needs to be considered is whether the receiving states are inclined to permit these migrant workers back, Chief Justice Datta said. The bench directed Kumbhakoni to file an affidavit giving details of the number of trains run, how many migrants boarded the trains and the expenditure incurred by the government. The court posted the plea for further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-42l-loss-as-some-shramik-specials-ran-empty-maharashtra-govt-to-bombay-high-court-869838.html
05-08-2020||West||Nod for CBI probe in Sushant death shocker for Uddhav Thackeray govt||The decision to hand over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case probe to the CBI is a shocker for Maharashtra government, which has maintained that Mumbai police is competent to handle the investigation. The Supreme Court Wednesday said the truth behind the actor's death should come out, even as the Centre informed that it has accepted the recommendation of Bihar government for a CBI probe in the matter. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh have been saying that there is no need to hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), despite the pressure mounting on them from various quarters. Seeking a CBI probe, former Maharashtra minister and local BJP leader Ashish Shelar had said innocent people are being questioned while the suspects are being ignored. BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a probe by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. Bihar's Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi had also demanded that the CBI should take over the case as the Mumbai police was "obstructing the fair investigation" by the Bihar police on a complaint lodged by the actor's father. BJP MP from Muzaffarour, Ajay Nishad, had also written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking a CBI inquiry into the suicide of the Patna-born actor. NCP minister Nawab Malik said Bihar governments recommendation for a CBI probe for an incident not under its jurisdiction amounts to encroachment of power of another state in the federal system. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said with the decision to let CBI probe the case, he expects the state government to let Mumbai police function independently. The Supreme Court has directed Maharashtra, Bihar and Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh to file their replies within three days on a plea by Rajput's former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty who is seeking transfer of an FIR, accusing her of abetting his suicide, from Patna to Mumbai. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nod-for-cbi-probe-in-sushant-death-shocker-for-uddhav-thackeray-govt-869885.html
05-08-2020||West||Ambulance driver who ferried Sushant's body gets 'hate' calls||The ambulance driver who ferried the body of Sushant Singh Rajput claimed on Wednesday that he has been receiving hundreds of hate and threat calls every day from the deceased actor's fans. Rajput was found dead at his Bandra home on June 14 and both Mumbai and Bihar police are carrying out separate probes in connection with his death. "My brother and I provide ambulance service to various hospitals in the city, but ever since we ferried Sushant's body, we have been receiving threat calls for a month now," said Vishal Bandgar. Callers often used foul language and alleged that the actor was alive when he was moved into the ambulance, Bandgar claimed. "They allege that we strangled Sushant to death and that we will be punished by God and killed," he said. The Bandgar brothers own four ambulances, with four contact numbers displayed on them and calls keep coming on every number from all over the country, he said, adding that they plan to lodge a police complaint soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambulance-driver-who-ferried-sushants-body-gets-hate-calls-869907.html
05-08-2020||West||Bihar cop would have to follow quarantine: BMC||Maintaining an aggressive position, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has conveyed to the Bihar police that IPS officer Vijay Tiwari would have to follow the quarantine norms of the Maharashtra government. Tiwari, the superintendent of police of Patna Central, who landed in Mumbai on Sunday to supervise the investigations of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has been forcibly quarantined at the SRPF guest house at Goregaon. BMC’s additional commissioner of police P Velrasu, in a letter to Patna Central Region’s inspector general of police Sanjay Singh, said: “…the officer has to be in compliance with all the rules and regulations prevailing in the state of Maharashtra.” The letter was issued on Tuesday, however, made public on Wednesday. It said that in view of Covid-19 pandemic situation in Bihar, it has been advised that the officer can conduct his proceedings with various concerned officials of the government of Maharashtra on digital platforms like Zoom, Google Meet, Jio Meet, Microsoft Teams or other similar mediums to interact. This will not only ensure that the officer does not transmit the infection, if at all he is asymptomatic of Covid-19 infection, to the officials to whom he will contact, in view of the pandemic situation in Bihar nor he gets infected by Covid-19 during his various visits to various officials to the government of Maharashtra in Mumbai, said Velrasu in the letter. It may be recalled that on Monday, the BMC had said: “Being a domestic air traveller, he needs to be guided for home quarantine as per the State government guidelines. Accordingly, the P/Southward team approached him at the said guesthouse on Sunday evening,” the official said. The official said that the BMC team explained to him the whole procedure for domestic air travellers, including home quarantine, which is fixed by the State government notification dated 25 May 2020 under number DMU/2020/CR. 92/DisM-1. “He has also been guided to apply to the competent authority of BMC for exemption in the home quarantine period as per the State government notification,” the official said. A Maharashtra police official said that arrangements were made for a stay in Goregaon as the Worli police mess is non-operational because of Covid-19 and a Maruti Ertiga vehicle was also organised.  "All courtesies befitting to an IPS officer were duly extended to Vinay Tiwari," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bihar-cop-would-have-to-follow-quarantine-bmc-869911.html
05-08-2020||West||Heavy rainfall continues in Mumbai & Konkan region||Heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds wreaked havoc in Mumbai as it paralysed the road and rail traffic in India’s business capital for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The deluge brought alive the memories of the July 26, 2006 floods in Mumbai, when the city came to a standstill for 3 days. Heavy to very heavy rains are likely to continue in the coastal Konkan belt for the next 24 to 48 hours, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD. The entire Mumbai metropolitan region was affected as waterlogging was reported in most of the arterial roads and strong winds uprooted over 100 trees and damaged signboards. Water gushed into low lying areas in several parts of the MMR and vehicles were stranded in the evening.   Water was flowing over some of the railway platforms in Mumbai City district. Locals attributed it to the ongoing work on the Mumbai metro rail and coastal road projects, though officials declined to comment on it. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation and asked the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to be on high alert. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to Thackeray to have an assessment of the ground situation. “Since IMD has forecast heavy rains will continue till Thursday, I appeal to the citizens of Mumbai to stay home and venture out only if essential,” Thackeray said. The chief minister also reviewed the rain situation in Konkan districts of Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and Western Maharashtra district of Kolhapur. Fifteen NDRF teams have been deployed including four in Kolhapur and five in Mumbai. The IMD’s Colaba observatory has recorded 229.6 mm rainfall in nine hours ending 7 pm. “ Intense rainfall will continue,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD. The MMR, on an average, on Wednesday, recorded 150 to 200 mm rainfall. In Masjid Bunder in Mumbai, people were rescued using life boats. Major landmarks like the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE)’s Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Tower suffered the rain's fury when its massive signboard on the 29th floor was ripped off because of gusty winds. Some sections of a cement cladding adorning the exteriors of the Jaslok Hospital were blown off and fell in pieces on the road below. Water gushed into some of the corridors of the Sir JJ Hospital at Byculla. In Mumbai, the road and suburban rail services continued to be badly disrupted for the second consecutive day. In a rare event, many parts of south Mumbai like Churchgate, Marine Lines, Marine Drive, Kalbadevi, Dongri, Byculla, Mazagaon witnessed waterlogging – which otherwise does not see flooding. The chronic spots of Parel, Dadar, Chembur, Andheri, Jogeshwari and surrounding areas witnessed heavy water logging throwing the central business districts of the area out of gear. Central Railway suburban train services which functioned normally were suspended between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Kurla on the mainline and CSMT-Vashi on the Harbour Line after a torrential downpour, CR spokesperson Shivaji Sutar. Western Railway services between Churchgate-Mumbai Central, suburban trains were suspended for a few hours and all trains were being reversed from Mumbai Central, Dadar, Bandra and Andheri. In the MMR more than 200 trees were uprooted and big branches broke off. Electric poles too were damaged. In some areas, water rushed into ground-floor homes, shops or offices in south Mumbai as rains continued all day. Major traffic snarls were witnessed in south Mumbai with tree crashes on some roads in Churchgate, Marine Lines, Charni Road, Fort, Worli, and the vehicular movements were hit on the Eastern Express Highway, Western Express Highway, Sion-Panvel Road, Ghodbunder Road, Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway. With thousands of commuters getting stranded, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) this evening said it had made arrangements for them at the nearest civic schools outside major railway stations. People staying in slums along the rivers of Mumbai like Mithi, Oshiwara, Poisar and Dahisar have been asked to be on alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rainfall-continues-in-mumbai-konkan-region-869913.html
05-08-2020||West||Mumbai police seeks information on Disha Salian’s death||Almost two months after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-manager Disha Salian died under mysterious circumstances, the Mumbai police on Wednesday urged those who have more information about the case to come forward and report. The 28-year-old Disha Salian, a resident of Mumbai’s Dadar area, fell to death from a highrise building in suburban Malad. The Malvani police station had registered an accidental death report (ADR) and investigations were still continuing. The development comes a day after former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane said both Sushant Singh Rajput and Disha Salian were murdered. Besides, he also claimed that Disha Salian was raped and then murdered – and this was evident from the post-mortem report."In relation to Disha Salian's death, the Malvani police station has registered a case of unnatural death. Malvani police are investigating all possible angles related to this death. Regarding this, a lot of news/information is being published on social media, newspapers and TV channels. If anyone has any information or evidence relating to this and wishes to share it with us, can do so with the following officers,” the press statement said, which has the phone number and e-mail of officers senior officials. The police have recorded the statements of Disha Salian’s fiancé and actor Rohan Roy; father Satish; mother Vasanthi; security guards; and four friends including a lady friend.Roy had purchased a flat on the 14th floor of Galaxy building, Jankalyan Nagar, Malad, where he and Salian had planned to stay after their marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-seeks-information-on-disha-salian-s-death-869915.html
