06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt to give 5-acre land in Mysuru for Classical Language Study Centre  ||Drawing curtains over the confusion over allotment of land to the Kannada Classical Language Study Centre, the Higher Education Department on Wednesday agreed to allot five acres of land on the premises of the University of Mysore. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting held on Wednesday evening between Kannada and Culture minister and Higher Education minister in Bengaluru.  Prolonged delay in allocation of land to the centre had triggered speculations that the Kannada Classical Language Study Centre will be shifted to Bengaluru from Mysuru. In fact, several litterateurs and pro-Kannada activists had opposed the move and appealed to the government to retain the centre at Mysuru. Previously, the state government had agreed to give three acres of land and now it has increased to allocation to five acres.  CT Ravi, Minister for Kannada and Culture, apprised the Higher Education minister about 15 to 20 acres of land reserved for the similar centres by the neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Sources in the Higher Education Department said that the proposal of providing the land within the premises of the University of Mysore has already been sent to the Centre. "The three acres of land previously identified and recommended to the centre belonged to the Skill Development Department. But now, we will provide five acres of land at the campus and there will be no hindrance to set up the centre now on," the officer revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-to-give-5-acre-land-in-mysuru-for-classical-language-study-centre-870134.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government schools in Yadgir get smart class facilities due BEL's CSR initiative||Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has equipped 122 government high schools in Yadgir district with solar-powered smart class facilities at a cost of Rs 3.84 crore. BEL's corporate social responsibility initiative will benefit 13,000 children, the company said in a press release. The Smart Class facilities provided by BEL to the government schools include a 50-inch LED TV, CPU with accessories, green board and LED Lights, all of which is powered by a standalone Solar PV Power System with battery, the company said. A cabinet has also been provided to store all the equipment. The digital educational content covers the subjects of English, Mathematics, Science and Social Science for students of 8th, 9th and 10th Class customised as per the State syllabus. The solar-powered Smart Class facility offers visually attractive content that helps students to assimilate information more effectively. It facilitates teachers to explain difficult concepts easily, improves teaching effectiveness and enhances the academic performance of the students. Karnataka Animal Husbandry Minister and in charge of Yadgir and Bidar district Prabhu B Chauhan inaugurated the new facilities on Tuesday at Government Girls' High School at Yadgir. BEL said that apart from the Smart Class facility, BEL is also installing a hand-wash facility in 100 Government Primary Schools in Yadgir at a cost of Rs 1.02 crore. It also said that it has undertaken various CSR interventions in the aspirational districts of Yadgir and Raichur in Karnataka under the flagship programme of "Transformation of Aspirational Districts" launched by the Government of India during the PMs CPSE Conclave in April 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-schools-in-yadgir-get-smart-class-facilities-due-bels-csr-initiative-870144.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||4 missing in landslides in Karnataka's Talacauvery||Four persons went missing following a series of landslides in Talacauvery of Brahmagiri range on Thursday. The chief priest and his family were residing at the spot where the landslides occurred, Kodagu district administration authorities. Of the two priests, one of the priests had built a new house at Bhagamandala and shifted there. Another priest along with his family was staying at Talacauvery.  In fact, a landslide had occurred a few metres away from the house of the priest in 2019. As the region has been receiving heavy rain and landslides are occurring frequently, the rescue operation team is finding it difficult to reach the spot. The water-level river Cauvery and Lakshmanatheertha is flowing at dangerously high level.   On the other hand, the Sayi layout and Kuvempu layout in Kushalnagar is inundated and the residents are being shifted to safer locations. River Cauvery is flowing at a dangerous level at Bhethri on MadikeI-Virajpet road. The district administration has closed the movement of vehicles on the bridge at Bhethri. Already, the authorities have shifted 150 people to safer areas from Nelyahudikeri and Bettadakadu. The frequent occurring of landslides and heavy rain coupled with gusty wind is hampering the rescue operation at the site of the landslide in Talacauvery.On the other hand, Bhagamnadala is completely inundated. The NDRF team, police personnel, fire service personnel are carrying out rescue operations at the site of landslide. The four persons missing are Talacauvery Kshethra chief priest T S Narayana Achar, his wife Anandatheertha, two other priests. They are suspected to be trapped at the site. It is said that all the rituals pertaining to Cauvery Theerthodbhava are held under the guidance of Narayana Achar every year at the Talacauvery. According to locals, he had an emotional attachment to Talacauvery and hence did not wish to shift from the spot. After the2019 landslides, the district administration had served notice to the priest's family to.shift to safer locations. Two families had already shifted to safer locations while Narayana Achar was still residing at the spot in Talacauvery.  Two houses have been completely buried under the mounds of soil at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-missing-in-landslides-in-karnatakas-talacauvery-870177.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Record 486 mm rainfall at Bhagamandala in Kodagu||Bhagamandala in Kodagu district received a downpour of 486 mm in the 24-hour period on August 5 and 6. It surpassed the previous daily record of rainfall in the district at 300.2 mm rainfall at Madikeri on August 17, 2018, according to IMD data. During the said period, the district received an average of 177.07 mm rainfall, triggering landslides. In one such instance reported at Talacauvery, near Bhagamandala, four people of a family were still missing after a portion of a hillock collapsed.  In the last three days, the district has received an average of 106.12 mm (between 8.30 am of August 3 and 4), 142.49 mm (August 4 and 5) and 162.4 mm (August 5 and 6).  Both Cauvery and Lakshman Theertha rivers flowing through the district were in spate, cutting off road connectivity to few villages in the region. Flood-hit population in few parts of the district were shifted to relief centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/record-486-mm-rainfall-at-bhagamandala-in-kodagu-870188.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||ACB trick bill collector, catch him accepting bribe in Karnataka||A bill collector from Saldaga Town Municipal Council was caught red-handed by sleuths from Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 9,000 from a person to make his record of rights available on Thursday.  The Bill collector has been identified as Ashok Hegde.  ACB Superintendent of Police B S Nemgouda informed that complainant Shivanand Karangali, a resident of Sadalga approached the civic body for a record of rights regarding the house allotted under the Ashraya Scheme. Bill collector Hegde demanded Rs 15,000 and later settled for Rs 9000. Shivanand had filed a complaint with ACB.  The ACB tricked Hegde and caught him accepting the graft from the complainant. He was arrested and sent into judicial custody.  Police Inspectors H Sunilkumar, A S Godigoppa and staff conducted the raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/acb-trick-bill-collector-catch-him-accepting-bribe-in-karnataka-870216.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Outflow remains at 50K cusec from Kabini||The outflow from Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote taluk, remained at 50,600 cusec as on Thursday evening, while the inflow was 40,546 cusec. The water is being released to River Kapila and canal. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 tmc ft and the dam has 16.40 tmc ft water as on Thursday. The water level has reached 2,278.87 ft as against the maximum level of 2,284 ft. However, the officials of the Kabini Reservoir have decided to maintain the water level at 2,280 ft, as a precautionary measure. The office of the Executive Engineer, Kabini Reservoir, has issued a flood alert, asking the people residing in villages downstream, to move to safer places. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar has directed the district administration to be prepared to tackle floods. The minister has directed the district administration to make arrangements to shift the villagers to safe areas and also be prepared to set up relief centres. He also stressed to follow safety measures such as social distance and provide masks at the relief centres. Arrangements should be made to provide necessary medical facility for the victims at the camp, the minister directed. The minister also directed to form teams to attend the emergency works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/outflow-remains-at-50k-cusec-from-kabini-870369.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KRS receives four foot water in 24 hours||With heavy rain in Kodagu district, River Cauvery is in spate and the inflow to the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam has increased considerably. The dam has received four feet water in the last 24 hours, according to sources. The inflow was 43,000 cusec on Thursday and the water level of the dam has reached 112 ft, as against the maximum level of 124.80 ft. The total capacity of the dam is 49 tmc ft and currently, it has 32 tmc ft water. The Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials say that there would be an increase in the inflow in the coming days, if the rain continue in the catchment areas. The inflow on August 5 was 29,855 cusec and the water level of the dam was 108.40 ft (30,14 tmc). The water level was 84.2 ft (127.75), on the corresponding day last year, with an inflow of 12,600 cusec. The inflow into Hemavathy dam has increased to 36,849 cusec. The water level of the dam was 2,906 ft, as on Thursday, against the maximum level of 2,922 ft. The dam has received five feet water in a single day. The Yagachi dam in Belur too has filled, and 3,700 cusec water is belng let out from the crest gates. Several bridges have submerged due to the rising water level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krs-receives-four-foot-water-in-24-hours-870371.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain havoc continues in Sakleshpur; one washed away||Heavy downpour continued in Sakleshpur and surrounding areas in Hassan district on Thursday, and a person got washed away while crossing a stream. Rain, accompanied by high intensity winds have blown away the roofs of several houses, uprooted several trees and electricity poles. Siddaiah (60), of Sanklapura Mata village, coming under Kyamananahalli Gram Panchayat, who was herding the cattle got washed away while crossing the Yettinahole, on Wednesday evening. His body was found on Thursday morning. Athihalli, Hongadahalli, Bisile, Kadamane, Maranahalli, Devalakere villages on the periphery of the Western Ghats, received 350 mm rains. Kyanahalli and surrounding areas received 340 mm rains. With Mudigere receiving very heavy rainfall, River Hemavathy is in spate, flooding the low-lying villages downstream. The paddy fields in the taluk too have submerged due to heavy rain for the past three days. As hundreds of electricity poles and transformers have collapsed across the taluk, the power has been disconnected for the last three days. As huge trees have collpased at the 66 KW powerline, there was no power in Sakleshpur town also, and the people are facing drinking water problems. More than 100 houses have suffered roof damages. Assistant Commissioner M Girish Nandan said that temporary relief centres have been opened at the hobli centres for those, who have lost their houses due to rain havoc. With the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), predicting heavy rains the next 48 hours, Deputy Commissioner R Girish, has warned the people to take caution, not go near or cross the rivulets, streams, lakes and rivers and also ensure the cattle are safe. He has also appealed to the people living near the river banks to move to safer places, as the water level may cross the danger mark. The people are requested to call the District Disaster Management cell on 08172-261111 or free helpline 1077 during emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-havoc-continues-in-sakleshpur-one-washed-away-870373.html
06-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yoga, gym centres reopen; fails to draw people||The fitness and yoga centres in the city, which were closed due to the outbreak of Covid-19, reopened after a gap of over four months on Wednesday, after the government giving permission to resume the activities, with certain guidelines. However, the people are not showing interest to attend the sessions. It received a lukewarm response from the people on Day One, but, there was a slight improvement on Thursday. The state government has allowed gyms and yoga centres to reopen from Wednesday, making it mandatory to follow wearing masks, regular sanitisation and maintaining social distance from one person to another while practicing. The centres have made all the necessary arrangements as per the guidelines, but the people are reluctant to attend sessions. Only 20 persons attended Sweat Zone, a fitness centre on Wednesday morning, as against 70 persons, who used to visit the centre, before the Covid outbreak.  According to Sweat Zone owner N Avinash, it takes another few months to return to normalcy. Despite all the precautionary measures taken to ensure safety of the fitness freaks, not many are coming forward to attend practice session. “We have informed our clients about the reopening and the safety measures in place,” he said. According to him, physical fitness exercises also helps in increasing the immunity levels of the person, which is most required to control Covid-19 infection. As per the norms, thermal screening is being done for the practitioners and hand sanitiser was placed in the centres. In addition to gyms and fitness centres, yoga centres too have reopened. There are more than 400 yoga centres in the city, which is also known as Yoga Hub of India. A trainer of a yoga centre in Vijayanagar, said, “The centre is open, but hardly a few people have shown interest to attend the session. Only 12 participants attended the classes on Thursday morning. “We can accommodate 90 persons for each session during normal days, but now, the participants have been limited to 40, to ensure social distance,” she said, adding that the persons between 30 and 50 years attended the session. S Tara, a yoga practitioner, who is practicing yoga from the last 11 years, said, despite social distance and other safety measures, it is a risk to attend the classes. “I am practising yoga at home. I have no plans to attend yoga classes for another three months,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yoga-gym-centres-reopen-fails-to-draw-people-870375.html
06-08-2020||National||Manoj Sinha to be new J&K LG as Prez accepts Murmu's resignation||Murmu (61), a former IAS officer who was Expenditure Secretary when he was appointed LG, sent in his resignation on Wednesday evening and President Ram Nath Kovind accepted it, following which the appointment of Sinha (61), a three-time MP who lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur, was initiated. "The President has accepted the resignation of Girish Chandra Murmu as Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. The President has been pleased to appoint Manoj Sinha, to be the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office vice Girish Chandra Murmu," a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said. Murmu's resignation came on the first anniversary of government's decision to revoke special status of Jammu and Kashmir. He is speculated to take over as CAG when the incumbent Rajiv Mehrishi retires this week.  On Wednesday evening, there were intense speculations that Mehrishi may be headed to Jammu and Kashmir Raj Bhavan but with Sinha's appointment, it has been put to rest.  The outgoing LG, who was appointed on October 25 and took over six days later when the Union Territory came into being, was recently in news for advocating the restoration of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir, at a time the matter is in the Supreme Court and putting the Centre in a spot. The Election Commission also objected to his repeated remarks about the schedule of polls in the union territory. Sinha's appointment came as a surprise to many while it was the return of a politician to the Kashmir Raj Bhavan. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah summed up on Twitter, “last night there were one or two names that people were circulating as a done deal and this name wasn’t among them. You can always trust this government to pull an unexpected name out of the hat contrary to anything the “sources” had planted earlier.” One who loves to keep a low-profile, Sinha enjoys the trust of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. After the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, he was speculated to become the Chief Minister but Yogi Adityanath was chosen later. Alumni of the Benaras Hindu University from where he graduated in Civil Engineering, he is an agriculturist who won from Ghazipur thrice but lost last time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manoj-sinha-to-be-new-jk-lg-as-prez-accepts-murmus-resignation-870045.html
06-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 6||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 20 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  20,21,275 as of August 6 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  41,580   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 10,57,805  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-6-870049.html
06-08-2020||National||DH Toon: PM Modi's speech at Ram Temple bhoomi pujan was triumphalist hyperbole||There were two strands in the speech that Prime Minister Narendra Modi made after doing the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. One was the assertion that the temple should be built on the foundation of mutual love and brotherhood and that Ram is the common thread of unity in diversity in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modis-speech-at-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-was-triumphalist-hyperbole-870050.html
06-08-2020||National||Novavax signs Covid-19 vaccine supply deal with India's Serum Institute||Novavax Inc said on Wednesday it has entered a supply and license agreement with the Serum Institute of India for the development and commercialisation of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The Indian drugmaker will have exclusive rights for the vaccine in India during the term of the deal and non-exclusive rights during the "Pandemic Period" in all countries other than those designated by the World Bank as upper-middle or high-income countries. The deal was signed on July 30, according to an SEC filing by Novavax.  On Tuesday, Novavax reported that its experimental Covid-19 vaccine produced high levels of antibodies against the novel coronavirus in a small, early-stage clinical trial and that it could start a large pivotal Phase III trial as soon as late September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/novavax-signs-covid-19-vaccine-supply-deal-with-indias-serum-institute-870068.html
06-08-2020||National||BJP sarpanch Sajad Ahmad Khanday killed by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir||BJP leader and sarpanch Sajad Ahmad Khanday was shot dead by terrorists near his home in south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Thursday, police said.   BJP leader and sarpanch Sajad Ahmad Khanday shot dead by terrorists in Kulgam in south Kashmir: officials The terrorists, who appeared to have studied the area closely, fired at him from close range at Vessu in Qazigund area, 60 km from here, police officials said. Khanday was immediately rushed to a hospital in nearby Anantnag district where he was declared brought dead, they said. The incident comes less than 48 hours after a BJP-affiliated panchayat member, Arif Ahmad Khan, was shot at in Kulgam district. He is recovering from his injuries in hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-sarpanch-sajad-ahmad-khanday-killed-by-terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-870116.html
06-08-2020||National||56,282 new cases push India's Covid-19 count to 19,64,536; death toll mounts to 40,699||India saw a single-day increase of 56,282 cases taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 19,64,536 on Thursday, while the recoveries have surged to 13,28,336 and comprise 67.62 per cent of the total caseload, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 40,699 with 904 new fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 5,95,501 active Covid-19 cases in the country presently which contribute 30.31 per cent of the total cases. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.07 per cent, the data stated. This is the eighth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 2,21,49,351 samples have been tested up to August 5 with 6,64,949 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/56282-new-cases-push-indias-covid-19-count-to-1964536-death-toll-mounts-to-40699-870127.html
06-08-2020||National||SC gives time to find missing documents in Vijay Mallya's case||The Supreme Court on Thursday deferred considering a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, to August 20. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan found that some replies to the application filed in the matter were not available in the case records. As lawyers sought time to put it on records, the court adjourned the matter. In June, this year, the court sought an explanation from its own registry on why a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, was not listed for consideration in the last three years. It has directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the people who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for last three years. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleaguered promoter of Kingfisher Airlines guilty of contempt of court for transferring 40 million USD to his children's accounts despite an order against transferring his assets. Mallya, who evaded law enforcement authorities here and stayed at the United Kingdom, has suffered setbacks after the court over there allowed for his extradition. His return, however, is still uncertain due to undisclosed legal issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-time-to-find-missing-documents-in-vijay-mallyas-case-870157.html
06-08-2020||National||Keep draft EIA in abeyance: Jairam writes to Javadekar||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday asked Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to keep the draft Environment Impact Assessment notification in abeyance, pending consultations by a parliamentary panel. Ramesh, who chairs the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science & Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, said the panel has been inundated with requests from various stakeholders to give them an opportunity to present their views on the draft EIA, 2020. "I am sure you will agree that this is both desirable and necessary," Ramesh said in a letter to Javdekar. The Congress leader had flagged five key concerns about the draft EIA, including on provision to grant post facto approvals to projects. Ramesh had argued that such a provision would "routinely legitimise illegality". The Congress leader had claimed that the draft EIA also sought to increase validity of environment clearances by allowing projects to secure land for long duration even when they are not constructed. "This promotes land grab, not development," Ramesh had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-draft-eia-in-abeyance-jairam-writes-to-javadekar-870196.html
06-08-2020||National||UPSC clarifies why fewer candidates were chosen despite vacancies in Civil Service||Amid questions raised about choosing 829 candidates for Civil Services when the vacancies are 927, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday said they have maintained a reserve list to cater to a shortfall. The UPSC said it has come to its notice that some misleading information is circulating regarding the number of recommended candidates against the vacancies indented by the Government for the Civil Services Examination, 2019. It said the UPSC strictly goes by the Rules of Examination as notified by the Government of India. "It is hereby clarified that as against 927 vacancies for Civil Services Examination, 2019, the Commission, in the first instance, has released the result of 829 candidates and has also maintained a Reserve List in accordance with Rule-16 (4) & (5) of Civil Services Examination Rules, 2019," the UPSC said in a statement. "This is a standard practice since decades, so that in case candidates belonging to reserve categories who are selected at general standards, wish to choose services and cadre based on their reserve status if it is beneficial for them, the resultant vacancies may be filled up from the Reserve List. The Reserve List carries an adequate number of candidates from the reserve categories also to cater to the shortfall arising out of preferences exercised by candidates belonging to reserve categories figuring above the general standard," it said. UPSC is mandated to keep the Reserve List confidential till the process of such exercise of preferences is over in accordance with Rule 16(5) of the Civil Services Examination Rules, 2019, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-clarifies-why-fewer-candidates-were-chosen-despite-vacancies-in-civil-service-870201.html
06-08-2020||National||Announced in Budget 2020, Kisan Rail to begin services from Friday||The first Kisan Special Parcel Train, carrying fruits and vegetables between Maharashtra- Bihar, will start its operation on Friday. The  first Kisan Rail will start from Devlali near Nasik to Danapur near Patna on August 7 at 11 am on a weekly basis. The train will reach Danapur at 6.45 pm on the next day, covering 1,519 km in 31.45 hours, an official statement said. The same train will return from Danapur at noon on Sunday and reach Devlali at 7.45 am on Monday. The parcel trains will have a composition of 10+1 coaches. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will flag off  the train via video coference. There will be at least 14 stoppages on this route, from Nasik Road to Bhusawal to Jabalpur and Buksar. The Railways is also open to increasing the number of stoppages upon farmer demand, said an official in the railways. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this initiative in her Budget speech earlier this year envisaging setting up of a 'Kisan Rail' through the public-private-partnership (PPP) mode for a cold supply chain to transport perishable goods. Though the proposal to use refrigerated parcel vans to ferry perishables was first announced by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee in the 2009-10 Budget, it failed to take off. This special parcel train will be run by the Bhusaval division of Central Railways. Bhusawal Division is primarily an agro-based division and Nasik and the surrounding region produces huge quantities of fresh vegetables, fruits, flowers, other perishables, onions and other agro products. These perishables are mainly transported to areas around Patna, Allahabad, Katni, Satna and others. "Aggressive marketing is being done with local farmers, loaders, APMC and individuals," the statement said. The railways so far commissioned temperature-controlled perishable cargo centres at Ghazipur Ghat (UP), New Azadpur (Adarsh Nagar, Delhi) and Raja ka Talab (UP) as a pilot project under the Kisan Vision Project by Container Corporation of India Limited (CONCOR) through a CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiative. Another project is under process at Lasalgaon in Maharashtra's Nasik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/announced-in-budget-2020-kisan-rail-to-begin-services-from-friday-870207.html
06-08-2020||National||UGC ask varsities to create awareness about new education policy among students, teachers||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed universities and colleges across the country to create awareness about the new National Education Policy (NEP) amongst teachers, students, officials and other stakeholders in the higher education system. The universities and colleges have been asked to share the activities in this regard on the university activity monitoring portal maintained by UGC. "There is a need to create awareness about NEP amongst teachers, students, officials and other stakeholders in the higher education system. In this regard, you are requested to conduct webinars and related online activities to discuss various policy highlights and implications of the policy with various stakeholders," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said in a letter to Vice Chancellors. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. The choice between 3 or 4-year undergraduate courses, multiple entry and exit options in degree courses, adding 3.5 crore seats in higher education institutions which will now have a single regulator, discontinuation of MPhil programmes and fixation of fees are among the higher education reforms outlined in the new NEP. The policy has proposed setting up of a 'single overarching umbrella body for the entire higher education'. The Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) will have distinct and independent bodies which will each assume separate functions of accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting. These bodies will replace autonomous bodies like University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) and National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-ask-varsities-to-create-awareness-about-new-education-policy-among-students-teachers-870218.html
06-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre releases Rs 890.32 crore to help states procure equipment, train healthcare workforce||The Centre on Thursday released Rs 890.32 crore to 22 states to strengthen public health facilities for testing for Covid-19, including setting up ICU beds, engaging and training volunteers and ASHA workers to deal with the pandemic. The funds released by the Centre form the second installment of the Rs 15,000 crore Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. States such as Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, West Bengal have received the funds depending on the Covid-19 caseload. “The first installment of Rs 3,000 crore was released in April 2020 to all States/UTs to aid and enable them to ramp up testing facilities, augment hospital infrastructure, conduct surveillance activities along with procurement of essential equipment, drugs and other supplies,” an official statement said. The funds will also be used to procure RT-PCR machines, RNE extraction kits, TRUNAT & CBNAAT machines and BSL-II cabinets, installation of oxygen generators, cryogenic oxygen tanks and medical gas pipelines in public health facilities and procurement of bedside oxygen concentrators. It would also cover engagement, training and capacity building of necessary human resources and incentives to healthcare workforce and volunteers, including ASHAs, on Covid-19 duties. As part of this package, States/UTs have been strengthened with 5,80,342 isolation beds, 1,36,068 oxygen supported beds and 31,255 ICU beds. Also, 86,88,357 testing kits and 79,88,366 Vial Transport Media (VTM) have been procured by states, besides engaging 96,557 additional personnel for Covid-19 duties. “The package has aided provision of mobility support to 11,821 staff,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-releases-rs-89032-crore-to-help-states-procure-equipment-train-healthcare-workforce-870219.html
06-08-2020||National||179 professional colleges shut down in 2020, highest in last 9 years||Nearly 180 professional colleges, including engineering institutes and business schools, have shut down during the academic year 2020-21, the highest number of closure of technical institutions in the last nine years, according to All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) data. Besides the closure of 179 institutes, at least 134 institutes did not seek approval this year in view of large number of seats lying vacant over the last 5 years thus making it unviable for continuing the institution. Also, at least 44 institutes could not get approval or their approvals were withdrawn due to punitive action by the technical education regulator. While 92 technical institutes had to close down in the 2019-20 academic session, the figures were 89 (2018-19), 134 (2017-18), 163 (2016-17), 126 (2015-16) and 77 (2014-15). Progressive closure means institute cannot admit the students for the first year during the academic year, however, the existing students will continue till completion of their course and their degrees are treated as valid. In the academic year 2020-21, a total of 1.09 lakh seats approved by AICTE have been reduced in pharmacy and architecture institutions. "As per recent Supreme Court judgement, for the functioning of existing and setting up of new Architecture and Pharmacy colleges, approval of only 'Council of Architecture' and 'Pharmacy Council of India' respectively will be mandatory from the academic Year 2020-2021," a senior AICTE official said. "As a result, the approval of AICTE has been made non-mandatory. Consequently, many of these colleges have withdrawn their affiliation & approval from AICTE resulting in a bulk reduction of seats. Effectively, the seats of pharmacy and architecture have now been taken over by their respective regulatory bodies," he added. According to official statistics, over 69,000 seats in 762 colleges have been reduced due to a reduction in intake or closure of a particular course or division. "The approval process for the year 2020-2021 was a considerable departure from the previous years on several counts. Due to the imposition and subsequent extensions of lockdown, the approval process was delayed. It was initiated in the month of May and completed in June end. "Moreover, the rigorous scrutiny which was undertaken physically at various regional offices was conducted via an online process. This involved using online video-conferencing for stakeholders to connect, verification of infrastructure and campus facilities virtually and uploading digitally signed documents. Even though new Management and Polytechnic Engineering Institutes have added seats, there has been a reduction in AICTE approved Seats," the official said. The AICTE has also granted approval to 164 new institutes for the 2020-21 academic season, adding up to 39,000 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/179-professional-colleges-shut-down-in-2020-highest-in-last-9-years-870223.html
06-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to deliver inaugural address at conclave on new National Education Policy on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at the 'Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy' on Friday, an official statement said. The conclave is being organised by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grants Commission, it said. The conclave will have sessions dedicated to significant aspects of education covered under the new National Education Policy (NEP), including holistic, multidisciplinary and futuristic education, quality research and equitable use of technology for better reach in education. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Choice between 3 or 4 year undergraduate courses, multiple entry and exit options in degree courses, adding 3.5 crore seats in higher education institutions, which will now have a single regulator, discontinuation of M.Phil programmes and fixation of fees are among the higher education reforms outlined in the new NEP. The policy has proposed setting up of a 'single overarching umbrella body for the entire higher education'. The Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) will have distinct and independent bodies, which will each assume separate functions of accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting. These bodies will replace autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). "Union Minister for HRD Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union Minister of State Sanjay Dhotre would also be participating in the event. A number of dignitaries, including the chairman and members, committee for the draft NEP as well as eminent academicians and scientists will speak on different aspects of the National Education Policy," the statement said. "Vice-Chancellors of universities, directors of institutions and principals of colleges and other stakeholders will participate in the programme," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-at-conclave-on-new-national-education-policy-on-friday-870226.html
06-08-2020||National||Over 56,000 new Covid-19 cases in India in single day||India saw a single day increase of 56,282 COVID-19 cases taking the country's virus tally to 19,64,536, while the recoveries have surged to 13,28,336, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to COVID-19 climbed to 40,699 with 904 new fatalities being reported in 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 5,95,501 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which contribute to 30.31 per cent of the total cases. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.07 per cent, the data stated. This is the eighth consecutive day that COVID-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,21,49,351 samples have been tested up to August 5 with 6,64,949 samples being tested on Wednesday.  Of the 904 fresh deaths reported, 334 are from Maharashtra, 112 from Tamil Nadu, 100 from Karnataka, 77 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from West Bengal, 40 from Uttar Pradesh, 29 from Punjab, 23 from Gujarat,  17 from Madhya Pradesh, 13 each from Rajasthan and Telangana, 11 from Delhi and Nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Odisha. Eight fatalities each have been reported from Bihar and Jharkhand, seven each from Haryana, Kerala and Puducherry, six from Assam, four from Goa, three from Uttarakhand, two each from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh, while Nagaland and Tripura have registered one fatality each.  Of the total 40,699 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 16,476 followed by 4,461 in Tamil Nadu, 4,044 in Delhi, 2,804 in Karnataka, 2,556 in Gujarat, 1,857 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,846 in West Bengal, 1,681 in Andhra Pradesh and 929 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 745 people have died of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, 589 in Telangana, 491 in Punjab, 455 in Haryana, 426 in Jammu and Kashmir, 355 in Bihar, 225 in Odisha, 136 in Jharkhand, 121 in Assam, 98 in Uttarakhand, 94 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 71 deaths, Puducherry 65, Goa 64, Tripura 31, Chandigarh 20, Himachal Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 14 each, Ladakh and Manipur seven each, Nagaland six, Meghalaya five, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-56000-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-in-single-day-870252.html
06-08-2020||National||No benefit of plasma therapy in reducing Covid-19 mortality risk, says AIIMS trial interim analysis||Convalescent plasma therapy did not show benefit in reducing mortality risk among Covid-19 patients, according to an interim analysis of a randomised controlled trial done at AIIMS here to assess the efficacy of this mode of treatment. The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into an active coronavirus infected patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight back the infection. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told PTI on Thursday no clear mortality benefit of convalescent plasma therapy was seen during a trial conducted among 30 Covid-19 patients. During the trial, one group of patients was given convalescent plasma therapy along with the standard supportive treatment while the other group only received standard treatment. The number of fatalities recorded in both the groups was equal and there was not much clinical improvement in the condition of patients, he said. "However, this is just an interim analysis and we need to do a more detailed evaluation to see if any sub-group may benefit from plasma therapy," Dr Guleria said. He also underlined that plasma has to be tested for its safety and should have sufficient antibody to be useful to Covid-19 patients. The efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus-infected patients was discussed in the third National Clinical Grand Rounds (CGR) on Covid-19 held on Wednesday. "Plasma is safe. As far as its efficacy is concerned, we do not have a green signal yet. So the clinical use has to be very judicious and within the ambit of national guidelines," Dr Monish Soneja, additional professor in the Medicine department at AIIMS, said at the webinar. Convalescent plasma therapy has been listed as an investigational therapy for off-label use in coronavirus infected patients because as of now there is no conclusive evidence for its efficacy, Dr Soneja said. About the initial findings of the randomised controlled trial, Soneja said, "Convalescent plasma is not a magic bullet." It may be used particularly in early moderate stage of the disease. There may be a subset of patients with certain characteristics who may benefit from plasma, he said, adding, "This is a work in progress as we do not know those characteristics." The findings highlight that relatives of the patients should not insist on plasma therapy until and unless the treating doctor considers the patient fit for it and where he may think that the mode of treatment would be beneficial, Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate Professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, said. He said even if the therapy has some role, then that is in the early stage of the disease. But for plasma therapy to be effective, plasma must contain a sufficient amount of neutralizing antibody against that infection, the doctor said. "This therapy also carries risks such as inadvertent transfer of blood-borne infections and reactions to serum constituents, including immunological reactions such as serum sickness, that may worsen the clinical condition," Dr Nischal said. According to the Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19 issued by the Union Health Ministry, off-label convalescent plasma may be considered for Covid-19 patients with moderate disease who are not improving, which means oxygen requirement is progressively increasing, despite the use of steroids. The use of off-label convalescent plasma for treating coronavirus patients in the moderate stage of the illness has been included under "investigational therapies". ABO compatibility and cross-matching of the donor plasma is a prerequisite while considering convalescent plasma, the health ministry has said.  The recipient should be closely monitored for several hours after transfusion for any adverse events and its use should be avoided in patients with immunoglobulin A deficiency or immunoglobulin allergy. "The dose is variable ranging from 4 to 13 ml/kg -- usually 200 ml single dose given slowly over not less than two hours," the Clinical Management Protocol stats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-benefit-of-plasma-therapy-in-reducing-covid-19-mortality-risk-says-aiims-trial-interim-analysis-870253.html
06-08-2020||National||ASHA, Anganwadi, other scheme workers to go on 2-day strike||A joint platform of scheme workers under programmes like Anganwadi, ASHA, and national health mission on Thursday gave a call for a two-day nationwide strike from Friday to press for better service conditions and benefits. The platform affiliated to ten central trade unions will also join 'Jail Bharo Satyagraha' call, a statement said. "The unions and federations of scheme workers (anganwadi, ASHA, Mid-Day Meal, NHM, Samagra Sikksha etc) affiliated to the central trade unions (INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC) will go on two days strike on August 7-8, 2020," the joint statement by ten central trade unions said. Scheme workers, who are among frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19, are forced to take this step after four months of the outbreak of the pandemic and the lockdown because none of the minimum requirements for them – safety, insurance and risk allowance- is provided by the government, the unions charged. Many of the workers have died due to coronavirus during this period and even their monthly wages are not paid for months together, the unions claimed. They asked the government to clear all pending dues of wages and allowances etc of all scheme workers immediately. The unions said that strikes and struggles are going on in different parts of the country. In Bihar, ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers went on strike from Thursday. In some states and areas where the Covid-19 situation is very bad, scheme workers will work wearing black badges. They will join the Satyagraha/jailbharo called by the central trade unions on August 9, 2020, Quit India Day, with the slogan of “Save India Day" (keeping physical distance and all norms by WHO), the statement said. The unions are demanding safety gear for all frontline workers, especially ASHA and anganwadi workers and those in the health sector who are engaged in containment areas and red zones. They are also seeking frequent, random and free coronavirus tests of all frontline workers. They also demanded a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to all frontline workers covering all deaths on duty and Pension/jobs for the dependants of the workers and also coverage of treatment for Covid-19 for the entire family. A minimum compensation of Rs 10 lakh be given for those who got infected while on duty, the unions demanded. Additional Covid Risk Allowance of Rs 10,000 per month should be provided for all the contract and scheme workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, especially ASHA and anganwadi workers and workers in NHM, they added. The unions are also pressing for including scheme workers in the category of workers, give free ration /food for all the needy and Rs 7,500 per month for all non-tax paying families for six months, ensure jobs and income for all. They are also demanding implementation of the recommendations of 45th and 46th ILC (labour conference) for regularization of scheme workers as workers and minimum wages of Rs 21,000 per month and pension Rs 10,000 per month. Besides they are also asking the government to provide ESI (employees state insurance) and EPF (employees provident fund) benefits to all scheme workers. The existing insurance schemes Pradhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Anganwadi Karyakarti Bima Yojana must be implemented properly with universal coverage applicable to all scheme workers, it said. Mid Day Meal Workers must be paid Rs 10,000 per month for the period when the schools are closed including the summer holidays and besides there should be no contractorisation or centralised kitchen, the stated. Scheme workers are also demanding withdrawal of proposals for privatization of basic services including health (including hospitals), nutrition (including ICDS and MDMS) and education, the statement said. \They will also press for making centrally sponsored schemes like ICDS (integrated child development scheme), NHM and MDMS permanent with adequate budget allocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asha-anganwadi-other-scheme-workers-to-go-on-2-day-strike-870274.html
06-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Centre's Covid-19 aid; IPL sans Vivo||In today's episode, Centre releases Rs 890.32 crore to 22 states to strengthen public health facilities for testing for Covid-19; monetary policy committee of Reserve Bank of India presses a pause button on key policy interest rates; BCCI suspends the IPL title sponsorship deal with Chinese mobile phone company Vivo for the event's upcoming edition and Nirav Modi further remanded in custody until August 27.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: August 6, 2020: Centre on Thursday released Rs 890.32 crore to 22 states to strengthen public health facilities for testing for Covid-19, including setting up ICU beds, engaging and training volunteers and Asha workers to deal with the pandemic. The funds released by the Centre form the second installment of the Rs 15,000 crore Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. States such as Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, West Bengal have received the funds depending on the Covid-19 caseload. “The first installment of Rs 3000 crore was released in April 2020 to all States/UTs to aid and enable them to ramp up testing facilities, augment hospital infrastructure, conduct surveillance activities along with procurement of essential equipment, drugs and other supplies,” an official statement said. The funds will also be used to procure RT-PCR machines, RNE extraction kits, TRUNAT & CBNAAT machines and BSL-II cabinets, installation of oxygen generators, cryogenic oxygen tanks and medical gas pipelines in public health facilities and procurement of bed side oxygen concentrators. It would also cover engagement, training and capacity building of necessary human resources and incentives to healthcare workforce and volunteers, including ASHAs, on Covid duties. As part of this package, States/UTs have been strengthened with 5,80,342 isolation beds, 1,36,068 oxygen supported beds and 31,255 ICU beds. Also, 86,88,357 testing kits and 79,88,366 Vial Transport Media (VTM) have been procured by states, besides engaging 96,557 additional personnel for Covid duties. “The package has aided provision of mobility support to 11,821 staff,” the statement said.     With inflation likely to remain sticky and economic growth fragile due to surge in Covid-19 cases, the monetary policy committee of Reserve Bank of India Thursday pressed a pause button on key policy interest rates with Governor Shaktikanta Das saying he has enough space for reducing rates but he will use them “judiciously”. The MPC kept the repo rate at which the RBI lends money to banks, unchanged at 4% while maintaining an accommodative stance. The reverse repo rate was kept unchanged at 3.35%. The headline CPI inflation, which was at 5.8% in March 2020, got elevated to 6.1 % in June. Worse, the RBI’s latest inflation expectation survey showed the households’ one year ahead inflation expectations were much lower than their three months ahead Expectations. The RBI has already reduced the repo rate by a total of 250 basis points since last year, which t he governor said, has resulted in a lowering of the interest rate across the financial system. He said the borrowing rate in the financial system has come down to the lowest in 10 years. The governor said inflation will remain elevated in the July-September quarter but start easing in the second half of the financial year 2020-21. Weighed down by the spike in virus cases, the real GDP growth will remain in negative zone in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021.     The BCCI on Thursday suspended the IPL title sponsorship deal with Chinese mobile phone company Vivo for the event's upcoming edition amid soaring Sino-India diplomatic tensions. The BCCI sent out a one-line statement without giving any details to say that Vivo will not be associated with the IPL this year. "The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and vivo Mobile India Pvt Ltd have decided to suspend their partnership for Indian Premier League in 2020," the press release stated. Vivo won the IPL title sponsorship rights for five years from 2018 to 2022 for a reported sum of Rs 2190 crore, approximately Rs 440 crore per annum. The BCCI is likely to float a tender for the new title sponsors as mandated by its constitution. The IPL starts on September 19 in the UAE, forced out of India due to the rising COVID-19 cases.      Storing 740 tonnes of Ammonium Nitrate in 37 containers inside a freight station on the outskirts of Chennai since 2015 has raised serious concerns, following a massive blast in Lebanese capital Beirut that is suspected to have been caused by the explosive chemical. Since the huge amount of Ammonium Nitrate was imported by Amman Chemicals based out of Karur in Tamil Nadu from South Korea without required permission, the Customs Department seized the chemical along with the containers and stored them at a container freight station in Manali, 30 kms from here. The consignment was seized in November 2015 after the firm’s licence was cancelled. Amman Chemicals also moved the Madras High Court against cancellation of the licence which upheld the government’s decision in 2016. As concerns were raised over the safety of the explosive chemical store inside a freight station, the Customs Department issued a clarification on Thursday that there was no need to panic as the freight station where Ammonium Nitrate is stored is located in an isolated area. “The chemical stored in a freight station in Manali is safe. Since there are no houses near the station, there is no cause for concern. Experts have inspected the place and have certified that the chemical is in a safe condition,” a Customs Department official said. He added that efforts are being taken to e-auction 740 tonnes of Ammonium Nitrate on the orders of the Madras High Court. Sources said a team from the Petroleum & Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) also inspected the consignment and certified it safe. Citing the huge explosion in Beirut which is understood to have been caused by Ammonium Nitrate, PMK chief S Ramadoss and environmentalists asked authorities concerned to remove the chemical from the area and ensure that no untoward incident takes place.     Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, fighting extradition to India, was on Thursday further remanded in custody until August 27 after he appeared via videolink at a regular remand hearing before a UK court on charges over the nearly USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case. The 49-year-old jeweller, who has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March last year, appeared via videolink before District Judge Vanessa Baraitser at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London for a regular 28-day “call-over” hearing. He was told the next hearing in the case will be a case management hearing ahead of a trial set for five days from September 7. "You will appear via videolink again. Your lawyers may be present in court,” said Judge Baraitser, in reference to the part remote setting in operation across UK courts since the coronavirus lockdown     The Army conducted a flag march in the troubled areas of Sonitpur district, which witnessed clashes between two communities following a bike rally by Bajrang Dal activists to celebrate the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, officials said. An indefinite curfew has been clamped in areas under the jurisdictions of Thelamara and Dhekiajuli police stations in the district, they said. Sonitpur Additional Superintendent of Police, Numal Mahata, told PTI on Thursday that Army personnel conducted a flag march during midnight in the areas under Thelamara police station on the district administration's request. "We have already detained two persons for questioning. There was no report of any untoward incident since last night. The situation is fully under control," he said. Mahata also said around 10 people from both sides suffered injuries. The Bajrang Dal, however, claimed at least 12 of its activists were injured. Meanwhile, sources said Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Gyanendra Pratap Singh, has been asked to visit the disturbed areas to assess the situation and he is already on his way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centres-covid-19-aid-ipl-sans-vivo-870279.html
06-08-2020||National||Graded multi-level institutional response kept Covid-19 cases, deaths per million low: Harsh Vardhan||India's proactive and graded multi-level institutional response to Covid-19 made it possible for the country to maintain "very low cases and deaths per million" population, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. This was achieved and maintained despite high population density, low fractional GDP spending and per capita doctor and hospital bed availability compared to developed nations, he said at a virtual meeting of the regional director of WHO for South-East Asia (SEA) with ministers of health of the member nations. On the efficacy of the lockdown in curbing the spread of Covid-19, he explained that it was "effective in slowing down the rate of growth of cases and gave the government time to augment health infrastructure and testing facilities". "From one lab (for Covid-19 testing) in January, India has 1,370 laboratories at present. Indians anywhere can access a lab within three hours travel time and 33 of the 36 states and UTs exceed WHO's recommendation of testing 140 people per million per day," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. He also said containment strategy has been successful as is evident from the fact that 50 per cent of the cases are from three states and 32 per cent of the rest are from seven states. The spread of the virus thus has been contained, Vardhan said. "India was preparing to fight the pandemic as soon as China informed WHO about it on January 7, the health minister said. He stressed that earlier viral outbreaks like avian influenza, H1N1, influenza, Zika and Nipah had provided institutional memory in "designing containment and management strategies using 'whole of government' approach". "India’s proactive and graded multi-level institutional response to Covid-19 made it possible to have very low cases per million and deaths per million in spite of having a high population density and low fractional GDP spending and per capita doctor and hospital bed availability as compared to other developed countries," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Vardhan also said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) built make-shift hospitals capable of housing 1,000 patients, with an additional 100 ICU beds were built in a record 10 days. Training of the trainers at the national level; states, district and facilities-level training, web-based training on ventilator management by AIIMS, mock drill for Covid-19 preparedness in hospitals, telemedicine facilities helped identify the root causes of mortality and made high-impact interventions possible that curbed fatality rate from 3.33 per cent on June 18 to 2.11 per cent on August 3, he said. The Union health minister said as a strategy, India divided its facilities into Covid-19 and non-C facilities. "This helped in better management of the severe from the moderate and mild categories of patients and ensured that the hospital facilities were un-burdened to ensuring effective treatment of the hospitalised cases. This has helped to keep India's Case Fatality rate below the global average. Today it has touched 2.07 per cent, " Vardhan said. The virtual meet was focused on maintaining essential health services and public health programmes in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Roderico Ofrin of WHO informed the ministers about the logistic support provided by the world health body during Covid-19 while Sunil Bahl apprised them of the organisation's programme for vaccine development and policy of allocation, the health ministry statement stated. In the meeting, Vardhan also mentioned about the other measures taken by India and stated that the best practices from the states and Union Territories were uploaded for cross-learning on the National Health Innovation Portal (NHInP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/graded-multi-level-institutional-response-kept-covid-19-cases-deaths-per-million-low-harsh-vardhan-870281.html
06-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 67.62%; case fatality rate drops to 2.07%: Govt||The total number of recoveries among Covid-19 patients in India has jumped to 13,28,336, pushing the recovery rate to 67.62 per cent on Thursday, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.07 per cent, the Union health ministry said. The recoveries exceeded active cases of the coronavirus infection by 7,32,835, it stated. There are 5,95,501 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which as a percentage of the total cases has seen a "significant drop from 34.17 per cent on July 24 to 30.31 per cent as on date", the ministry said. A total of 46,121 Covid-19 patients have been discharged in a span of 24 hours. "The recovery rate has continued its upward journey to reach another record high of 67.62 pre cent amongst Covid-19 patients," the ministry said. Under the "whole-of-government approach", the public and private sector resources are combined towards the Covid-19 response and management under the Centre-led strategy. Focused implementation of 'test, track, treat' strategy by the Union and state and Union Territory governments, ramped up hospital infrastructure and testing facilities, and emphasis on treatment of the hospitalised patients through the standard of care protocol advised by the Centre have effectively ensured that mortality of Covid-19 patients is contained, the ministry said.  "As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) has been low when compared to the global scenario and it has been progressively falling. It stands at 2.07 per cent today," it said. India saw a single-day spike of 56,282 cases, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 19,64,536, while the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 40,699 with 904 new fatalities being reported in 24-hour span, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-6762-case-fatality-rate-drops-to-207-govt-870307.html
06-08-2020||National||Spain, Slovakia agree to issue 'Gratis Visa' to Indians in view of Covid-19||A tour operators' body on Thursday said that embassies of Spain and Slovakia have agreed to issue 'Gratis Visa' to all Indians who were issued a visa earlier this year but could not undertake travel in the last few months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision came following the appeal by the Outbound Tour Operators' Association of India (OTOAI), which had sent letters to European embassies in India, requesting them to issue Gratis Visas to all those travellers who despite having received valid travel visas this year could not undertake the planned visits, the association said in a statement. “We are pleased with this development and remain hopeful that in times to come, more European Embassies agree to issuing Gratis Visa. We understand that it will take some time for outbound travel to pick up from India but moves such as these will help in building people's confidence for international travel while also offering some relief to their pocket," OTOAI President Riaz Munshi said. Ambassador of the Slovak Republic to India Ivan Lancaric said, "Applicants, who could not travel on their Schengen visas to Slovakia, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, can apply for this visa fee waiver individually at the time of the submission of their new application." This possibility covers not only tourists, but all the Schengen visa categories, he said. "We are keen on promoting travel destinations in Slovakia, my visa section will assist the tourists travelling to Slovakia in this matter once they reapply for a Schengen visa,” he added. The Embassy of Spain in an official statement said, “Please be informed that we (the Embassy of Spain) will reissue the visa without any cost. The petition for the same should be routed through BLS only, for which the applicant will be asked to pay the service tax to BLS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spain-slovakia-agree-to-issue-gratis-visa-to-indians-in-view-of-covid-19-870308.html
06-08-2020||National||134 Indian students selected for Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degree scholarship||Over 130 Indian students have been awarded the Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degree (EMJMD) scholarship under the EU Erasmus programme, a 40 per cent increase that made India the top global recipient this year. Under the EMJMD scheme, students will get an opportunity to pursue masters degree in leading European universities in at least two different countries. The fully-funded scholarship will cover the tuition fee, travel costs and living allowance of the recipient. An official statement said, "134 Indian students have been awarded the EMJMD scholarship under the EU Erasmus programme, making India the top global recipient this year. France, UK, Belgium, Germany, Italy and Portugal are the top six higher education destinations where the students will start their courses this year." "Under this programme, the Indian students will be pursuing 78 different programmes ranging from management, food sciences, cartography, vaccinology, photonics, biological and chemical engineering for a sustainable bioeconomy, digital earth, sustainable tropical forestry, decentralized smart energy systems to tribology of surface," it added. To mark this success, the delegation of the European Union to India organized a virtual event for the Indian students. "An Erasmus degree fosters excellence, innovation and internationalization. Being an Erasmus scholar also offers the opportunity to explore Europe, its diverse cultures and languages. You will meet fellow students from all over the world and study in a truly globalized environment. I hope you will come back as goodwill ambassadors for the EU-India cooperation and partnership," said Ugo Astuto, the Ambassador of the European Union to India. Abhay Jere, the chief innovation officer in the Ministry of Education, encouraged Indian students to go to Europe, see different countries and learn from different cultures. He asked them to "take maximum advantage of all opportunities and build networks for their future and their country, which needs them to address the problems and challenges that India and humanity at large are facing." Given the current global challenges and uncertainties posed by the novel coronavirus, the Erasmus+ programme, EU Member States and the universities are putting all their efforts to ensure that support and information are available to the students while ensuring flexibility in the programme. Adrian Veale, Policy Officer, Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture, European Commission, Brussels said, "Our first priority is health and safety of the students. Erasmus+ has also offered flexibility to the universities for them to continue operating in these circumstances." "While some programmes have built in a delayed start to the academic programme, others may start with online lessons and will switch to face-to-face teaching when this becomes more feasible. These new arrangements will continue to apply at the start of our academic year in September 2020," Veale said. Over 6,000 Indian scholars have benefitted from the Erasmus+ scholarship since it opened to India in 2004, which makes the country one of the largest beneficiaries outside Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/134-indian-students-selected-for-erasmus-mundus-joint-master-degree-scholarship-870311.html
06-08-2020||National||Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs asks Customs to check within 48 hours explosives stored in warehouses, ports||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs on Thursday directed field offices to verify within 48 hours that all explosive materials lying in Customs warehouses and ports meet safety and fire standards and pose no danger to people's lives. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said this “precautionary step” has been taken in view of the recent incident of an explosion in a foreign country caused by such material. "CBIC has urgently directed Customs and field formations to immediately confirm and verify within 48 hours that any hazardous and explosive material lying in warehouses and ports across the country meets all safety and fire standards and presents no danger to life and property," the CBIC tweeted. A huge explosion on Tuesday in the port of Beirut, capital city of Lebanon, left about 135 people dead and 5,000 injured. More than 2,000 metric tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse in the Beirut port has emerged as the possible source of the blast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-board-of-indirect-taxes-and-customs-asks-customs-to-check-within-48-hours-explosives-stored-in-warehouses-ports-870320.html
06-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty, five others||Taking over the case of the controversial death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the CBI on Thursday registered a case naming six persons, including his actress-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family members. Besides Rhea, others named in the FIR are her family members Indrajit Chakraborty, Sandya Chakraborty and Showik Chakraborty as well as his house manager Samuel Miranda and the actress' manager and publicist Shruti Modi. The registration of the case came a day after the Centre informed the Supreme Court that it has asked the CBI to take over the case following a reference from the Bihar government. The entry of the CBI will not be to the liking of Maharashtra government, as it has already raised objection to the move, saying Bihar does not have any jurisdiction for a probe, as the incident happened in Mumbai. The CBI has invoked charges related to criminal conspiracy, abetment of suicide, wrongful restrain, wrongful confinement, theft, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal intimidation against those named in the FIR. The case will be probed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the Superintendent of Police Nupur Prasad. DIG Gagandeep Gambhir and Joint Director Manoj Shashidhar will supervise the investigations.The CBI FIR is based on a case registered by Patna Police on a complaint filed by the actor's father Krishna Kishore Singh, who accused Rhea and others of abetting Sushant's suicide and misappropriating his assets. The Patna Police had invoked sections related to criminal conspiracy, cheating, and abetment to suicide among others.The 34-year-old actor hailing from Bihar, known for his stellar performance in Kai Poche and MS Dhoni: The Untold Story among others, died by suicide on June 14 in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Mumbai Police has registered a case and had been investigating various angles when Sushant's father also registered a case in Patna against Rhea and others. The case ran into controversy as Mumbai Police and the state government questioned the locus standi of their Patna counterparts with one of the senior Bihar Police officers who landed in Mumbai was sent to quarantine by state authorities.Sushant's death had raised shackles with several actors and others questioning the nepotism in Bollywood after it emerged that he was under depression as he was not getting his due in the film industry.It also assumed political colours with a section alleging that top Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's son Aditya Thackeray, also a Minister, has links to the incident. Aditya has denied any links. BJP leaders, including former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, had demanded CBI inquiry in the case. The Bihar government acted fast in referring the case to the CBI, as the state was going to Assembly elections later this year and there was anguish among people over the state. So far, Mumbai Police have recorded statements of 56 people, including Rajput's sisters, Rhea, and others from the film industry, after registering an Accidental Death Report (ADR). The Enforcement Directorate has earlier registered a money laundering case against Rhea and others on the basis of the FIR filed by Patna Police. The agency on Thursday quizzed Miranda while it summoned Rhea for questioning on Friday. Earlier, Rhea had approached the Supreme Court seeking transfer of the case registered by Patna Police to Maharashtra. In her plea, she had said that she was in a live-in relationship with Sushant from a year up till June 8 when the petitioner had temporarily shifted to her own residence in Mumbai. She has been in deep trauma due the death of the actor and moreover getting rape and death threats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-files-fir-against-rhea-chakraborty-five-others-870331.html
06-08-2020||National||Madras High Court fines Patanjali Rs 10 lakh for exploiting fear and panic||The Madras High Court on Thursday imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh on Patanjali Ayurved promoted by yoga guru Ramdev for “chasing further profits” by exploiting fear and panic among people over coronavirus infection. The court refused to vacate the interim stay restraining the company from using the name ‘Coronil’. In a detailed order, Justice C V Karthikeyan noted that Patanjali Ayurved and Divya Yog Mandir Trust had projected Coronil as a cure for Covid-19 whereas, in reality, it was just an immunity booster for cough, cold, and fever. The judge had last month restrained Patanjali Ayurved using the trademark Coronil till July 30 after Chennai-based Arudra Engineering Private Limited filed a petition saying 'Coronil' is a trademark owned by it since 1993. “Insofar as costs are concerned, the defendants have repeatedly projected that they are 10,000 Crores company. However, they are still chasing further profits by exploiting the fear and panic among the general public by projecting a cure for the Coronavirus, when actually their 'Coronil Tablet' is not a cure but rather an immunity booster for cough, cold and fever,” the judge said in his 104-page order on Thursday. The judge also said the two companies must realize that there are organisations which are helping the people in this critical period without seeking recognition and it would only be appropriate that they are made to pay costs to them. He directed the two companies to pay Rs 5 lakh each to the Cancer Institute, Adyar and the Government Yoga and Naturopathy Medical College and Hospital where treatments are afforded “free of cost without any claim to either trademark, trade name, patent or design, but only with service as a moto.” The payment should be made before August 21. Contending that Patanjali Ayurved and the Divya Yog Mandir Trust have directly infringed upon the word 'Coronil' used by Arudra Engineering Private Limited and since there is no evidence that it is a cure for coronavirus, the coinage is “without due cause and in fact that intention to mislead the general public.” “Usage of the word 'Coronil' and usage of the common pictorial image of coronavirus are to put it very mildly, misleading and cannot be permitted and is therefore prohibited,” the judge said. Justice Karthikeyan also rapped the two companies for not checking whether ‘Coronil’ was a registered trademark with the Trade Marks Registry and they are fault if they had not done a check. “They cannot plead ignorance and innocence and seek indulgence from this Court. Either way, indulgence is refused,” the judge said. Patanjali launched Coronil recently by claiming that it was a cure for Coronavirus, but the Centre said it has not given any certificate in this regard. The company then changed its stance saying it was just an immunity booster and not a cure for the infection caused by Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-high-court-fines-patanjali-rs-10-lakh-for-exploiting-fear-and-panic-870346.html
06-08-2020||National||Matrimonial disputes: From pens to property, HC wants spouses to list every penny spent||Brand of mobile, wrist watch, pen, wages of maid, expenditure incurred on functions and festivals are among a long list of details which a husband and wife, embroiled in matrimonial dispute, will now have to disclose in the affidavits to be placed before the courts to determine their true income. This directive came from the Delhi High Court which said on Thursday that a detailed affidavit of the assets, income and expenditure of both the spouses is necessary to determine their true income and to fix maintenance, permanent alimony and right in the joint properties. Justice J R Midha, who was of the view that matrimonial jurisdiction deserves special attention and maintenance applications should be decided expeditiously, asked the subordinate courts to expedite the maintenance proceedings and make an endeavour to decide them within the prescribed time. “It is the duty of the court to ascertain the true income of the parties and then pass the appropriate order relating to maintenance. Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. People would have faith in courts when truth alone triumphs. Justice based on truth would establish peace in the society,” the high court said in its 79-page judgement. The court said it was of the view that the mandatory filing of the affidavit of assets, income and expenditure by the parties in a detailed prescribed form should be incorporated in the statutes, as in the developed countries and asked the central government to consider the suggestion. It appreciated the assistance rendered by senior advocate Sunil Mittal, amicus curiae Anu Narula and Law Researcher Akshay Chowdhary for extensive research on corresponding law in other countries. The court said it has examined the formats of the affidavits of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the parties in matrimonial litigation in the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Singapore and South Africa and has incorporated some important questions and documents in the format. The high court had in 2015 issued directions and formulated an affidavit of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the husband and wife at the very threshold of matrimonial litigation. Later the directions and format was modified by the court in May and December 2017. It again modified the directions and format of the affidavit in its Thursday’s verdict to make them more comprehensive and useful. As per the modified affidavit, a salaried person is required to disclose the particulars of his employment including salary, dearness allowance, commissions, bonus, perks, other benefits and income tax. The verdict said that a self employed person has to disclose the nature of business/ profession, share, net worth, number of employees, annual turnover, gross profit, income tax and regular monthly withdrawal. The parties are also required to disclose income from other sources, like agriculture, rent, interest on bank deposits, investments, profits on sale of assets, particulars of immovable properties, financial assets including bank accounts, DEMAT accounts, safety deposit lockers, loans, insurance policies and foreign investments. In movable assets, they have to disclose motor vehicles, mobiles, computer, laptop, electronic gadgets, gold, silver and diamond jewellery, intangible assets and properties acquired by the family members or inheritance. The affidavit further requires them to disclose their standard of living, credit/debit cards, membership of clubs, social media accounts, domestic helps and their wages, mode of travel in city and outside, category of hotels, hospitals for medical treatment, frequency of foreign travel, brand of mobile, wrist watch, pen, expenditure ordinarily incurred on functions, festivals and marriage of family members. They also have to disclose expenditure on housing, household and medical, maintenance of dependents, transport, entertainment and vacations. The high court made it clear that the courts shall ensure that the filing of affidavits by the parties is not reduced to a mere ritual or formality and if the party does not truly disclose all his/ her assets and income, the court may order interrogatories or inspection of documents. It said the courts are at liberty to pass appropriate directions to do complete justice between the parties and in cases belonging to the lowest strata of the society or case of a litigant who is a permanently disabled/paralytic, it may dispense with the requirement of filing of the affidavit or modify the information required. “These modified directions/guidelines shall apply to all matrimonial cases including cases under Hindu Marriage Act, Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, Section 125 CrPC, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, Special Marriage Act, Indian Divorce Act, Guardians and Wards Act and Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act,” the high court said. It directed the family courts to send the list of pending maintenance cases which are more than one year old and it shall contain the name of the case, date of institution, number of hearings that have taken place and reasons for delay. “List be prepared according to the seniority, that is, the oldest case shall be mentioned first. Principal judge, family court shall compile the lists of all family courts and send them to the Registrar General of this court by December 31 for being placed before this court,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/matrimonial-disputes-from-pens-to-property-hc-wants-spouses-to-list-every-penny-spent-870347.html
06-08-2020||National||Have not received any communication from Pakistan on Kulbhushan Jadhav case: MEA||India on Thursday said Pakistan has not yet communicated to it about the developments relating to the case involving Indian death row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav and demanded unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to him as mandated by an international tribunal. "We have not received any communication from Pakistan in this regard," external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at an online media briefing. He was asked whether Pakistan has informed India about Islamabad High Court's order in the case. The Islamabad High Court has named three senior lawyers as amici curiae in the case of Jadhav and ordered the Pakistan government to give "another chance" to India to appoint a counsel for the death-row prisoner. Srivastava said Pakistan needs to implement the order of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the case and make available relevant documents to India besides providing "unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional" consular access to him. In 2017, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. Last month, India accused Pakistan of adopting a "farcical" approach in denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence in contravention of the ICJ order. The strong reaction came after Pakistan did not provide documents relating to Jadhav's case to India so that it could file a review petition in the court against the death sentence. India said Pakistan blocked all the avenues for an effective remedy available for India in the case, adding New Delhi has so far requested consular access to Jadhav for 12 times over the past one year. "The whole exercise of not providing any documents related to the case even after repeated requests, not providing an unimpeded consular access and some reported unilateral action of approaching the High Court on part of Pakistan again exposes the farcical nature of Pakistan's approach," Srivastava said last month Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-not-received-any-communication-from-pakistan-on-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-mea-870351.html
06-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 20 lakh-mark as Maharashtra, Karnataka report highest single-day spike in cases||India on Thursday crossed the grim landmark of 20 lakh Covid-19 cases, with Maharashtra and Karnataka reporting the highest single-day spikes in infections yet. However, the actual case load – or patients under active medical supervision – was just over six lakh as 13.5 lakh persons had been cured and discharged from healthcare facilities. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India has 20,21,275 cases at 10:00 pm on Thursday, while the total deaths reported were 41,580. India has been adding more than 50,000 cases for the past nine days and a cumulative five lakh new cases since July 28. On the brighter side though, the recovery rate has been increasing steadily for the past week with Wednesday reporting the highest ever discharges of – 51,706 – patients from healthcare centres. “The recovery rate has continued its upward journey to reach another record high of 67.62% amongst Covid-19 patients,” a health ministry official said. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told a meeting of his counterparts from the south east Asian region that the containment strategy to check the spread of the virus has been successful in India. He said 50% of the total cases in India were from three states and another 32% were from seven states. “The spread of the virus thus has been contained,” the minister said at the virtual meeting organised by the WHO Regional Director for South East Asia. Maharashtra reported the most number of new cases – 11,514 on Thursday followed by Karnataka (6,805) and Tamil Nadu (5,684). India also stepped up testing for Covid-19 as it tested more than six lakh samples for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. The ICMR, through its network of 1,370 laboratories, had tested 6,64,949 samples for Covid-19 on Wednesday. “The cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,21,49,351. The Tests Per Million too have seen a sharp rise to 16,050,” the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-lakh-mark-as-maharashtra-karnataka-report-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-870352.html
06-08-2020||National||India slams Pakistan for denying its minorities religious rights||India on Thursday slammed Pakistan for denying religious rights of its minority community – in response to the criticism by the government of the neighbouring country about the launch of the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.    New Delhi rejected Pakistan Government’s critical remarks about the launch of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, underlining that it was an internal matter of India.   “We have seen the press statement by the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on a matter internal to India,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. “It should desist from interfering in India’s affairs and refrain from communal incitement”. Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself participated in the ceremony to mark the beginning of works to build the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government on Wednesday said that the “flawed judgement” of the Supreme Court of India in the case related to Ram-Janmabhoomi-Babri-Masjid dispute had paved the way for “construction of the temple”. It also said that the verdict had reflected not only the “preponderance of faith over justice”, but also “the growing majoritarianism in India, where minorities, particularly Muslims and their places of worship, are increasingly under attack.” New Delhi turned the table on Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad on Thursday. "While this is not a surprising stance from a nation that practices cross border terrorism and denies its own minorities their religious rights, such comments are nevertheless deeply regrettable,” said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pakistan-for-denying-its-minorities-religious-rights-870354.html
06-08-2020||National||Cong demands sacking, arrest of Karnataka minister Eshwarappa over statement on building temples in Kashi, Mathura||The Congress on Thursday demanded the removal of Karnataka minister K S Eshwarappa from the cabinet and his arrest for his statement that grand Krishna and Vishwanath temples would come up in Mathura and Kashi respectively after 'liberating' them. Eshwarappa made the statement while reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya yesterday. "By asking kar sevaks (volunteers) to launch a similar campaign, the minister (Eshwarappa) is trying to disturb peace in the society," Congress Karnataka unit chief D K Shivakumar said at a press conference in Ballari today. "Such people should be arrested immediately, police officials should register a case against him and the CM should remove him from the cabinet," he said. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister Eshwarappa had said on Wednesday that he was of the firm opinion that "if not today, tomorrow, Mathura and Kashi temples will be liberated and grand temples would be built there." "A place of devotion has to be built in both Kashi and Mathura. There too, grand temples have to be constructed. The mosques have to be removed from there," he said. Eshwarappa, a former BJP state president, said the centres of Hindu belief, Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura were a kind of a symbol of 'slavery' as "temples of our Rama, Krishna and Vishwanath were destroyed and mosques built." Stating that Eshwarappa is not an individual but a minister who represents the government, Shivakumar on Thursday sought to know from the Chief Minister whether this was his government's stand. Shivakumar, who is a former minister, requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to uphold the country's secular values, which has been "dented" by a minister's statement that can cause communal disturbance. "I want you (Modi) to instruct the Chief Minister to sack him immediately and to file a criminal case (against Eshwarappa)," Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-demands-sacking-arrest-of-karnataka-minister-eshwarappa-over-statement-on-building-temples-in-kashi-mathura-870355.html
06-08-2020||National||3 people killed in rain-related incidents across country; 5 reported missing||Five people have gone missing and three deaths were reported in rain-related incidents across the country on Thursday, while the intensity of downpour reduced in Mumbai and surrounding areas, leading to gradual resumption of transport services. Heavy rains lashed north Kerala and a red alert was issued for Malappuram district for August 7, while the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast heavy to very heavy rains accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in western Madhya Pradesh till Friday morning. While at least four people, including the priest at Talacauvery, the origin of the river Cauvery, have gone missing after a massive landslide at Bramhagiri hills triggered by heavy rains in Kodagu district of Karnataka, the body of a 47-year-old man was found in Maharashtra's Thane district after he fell into a swollen nullah and was washed away. Besides, two men drowned and one person went missing after their boat capsized due to heavy downpour in Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh. As many as 666 villages have been affected by floods across 17 districts of the state. In Maharashtra, the water level of the Panchganga river touched the danger mark in Kolhapur district. Residents of some flood-prone villages located on the banks of the river have been shifted to safer places, an official said. The IMD has predicted moderate to heavy rainfall in Mumbai and the suburbs and intense showers in some parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region till Friday. A railway spokesperson said local train services resumed around 7.45 am between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Thane on the main line and between CMST and Vashi on the harbour line. The NDRF and the Railway authorities rescued 290 passengers on Wednesday from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks between the CSMT and the Sandhurst Road stations. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the state administration's preparedness in the wake of the incessant heavy rains. He asked them to remain alert and ensure that citizens do not face hardships. The Bombay High Court adjourned its proceedings for the day as many staff members. In Madhya Pradesh, the IMD said heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning was very likely at isolated places in the eastern part of the state. MP has so far received 13 per cent less rainfall this season, it said. In Goa, a portion of a tunnel wall at Pernem collapsed due to heavy rains, following which a number of trains on the Konkan Railway route had to be diverted. There was no report of any casualty. Goa has been witnessing incessant rains since the last five days and some low lying areas have been facing a flood-like situation. In Kerala, the IMD issued a red alert for Malappuram district for August 7 and an orange alert in Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts till August 9. Nilambur town in Malappuram district was flooded for a few hours earlier in the day but the water has subsided, police said. Extensive damage has been reported from Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts. In the four-month-long south-west monsoon season, Kerala has reported 31 rain-related deaths so far. Battered by torrential rains, several parts of Karnataka are facing a flood-like situation. Several districts of the state's coastal, Malnad and north interior regions are receiving heavy rains and the showers are expected to continue. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19, has ordered immediate release of Rs 50 crore for emergency relief. Parts of districts in coastal and Malnad regions are currently under red alert. In Kodagu district, along with widespread rains, landslides have also occurred. There have been landslides at Brahmagiri, near Talacauvery, the origin of river Cauvery. "At least four to five people- including the Talacauvery temple priest and family are currently missing," officials said Several parts of north Karnataka, especially the border district of Belagavi are also facing flood situation as inflow has increased in Krishna river and its tributaries. With inflow increasing in Tungabhadra river, there is a flood-like situation in parts of Ballari district. There is a similar situation in Uttara Kannada district. There are reports of heavy rains and wind causing destruction to crops in parts of Dharwad and Haveri among other districts. Up north, major rivers are flowing above the danger mark at some places of Uttar Pradesh. The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri's Palia Kalan, the Saryu river in Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar, and the Rapti at Gorakhpur's Bird Ghat were flowing above the red mark, officials said. Seventeen districts in the state are now flood-affected. A total of 666 villages have been hit, out of which 446 have been marooned, they said. Rain or thundershowers are very likely at many places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and at a few places over the western part of the state till Friday, the weather office said. In Delhi, the maximum temperature was recorded at 37.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Humidity levels shot up to 96 per cent. After receiving more than normal rainfall in July, Delhi has witnessed a subdued monsoon in August so far. Only light rains are predicted over the next two to three days. Sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab, with maximum temperatures at most places in the region hovering above normal limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-people-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-across-country-5-reported-missing-870376.html
06-08-2020||National||Ram temple bhoomi pujan grabs worldwide attention; US, UK lead in viewership numbers||The Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan, held on August 5th, was widely watched across the world. A large number of people watched the ceremony where Prime Minister Narendra Modi lay the foundation stone for the temple. Doordarshan made extensive arrangements in order to capture detailed footage of the event. Over 200 channels in India took the signal of the event from Doordarshan. Asian News International (ANI) distributed the event’s signal to over 1,200 stations while Associated Press Television News (APTN) shared it with 450. The stream was seen for a total of over 15 million minutes of viewtime across DD and its YouTube channel, according to Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi S Vempati. DD news also shared content with Asia-Pacific countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-grabs-worldwide-attention-us-uk-lead-in-viewership-numbers-870380.html
06-08-2020||National||India refutes US House panel's assertion on lack of normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir||After a panel of the United States House of Representatives expressed concern over continued lack of normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), India on Thursday said it would be happy to brief the members of the American Congress about “several positive changes” that had been brought about in the Union Territory over the past one year. New Delhi refuted the assertion made by the two US Representatives and claimed that “complete normalcy” had returned to the J&K. The chairman of the US House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Eliot Engel, and the Ranking Member of the panel, Michael T McCaul, wrote to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday – a year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi stripped the erstwhile state of J&K of its special status and re-organized the state into two Union Territories. They expressed strong “bipartisan support” for the US-India relations but noted with “concern” that the situation in J&K had “not normalized” a year after the Modi Government’s August 5, 2019 move on the erstwhile state. Engel is a member of the Democratic Party and represents New York’s 16th congressional district in the lower house of the US Congress. McCaul is the Republican Representative from the 10th congressional district of Texas. “There have been several positive changes in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir over the past one year, be it in terms of ensuring good governance or socio-economic development or justice to the disadvantaged sections of the population,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. He was responding to a query on New Delhi’s response to the concerns expressed by Eliot and McCall in the letter to the External Affairs Minister. Srivastava also noted that elections had been held to the Block Development Councils in J&K in October 2019. Besides, the first-ever “Khelo India” winter games had been held in the Union Territory in March 2020, schools had reopened and new educational facilities were being established, said the MEA spokesperson. “There are provisions of better healthcare with new health facilities coming up, infrastructure development has taken place and long-pending projects have been completed,” he added. “So, all this certainly reflects return to complete normalcy.” He said that the Government of India “continued to be engaged with” its interlocutors in the US, including in the American Congress. “We will be happy to brief the (US) Congress (on positive changes and return of normalcy,” said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-refutes-us-house-panels-assertion-on-lack-of-normalcy-in-jammu-and-kashmir-870391.html
06-08-2020||National||GC Murmu appointed as new CAG of India hours after he quits as Jammu and Kashmir LG||Hours after his resignation as Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor was accepted by the President, the Government on Thursday appointed G C Murmu as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. He will succeed Rajiv Mehrishi, who will be completing his term on Friday as he will be completing 65 years. The notification announcing the appointment of Murmu as the CAG by President Ram Nath Kovind was issued by the Department of Economic Affairs under the Ministry of Finance late on Thursday night. Murmu, a former Expenditure Secretary who was to retire in November last year, was appointed Jammu and Kashmir LG last October and he put in his papers on Wednesday evening. Former Union Minister Manoj Sinha succeeded Murmu as Jammu and Kashmir LG. A former IAS officer of 1985-batch Gujarat cadre, Murmu is known for his implementation skills. He is known to enjoy the trust and confidence of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A post-graduate in political science who also holds MBA degree, Murmu was also questioned by the CBI in 2013 in connection with the alleged fake encounter case involving the killing of Ishrat Jahan and three others who were said to be accused of being involved in a plot to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His appointment confirmed the speculation since Wednesday night that he would be succeeding Mehrishi, who was appointed CAG in September 2017. The tenure of CAG is five years or till the incumbent attains 65 years. This would mean Murmu, who hails from Odisha, will be in the office of CAG till November 2024. A 1985-batch Gujarat cadre officer who hails from Odisha and set to retire November last year, Murmu was appointed Expenditure Secretary in March2019. He is known for his implementation skills and was known to enjoy the trust and confidence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A post-graduate in political science who also holds MBA degree, Murmu was also questioned by the CBI in 2013 in connection with the alleged fake encounter case involving the killing of Ishrat Jahan and three others who were said to be accused of being involved in a plot to assassinate Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gc-murmu-appointed-as-new-cag-of-india-hours-after-he-quits-as-jammu-and-kashmir-lg-870393.html
06-08-2020||National||PM Modi congragulates Mahinda Rajapaksa on victory in Sri Lanka parliamentary polls||With the party led by Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his elder brother Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa poised to have a landslide victory in the parliamentary elections in the island nation, New Delhi on Thursday moved quickly to reach out to the clan, which is set to rule the roost in the country in the next few years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the first foreign leader to call his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa after the early results indicated that the party led by the clan would win majority of the seats in the 225-member Parliament of the Indian Ocean island nation. Modi congratulated Mahinda Rajapaksa on the imminent victory of the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) – the party, which the tiny nation’s Prime Minister runs with his younger brothers. “Thank you! PM @narendramodi for your congratulatory phone call. With the strong support of the people of #SriLanka, I look forward to working with you closely to further enhance the long-standing cooperation between our two countries. Sri Lanka & (and) India are friends & (and) relations.” Mahinda Rajapaksa posted on Twitter, after talking to the Prime Minister of India. “Thank you, Prime Minister @PresRajapaksa! It was a pleasure to speak to you. Once again, many congratulations. We will work together to further advance all areas of bilateral cooperation and to take our special ties to ever newer heights,” replied Modi. New Delhi moved fast to reach out to the Rajapaksa Clan as the parliamentary elections consolidated its control over Sri Lanka – one of the Indian Ocean nations, where India and China are trying to outsmart each other to expand geo-strategic influence. A press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi referred to the age-old and multi-dimensional relations between India and Sri Lanka. Modi and Mahinda Rajapaksa stressed on the “significance of early progress in all spheres of bilateral cooperation”. Keen to counter China’s bid to further spread its tentacles in Sri Lanka, India on Friday extended a $ 400 million currency swap facility to the Indian Ocean island nation to help its economy recover from the Covid-19 crisis. New Delhi is also discussing with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s government in Colombo a proposal to delay repayment of about $ 840 million debt by Sri Lanka to India. The Rajapaksa Government of late constituted a committee to review the agreement Sri Lanka inked with India and Japan in May 2019 for the development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) of the Colombo Port. The government headed by Rajapaksa and his brother Mahinda Rajapaksa, who holds the office of Prime Minister, also accepted the demand of the agitating workers to install in the ECT the three gantry cranes, which the Sri Lanka Port Authority had earlier imported from China for the adjacent Jaya Container Terminal. New Delhi suspects that the Embassy of China in Colombo had orchestrated the stir by the workers so that the Sri Lankan Government could initiate the review of its 2019 tripartite agreement with India and Japan for developing the port. China already holds the majority share in the adjacent Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT). The tiny island nation had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a company based in the communist country resulted in a huge debt burden for it. The second of Mahinda Rajapaksa's two consecutive terms (2005-2015) in the office of Sri Lankan President had seen China expanding its footprints in the Indian Ocean island nation, causing much unease to India. He had ignored the security interests of India and allowed China to develop strategic assets, like the Hambantota Port, in the island. He had also allowed two nuclear submarines of the People Liberation Army Navy of China to dock at the Colombo Port, raising hackles in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congragulates-mahinda-rajapaksa-on-victory-in-sri-lanka-parliamentary-polls-870411.html
06-08-2020||National||Five Indians suffered minor injuries in Beirut blast, says MEA||Five Indians suffered minor injuries in the deadly explosion that ravaged the Lebanese capital of Beirut earlier this week, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said India has sought from the Lebanese government an assessment of damage caused by the blast, based on which it will decide on the nature of assistance it will extend to the West Asian country. "There was a tweet from our embassy. There have been no reported casualties amongst the Indian community there. There have been five minor injuries which have been reported," Srivastava said. "Our embassy is in touch with the community associations and it is extending all necessary assistance," he said. Tuesday's blast, which killed more than 130 people, wounded thousands and left tens of thousands homeless, is believed to have been caused when a fire touched off a stockpile of 2,750 tons of highly explosive ammonium nitrate that authorities left sitting in a warehouse for years, according to reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-indians-suffered-minor-injuries-in-beirut-blast-says-mea-870413.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Lord Ram not the 'property' of BJP: Congress MP Shashi Tharoor||With the Congress under attack from various quarters over what was seen by many as a subtle shift in its position on the Ram temple issue, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday rejected allegations that the grand old party was being "BJP-Lite" and asserted that Lord Ram is not the "property" of the saffron party. Seeking to clear the air on what he said were "widespread misrepresentations" he had heard during the course of the day, Tharoor put out a series of tweets to spell out his party's stand on the Ram temple issue. In his tweets, Tharoor also addressed those Muslims who say that they feel let down by the Congress and cited verses from the holy Quran, asking "who exactly betrayed you?" "Not those who stand for an inclusive India, who have neither attacked you nor preached hatred against you," he said, addressing the section of Muslims riled by the Congress' stand. Tharoor's remarks assume significance as they came after Indian Union Muslim League, a major ally in the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance, passed a resolution expressing displeasure over Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's statement on the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Ahead of the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony in Ayodhya, the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh issued the statement, hoping that the groundbreaking ceremony becomes "a celebration of national unity, fraternity and cultural affinity". Priyanka's remarks were seen by its allies, including the Muslim League, as a subtle shift in Congress' position on the emotive issue. Several Congress leaders had also welcomed the "bhumi pujan" ceremony and hailed the Ram temple construction. Former party president Rahul Gandhi said Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values and can never appear in cruelty, hatred or injustice. Hitting out at the BJP, Tharoor said, "Shri Ram is not the property of BJP. He is the ideal man whose image is deeply etched in the hearts and minds of millions. Gandhiji always sang his hymns and died with "Hei Ram' on his lips. He talked about a Ram Rajya where all would live in peace and prosperity. Can't let his name be hijacked!" The universal appeal of Ram and Sanatan Dharma cannot be commandeered by those who chant either hymns or slogans, he said, asserting that Lord Ram belongs to all humanity. For Hindutva, Ram is a God to be worshipped; for Gandhi, Ram represented ideal qualities that every person should practise and seek to emulate, he said. "Let's be clear: @INCIndia was NEVER opposed to the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, but to the criminal demolition of the Babri Masjid. In 1989, Rajiv Gandhi ji allowed VHP to do shilanyas on non-disputed land nearby as an alternate site: At the same time it was NOT Rajiv Gandhi who ordered opening of the locks at the masjid, but the district judge of Faizabad who ordered the locks to be opened in 1986!!" Tharoor said in his tweets. "Whatever you feel about today's events, the Masjid's demolition is a blot on our conscience. As Rahul Gandhi said in 2007, 'My father said to my mother that he would stand in front of Babri Masjid. They would have had to kill him first'," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Hitting out at some Left-liberal intellectuals accusing the Congress of being "BJP-Lite", Tharoor said many leaders welcomed the Ram temple after the Supreme Court judgement, but they did not instigate Hindus against Muslims. "They did not make hate speeches against the Muslim community. They hailed the ideal Ram ji," he said. "To those who insist there is no difference between the political parties in India, I ask: is there is no difference between those who would respectfully have come to an accommodation with the Muslim community on a Ram mandir, and those who, with rage and hate, destroyed the mosque?" the former Union minister asked. Earlier in the morning, ahead of the foundation laying ceremony, Tharoor tweeted, "Lord Shri Ram epitomises justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness and firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude and courage." "These values are much needed in such dark times. If they spread throughout the land, Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry," he said, using the hash tag 'JaiShriRam'. In a highly-anticipated event watched by millions on television, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the day laid the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The wait of centuries has ended, Modi said after performing the groundbreaking ceremony, made possible by a Supreme Court verdict last year that allowed the construction of the temple at the site where the Babri mosque was demolished by kar sevaks in 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lord-ram-not-the-property-of-bjp-congress-mp-shashi-tharoor-870038.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi expresses grief at loss of lives in Ahmedabad hospital fire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed grief at the loss of lives in a fire incident at a hospital in Ahmedabad early Thursday and said the administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected. The blaze around 3.30 am at the private hospital in Navrangpura area of Ahmedabad has left eight Covid-19 patients dead. "Saddened by the tragic hospital fire in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon," the prime minister tweeted. Modi spoke with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and city mayor Bijal Patel regarding the situation. "Administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected," he said. An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the hospital fire in Ahmedabad, the PMO said in a tweet. The Prime Minister's Office also said Rs 50,000 each would be given to those injured in the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-expresses-grief-at-loss-of-lives-in-ahmedabad-hospital-fire-870106.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah condoles deaths in Ahmedabad hospital fire||Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressed sorrow over the loss of lives in a "tragic" fire accident in Ahmedabad on Thursday. "Deeply anguished by the loss of lives due to a tragic fire accident at a hospital in Ahmedabad," Shah said. "My condolences and thoughts are with the affected families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," he said in a Twitter message. Deeply anguished by the loss of lives due to a tragic fire accident at a hospital in Ahmedabad. My condolences and thoughts are with the affected families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured. The deceased comprise five men and three women, who were being treated at the ICU ward of the Covid-19 designated Shrey Hospital, a fire official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-condoles-deaths-in-ahmedabad-hospital-fire-870126.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||17-year-old gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia||A teenager was allegedly raped by four men in Rasda area in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district, police said on Thursday. "The incident took place on Wednesday evening when the girl, aged around 17, reached Rasda railway station from Mau to visit her maternal grandmother. Four men followed her and asked her to sit in a e-rickshaw, offering to drop her to the destination," ASP Sanjay Yadav said. The accused, falling in the 25-35 age bracket, took the girl to a secluded place, allegedly raped her and fled the spot, he said. Hearing screams of the girl, villagers informed the police, which lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against the four and arrested them, the ASP said. The girl has been sent for medical examination and her report is awaited, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/17-year-old-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-ballia-870152.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Sadia Dehlvi dies at 63, Delhi loses its favourite story-teller||Noted Delhi-based writer and activist Sadia Dehlvi has passed away after a prolonged battle with cancer. She was 63. Sadia was admitted to a city hospital recently where she was undergoing treatment. She died at her home on Wednesday. "Sad to hear about the tragic demise of Sadia Dehlvi, a well known cultural figure of Delhi, a dear friend and a wonderful human being. Rest in Peace," tweeted eminent historian S Irfan Habib. Sadia, who hailed from the royal 'Shama' family, edited Bano, an Urdu women's journal. Her grandfather, Hafiz Yusuf Dehlvi, founded in 1938 Shama, an iconic Urdu film and literary monthly. A well-known food connoisseur, she wrote a book on Delhi's culinary history in 2017, titled "Jasmine & Jinns": Memories and Recipes of My Delhi". A woman of many talents, Sadia also produced and scripted documentaries and television programmes, including "Amma and Family" (1995), starring Zohra Sehgal, a veteran stage actor. She was a close friend and confidante of the late author Khushwant Singh. Singh dedicated his book "Not a Nice Man to Know" to her. He wrote, "To Sadia Dehlvi, who gave me more affection and notoriety than I deserve." Singh's book "Men and Women in my Life" has Sadia's photo on its cover and the book has a chapter dedicated to her. Sadia produced the television show "Not a Nice man to Know" with Singh interviewing women from various fields. She is survived by her son Arman Ali Dehlvi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sadia-dehlvi-dies-at-63-delhi-loses-its-favourite-story-teller-870171.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Ahead of Bihar polls, Rahul Gandhi asks Congress to unite all non-BJP forces||Ahead of Assembly elections in the state, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday interacted with Bihar Congress leaders, where he emphasised on the need to unite all those forces which are inimical to the BJP. "Bihar has always shown 'dasha' (condition) and 'disha' (direction) to the country. Mahatma Gandhi launched his satyagraha against the British from Bihar's Champaran.... You (Congressmen) will also have to make extra effort in bringing all non-BJP parties, inimical to the BJP, under one roof if you want to fight the NDA tooth and nail," Rahul told top Congress leaders of the state including Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh, Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and working president Kaukab Quadri. Rahul was interacting with Bihar leaders through a virtual meet. Launching a tirade against Narendra Modi, Rahul said the Prime Minister was lying on the issue of Chinese aggression and has misled the country on the Galwan Valley conflict. Wondering why Nitish was silent on major national issues, Rahul asked the Bihar Chief Minister to explain how and why he failed to ameliorate people's sufferings during Covid-19. "I had warned in February itself that a Tsunami was waiting in the form of Covid-19 which would wreak havoc. Today, I am predicting yet again that we are headed for more bad times in view of growing unemployment and crippling economy," said Rahul asking his partymen to stand by youths, women and weaker sections and solve their problems. Notably, Congress is in alliance with the RJD in Bihar. In 2015, it had contested under the banner of Grand Alliance which also had JD (U) under its umbrella. This Grand Alliance had completely decimated the BJP by winning 178 out of 243 seats. However, Nitish dumped the GA and joined hands with the BJP-led NDA in July 2017. The ensuing Bihar Assembly polls are slated to be held in October-November this year. The term of the present Assembly expires on November 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-bihar-polls-rahul-gandhi-asks-congress-to-unite-all-non-bjp-forces-870258.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Why is PM Narendra Modi lying on Chinese intrusions, asks Rahul Gandhi||After the euphoria over Ram Temple, Congress on Thursday stepped up attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of lying after a defence ministry report contradicted his ‘no intrusion’ claims in Ladakh. The main opposition party also hit out at the Modi government over the “denial of human rights in Jammu and Kashmir” where several political leaders continue to be under house arrest, a year after the state was divided into two union territories. “Why is the PM lying?” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said referring to the defence ministry report that acknowledged transgression by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. Rahul sharpened his attack on the Prime Minister after the defence ministry pulled down the report from its website after it kicked off a political controversy. “Forget standing up to China, India’s PM lacks the courage even to name them. Denying China is in our territory and removing documents from websites won’t change the facts,” he said. The party also slammed the Modi government for “abuse of power” in Jammu and Kashmir by not allowing political meetings in the union territory and keeping leaders under house arrest. “The world is watching the brazen denial of human rights in India. India’s proud record as a free and democratic country is diminished everyday,” former Home Minister P Chidambaram said. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said it has been a year since over 7.5 million Kashmiris have lost their freedom in the world’s biggest democracy. “Citizens of free India are living with no human rights in Kashmir, is this what the BJP government calls Ram Rajya? Can we claim to be a democracy?” Kharge asked. Chidambaram said former J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah was not allowed to hold a pre-announced meeting with leaders of democratic parties. “Is this the new ‘democracy’ that is visualised by the BJP? All leaders are under house arrest. If you question the government, they will tell the Court that no one is under house arrest. This is post-truth India,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-pm-narendra-modi-lying-on-chinese-intrusions-asks-rahul-gandhi-870283.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||India asks China to learn lesson from its repeated failures to raise Jammu and Kashmir issue at UN Security Council||India on Thursday advised China to learn a lesson from the failures it experienced while repeatedly trying on behalf of its “iron brother” Pakistan to bring the issue of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) back on the agenda of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). Beijing’s latest move at the behest of Islamabad to get the Security Council formally discuss the issue of J&K fell flat on Wednesday. The UNSC did discuss the issue informally without any recorded outcome, with most of the members underlining that it was a bilateral issue between India and Pakistan and not a matter to be discussed by the council. “This was not the first time that China has sought to raise a subject that is solely an internal matter of India. As on such previous occasions, this attempt too met with little support from the international community,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. “We firmly reject China’s interference in our internal affairs and urge it to draw proper conclusions from such infructuous attempts.” Pakistan got China – one of the five permanent members of the UNSC – to make an attempt to raise the issue during a meeting of the council under the category of “Any Other Business” on the agenda – ostensibly to embarrass India, on the first anniversary of New Delhi’s August 5, 2019 move to strip J&K of its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. “Another attempt by Pakistan fails! In today’s meeting of UN Security Council, which was closed, informal, not recorded and without any outcome, almost all countries underlined that J&K was bilateral issue & (and) did not deserve time and attention of (the) Council,” tweeted T S Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the United Nations in New York. China’s move fell flat as Russia, France, the United Kingdom and the United States – the four other permanent members of the Security Council – opposed any formal discussion on the issue of J&K, arguing that it should be resolved bilaterally by India and Pakistan. Turkey is among the UNSC’s few non-permanent members, which supported the move by China. This was the third such attempt Pakistan and its “all-weather ally” China to bring back the J&K issue back on the UNSC’s table since August 5 last year. New Delhi has been steadfastly resisting such moves by Pakistan and China. It has been maintaining that the 1972 Shimla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration by the two sides had left no scope for the UN or any third party to play any role in resolving the “outstanding issues” between the two South Asian neighbours. Beijing on Wednesday sought the discussion in the UNSC on the J&K issue following a letter Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi recently wrote to the President of the Security Council. Qureshi accused India’s security forces of brazenly violating human rights of people in J&K. He suggested that the council should discuss the issue urgently. Qureshi, however, held a late-night news conference in Islamabad on Wednesday and highlighted the “discussion” in the UNSC on the J&K issue as a diplomatic victory for Pakistan. He claimed that 14 out the 15 members of the Security Council participated in the discussion. New Delhi did try to scuttle the move for the discussion on the issue in the council, but failed, claimed the Foreign Minister of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-asks-china-to-learn-lesson-from-its-repeated-failures-to-raise-jammu-and-kashmir-issue-at-un-security-council-870284.html
06-08-2020||National Politics||Draft EIA yet to be finalised, Prakash Javadekar tells Jairam Ramesh||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has rebutted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s claims that the government was rushing through the process of notifying the Environment Impact Assessment guidelines, pointing out that the consultation process was still underway. Javadekar’s response came to a July 25 letter written by Ramesh flagging concerns over the draft EIA notification put in the public domain by the government as part of the consultations process. Ramesh had flagged five concerns over the draft EIA notification, contending that it sought grant post-facto approvals to projecta and to increase validity of environment clearances by allowing projects to secure land for long duration even when they are not constructed. The minister appeared peeved at Ramesh’s zealous follow up on the issue. “I was a little surprised to see this correspondence in the media as Draft EIA Notification, 2020 has not been finalised yet as the public consultation is still underway and the process of finalisation may take more time. Therefore, publicity of your letter was premature,” Javadekar said. Javadekar said dthe provision of ex-post facto approval was to bring all violators under regulatory regime after imposing heavy penalties and argued that companies cannot be in perpetual unregulated status. The minister also pointed out similar violations were regularised on a permanent basis through an office memorandum (OM) in 2010, which was struck down by the National Green Tribunal. The Tribunal had held that an OM cannot override the notification. “This government has engaged the public and has received hundreds of thousands of suggestions/objections. So, we are doing it not through OM but through new proposed notification with wider public consultation,” Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/draft-eia-yet-to-be-finalised-prakash-javadekar-tells-jairam-ramesh-870344.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Meet Manoj Sinha, the new Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir||Former Union Minister Manoj Sinha was appointed as the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir after incumbent LG G C Murmu resigned from his position.   "The President has accepted the resignation of Girish Chandra Murmu as Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. The President has been pleased to appoint Shri Manoj Sinha, to be the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office, vice Girish Chandra Murmu " a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said.   Who is Manoj Sinha?   For those uninitiated, Manoj Sinha has enjoyed a very distinguished political career, not to mention that he has a B.Tech And M.Tech degree in Civil Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) Varanasi.    He started his political career as the student's union president in BHU in 1982 and in 1996 he was elected to Lok Sabha from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. He repeated the feat in 1999, and for the last time in 2014 Lok Sabha elections when a Narendra Modi-led BJP came to power with a thumping majority.    He held the position of Minister of State (MoS), Railways and in July 2016, during the second cabinet reshuffle, he was also made Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Communications Ministry.  Sinha has been among the best performing members of Parliament and in the 13th Lok Sabha he was praised for a very high attendance and for asking several questions pertaining to various topics of public interests.   He became a member of the BJP national council in 1989 and he stayed there till 1996.    Sinha was a also member of the General Council, School of Planning during 1999–2000, and a member of the committee on Energy and member of the committee on Government Assurances.   After BJP's victory in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Sinha's name was considered for the post of Chief Minister, but eventually lost out to Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meet-manoj-sinha-the-new-lieutenant-governor-of-jammu-and-kashmir-870100.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh couple burnt alive in suspected honour killing||A 19-year-old woman and her lover were allegedly burnt to death by her family members in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district in a suspected case of honour killing, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday evening in Karcha village in Mataundh area when the family members allegedly caught the couple in a compromising position, they said. "They allegedly locked them in a hut and set if on fire," Additional Superintendent of Police Mahendra Pratap Singh said. Both of them were rushed to a local hospital in serious condition where Bhola (23) died while the woman, Priyanka, who suffered 80 percent burns and was referred to another facility in Kanpur, succumbed on the way, he said. An FIR has been lodged against nine members of the woman's family and three of them have been arrested, the official said. Singh said efforts are on to nab the other accused. The post-mortems will be done on Thursday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-couple-burnt-alive-in-suspected-honour-killing-870130.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat gets relief in scam case||In a relief to union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in a cooperative society scam case, the Rajasthan High Court has stayed the ADJ court order that had directed the magistrate court to send a criminal complaint for further investigation to the Special Operations Group (SOG). The complaint had named Shekhawat and others as the alleged accused in the scam and sought a further investigation by the SOG into their role. A single-judge bench of Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, while passing the interim directions on Wednesday, also admitted the criminal miscellaneous petition filed by one Keval Chand Dakaliya, who is a co-accused along with Shekhawat. Dakaliya's counsel Mahesh Jethmalani argued that there were specific allegations against the accused and they were required to be heard when the lower court passed the order. The bench admitted the petition and granted an interim order. A city additional district judge (ADJ) court last month had directed that a private complaint be investigated by the SOG with relation to the money trail that ended at Navprabha Buildtech Pvt Ltd. in the Sanjeevani cooperative credit society scam case. Dakaliya is the shareholder director of Navprabha Buildtech Pvt Ltd which is alleged to be linked with Shekhawat. Shekhawat has been named along with his wife and others in the complaint related to the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam in which thousands of investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crores. The Jaipur unit of the SOG has been probing the scam case since last year. An FIR was registered on August 23, 2019. Shekhawat was not named an accused in the charge sheet filed by the SOG in connection with the case. In the investigation, the money trail was found to be linked to Navprabha Buildtech Pvt Ltd. Later, a magistrate's court also rejected an application to include him in the charge sheet. The applicants then approached the ADJ court, which issued directions that their complaint should also be probed. The SOG has already sent a notice to the minister in connection with a probe into a separate case pertaining to audio clips which purportedly indicate efforts to lure MLAs away from the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-gets-relief-in-scam-case-870145.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Eight people die due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 539 new cases||Rajasthan reported eight deaths due to Covid-19 and 539 new cases of the virus on Thursday, officials said. The deaths were reported from Bikaner (5), Dholpur (2) and Jodhpur (1), taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 753. The number of positive cases have also increased to 48,384 with the reporting of 539 fresh cases. The cases were reported from Ajmer (33), Alwar (129), Bhilwara (62), Bikaner (1), Chittorgarh (21), Churu (21), Dausa (2), Dungarpur (18), Ganganagar (32), Hanumagarh (1), Jaipur (56), Jalore (1), Jhalawar (3), Jhunjhunu (12), Kota (90), Rajsamand (4), Tonk (18) and Udaipur (35). The number of active cases in the state is 13313, according to an official release||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-people-die-due-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan-539-new-cases-870168.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Telangana reports 2,092 new Covid-19 cases; 13 more deaths push toll to 589||Out of the 2,092 new cases, 535 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Rangareddy (169), Warangal Urban (128), Medchal-Malkajgiri (126) and Karimnagar (123) districts, a state government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 5. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.80 percent, while it was 2.09 percent at the national level, it said. The total number of people who recovered from the infection stood at 52,103, while 20,358 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 71.3 percent in the state, while it was 67.19 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 13,793. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 21,346 samples were tested on August 5. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 5,43,489. On age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34.4 percent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 25 percent (male-17.7 and female-7.3). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,520 and 4,455 and 1,882 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 320 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The bulletin provided a list of laboratories, list of rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, list of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds were available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/telangana-reports-2092-new-covid-19-cases-13-more-deaths-push-toll-to-589-870181.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Civic official, 2 others held in bribe case||A municipal officer has been arrested in Rajasthan's Kota district while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh, police said on Thursday. The anti-corruption bureau later also arrested two others, including Sourabh Sharma, the son of the Ramganj Mandi municipality board chairman, for alleged involvement in the bribery case, the police said. Municipality executive officer Pankaj Kumar Mangal (37) demanded Rs 4 lakh for sanctioning approval for construction work in the town, according to a complaint by a resident of the town on July 16, Kota (Rural) inspector Vasudev Singh said. The complainant had paid Rs 1.50 lakh to Mangal, following which he did sanction the approval for construction, but later mounted pressure to pay the remaining amount. He eventually got the construction site marked 'red' and stopped the work over non-payment of the remaining bribe money, On the verification of the complaint, a trap was laid on Wednesday night and Mangal was arrested from his residence while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh, the officer said. One of Mangal's companions, Bhawani Singh, attempted to burn the colour-coated bribe currency, but the ACB personnel nabbed him before he could burn the currency, the inspector said. Singh and Sharma were also arrested, the officer said, adding that an investigation was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civic-official-2-others-held-in-bribe-case-870199.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Bank fraud case: ED raids former J&K minister's son Hilal Rather||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday launched multiple raids in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged bank fraud probe against Hilal Rather, son of former Jammu and Kashmir minister Abdul Rahim Rather, officials said. They said the raids are being conducted at 16 locations in Kashmir, Jammu, Delhi and Ludhiana. The central probe agency has field a money laundering case against Hilal Rather and others, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), taking cognisance of a CBI FIR and Income Tax Department probe against him and pertains to a Rs 177-crore alleged bank fraud scam. The raids are aimed to gather more evidence, they said. The CBI has alleged that Hilal Rather entered into a criminal conspiracy with the then officials of the J and K Bank to get loans of Rs 177.68 crore(approx) in violation of rules and guidelines.  His father, a former finance minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, is a National Conference (NC) leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bank-fraud-case-ed-raids-former-jk-ministers-son-hilal-rather-870200.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Private bus operators demand relief from Delhi government||Claiming that "the whole ecosystem stands the risk of collapse," the Delhi Contract Bus Association office-bearers, in a letter written on Wednesday to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot, urged for waiver of road tax from April to December this year. The association represents contract carriage and all India tourist bus operators catering to schools, offices, national and multinational companies and tourists. "The transport operators are under acute financial strain and about 65-70 percent of their vehicles are still off the road. In the present critical situation of the trade, the bus operators are devastated. The situation is aggravated by depletion of their finances in meeting obligations like staff salaries, taxes and interest on EMIs," said the association general Harish Sabharwal. Due to shortage of demand, their operations are becoming economically unviable, and it has become very difficult to pay the taxes for vehicles due since April, he said. "In sync with your government's endeavours to help the citizens of the state during these tough times and to provide them the much-needed relief, it is earnestly requested to your good self to issue needful directions to the Transport Department in this regard," said the letter to the chief minister, requesting a tax waiver. Due to the pandemic, the financial crisis in the passenger transport segment has reached its peak. Unless the governments provide the timely and necessary support to the sector, the whole ecosystem stands the risk of collapse, Sabharwal said. Gurmit Singh Taneja, working president of the Delhi Contract Bus Association, said there was no revenue generation for school bus operators, as schools were closed indefinitely. "As per the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the school buses are painted with yellow colour and they run on CNG and cannot be used anywhere else. But during lockdown they have incurred costs like EMI's, staff salaries, insurance, parking charges, Road Tax and several government compliances, borne by the operators," Taneja said. Domestic and international tourism is at a standstill due to the pandemic and hence there is no earning for tourist buses as well.  Office goers are working from home, IT-sector, multinational and national organizations are still closed, he said. There is no revenue generation and financial inflows as mostly payments from business houses and companies are restrained and existing finances with small bus operators as well as that of big bus operators are depleting fast, Taneja reasoned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-private-bus-operators-demand-relief-from-delhi-government-870203.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Manoj Sinha to take oath as new LG of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday||Former union minister and senior BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh, Manoj Sinha, who was on Thursday appointed as Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, will be administered the oath of office on Friday at Raj Bhavan, Srinagar. Sources said 61-year-old Sinha, who arrived in Srinagar in the afternoon after his appointment, will be administered oath by J&K Chief Justice Gita Mittal at Raj Bhawan at the foothills of the Zaberwan range. The warrant of appointment of Sinha will be read out by Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam. Sinha was junior Minister for Railways and Union Minister for Communications in the first Modi government. However, he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. Sources said Murmu’s inability to fill in the “political vacuum” created after the formation of the UT and his stand on restoration of 4G internet led to his resignation as the LG. “The Center wanted to place a politician at the helm of affairs in J&K instead of a bureaucrat which became one of the primary reasons for Murmu’s removal,” they said. However, sources said, Murmu’s comments on the restoration of 4G internet services in the UT against the wishes of the Center became the immediate trigger for his hasty removal. Last month Murmu had said 4g internet services should be restored in the Valley. Later the Centre told the Supreme Court, which is hearing a petition on restoration of 4G internet services in Kashmir, that it would verify these reports. Murmu’s reported recommendation caused a stir as the Centre has been maintaining that the situation was not ripe to restore high speed Internet owing to heightened militant activities in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-sinha-to-take-oath-as-new-lg-of-jammu-and-kashmir-on-friday-870214.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan trying to sneak weapons into Jammu and Kashmir using UAVs: DGP Dilbag Singh||Pakistan has adopted a new technique of sending arms and ammunition to Jammu and Kashmir using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and several such incidents have been detected in the recent past, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said on Thursday. He also said less than 200 militants are currently active in Jammu and Kashmir, and just 26 terrorists could enter the Union Territory from across the border so far this year. "Pakistan has been trying to send arms and ammunition to militants through drones (UAVs). We have detected several such incidents in the past," Singh told PTI here. The police chief said such incidents of Pakistani UAVs carrying weapons were detected in Kupwara, Heera Nagar, Kathua and Rajouri. Another modus operandi of Pakistan to dispatch weapons through trucks to Jammu and Kashmir was unearthed in Punjab in the past, he said. "There has been a huge shortage of weapons for the militants operating here," the police chief said. The DGP said Pakistan has intensified cross-border firing this year so that terrorists could be pushed into Jammu and Kashmir. "There has been 75 percent more firing from across the border in the first seven months of 2020. There were 487 incidents of firing from Pakistan till July this year in comparison to 267 such incidents in the same period in 2019. The firings are cover to infiltrate militants. So far, just 26 militants could infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir," he said. Singh said due to sustained anti-militancy operations, the security forces have been able to curtail the number of active militants in Jammu and Kashmir to less than 200 now from 300 to 350 terrorists a few years ago. Referring to local youths joining militancy, the DGP said 80 such youths have joined different terror groups this year of which 20 are now active and the self-life of such militant is now a maximum of 90 days. "Eighty local youths have joined militancy this year so far of which 38 were killed and 22 arrested. Just 20 of those who have joined militancy are active now," he said. The police chief said as many as 150 militants were killed in 2020 so far, of which 30 are foreigners and another 39 are top commanders. "The terrorist groups are leaderless and facing a huge shortage of weapons," he said. Claiming success of the anti-militancy operations in last two years, the DGP said it has happened as the security forces have gone against the terrorist support structure -- the Jamaat-e-Islami (JK), Hurriyat and their members and the Over Ground Workers (OGWs). Most of the leaders of the Jamaat and Hurriyat and OGWs are under custody and their funding has been halted, he said. Singh said a Terror Monitoring Group (TMG) has been set up with representatives from the Jammu and Kashmir Police, Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department and a few other organisations, and the body is continuously working to curb funding of terrorists and their supporters. "Almost all links of sending money through hawala, western union money transfer and in tiffin boxes of couriers were shut," he said. The police chief said security grade has been improved along the International Border and the Line of Control and as a result, six encounters have taken place along the borders so far this year. He said there were 76 casualties and 107 injuries in the security forces in first seven months of 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, while there were just 36 casualties and 102 injuries in the security forces in the same period in 2020. Terror incidents were also down by 70 percent -- from 198 in first seven months of 2019 to 124 in the same period in 2020, the DGP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-trying-to-sneak-weapons-into-jammu-and-kashmir-using-uavs-dgp-dilbag-singh-870232.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||HC declines to entertain inchoate plea for forensic audit of several pvt hospitals||A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, however, granted the petitioner-lawyer the liberty to move the court again with a fresh petition which would have all the necessary details. In view of the liberty granted by the court, the petitioner withdrew her plea in order to file a fresh one. "The petition is inchoate and void of necessary details. Petition dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to file a fresh one with all material particulars," the bench said. During the hearing, held via video conference, the bench said the petition did not have any necessary particulars as to how the trusts and private hospitals were conniving to siphon off money or how much money has been siphoned off. "We cannot conduct a roving enquiry. We are not an investigating agency. If an offence has been committed file a complaint," the court said. When the petitioner -- Shobha Gupta -- urged the bench to adjourn the matter to January 2021 so that she can get all necessary details and amend her plea, the court declined to do so saying that she would have to amend or rewrite her entire petition and therefore, it would be better to file a fresh one. Gupta had sought audit of 11 private hospitals in the national capital which according to her are run on concessional government land by charitable trusts. She had alleged that the trusts in collaboration with the private hospitals are involved in transmission of huge amounts of money for personal purpose. Gupta had also claimed that private hospitals have unreasonably increased the prices of beds, room rent, PPE kits, sanitizers and are also charging more than MRP for basic medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-declines-to-entertain-inchoate-plea-for-forensic-audit-of-several-pvt-hospitals-870238.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||SC extends protection to TV anchor from coercive action in defamation cases||The Supreme Court Thursday extended the protection from any coercive action till August 31 to TV news anchor Amish Devgan in connection with the cases lodged over his alleged defamatory remark against Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti during a show telecast on June 15. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari took note of the fact that one of the FIRs against Devgan has been transferred from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh to Noida in Uttar Pradesh. The bench, during the proceedings conducted via video conferencing, said the news anchor, represented by senior lawyer Siddharth Luthra and advocate Mrinal Bharti, will have to now amend his plea accordingly and deferred the hearing to August 31. Now the UP government will have to file its response to Devgan's plea in which he has sought quashing of the FIRs, stay on the investigation and the protection from any coercive action for his alleged comments against the sufi saint. The bench made clear that the interim relief of protection to Devgan, granted earlier, shall remain operative. The apex court, while granted interim relief to Devgan, had also stayed the probe in the cases related to the June 15 telecast against the journalist. Five FIRs have been lodged against Devgan in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Telangana for using a derogatory term for the Sufi saint in the news debate show called ‘Aar Paar’ on his channel on June 15. However, he later tweeted an apology saying that he was actually referring to Muslim ruler Alauddin Khilji and inadvertently ended up naming Chisti. “As regards the interim relief, till the next date of hearing, we deem it appropriate to pass ad-interim relief in terms of prayer clause (A) and (B) (which seek stay of investigation in pending and future FIRs and the protection from possible coercive action),” the top court had said in its June 26 order. On July 8, the interim order of June 26 was extended till August 6 and now it will remain in operation till this month-end. Issuing notices to Maharashtra, Telangana and Rajasthan, the bench had earlier asked the petitioner to make the complainants, who have lodged FIRs, as parties to his plea. Two FIRs for the alleged offence have been registered at Ajmer and Kota in Rajasthan and one has been lodged at Bahadurpura in Hyderabad, the plea said, adding that two such FIRs have been lodged at Nanded and Pydhonie in Maharashtra. Devgan said he has already issued a clarification through a tweet and moreover, errors cannot be construed as criminal offences. The journalist has said the plea concerned his life and liberty. “In a well-orchestrated manner - the petitioner has been made a victim of country-wide filing of false and baseless criminal complaint and FIRs on the one hand, and on the other hand, petitioner, his family and his crew have been abused unabashedly on social media and by personal messages by unknown persons. The petitioner has also received several death threats from various anti-social elements,” the plea submitted. It said that Devgan was holding a discussion on a petition filed before the top court on his show on June 15 on the issue of the Places of Worship Special Provisions Act. “During the course of the live heated discussion one of the panellists quoted “Chisti” (Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti) and inadvertently, the petitioner (Devgan) who wanted to refer to the historical figure Khilji(Alauddin Khilji) as a marauder, mentioned the name ‘Chisti’…,” the plea submitted. “That immediately on realising his inadvertent slip of the tongue during a heated debate in his news debate show – petitioner tendered a clarification and clarified that the name “Chisti” was mentioned by error and inadvertently,” it said. Devgan tweeted the clarification on his personal Twitter account on the intervening night of June 16-17 and moreover, the channel carried a video clarification featuring the journalist, the plea said. One of the FIRs was lodged at Pydhonie police station in Mumbai against Devgan for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by referring to Chisti in derogatory terms in the TV programme on the complaint of Arif Razvi, general secretary of the Raza Academy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-extends-protection-to-tv-anchor-from-coercive-action-in-defamation-cases-870241.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar DGP warns of legal action if IPS officer not allowed to leave Mumbai||Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey on Thursday warned of legal action if an IPS officer, who had gone to Mumbai to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was not released from "forcible quarantine" by the end of the day. Pandey expressed bewilderment over no positive response from the municipal authorities in Mumbai, whom he accused of keeping IPS officer Vinay Tiwari in virtual house arrest, despite being informed about the adverse remarks made by Supreme Court against their action. Talking to reporters, the DGP said he will consult the state's Advocate General on the matter and, if Tiwari, posted as SP, City (East) in Patna, was not allowed to leave by today, moving the court could be an option. It is a virtual house arrest. Our officer went to Mumbai after informing his counterparts there in writing and over phone. I too had sent an SMS to my counterpart in Maharashtra informing him that Tiwari will be there for three days and shared with him the details, Pandey said. Tiwari had requested for an accommodation in the IPS Mess, which was not granted. We let it go. But his forcible quarantine shortly after his reaching Mumbai is unacceptable. The IG, Patna Zone, wrote to the BMC chief quoting the guidelines of the Maharashtra government under which Tiwari could have been exempted from quarantine. It elicited no positive response, he lamented. Pandey said yesterday, when the Supreme Court also frowned upon the treatment meted out to Tiwari and called it unprofessional, the IGP again contacted the municipal authorities, but nothing came of it. "We shall now be waiting till the end of the day and consulting the Advocate General in the meantime. If all else fails, moving the court could be an option, Pandey added. The 34-year-old actor was found dead inside his Bandra residence on June 14 last and an FIR was lodged by his father K K Singh, who resides in Patna, at a local police station on July 25. A tug of war ensued between the governments of the two states with Maharashtra contending that Bihar had no jurisdiction in the matter since the death took place outside the state. A petition contending the same was also filed in the Supreme Court by actress Rhea Chakraborty, who along with her family members has been named as the main accused in the FIR lodged by Rajputs father. She has been accused of abetting the actor's suicide, keeping him in wrongful confinement, and defrauding him of crores of rupees. The impasse led the bereaved father to call up Pandey and request that the matter be handed over to the CBI which was followed, the same day, by a recommendation to the effect by the Nitish Kumar government. The Centre, too, issued a notification approving the recommendation, in an apparent rebuff to the Shiv Sena-NCP- Congress government in Maharashtra that there was no need to hand over the matter to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bihar-dgp-warns-of-legal-action-if-ips-officer-not-allowed-to-leave-mumbai-870243.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Lovers set ablaze after being hacked to death in Uttar Pradesh||In a suspected case of honour killing, two lovers were allegedly hacked to death and their bodies burnt in Banda district in Uttar Pradesh's Bundelkhand region, about 150 kilometres from here. The lovers, who suffered serious injuries, died later in the hospital. According to the police sources here, Arti Kumari, a resident of Mataundh area and Ramesh (both names changed) had been having an affair for the past two years. The youth sneaked into his lover's house on Wednesday evening, when her brother and other members of the family had gone to work in the fields. Arti's brother, however, was informed by some village resident about Ramesh's presence in his house and he came rushing in. Arti's brother hit the couple with an axe several times and then set them ablaze before bolting the door of the room from outside. The neighbours, who reached their after seeing flames coming out of the room, rushed the coupe to the district hospital. The youth was declared brought dead while the girl died a little later. Police said that four persons, all members of the girl's family, were arrested in this connection. The main culprit, however, was absconding and a hunt had been launched to nab him, police said. Police said that it was a case of honour killing. Earlier also, many lovers were killed for the sake of family honour in different parts in the state, especially in the 'Jat'-dominated western UP region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lovers-set-ablaze-after-being-hacked-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-870246.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Prashant Bhushan seeks copy of petition on Suo Motu contempt||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday filed yet another application for putting further evidence in a Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings for his tweets. The top court has already reserved its judgement in the matter on Wednesday. In a fresh application, Bhushan said the top court issued notice to him on July 22, acting Suo Motu on a petition filed by advocate Mehak Maheshwari with regard to his tweet on June 29 about the CJI sitting on a bike. However, the copy of the petition was not served upon him, he claimed, adding, "This was in violation of of Rule 6(2) of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975". Maheshwari's petition was converted as a Suo Motu criminal contempt petition. The second tweet on role of four CJIs in destruction of democracy posted on June 27 constituted a separate cause of action, which required separate proceedings as per Vijay Kurle judgement, Bhushan's plea stated. He asked the court to supply him a copy of the petition by Maheshwari and allow him to lead evidence if it was not satisfied with his preliminary reply. He also said the matter related to the proceedings for second tweet against him should be placed before the CJI for allocation of a bench.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prashant-bhushan-seeks-copy-of-petition-on-suo-motu-contempt-870264.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Bank fraud case: Enforcement Directorate raids former Jammu and Kashmir minister's son Hilal Rather||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted multiple raids in four cities in connection with a money laundering case linked to a bank fraud probe against Hilal Rather, the son of former Jammu and Kashmir minister Abdul Rahim Rather, officials said. They said the raids were carried out at 16 locations in Kashmir, Jammu, Delhi and Ludhiana. The exercise has been undertaken to collect evidence, they said. The central probe agency has filed a money laundering case against Hilal Rather and others, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), taking cognisance of a CBI FIR and Income Tax Department probe against him that pertains to a Rs 177-crore alleged bank fraud. The CBI has alleged that Hilal Rather entered into a criminal conspiracy with the then officials of the Jammu and Kashmir Bank to get loans of about Rs 177.68 crore in alleged violation of rules and guidelines. His father, a former finance minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, is a National Conference (NC) leader.  "The loans that were sanctioned for construction of flats were allegedly diverted and misappropriated by the accused using the bank accounts of his employees," the CBI had alleged.  It was further alleged by the CBI that the accused submitted forged certificates and bills to the bank. In a charge sheet filed before special court in Jammu this March, the CBI had named the then branch heads of J&K Bank, New University Campus branch, Iqbal Singh and Arun Kapoor apart from Hilal Rather. Detailing alleged omissions on part of bank officials, the CBI had said they "did not" verify certificates and helped Rather in siphoning off the loan amount and laundering of money. The I-T Department too had raided him in June last year on charges of alleged tax evasion. "During the search, it was detected that the tax evader (referring to Hilal and his group) has been given illegal benefit of Rs 60 crore by J&K Bank. His outstanding loan of Rs 190 crore was settled at Rs 130 crore, although he did not deserve any concessional treatment," the Central Board of Direct Taxes had then said in a statement. The CBDT is the policy-making body for the I-T Department. Referring to Hilal, the CBDT statement has alleged that "he is also holding and operating a foreign bank account". "Neither his interest in the Dubai company nor the foreign bank account has ever been disclosed by him in his tax returns," it said. It added that Hilal and his group "sold/booked part of his real estate project of Paradise Avenue near Jammu against unaccounted cash."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bank-fraud-case-enforcement-directorate-raids-former-jammu-and-kashmir-ministers-son-hilal-rather-870265.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Unlock-3: Allow hotels, gyms, weekly markets to reopen in Delhi, AAP govt's proposal to LG||The Delhi government has again sent a proposal to Lt Governor Anil Baijal to allow hotels, gymnasium and weekly markets to reopen, saying that the Covid-19 situation has been improving in the national capital, sources said on Thursday. The government said that in accordance with the unlock guidelines issued by the Centre, it has the right to take decisions to allow such establishments in Delhi. In its proposal, the AAP government said that the Covid-19 cases have been increasing in several states and the situation is frequently deteriorating, but hotels, gyms and weekly have been allowed there. The sources said that the government also sought to know from the LG as to why Delhiites are being stopped from earning their livelihood despite the fact that the number of coronavirus cases has been decreasing in the national capital. "The Delhi government has again sent proposals to the lieutenant governor to allow hotels, gymnasiums and weekly markets in the city," the sources also said. In its 'Unlock-3' guidelines issued on July 29, the Centre had allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5, but no fresh order has been issued by authorities in Delhi to permit functioning of these establishments.  Last week, the Arvind Kejriwal government had decided to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in Delhi. However, Lt Governor Anil Baijal had overturned the government's decision. In his recent letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had sought his direction to Baijal to allow hotels and weekly markets in the national capital. In the letter, Sisodia had also said that the AAap government would again send the proposal to Baijal to allow reopening of such establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlock-3-allow-hotels-gyms-weekly-markets-to-reopen-in-delhi-aap-govts-proposal-to-lg-870268.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 4,586 Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest single-day spike of 4,586 Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths on Thursday, taking the state's tally to 1,08,974, an official said. The death toll due to the disease rose to 1,918, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. The number of active cases in the state has gone up to 43,654 and 63,402 have been discharged from hospitals after treatment, he said. Over 27 lakh tests have been performed in the state so far, he said, adding that the network of 61,350 Covid-19 help desks has helped identify over three lakh people who have symptoms and their samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-4586-covid-19-cases-61-deaths-870269.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat members can leave upon tendering apology, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat could be allowed to leave the country, despite pendency of criminal proceedings here, if they tendered an apology for attending Nizamuddin Markaz here in March during the Covid-19 pandemic. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that the look out notices issued against the petitioners, who approached the top court, stood withdrawn. He said the petitioners will be free to leave India subject to any other pending proceedings, including order passed by the court requiring his or her presence in the stated proceedings. Mehta also pointed out ten petitioners have decided to contest the criminal cases pending against them and were not willing to exercise the option of plea bargaining. Taking submission of Mehta into record, the bench directed for transferring criminal cases pending against 10 Tablighi Jamaat members before different trial courts in the national capital to the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, South-East Delhi, Saket for expeditious disposal within a period of eight weeks. The court posted a batch of petitions filed by Maulana Ala Hadrami and others, including a pregnant woman, for consideration after eight weeks. The petitioners questioned validity of Ministry of Home Affairs' orders issued on April 2 and June 4, blacklisting 2500 people for 10 years from travelling to the country. Visas of 2,679 foreigners from 35 countries were cancelled for participating in Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in March and having endangered many lives in the ongoing Covid-19 public health emergency. As many as 205 FIRs were lodged against them in 11 States under the provisions of the  Foreigners Act, National Disaster Management Act, Epedmic Diseases Act and the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-members-can-leave-upon-tendering-apology-centre-tells-supreme-court-870277.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya, a day after Ram temple's 'bhoomi pujan'||Crowds of devotees thronged the famous Hanuman Garhi and other important temples in Ayodhya on Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick for the construction of the Ram Temple. The temples were closed for the public on Wednesday as part of a security measure. Chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' rented the air as devotees comprising men, women and children paid obeisance at the makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Crowds of people were also seen offering prayers at temples at Naka, Chowk, Fatehganj, Rikabganj, Civil Lines, Naya Ghat and Ram ki Paidi areas. The roads leading to the temple town also witnessed large crowds of people carrying saffron scarves, who arrived in the town from the neighbouring districts. Social distancing protocols went for a toss as the devotees, who also included ascetics, jostled with each other to have 'darshan' at the temples. Seers associated with ashrams and mutts in Ayodhya said on Thursday that they expected rush of devotees to the town from across the country. "The bhoomi pujan ceremony has aroused interest of the people not only in the country but also abroad....we can expect the devotees to visit Ayodhya in large numbers in the days to come, especially after the coronavirus pandemic shows signs of abating," said a prominent Ayodhya-based seer. Local officials also echoed similar sentiments. "We may see less influx in the next few days mainly owing to the pandemic but the numbers will increase after that," said a district official in Ayodhya. Meanwhile the distribution of 'prasad' started in Ayodhya on Thursday and the first person to get the same was Mahaveer Kumar, who hailed from SC community. Over one lakh packets of 'laddoo' would be distributed as 'prasad' among the residents of the town by the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which was entrusted with the task of overseeing the construction of Ram Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-a-day-after-ram-temples-bhoomi-pujan-870278.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Clamour rises for 'liberating' Kashi Vishwanath, Mathura temples after Ram temple brick-laying ceremony||After Wednesday's brick laying ceremony for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, there seemed to a renewed clamour among the saints, especially those associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) for 'liberating' the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. The seers have also decided to celebrate August five as the 'freedom day for Lord Ram' every year so that the future generations do not forget the sacrifices made by the Hindus for the Ram Temple. All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of the seers in the country, on Thursday said that the fight for the Ram Temple had now ended and now it was the turn of Kashi and Mathura. "We have got Ram Temple.....now we will liberate the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura," the AIAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said. "Kashi and Mathura are also blots for the Hindus....they must also be freed," he said. The Mahant appealed to the seers and saints to launch a "peaceful movement" to 'free' Kashi and Mathura. Senior BJP leader Vinay Katiyar had also called for 'liberating' Kashi and Mathura. According to the sources, the chief priest, who had performed the rituals for the Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan' in Ayodhya on Wednesday, wanted to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to 'liberate' Kashi and Mathura but was stopped by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which was overseeing Temple construction work. The chief priest Gangadhar Pathak said that he wanted the prime minister to promise 'liberation' of the twin temples as 'dakshina' (a gift in cash or kind or promise given to the priests by the person for whom he performs the puja). Pathak was heard mentioning the term 'dakshina' several times while performing the rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/clamour-rises-for-liberating-kashi-vishwanath-mathura-temples-after-ram-temple-brick-laying-ceremony-870286.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh labourer finds diamonds worth Rs 35 lakh in Panna mine||A labourer became a millionaire overnight when he unearthed three diamonds worth Rs 30 lakh to 35 lakh at a diamond mine in Panna district of Madhya Pradesh, a senior official said on Thursday. While digging a shallow mine, the labourer, identified only as Subal, found three diamonds with net weight of 7.5 carat, Panna district's diamond officer R K Pandey said. Experts have valued the precious stones at anywhere between Rs 30 lakh to 35 lakh. The labourer has deposited the stones at the district diamond office and they will be auctioned as per government rules, Pandey said. After deducting 12 per cent tax, Subal will get the remaining 88 per cent of the sale proceeds, the official said. A few days ago, another labourer had managed to find a 10.69 carat diamond from one of the mines in Panna in the Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh. Panna, otherwise located in a backward region, is world famous for its diamond mines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-labourer-finds-diamonds-worth-rs-35-lakh-in-panna-mine-870289.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Ram temple 'bhumi pujan': Dalit family first to get prasad sent by CM Adityanath||A Dalit family is the first to get the prasad sent by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after the 'bhumi pujan' of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, an official said on Thursday. The prasad included laddoos, a copy of the Ramcharitmanas and tulsi mala, Chief Minister’s Media Advisor Shalabh Mani Tripathi told PTI. He said the first prasad was sent to the Mahaveer's family in Ayodhya. Mahaveer, a masion who lives at the Suthati locality of Ayodhya, was visited by Adityanath during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Adityanath had food at his house and interacted with his family, after the Election Commission banned him from campaigning for 72 hours for his Ali-Bajrang Bali remarks. Reacting to it, Mahaveer said, "I am a Dalit. The CM sent first prasad to me and my family. I am thankful to him that he remembered me.” "It’s a double delight for us. Firstly, our dream of a Ram temple has been fulfilled. Secondly, we got the first prasad. We hope that now the caste discrimination in the state will end and everyone will think of development and welfare of all," he said. When contacted, a senior Ayodhya official said due to the Covid-19 protocol, very few people were invited for the ‘bhumi pujan’. "Now, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust and the administration are distributing 'prasad' among the maximum number of people. In Ayodhya, the first 'prasad' was sent to the Mahaveer's family on the directions of the chief minister,” the official said. He said all those invited to the groundbreaking ceremony were given a silver coin having pictures of the Ram darbar and the trust’s logo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-dalit-family-first-to-get-prasad-sent-by-cm-adityanath-870290.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||666 villages in 17 districts hit by floods in Uttar Pradesh||As many as 666 villages have been affected by floods across 17 districts of Uttar Pradesh, and major rivers are flowing above the danger mark at some places in the state, officials said on Thursday. The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri's Palia Kalan, the Saryu river in Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar, and the Rapti at Gorakhpur's Bird Ghat were flowing above the red mark, Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal said. Seventeen districts in the state are now flood-affected. A total of 666 villages have been hit, out of which 446 have been marooned, Goyal said. The districts affected by the floods are Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Balrampur, Barabanki, Basti, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar, Siddharthnagar, Maharajganj and Sitapur, he said. Goyal said issues of seepage in an embankment on Rapti river was reported from Gorakhpur and that of land erosion in an embankment was reported in Mau district. He added that repair work was underway and the situation was being monitored. In Mau, around 5,000 families have been affected and 20 families were evacuated from three marooned villages, the official said. He said there was no danger to embankments and bridges in other parts of the state. Sixteen teams of the NDRF, the SDRF and the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) have been deployed for search and rescue works. Besides, 219 shelters have been set up and 983 boats deployed. Goyal said 712 'flood chowkis' have been set up and 249 medical teams deployed. Ration kits and food packets were being distributed among the affected people. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives to maintain strict vigil on all embankments and bridges and to take steps to check soil erosion, the official said. The chief minister has also asked for taking necessary steps to check the outbreak of diseases and to ensure the availability of medicines to deal with them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/666-villages-in-17-districts-hit-by-floods-in-uttar-pradesh-870305.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Students move Supreme Court against JEE-Main, NEET UG exams amid Covid-19 pandemic||A group of 11 students has approached the Supreme Court for cancellation of JEE (Main) and NEET UG examinations, rescheduled for September 1 to 6 and September 13 respectively, due to alarming spurt in Covid-19 cases in the country. In a writ petition, the petitioners asked the court to direct the authorities to conduct the competitive examinations for admission to premier IITs and medical colleges across the country after normalcy is restored in the country. The petition by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava contended that deadly pandemic Covid-19 has already affected about 20 lakh people in India and situation was worsening by every passing day. "Conducting the examinations across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death. The best recourse at this stage can be to wait for some more time, let the crisis subside and then only conduct these exams, in order to save lives of the students and their parents," they said. The decision by the National Testing Agency to conduct JEE (Main) and NEET UG through online and offline mode was utterly arbitrary and whimsical and would cause immense mental trauma, including suicidal tendencies amongst many affected students, who are people of tender age, the plea claimed. The petitioners also claimed many students who sat for the Karnataka SSLC examination, have tested Covid positive as per government reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-move-supreme-court-against-jee-main-neet-ug-exams-amid-covid-19-pandemic-870321.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Panchayat members shifted to safer places after killing of BJP sapranch in Kashmir||Authorities on Thursday shifted a few hundred panchayat members and political workers to safer places in south Kashmir areas after the killing of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sarpanch in Kulgam district. In July, militants had shot dead BJP leader Wasim Ahmad Bari, his father and brother in Bandipora area of north Kashmir. Earlier, Kashmiri Pandit Ajay Pandita, a sarpanch belonging to the Congress party from Anantnag, was killed by militants on June 8. The latest incident came a day after militants shot at and injured another sarpanch associated with the BJP in the same district. These incidents have created panic in Kashmir especially in four southern districts of Kulgam, Shopian, Anantnag and Pulwama with several BJP workers and panchayat members announcing their resignations. Sources said to instill a sense of security among panchs, sarpanchs and other political workers authorities decided to shift a few hundred among them to safer locations like migrant and CRPF camps. “There are inputs with the intelligence agencies that militants have been assigned the task to target political workers, especially those associated with the BJP in south Kashmir to derail the government’s plan to empower panchyati raj institution,” they said and added in the coming days police and other security agencies will make a foolproof plan to protect the panchayat members. The Jammu and Kashmir administration has already decided to spend Rs 1,700 crore to empower the newly constituted panchayats to enable the locals to easily get access to the government welfare schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/panchayat-members-shifted-to-safer-places-after-killing-of-bjp-sapranch-in-kashmir-870323.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Rohtang tunnel expected to be inaugurated by PM Modi in last week of Sept: Jai Ram Thakur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the 8.8-km-long Rohtang tunnel, being built on the Leh-Manali highway, in the last week of September, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. He said the tunnel will give all-weather connectivity to the remote and border areas of the state. The strategically important project is being completed at a cost of around Rs 3,200 crore, he said. "The tunnel, which was a dream of Atal Bihari Vajpayee is expected to be inaugurated in the last week of September by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It will give all weather connectivity to the remote and border areas," the chief minister told reporters here. The tunnel is one of the longest road tunnels in the country and is being built at an elevation of 10,171 feet under Rohtang Pass in the eastern Pir Panjal range of the Himalayas. It will reduce the distance between Manali and Lahual-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong by around 45 kilometres. He said in order to improve activities and access in the border areas, the state government is cooperating with Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to develop helipads in areas bordering China. In reply to a question, the chief minister said the state government has decided that temples will remain closed for public till August end owing to rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the country as well as the state and in view of other infectious diseases during the rainy season. Replying to another question, Thakur said the state government desires to conduct Panchayat elections on time in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohtang-tunnel-expected-to-be-inaugurated-by-pm-modi-in-last-week-of-sept-jai-ram-thakur-870328.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Number of suicides reported doubled in Himachal Pradesh during 3 months of lockdown: Police||The number of suicides reported in Himachal Pradesh in the first three months of coronavirus-induced lockdown was twice those recorded in the previous three months, a senior police official said, expressing concern over the figures. According to the data provided by the state police, 40 suicides were reported in January, 45 in February and 32 in March. In April, 47 people committed suicide, 89 in May, 112 in June and 101 in July. So, a total of 117 suicides were recorded from January to March and 248 from April to June. The lockdown in the hill state was imposed on March 24.  Director-General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said, "The number of suicides has increased during the lockdown and it is an issue of concern." Kundu, who assumed charge as DGP on May 30, said that in most of the cases, the exact cause of suicide is not known. More number of housewives and labourers committed suicide due to family and job-related problems, respectively, while students who did not perform up to their expectations in exams and elderly people suffering from diseases were among the smaller group which committed suicide, he said. The DGP said a 13-year-girl from Chamba who hanged herself to death after her matriculation result was the youngest person to commit suicide.   Generally, more people belonging to age groups 18-35 and 45-55 committed suicide, the senior police official added. He said in some cases the police register a case under section 306 of Indian Penal Code (abetment of suicide), while in some other cases they initiate proceedings under section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Suicides were earlier not part of data collected by police, he said, adding that instructions were given to include suicides in the daily situation information (DSI) of the police department. Kundu said the police department raised the issue of increased suicides with the Health Department and non-government organisations (NGOs) for their help in spreading awareness among the vulnerable groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-suicides-reported-doubled-in-himachal-pradesh-during-3-months-of-lockdown-police-870330.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Sexual assault case: Delhi BJP expresses shock, Congress workers waive black flags at Arvind Kejriwal at AIIMS||Delhi Congress workers waived black flags and raised slogans against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal when he arrived at AIIMS on Thursday to meet the 12-year-old girl who was allegedly sexually assaulted while the BJP's city unit expressed shock over the incident and said it will provide financial aid to her family. The Delhi Congress leaders, including state president Anil Kumar, also submitted a memorandum to the Lt Governor's office, demanding a CBI enquiry in the case and arrest of the culprits. Besides the sexual assault, the girl was hit on the face and head with a sharp object. She was found lying in a pool of blood by her neighbours at her home in Paschim Vihar on Tuesday evening, according to police. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said he was "deeply shocked to learn about the "heinous" assault on the girl. "I have talked to the police commissioner and he has assured that the culprits will be caught soon. I also enquired about the health of the girl and AIIMS authorities told me she is stable now," Gupta said. Delhi BJP will also extend financial help to the family of the victim, he said. The Delhi Congress president met the family members of the girl at AIIMS and assured them of providing help. "Congress will spare no effort in getting them justice. The condition of the girl's parents is very pathetic as they have neither taken a bath, nor changed their clothes for the past three days, as they have been keeping vigil outside the ICU in AIIMS," Kumar said. The Delhi Mahila Congress workers raised slogans against Kejriwal during his AIIMS visit over the lack of safety of women in the city, said a Delhi Congress leader Parvez Ahmad. The Youth Congress members also showed black flags to Kejriwal, said a spokesperson of the outfit. The attention of the LG was also drawn towards the "worsening" law and order situation in Delhi, particularly sexual assaults against women, a Delhi Congress statement said. Attacking the Kejriwal government and the BJP-led central government, Kumar said Delhiites feel "unsafe and angry" at the "lawlessness" prevailing in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sexual-assault-case-delhi-bjp-expresses-shock-congress-workers-waive-black-flags-at-arvind-kejriwal-at-aiims-870356.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Himachal minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary tests Covid-19 positive||Himachal Pradesh minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary has tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. In a Facebook post, the MPP (multi purpose projects) and power minister stated that his personal assistant Sonu Chaudhary had tested Covid-19 positive. So, he got himself tested and his report is positive, he added.  The legislator from Sirmaur's Paonta Sahib requested those who came in contact with him recently to get themselves quarantined and tested for Covid-19.  Sukh Ram Chaudhary was inducted in the state cabinet along with two other MLAs on July 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-minister-sukh-ram-chaudhary-tests-covid-19-positive-870367.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||One held in 12-year-old's sexual assault case in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested one person in connection with the sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl in Paschim Vihar area here, officials said. The accused was identified on the basis of CCTV footage and he has previous criminal records, they said. However, the identity of the accused was yet to be revealed. On Tuesday, the minor girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by an unidentified man when she was alone at her home in west Delhi. The girl, who was also attacked by the man with a sharp object and has injury marks on her body, is currently undergoing treatment at the AIIMS here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-held-in-12-year-olds-sexual-assault-case-in-delhi-870378.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Our man in Mumbai must be released, Supreme Court is watching: Bihar DGP||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Thursday said a fresh letter has been sent to Mumbai municipal authorities seeking the release of an IPS officer, who had gone to the city to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and was quarantined, and warned that refusal to pay heed could evoke strong action from the Supreme Court. Pandey rued that Vinay Tiwari, posted here as the SP (city), was treated like a prisoner and a quarantine mark was stamped on his hand while placing him under house arrest. He said failure of the BMC officials to act timely could draw the ire of the apex court, where a petition relating to the actors death by suicide was to come up for hearing in a few days. Earlier in the day, he had warned of legal action if the IPS officer from Bihar was not released from "forcible quartantine". Speaking two days after the high-profile case was handed over to the CBI, the DGP also expressed the view that "first and foremost" actress Rhea Chakraborty should be arrested and grilled and that he was doubtful that she would appear on her own before the Enforcement Directorate which has slapped her with a money laundering case. A letter was today sent by the IG, Patna Zone, to the chief of the BMC which needs to understand that the country is governed by the Constitution framed by (BR) Ambedkar and not at the whims of the municipal body, he told a TV news channel. The DGP, who had earlier hinted that the Bihar police might approach the court if Tiwari was not released by the end of the day, said, "Such a move is not required right now. The IGP had apprised the BMC officials about the adverse remarks made by the Supreme Court against our officer being held captive in Mumbai. He has again written a letter today reiterating it. It is tantamount to house arrest. Our officer visits the city for official work and, in the thick of the night, an ambush (chhapamari) is laid and a quarantine stamp is put on her hand with the decree that he cannot go out and speak to anybody, Pandey fumed. He lamented that things came to such a pass despite him having personally requested his Maharashtra counterpart that Tiwari be released. All these people will face the music (napenge ye sab log), Pandey said, adding indignantly Thousands of people who land at the Mumbai airport daily are not quarantined. Let them give it to us in writing that they do not care for what the Supreme Court has to say. They will face the consequences". Asked about the inputs provided by four junior rank officials, who returned earlier in the day after spending a week in Mumbai for investigation, the DGP replied, I have not spoken to them, but the SSP and the IGP have. Moreover, during investigation details should not be shared with media. The Bihar DGP also said he was hopeful that the CBI, which was a professional agency and has now taken over the probe, following a recommendation by the state government, will uncover the truth behind the death of the 34-year-old actor. Pandey said Chakrabborty should "first and foremost be arrested and thoroughly interrogated. There have been too many inconsistencies in whatever she has been saying. The needle of suspicion naturally points in her direction. Chakraborty, a budding actress, was said to be in a relationship with Rajput. She was accused, along with her family members, of abetting the actors suicide by the latters father K K Singh who lodged an FIR at a police station in Patna more than a month after his son was found dead at his Bandra residence. Chakraborty has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Bihar governments jurisdiction in the matter and seeking transfer of the investigation following the FIR from Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-man-in-mumbai-must-be-released-supreme-court-is-watching-bihar-dgp-870379.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Congress 'upbeat', claims majority ahead of Rajasthan Assembly session||The Congress on Thursday claimed to have the numbers and majority in Rajasthan and said it is eagerly waiting for the state Assembly session on August 14. Senior spokesperson of the party Ajay Maken said it was "status quo" as far as the rebel Congress MLAs in Rajasthan are concerned. He said the Congress is "upbeat" about proving its majority as the opposition has not had the courage to bring forth a "no-confidence motion" against the Ashok Gehlot-led government in the state. "The numbers are with us. The majority is with us and the biggest thing is that the truth is also with us. We wanted to convene a session of the state Assembly and even the opposition has not got the courage to bring a no-confidence motion against us, as everyone knows that the majority is with us," Maken told reporters, when asked about the party's position in Rajasthan. Maken is one of the two central observers sent by the Congress high-command to oversee the political developments in Rajasthan, where party leader and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with 18 other MLAs, has revolted against the government. Asked whether any of the rebels had got in touch with the party, Maken said it was "status quo". He said Gehlot has said if the party leadership accepts the rebels, he will also do the same with an open heart and embrace them. "We are together with all the MLAs and are eagerly waiting for the Assembly session on August 14, where all of us wish to go," Maken said. All the Congress MLAs supporting Gehlot, who were earlier lodged in a luxury hotel in Jaipur, have now been shifted to Jaisalmer, till the Assembly session is convened. To another question on the change of the Jammu and Kashmir governor so soon, the Congress leader said it is not a sign of a "healthy administration". He said people occupying key sensitive positions should not be changed so soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-upbeat-claims-majority-ahead-of-rajasthan-assembly-session-870388.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab police busts more spurious liquor modules||The Punjab police Thursday claimed to have busted several illicit liquor mafia modules as part of a statewide crackdown following over 100 deaths in a recent hooch tragedy. The police said they made 135 more arrests in the last 24 hours and registered 197 new cases. A total of 284 drums of methanol was seized from the Miller Ganj (Ludhiana) shop/godown of the arrested key accused, Rajiv Joshi, who had sold three drums that allegedly triggered the chain of deaths in three districts in one of the state's worst hooch tragedies. As many as 113 people died in the tragedy – 84 in Tarn Taran, 15 in Amritsar and 14 in Gurdaspur's Batala. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said investigations into the hooch tragedy were continuing and two Special Investigation Teams have been set up to fast-track FIRs in the case. The police are conducting coordinated raids across districts to finish the illicit liquor business, he said. In the last 24 hours 1,528 litres of illicit liquor, 7,450 kg of 'lahan' (raw material to make illicit liquor) and 962 litres of smuggled licit liquor were recovered in raids at various locations, he said. Eleven working stills (bhattis) were also recovered in the 197 cases registered since Wednesday, said the DGP. Since the raids started, a total of 1,489 FIRs have been registered and 1,034 people arrested, said Gupta. A total of 29,422 litres of illicit liquor, besides 12,599 litres of licit liquor and 5,82,406 kg of 'lahan', along with 20,960 litres of alcohol/spirits, have been seized and 73 working stills (bhattis) recovered in the state-wide raids, he informed in an official release here. The raiding teams are coordinating with the excise department, as per the Chief Minister's directives, said the DGP. These raids will continue, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-busts-more-spurious-liquor-modules-870398.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||Admin to impose lockdown in Jodhpur as coronavirus cases rise||The authorities have decided to impose a lockdown in Rajasthan's Jodhpur from Friday night till Monday morning after a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases was registered in the district, officials said. The lockdown will come in force from 8 pm on Friday and would continue till 6 am on Monday, they said. During this period, commutation will remain restricted on the roads except for the persons associated with essential services, the officials said on Thursday. Jodhpur DM Inderjeet Singh said the decision was taken after a meeting with the officials of medical and health department over the surge in coronavirus cases in the district. Police officials and members of trade and business organisations were also present during the meeting, the district magistrate said. He said the decision has been taken in view of the safety of the citizens and would help in containing the expansion of the virus infection. Jodhpur has registered over 7,500 Covid-19 cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/admin-to-impose-lockdown-in-jodhpur-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-870399.html
06-08-2020||North and Central||J&K: Jawan found shot dead under mysterious circumstances in Reasi||A 32-year-old security force jawan was found shot dead at a security camp at Poni in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir under mysterious circumstances, sources said on Thursday. The incident occurred on Wednesday night when other jawans heard a gunshot sound and rushed towards its direction where they found a jawan lying in a pool of blood with a revolver lying nearby, they said. He was shifted to hospital, where he was declared dead, they added. The jawan was married on July 10, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-jawan-found-shot-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-reasi-870400.html
06-08-2020||Opinion||BJP’s bhoomi pujan for a new Mandir in the Hindu heart||The Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan ceremony marks the end of a long journey for the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. But it also inaugurates an era guided far more frontally by the Sangh’s ideology than ever before in the 40 years of the BJP's existence. After the ground breaking ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5, a new goal and target was set for the BJP. The RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat provided a clear-cut direction: “Even as the Ram temple comes up here [in Ayodhya]... that Ayodhya [in our hearts] should also come up. And before this temple is complete, the temple of our hearts must be ready,” he said. Although not spelt out, it is clear that the RSS sees itself as the custodian of this mind-temple of common Hindus (and non-Hindus who are ready to adopt this worldview). The BJP is the vehicle through which it will reach them all. These pronouncements make it apparent that the Ram temple is now no longer just a physical structure for which the RSS-BJP launched a movement and fought. It has grown into a larger symbolic objective, an ideological goal, towards which an agitation will still continue. Bhagwat also laid out the roadmap to make this happen: “Creating the person and the society that will accept as their own not just their fellow Indians, but the whole world, that is the work,” he said, describing the temple as a symbol of such a possibility and a source of inspiration. Although these words sound perfectly reasonable and even welcome, it’s worth asking what the attributes of this person will be from a political point of view. A “self-confident” Hindu (although Bhagwat word used the word ‘Indian’) who will work to make India ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). Language usage is key to understanding how the Ram temple ties in with the government’s workings. The Modi government has already launched an economic programme aimed at shoring up India’s fortunes in these uncertain times of the pandemic and global realignments called the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’. It’s interesting that at the center of all these attempts to reimagine the Indian, whether in a local or a global context, is the new self-assertive Hindu. It becomes clear from the pronouncements of both Bhagwat and the Prime Minister at the August 5 function that the BJP’s raison d'etre is no longer linked to fulfilling a single objective or even a group of linked objectives. The party has been recast, in a sense, as the medium through which Hindus will reclaim their place as the ‘world leader’ (vishwaguru) on their own terms, in their own religious idiom and through their own symbols of civilisational pride. The winning of elections and running of governments is an important element of this project as things stand and that is the BJP’s part to play. Although it seems like this was always waiting to happen, it has not been a straightforward journey to this point for the BJP since its inception in 1980. From just two seats in the 1984 elections, the party grew through the decade of the 1990s, thanks to the Ram temple agitation which led to demolition of the Babri masjid. The bringing down of the Masjid was a key moment in the development of the party. The pre-and-post Babri party were very different from each other. BJP’s Swapan Dasgupta sees them as distinct phases in the development of the party. The violent phase behind it, the BJP set about trying to achieve its goals through “constitutional and relatively peaceful means” he believes. The Ram temple in Ayodhya will be the culmination of that phase. But it may not be wrong to argue that the party’s third phase has already begun – on August 5, 2020, when it fully emerged as a Hindu party on the Indian political stage. What is the role of Narendra Modi in these events and how far will his persona influence things going forward? The short answer is that he has been pivotal to these proceedings and it is possible that without him and his popularity the RSS project might have taken much longer to fructify. That said, though the BJP may be overshadowed by the presence of Modi as long as he remains in active politics, the story of the party’s transformation and its future trajectory are likely to be independent of him. From Modi to the next BJP leader, the transition is likely to be dictated by the inexorable logic of the RSS’ calculations. Before concluding, however, it is necessary to point out to the utter failure of India’s old party of power, the Congress in providing a convincing alternative to the RSS worldview and ideological position. Until a new Opposition party or leader comes on the scene and makes the BJP-RSS reassess its route, this new journey seems to be well and truly on its way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-s-bhoomi-pujan-for-a-new-mandir-in-the-hindu-heart-870273.html
06-08-2020||South||Telangana MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy passes away||Ruling TRS MLA in Telangana Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy died on Thursday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. He was 59. Reddy, MLA from Dubbak in Siddipet district, passed away this morning due to heart attack while undergoing treatment for an infection in the leg, TRS said on twitter. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao, several of his Cabinet colleagues, state Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, state BJP Chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and other leaders condoled the death of Ramalinga Reddy. The Governor, in her condolence message, said Ramalinga Reddy's death was a great loss to the state. Rao expressed shock over the demise of Reddy and recalled his association with the departed leader as a fellow activist from his native region. He conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family, an official release said. In a statement, the PCC president and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M Bhatti Vikramarka said Ramalinga Reddy had a deep understanding of people's problems. Ramalinga Reddy played an active role in public life as a legislator and as a journalist, they said. Born in 1961, Ramalinga Reddy had worked as a journalist before joining politics. He was elected to the Assembly in 2004 in undivided Andhra Pradesh, 2014 and 2018. The Chief Minister visited Ramalinga Reddy's native Chittapur village in Siddipet district and paid homage to the departed MLA, an official release said. Reddy's funeral was held at Chittapur later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-mla-solipeta-ramalinga-reddy-passes-away-870099.html
06-08-2020||South||Telangana to conduct 40,000 Covid-19 tests daily||The Telangana government has decided to conduct 40,000 Covid-19 tests daily and also keep 10,000 oxygen beds ready all over the State, an official release has said. The Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao-led cabinet which met here on Wednesday discussed threadbare the coronavirus spread, the treatment being given to those affected and further strengthening of the public health system, an official release issued Wednesday night said. The Cabinet also decided to act stringently against private hospitals, which were indulging in irregularities while giving treatment to the Covid-19 patients. "For those offering free medical services in private medical colleges, the government will bear the expenses for medicines, injections, and food...The officials concerned are instructed to conduct 40,000 tests per day," it said. The Cabinet resolved that those who tested positive would be put in home quarantine with home isolation kits and it was decided to keep 10 lakh home isolation kits ready for the purpose. Urging the people not to get anxious about the virus and rush to private hospitals, the cabinet said government hospitals were equipped with all facilities, medicines, expert doctors and the patients should utilise these services. "The Cabinet also made it clear that the government is ready to spend any amount of money to ensure medicines, equipment and facilities in the government hospitals," it said. The government decided to make available to the needy, in all the government hospitals, the availability of Remdesivir, Low Molecular weight Heparin, Dexamethasone injections, Favipiravir tablets, other medicines, PPE Kits and testing kits abundantly. Telangana Health Minister Etela Rajender and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar will conduct a videoconference on Thursday with the Collectors and find out their requirements for their respective districts and take necessary decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-conduct-40000-covid-19-tests-daily-870151.html
06-08-2020||South||Veteran legal journalist BSL Prasad no more||Veteran city-based legal journalist, BSL Prasad, died late on Wednesday following illness, family sources said. He was not keeping well for some time and undergoing treatment, they said, adding, he breathed his last on Wednesday night. He had been hospitalised for nearly two weeks. Prasad, 66, is survived by his wife. A veteran in court reporting, Prasad was known for his speed and accuracy and was contributing Madras High Court stories for PTI for nearly 10 years. He was known to be an amiable person respected by his colleagues and was often looked up to by juniors on court reporting||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-legal-journalist-bsl-prasad-no-more-870164.html
06-08-2020||South||After Beirut explosion, ammonium nitrate stockpile in Chennai raises concerns||Storing 740 tonnes of Ammonium Nitrate in 37 containers inside a container freight station (CFS) on the outskirts of Chennai since 2015 has raised serious concerns, following a massive blast in Lebanese capital Beirut that is suspected to have been caused by the explosive chemical. Since the huge amount of Ammonium Nitrate was imported by Amman Chemicals based out of Karur in Tamil Nadu from South Korea without required permission, the Customs Department seized the chemical along with the containers and stored them at a container freight station in Manali near here. The consignment was seized in November 2015 after the firm’s licence was cancelled. Amman Chemicals also moved the Madras High Court against cancellation of the licence which upheld the government’s decision in 2016. As concerns were raised over the safety of the explosive chemical store inside a CFS, the Customs Department issued a clarification on Thursday that there was no need to panic as the consignment is “securely stored.” “The seized cargo is securely stored, and safety of the cargo and public is ensured considering the hazardous nature of the cargo. Concerned CFS is located 20 kms approximately from the city and there is no residential locality within the vicinity of 2 kilometres from this CFS. All safety measures are being taken,” T Samaya Murali, Joint Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), said in a statement. He added that an e-auction on the orders of the Madras High Court has already been completed and that the cargo will be disposed of within a short period following all safety measures. Sources said a team from the Petroleum & Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) also inspected the consignment and certified it safe. Citing the huge explosion in Beirut which is understood to have been caused by Ammonium Nitrate, PMK chief S Ramadoss and environmentalists asked authorities concerned to remove the chemical from the area and ensure that no untoward incident takes place. Environmentalist G. Sundarrajan, who runs an NGO called Poovulagin Nanbargal, said storing Ammonium Nitrate in huge quantities at one place was a risky affair and asked authorities to ensure their safety. “The blast in Beirut due to Ammonium Nitrate has triggered tremors to the level of four in the Richter scale and it is a serious concern. The authorities should not allow 740 tonnes of the explosive chemical to be stored in one place especially when we know the condition of warehouses in India. They should split the quantities and keep them in three or four different places,” he told DH. Ammonium Nitrate is a highly-explosive chemical used in the production of fireworks and fertilisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-beirut-explosion-ammonium-nitrate-stockpile-in-chennai-raises-concerns-870234.html
06-08-2020||South||DMK asks govt to cancel 'e-pass' system in Tamil Nadu||DMK President M K Stalin on Thursday asked the AIADMK government not to create an "artificial barrier" for travel by people and demanded immediate cancellation of the e-pass system for inter- district journey. Applications seeking passes even for emergencies have been rejected many times though the government had said permission would be given for inter-district travel for medical emergencies, deaths and marriages, he alleged adding "the e-pass system in the AIADMK government is a big failure." Citing news reports on alleged corruption in issuance of e-pass in places including Chennai, he said, "extending the system and hassling people is inhuman and counter-productive." Since March 25, people could not make inter-district journeys even for emergencies and they were being harassed, he alleged. When the Central government itself has announced that e-pass is not compulsory, the "AIADMK government continuing to have it with an ulterior motive will not be a solution for the affected people," he said. While Chief Minister K Palaniswami maintained that the government acted according to the Centre's guidelines on Covid-19 management, "why did not he follow it on the e-pass system," Stalin, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, asked in a statement. "On the one hand you allow relaxations, say that people can go for work and companies could open and on the other hand you say that e-pass is mandatory for inter-district travel confining people to their homes. What kind of Coronavirus management is this?" he sought to know from Palaniswami. Asserting that this question crossed the minds of all the people, he wanted the government to respect the public sentiment and immediately rescind the e-pass system for inter-district travel. "I ask Palaniswami to not create an artificial barrier for people who want to travel." Also, he said by putting up such a barrier, "do not open up the door for corruption and hassle people...for the lockdown relaxations to benefit the public this step (cancelling e-pass regime) is immediately needed," he said. So far, police have arrested at least eight men in Tamil Nadu for allegedly creating fake e-pass and luring people to approach them to get the passes. While five including two government employees were held in Chennai, two were arrested in Tiruchirapalli and a man was held in Vellore. Though the state government hadannounced several relaxations, e-pass is needed for inter-district travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-asks-govt-to-cancel-e-pass-system-in-tamil-nadu-870256.html
06-08-2020||South||Kerala-based medical research institution SCTIMST marred over director post row||A leading medical science institution in Kerala, which was recently in the news for innovations in Covid-19 diagnostic tools, is now marred with a row over the director's post. The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) in Thiruvananthapuram, which is under the Department of Science and Technology, is facing a crisis as the Central Administrative Tribunal on Wednesday stayed extension of current director Dr Asha Kishore for five more years. SCTIMST governing body president Dr V K Saraswat, who is a member of NITI Aayog, had issued orders extending the term of Dr Kishore till her superannuation. This was challenged by another faculty member of the institution and the CAT stayed the appointment citing that the government body or president had no powers to extend the term of director. The DST also objected the extension of Dr Kishore maintaining that the authority for extension of the director was with the Appointments Committee of Cabinet. Sources associated with the institution said that the present row was sequel to the rift taking place in the institution over the last few years. The institution had developed scores of medical equipment during the last few years under Dr Kishore's leadership. GeneLAMP-N for swift and cheap Covid-19 test, RNA extraction kit for use during testing for detection of Covid-19, Covid-19 disinfection tunnel and Emergency Breathing Assistance System were some of the recent products that received much attention. While a section opposed to her maintains that there was a lack of quality in the products and hence products like GeneLAMP-N did not get ICMR approval yet, a section that backs Dr Kishore suspects lobbying by medical equipment manufacture's lobby also. In a letter sent to DST secretary Ashutosh Sharma on July 20, Dr Saraswat has strongly justified the decision to give extension to Dr Kishore. He pointed out that a letter sent by the DST in 2006 approving extension of then director K Mohandas had quoted the SCTIMST Act which says that the institute body appoint the director. He also pointed out a 2013 order of Kerala High Court that stated that ACC approval was not required for appointment of SCTIMST director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-based-medical-research-institution-sctimst-marred-over-director-post-row-870257.html
06-08-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh 'admits' acquaintance with CM Pinarayi Vijayan||In an embarrassment to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, NIA reportedly stated before the NIA special court in Kochi that gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had admitted her acquaintance with the Chief Minister. It was while opposing the bail plea of Swapna, who was a former executive secretary at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, that the NIA pointed out Swapna's statement that she had acquaintance with the Chief Minister. NIA also said that Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was like a mentor for Swapna. But Sivasankar did not consider her request for help in releasing the diplomatic baggage that contained 30 kilogram gold. Swapna had also stated to the NIA about her connections with bureaucrats, which she made while working with the UAE consulate. Swapna's lawyer Geo Paul said that it was not NIA's findings, but NIA only pointed out a portion of Swapna's statement during the arguments opposing her bail. Geo Paul had argued that there were no evidence of any terrorist link. The court posted the bail plea for further hearing on Monday. Assistant solicitor general P Vijay Kumar appeared for NIA. The court had earlier sought the case diary from NIA to examine if there were any terror links to the gold smuggling case. On Wednesday the NIA had stated before the court that the NIA probe was ordered as per a request of Kerala Chief Minister. This was widely used by CPM cadres in favour of the Chief Minister. Hence the opposition was now taking political advantage of Swapna's statement admitting association with the Chief Minister. An Air India official who filed a petition against Swapna for forging a sexual assault complaint was placed under suspension. L S Sibu, an officer ground handling with Air India posted in Hyderabad now, was placed under suspension on the charges of talking to media on company matters. Sibu, a Kerala native, faced a sexual assault complaint while working in Thiruvananthapuram earlier. Later the complaint was found to be a forged one and an investigation was initiated against Swapna, who was then working with AI-SATS, as well as another former senior employee of AI-SATS, Benoy Jacob. Some Air India officials were recently quizzed by the Crime Branch in this connection and media reports in this regard allegedly led to Sibu suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-accused-swapna-suresh-admits-acquaintance-with-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-870276.html
06-08-2020||South||After Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Telangana bats for employment of locals in industries||The K Chandrashekar Rao cabinet has decided in favour of a policy allowing 50-60 per cent of skilled jobs and 70-80 per cent of semi-skilled jobs for locals; offering additional incentives to the firms implementing the quota. While Andhra Pradesh has brought in a law last July reserving 75 per cent jobs in all categories of industrial units for the locals, Karnataka is also bringing in a similar legislation with 75 per cent allocation. However, pointing to the resentment from the businesses to such reservation rules, the Telangana cabinet has proposed to create a favorable environment to ensure that capable local youth are employed in the industries. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra states are also offering industry incentives to encourage job allotments for locals. Industries in Telangana need to be facilitated with the employable local manpower through synergy between the government, industry, and academia, the policy note says. Chief Minister Rao had earlier instructed the industries department to prepare the policy to allow more job opportunities for local candidates in the industrial units in Telangana. The department had accordingly prepared a draft policy under the guidance of industries minister KT Rama Rao. The cabinet which met on Wednesday discussed the policy and opined that locals should have more opportunities in industries being set up in the state. “We will ensure availability of skilled manpower through institutions like the Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge; connecting industries with ITIs/polytechnics for continuous availability of skilled manpower,” officials said. The cabinet has approved a “Grid-policy” providing incentives to the IT companies establishing in areas other than the West Zone of Hyderabad, where the software sector is predominantly concentrated. Rao’s cabinet has also opted to offer incentives to encourage the use and production of electrical vehicles in the state to reduce air pollution. It has approved the Telangana State Electronic Vehicle and Energy Storage Solution Policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-andhra-pradesh-and-karnataka-telangana-bats-for-employment-of-locals-in-industries-870314.html
06-08-2020||South||Allot time slots to customers, Kerala police tell banks; state's tally tops 30,000||While Kerala's Covid-19 tally crossed the 30,000-mark on Thursday, the state police prescribed stringent social distancing norms at commercial establishments, including a prior appointment system at banks. As many as 1298 more persons were tested Covid-19 positive during the day, taking the total cases reported so far to 30,449, of which 11,983 were now active. Of the three more Covid-19 deaths reported on Thursday, two were in Kasargod, taking the total Covid-19 deaths in the state to 97. Close on the heels of the police being given key responsibilities of containing Covid-19 in Kerala, state police chief Loknath Behera instructed police officials to strictly enforce restrictions on customers at shops and commercial establishments. Banks and financial institutions were advised that in order to avoid crowding banks should allot specific time slots for customers over the phone to visit the bank. Number of customers at a time in shops should be restricted to six per 100 square feet walkable area and restriction would have to be imposed on the time customers could spend inside shops, said the directives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allot-time-slots-to-customers-kerala-police-tell-banks-states-tally-tops-30000-870316.html
06-08-2020||South||Talacauvery chief priest among 4 missing in Karnataka landslide||At least four people including the priest at Talacauvery, the origin of river Cauvery, have gone missing due to massive landslide at Bramhagiri hills triggered by heavy rains in Kodagu district. Rescue teams have reached the spot to carry out search and rescue operations. According to Kodagu district administration officials, heavy rains at Talacauvery in Bhagamandala late last night led to landslips at Bramhagiri hills, in which two houses of the temple priests were buried. As per the information provided by the rescue teams, one priest had vacated the house and shifted to Bhagamandala, while another was residing near the hills with his family, a release from the Kodagu Deputy Commissioner said. "The information received is that four people are missing," it said adding the district's Advanced Rescue team has reached the spot. Locals said five people went missing, including Talacauvery Kshethra chief priest T S Narayana Achar, his wife, brother and two assistant priests. According to official sources, following landslides at the Brahmagiri hills last year, authorities had asked the Achar to vacate. However, Achar, who was emotionally attached to the house, did not move out of it owing to lack of alternate facility nearby. As the priest did not reach the temple this morning, the staff had gone to his residence, only to find mud and debris from the landslide. Continuous rains and landslide have snapped the road connectivity to the region, affecting the rescue operations. "... one will question whether any house existed there... nothing remains there," a local said. BJP MLA K G Bopaiah, who has had long association with Achar told media that he feared that the priest and his family might have been washed away in the mudslide. This is the third consecutive year that the Kodagu is facing floods and land slides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/talacauvery-chief-priest-among-4-missing-in-karnataka-landslide-870317.html
06-08-2020||South||Kerala on alert as rains gain strength||Many parts of Kerala, especially norther districts of Malappuram and Wayanad, received heavy rainfall on Thursday. Hundreds of families were shifted to relief camps due to flood and landslide alerts and damages caused to houses. Heavy rains were received mostly near Nilambur in Malappura and Puthumalla in Wayanad. There were also reports of landslides inside forest areas as uprooted trees were spotted in rivers. A red alert was sounded for Malappuram district and orange alert in eight district in central and north Kerala on Friday also. Water level of dams were being monitored constantly. Four rain-related deaths were reported in the state over the last two days. Since the state witnessed major calamities in the last two years, this time calamity mitigation measures like shifting people from calamity prone areas were initiated in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-on-alert-as-rains-gain-strength-870318.html
06-08-2020||South||Water level in Mettur dam set to rise as Cauvery water reaches Tamil Nadu||Excess water released from reservoirs in Karnataka due to heavy rains in the catchment areas of River Cauvery reached Biligundulu, the entry point of the river in Tamil Nadu, on Thursday. The inflow in Biligundulu, which was 10,000 cusecs at 8 am on Thursday morning, increased to 22,000 cusecs at 4 pm in the evening as more amount of water was discharged from Kabini reservoir. The water is expected to reach the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur, the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in the Cauvery Delta region, on Friday. With over 40,000 cusecs of water is being released from Kabini, the water level in Mettur dam is expected to rise exponentially in the coming days. At 8 am on Thursday, the inflow was 3,625 cusecs and the outflow was 3,000, while the water level stood at 64.20 feet as against the total capacity of 120 feet. As huge amounts of water is being released from Karnataka, people living on the banks of River Cauvery in Dharmapuri district have been asked to be alert. “The water from Biligundulu is expected to reach Mettur dam on Friday. The dam’s water level will increase from Friday and the trend will continue if rains continue to pound the catchment areas,” a senior government official said. The fast filling up of Mettur dam will allow uninterrupted supply of water for farmers in the Delta region, who were able to cultivate short-term crop (kuruvai) in an area of over 5 lakh acres for the first time in about nine years. The sluices of the Stanley Reservoir were opened for the first time as scheduled in the month of June after 2011 as the dam had enough water. From 2012 to 2019, the dam was not opened in June due to less storage. June 12 was set as the date for opening the sluice gates of Mettur dam decades ago, keeping in mind onset of South-West monsoon in Kerala on May 31 and a few days later in Karnataka. This would ensure that the sowing is over by the end of June and the short-term crop can be harvested in early October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-level-in-mettur-dam-set-to-rise-as-cauvery-water-reaches-tamil-nadu-870332.html
06-08-2020||South||Released Rs 22,111.88 cr to Andhra Pradesh govt: Centre tells HC||The Centre on Thursday informed the Andhra Pradesh High Court that it has released Rs 22,111.88 crore as post-devolution revenue deficit grant and another Rs 16,510 crore under different heads, including capital city development, to the state during 2014-20. In a counter-affidavit on a petition seeking grant of Special Category Status to AP and implementation of the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs said the issue of grant of SCS was considered keeping in view the larger interest of the nation. The 14thFinance Commission did not make a distinction between special and general category states. Its approach was to fill the resource gap of each state to the extent possible through tax devolution and, if such devolution alone could not cover the assessed gap, for certain states a revenue deficit grant was provided, it said. Assistant Solicitor General N Harinath filed the counter-affidavit before a division bench of justices Rakesh Kumar, A V Sesha Sai and M Satyanarayana Murthy, opposing the petitioner's plea. The Centre said the Finance Commission recommended a total award of Rs 22,113 crore to AP for the five-year period (from 2015). Out of this, Rs 22,111.88 crore have been provided to the state, it added. It also said a sum of Rs 3,979.50 crore was released out of Rs 4,117.89 crore assessed as resource gap for the period June 2, 2014 to March 31, 2015. For the multipurpose Polavaram project on river Godavari, the Centre said a sum of Rs 8,614.16 crore had been released so far. The Ministry of Finance sought clarification (from the state government) on the audited statement of expenditure and revised cost estimate of the project at 2013-14 price level, for further release of funds. It said the Advisory Committee of Union Ministry of Jal Shakti had on February 11, 2019 approved the revised cost estimate for an amount of Rs 55,548.87 crore at 2017-18 price level. Referring to the 13thSchedule of the APRA, 2014, the Centre maintained that provisions under Section 93 of the Act relating to setting up of infrastructure projects and national educational institutions have a long gestation period of ten years. The Centre also said it amended provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 to extend additional financial incentives for setting new manufacturing enterprises in the backward areas of the state. The Centre said almost all provisions under Section 92 (12thSchedule) of the APRA (on matters relating to coal, oil and natural gas, and power generation, transmission and distribution) have been implemented. From these facts and circumstances, the Writ Petition needs to be dismissed, the Centre requested the High Court. A similar Writ Petition on the issue was pending adjudication before the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/released-rs-2211188-cr-to-andhra-pradesh-govt-centre-tells-hc-870345.html
06-08-2020||South||Tirumala priest succumbs to Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh||A 48-year-old priest of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams temple has succumbed to Covid-19 and cardiac arrest. The priest employed at the Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati was on deputation to the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala where he was performing the rituals, a TTD official told DH. Around 200 employees of the TTD were tested as positive till now. This is the first death of a TTD priest, because of Covid-19. The priest passed away on Thursday evening at the Sri Padmavathi Covid-19 Care Centre in the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) in Tirupati. “The deceased has comorbidities and is a diabetic, obese patient. He was admitted in the hospital following shortness of breath on August 2 and was having 88 percent oxygen level at that time. He was shifted to ICU for better monitoring and was on Oxygen and non-invasive Ventilation on and off. However, on Thursday evening, he was unresponsive to CPR as he developed shortness of breath and was declared dead by the hospital authorities,” a statement from the TTD said. TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy expressed shock over the demise and stated that TTD would provide all necessary support to the bereaved family. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has added 10,328 new cases on Thursday taking the Covid-19 tally to 1,96,789 in the state. 1753 people died because of Covid-19 and comorbidities till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-priest-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-870365.html
06-08-2020||South||Hyderabad varsity to resume classes online from Aug 20||City-based University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Thursday said it has decided to resume classes in online mode for about 2,000 ongoing post-graduate students in various programmes from August 20. The university had suspended classes for all batches on March 15 and has since completed the evaluation process of final semester students, allowing them to graduate, a press release from the varsity said. Based on projections about the continuing Covid-19 epidemic, a task force headed by senior professor Vinod Pavaralarecommended that the university start online teaching, the release said. The recommendations were discussed and approved at a meeting of Heads of Department and Deans of Schools convened by the Vice-Chancellor. Considering the difficulties that some students are likely to face with costs of connectivity, the university has also accepted the recommendation to re-purpose the existing boarding allowance scholarship of Rs 1,000 a month into a digital access grant to students from deprived backgrounds, the release said. The Vice-Chancellor has also announced the university's plan to shore up information communication technology infrastructure at the department-level or at the level of individual faculty members to enable them to effectively deliver online teaching. Earlier, the Task Force held consultations with various stakeholders, including students and faculty members, and received a number of suggestions by email on the resumption of academic activities, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-varsity-to-resume-classes-online-from-aug-20-870374.html
06-08-2020||South||20 villages in Tamil Nadu get flood alert||Flood alert has been sounded in more than 20 villages in Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam and Bhavani in west Tamil Nadu. Due to heavy rain in Udhagamandalam, over 50,000 cusecs of water were flowing into the Bhavani River, Revenue officials said on Thursday. The river water reaches Lower Bhavani Project Reservoir at Bhavanisagar. The Public Works Department said 38,477 cusecs of water flowing into the Bhavani River reached the reservoir and the flow decreased to 35,067 cusecs during the day. The level of the reservoir touched 92.77 feet against the full capacity of 105 feet. The officials said if the inflow continues to increase and the level rises up to 100 feet, water would be released from the reservoir into the Bhavani River which would merge with Cauvery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-villages-in-tamil-nadu-get-flood-alert-870402.html
06-08-2020||State||Outflow from Kabini Dam declines to 43K cusecs||The outflow of water from Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli in the H D Kote taluk, declined to 43,933 cusecs on Thursday morning. The outflow was 50,000 cusec on Wednesday evening. As the inflow to the dam declined to 37,462 cusecs, the outflow to Kapila River and canal declined. While 43,333 cusecs water was released to the river, 600 cusecs was released to the canal. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 TMC and the dam stored 16.40 TMC water as on Thursday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/outflow-from-kabini-dam-declines-to-43k-cusecs-870105.html
06-08-2020||State||GMIT staff develop people-friendly products to combat Covid-19||While many educational institutes were busy conducting online classes during the Covid-19 lockdown, teachers and students of various departments of GM Institute of Technology in Davangere designed around 16 products, a majority of them related to Covid-19, for the benefit of people. Of them, some are already in the market, and others are waiting for approval from the officials concerned. Biotechnology & Research Centre Assistant Professor Deepthi Palleda has prepared wipes which are similar to hand sanitisers used to kill microorganisms. It is tissue-based and biodegradable. It is safe, effective, and convenient to handle. Speaking to DH, Deepthi said, unlike hand sanitisers, these wipes can be used to remove dirt on tables, furniture, computer, laptops, keyboards, television, fax machine, telephone, and other materials. Two kinds of pouches have been prepared, one pouch contains five wipes and the other 10. Even children can use this to clean their hands and face. The pouch containing 10 wipes has been priced at Rs 45. However, it is yet to get approval from the Health & Family Welfare Department, she added. Mobile app for grocery People are still hesitant to step out of their homes to purchase groceries due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The staff of the Information Science Department have developed a mobile app named 'kalash', through which the residents of Davangere City can order grocery items and get them delivered. Keerthi Prasad, a staff of the department said, it has been designed not only to help people get grocery items delivered home, but also to help youths who lost their jobs during the lockdown get employed. The app can be download from the Play Store. Naveen and Thippeswamy G N are also part of the team that developed the mobile app. Sanitiser dispenser In order to avoid physical touch while using hand sanitisers, the staff of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department have developed a 'zero-contact hand sanitiser dispenser, which can be used at home, offices, shops, or in institutes. It has been priced at Rs 600. The team members said, the person needs to place his/her palm near the dispenser outlet and the sanitiser gets dispensed. It has two smart features- no wastage and auto cut-off. Every time a person places his hands to dispense the sanitiser, the dispenser machine releases only a predetermined quantum of sanitiser. The product was developed under the guidance of Professors Harisha G C and Rajappa H S. Sanitiser stand The staff of Mechanical Engineering department have developed a stand to prevent transmission of Covid-19 from an infected person to another while using the sanitiser bottle. The sanitiser bottle can be placed on the adjustable tray of the stand which can accommodate bottles of different shapes and sizes. The team has also developed a wall mounting sanitiser stand which is portable and compatible. It can be used in buses, halls, kitchen, and toilets. It can also be used for soap and handwash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gmit-staff-develop-people-friendly-products-to-combat-covid-19-870120.html
06-08-2020||State||KSPCB calls on people with 'Turmeric Ganesha' idea for the festive season||Successfully reaching out to the masses digitally during the world environment day celebrations, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) ahead of the Ganesha festival has embarked on a ‘Turmeric Ganesha’ campaign. Appealing to the public to embrace eco-friendly methods of worshipping Ganesha, the Board has come up with the ‘Turmeric Ganesha’ idea keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. After the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) banning the display and pooja of Ganesha idols in public places due to virus fears, people have been finding it tough to celebrate the festival. Hence, the KSPCB has appealed to the public to make idols of Ganesha by themselves at homes and worship. The campaign, scheduled to kickstart from August 22 to September 11, has already gained momentum on the social media platform with the concept of ‘Turmeric Ganesha’. The KSCPB aims to reach out to at least 10 lakh homes with a message of making turmeric Ganesha idols for the forthcoming festival. Several NGOs, independent organisations have also lent their support to the board for its campaign. Explaining the objective behind the campaign, K Srinivasulu, Member Secretary, KSPCB said, “Every year people celebrate Ganesha festival in a grand manner. But this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have to celebrate with great levels of caution. Turmeric, traditionally, has plenty of medicinal values and people are becoming aware of these values during the pandemic. Our idea is to reach out to even more people and create awareness about the medicinal value of turmeric. Hence, we have launched a campaign.”  The idol immersed turmeric water can later be sprinkled around as disinfectant, according to officials. The board has planned to reach out to the public with the message on milk packets, incense stick packets, bus tickets. Officials revealed that the move would also help protect the natural soil. Motivating people to pursue the idea, it has also allowed people to post images of turmeric ganesha made by them on the Board's Facebook page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kspcb-calls-on-people-with-turmeric-ganesha-idea-for-the-festive-season-870129.html
06-08-2020||State||Flood threat along banks of Krishna and other rivers in Belagavi||Heavy rains in the catchments of river Krishna and it's tributaries in Maharashtra and in the catchments of other rivers in the district have posed a flood threat. Water inflow and levels in the streams have increased and waters of rivers Krishna, Doodhganga, Vedganga, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha and other tributaries were spreading in the agricultural lands along the course and in the villages on Thursday. Water inflow from Maharashtra into river Krishna at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi increased to 1,31,920 cusecs, a three-fold increase in 24 hours. Inflow from river Krishna was 1.02 lakh cusecs and from river Doodhganga 29,920 cusecs. Sugarcane and paddy crops in the taluks of Nippani, Chikkodi, Raibag, Belagavi, Khanapur, Bailhongal and Kittur were standing in waters.Heavy rains in the Western Ghat region have resulted in water inflow witnessing a steep rise in rivers Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Markendaya, Hiranyakeshi, Pandari and other rivulets. Road connectivity to some of the villages surrounding Kankumbi and Jamboti in Khanapur taluk was affected with rising water levels in rivers and nallahs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-threat-along-banks-of-krishna-and-other-rivers-in-belagavi-870165.html
06-08-2020||State||Floods: Government has come to standstill, alleges opposition||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah accused the state government of coming to a 'complete standstill', even as another flood loomed in parts of Karnataka. Shortly after the same, the Chief Minister's Office(CMO) issued a statement saying district-in-charge ministers of flood-hit districts will have to take decisions on any emergency flood relief works in their districts and funds will be released for the same. "There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people. The govt has failed to come to their rescue. Do we even have an existing govt?" Siddaramaiah said in a tweet. There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people. The govt has failed to come to their rescue. Do we even have an existing govt? Government should immediately take decisions to ease the burden on people during the floods, he said, urging Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to identify shelter homes and relocate people from risky areas. "It is said that even Revenue Minister R Ashok is under quarantine. Since Revenue Department has a large role in flood control and relief, CM Yediyurappa should make supplementary arrangements," Siddaramaiah said.  The statement issued by CMO, said that Yediyurappa has directed all district-in-charge ministers to take precautionary measures. "District-in-charge ministers of flood-hit districts should remain in their districts," he said, asking them to take a call on any work related to emergencies. The district-in-charge ministers should visit flood-hit regions of the state and distribute relief for the affected victims, he added. KPCC president Eshwar Khandre tweeted videos and images of large swathes of land inundated by River Krishna in parts of North Karnataka. "Amidst the corona pandemic, heavy rainfall now has caused problems in Karnataka. The government should take precautionary measures now, than taking action after the rain causes damages," he said.  Coastal and Malnad districts of Karnataka have received very heavy rainfall during the past three days. India Meteorological Department has issued a red-alert for the region, again on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/floods-government-has-come-to-standstill-alleges-opposition-870173.html
06-08-2020||State||Call helpline 1077 during emergencies: Hassan DC||With the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), predicting heavy rains the next 48 hours, Deputy Commissioner R Girish, has warned the people to take caution and not go near or cross rivulets, streams, lakes and rivers and also ensure that cattle are safe. He has also appealed to the people living near the river banks to move to safety, as the water level may cross the danger mark. People are requested to call the District Disaster Management cell on 08172-261111 or free helpline 1077 during emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/call-helpline-1077-during-emergencies-hassan-dc-870206.html
06-08-2020||State||Some food for thought in wait for Covid-19 vaccine||Immunity booster tea, chapathi and daily drops were among the eight products designed to mitigate Covid-19, released by DyCM Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Thursday. The products were developed by various start-ups being incubated at the Bangalore Bioinnovation Center (BBC). Malli's Cordytea "is an Immunity booster tea prepared from medicinal mushroom - Cordyceps," which contains Cordicepin, known to have anti-viral properties. The product was developed by Mallipatra Neutraceuticals. Another startup Aspartika launched two products at the event. While the first one is BeamRoti, which is "an immunity booster chapati having mixture of herbs recommended by AYUSH ministry," the second was immune booster daily drops, which too had a mixture of herbs recommended by AYUSH Ministry, according to a release by the DyCM's office.  Other products include Padma Vitals - a centralised monitoring system for ECG, respiration, body temperature and other vital indicators. The device can be used for contact-less monitoring of patients during Covid-19. A chewable tablet by Stabicon - which has ingredients to fight inflammation and infection, besides ensuring "activation of innate immunity," was also launched. VegPhal - fruit and vegetable sanitiser and Kitchen Tap - tap-attached water sanitiser and anti-microbial HVAC module to sanitise enclosed spaces - were also launched. 'Karnataka a hub' “These technologies and products add to the list of earlier products launched and developed by the start-ups at BBC," Ashwath Narayan said, adding that Karnataka has emerged as a leading state in developing solutions to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/some-food-for-thought-in-wait-for-covid-19-vaccine-870335.html
06-08-2020||State||Why masks, hand sanitisers not on essential items' list, asks Karnataka High Court||The High Court on Thursday directed the central and the state governments to place on oath whether N-95 masks and hand sanitisers should be treated as essential commodities in view of the multiplication of cases of Covid-19 after July 1. The bench also directed the state government to place on record the prices at which N-95 masks are acquired from time to time. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on an Interlocutory Application (IA) that pressed for price-capping the sale of N-95 masks and hand sanitisers.  The court pointed out that in an order issued on March 13, the Union Government had declared both the mask and hand sanitiser as essential commodities. However, the order was not extended beyond June 30, 2020. The court observed that something 'drastic’ had happened because of which the masks and sanitisers were dropped from the list with effect from July 1. The counsel appearing for the Union Government had submitted that since there was no complaint received from the states regarding non-availability of N-95 masks, it was decided in the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) meeting to leave the price to the market dynamics. The court directed the central government to file an affidavit by a competent senior officer explaining the reasons that compelled it to drop masks and hand sanitisers from the list of essential commodities. "There cannot be any dispute that not only the doctors and health workers require the use of N-95 masks, but even common man as a safety can use N-95 masks. It works as good protection for Covid-19 virus,’’ the bench observed. The court asked the government to take a clear stand on the question whether N-95 masks and sanitisers are available in the market and whether there is any complaint of non-availability. The court also asked the state to place on record the price variation of N-95 masks made by different manufacturers. "The state government has purchased a large number of N-95 masks for the benefit of doctors and health workers. The state must place on record prices at which N-95 masks were acquired from time to time.’’ The court directed the state and the central governments to file response by August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/why-masks-hand-sanitisers-not-on-essential-items-list-asks-karnataka-high-court-870362.html
06-08-2020||State||Karnataka High Court principal bench to be closed on Friday||The principal bench of the Karnataka High Court in Bengaluru will be closed on Friday for sanitisation. A closure notification put up on the website of the Karnataka High Court stated that the entire complex of the principal bench is required to be sanitised due to increase in Covid-19 positive cases. "It is hereby notified to the litigant public/learned advocates/parties-in-person/officers and staff of the High Court of Karnataka, Principal Bench, Bengaluru, that the Judicial/non Judicial/Administrative functions of the High Court of Karnataka, Principal Bench, at Bengaluru, are suspended for one day on Friday, August 7, 2020, for sanitization of the entire High Court Complex.’’ The notification stated that the cases ordered to be listed on August 7, 2020 will be listed on August 10 and 11 and the appointments given for rectification of objections postponed to August 11 and 12 in the afternoon. ``The appointments given for physical filing shall stand postponed to August 13, 2020. Those who have been given time slots on August 7, 2020, can visit the court on August 13, 2020 for physical filing as per the time slots already given on August 7, 2020,’’ the notification stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-principal-bench-to-be-closed-on-friday-870412.html
06-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ayodhya Ram Temple: Original idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman in Karnataka claims Harihar ashram||Known for several legends related to Ramayana time, Karnataka is now at a centre of discussion for being the home to original deities of Ram temple at Ayodhya that was destroyed by the Mughal ruler Babar. Claiming to be the original idols of Rama, Seetha and Lakshman that were worshipped at the Ayodhya temple, the idols are currently worshipped at the Sadguru Samartha Narayana Maharaj Ashram in Harihar taluk of Davanagere district. Several posts throwing light on the history of the idols have gone viral on social media with a demand to reinstate idols after completing the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.  Evidently, when the matter was settled by the Supreme Court, a central team from Union Home ministry, intelligence officials and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials had also visited the temple and took details of the idols and their history.  Tracing the history of the idols, DH reached out to the Ashram and spoke to Rama, an in-charge at the Harihar ashram and a follower of Narayana Maharaj. Claiming that the idols belonged to the medieval era, Rama said, “It has been recorded by our Guru and also carved at the back of the statue that they were the original deities of Ayodhya. A delegation of officials from Central Home ministry and Intelligence officials had visited the temple. ASI officials also visited along with the Davanagere Deputy Commissioner and collected details. But till date, no report about the history of the idols is made public.”  Online posts claimed that the idols were handed over to Swami Ekanath Maharaj by the then Ram Mandir caretaker Pandit Shyamanand Maharaj when Babar desecrated the temple and marched into Ayodhya. Later, it was handed over to Samartha Ramadas, the guru of Chhatrapathi Shivaji Maharaj. The 11th disciple of Ramadas, Swami Narayana Maharaj brought the idols to Harihar in the early 90s during British era and installed them on the banks of Tungabhadra at Harihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ayodhya-ram-temple-original-idols-of-ram-sita-and-lakshman-in-karnataka-claims-harihar-ashram-870037.html
06-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister urges people to be cautious amid Covid-19, rains||"There is heavy rain in several districts of the state's coastal, Malnad and north interior regions. People have to observe utmost caution during these rains amid corona infections. In case of any symptoms like fever, cough and cold immediately call the health department helpline 104," Sudhakar tweeted. As of August 5 evening, cumulatively 1,51,449 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 2,804 deaths and 74,679 discharges. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban tops the list accounting for 64,881 cases. Regarding Bengaluru, Sudhakar said, there are 4,276 beds across 11 Covid care centres in Bengaluru. "As of today morning, 936 of them i.e., 27.79 percent are vacant. Out of the 3,346 patients, 306 patients are due for discharge today," he said in another tweet. Aimed at availing beds at Covid-19 hospitals for symptomatic patients and those in need, the government had decided to shift all asymptomatic patients to Covid care centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-urges-people-to-be-cautious-amid-covid-19-rains-870180.html
06-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KCET results expected before August 20||The results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) will be announced before August 20. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday, "The results will be announced before August 20 and the seat matrix will remain the same."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kcet-results-expected-before-august-20-870358.html
06-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on transgender quota soon, govt tells HC||The state government on Thursday submitted to the high court that it will soon take a decision to introduce reservation for the transgender community. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi informed this to the court during the hearing of a PIL. The proposal's draft will be placed before the Cabinet for its approval. For some reasons, the Cabinet meeting could not happen. However, a decision will be taken soon in the Cabinet meeting, he said.  A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka, adjourned the hearing on the PIL filed by Sangama, an organisation working for the betterment of sexual minorities. The petitioner has contended that a notification calls upon only 'men’ and 'women’ for filling up 2,467 vacancies for the posts of Special Reserve Constable Force and Bandsmen. The notification for filling up of vacancies by the Police Department is in violation of the directions by the apex court that recognises the employment, educational and other fundamental rights of the 'third gender', they contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-transgender-quota-soon-govt-tells-hc-870360.html
06-08-2020||West||Overnight rains continue in Mumbai||Overnight rains continued in Mumbai and its suburban areas but the intensity is expected to reduce over Thursday. The Colaba observatory of Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD recorded 330 mm rainfall till 5.30 am, which is a record for sorts.The south Mumbai areas of Colaba,  Nariman Point,  Maine Line,  Kalbadevi,  Fort,  Crawford Market,  Majid Bunder,  Byculla received heavy rainfall on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Vihar lake inside the Sanjay Gandhi National Park located in north Mumbai began overflowing. The heavy rainfall warning continues for Mumbai metropolitan region and the coastal Konkan belt.In Mumbai, 5 units of NDRF continue to be deployed. "Mumbai Rainfall updates at 5.30 am - Santacruz 146.1mm,  Colaba 330.0mm Radar image indicating intense clouds over N of Palghar. Mumbai, Thane not much clouds.Night rains reduction observed, but Colaba is setting up another rerord for Aug RF. Today could see reduction in day's rainfall," K S Hosalikar, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, IMD, tweeted. Mumbai Rainfall updates at 5.30 amSantacruz 146.1mmColaba 330.0mm Amid the compounding situation,  prime minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and reviewed the situation. The Maharashtra government has asked people to stay indoors. "While we’ve asked all to stay home, the police and urban/ rural local bodies staff are on streets and are braving the stormy rains.Please stay home and stay put wherever indoors you are across the entire belt receiving rains," state tourism minister Aditya Thackeray said.   While we’ve asked all to stay home, the police and urban/ rural local bodies staff are on streets and are braving the stormy rains.Please stay home and stay put wherever indoors you are across the entire belt receiving rains Meanwhile, the water accumulation in south Mumbai has reduced considerably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/overnight-rains-continue-in-mumbai-870066.html
06-08-2020||West||8 patients dead after fire breaks out at Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad||In a major fire incident, eight coronavirus patients were killed in a private Covid-19 designated hospital in Ahmedabad in the wee hours of Thursday. All the victims were in the intensive care unit (ICU) where the fire is said to have started due to short circuit and spread after the fire caught the PPE kit of a paramedical staff who ran in panic inside the unit. Officials said that all eight patients died on spot due to burn injuries and as they couldn't get out of the ward located on the top floor of the four-storied building. They said that the patients were found dead on their beds indicating that they must have been in deep sleep when the fire started. According to fire officials, they had to break open the glass window from outside to enter the ward as there was no alternative path to reach the ward.  Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who is also the health minister, said that primary information has revealed that fire was caused by the short circuit in the ICU ward where eight patients were under treatment. Patel said that the PPE kit of a paramedical staff (identified as Gaurav Chauhan) caught fire who tried to run away in panic which might have spread the fire.  Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials said that at around 3.30 am the fire incident took place in the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura. A statement released by AMC stated, "Preliminary indication of the fire is short circuit. 8 patients inside ICCU died among them five were male and three were females. All other 41 patients, all coronavirus positive, and one injured paramedic have been shifted to SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad." The victims have been identified as Arif Mansuri, Narendra Shah, Navneet Shah, Manu Rami, Leelvati Shah, Jyoti Sindhi, Manu Rami and Ayesha Tirmizi. Ayesha, wife of advocate Sohail Tirmizi, had tested negative twice and was to be shifted to a special ward for further treatment since she had comorbid conditions. Among the victims are a father-son duo identified as Narendra Shah and Navneet Shah. Following the incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "Saddened by the tragic hospital fire in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to CM @vijayrupanibjp Ji and Mayor @ibijalpatel Ji regarding the situation. Administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected." Soon after the tweet, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a probe into the matter to be conducted by Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban Development) Mukesh Puri. They have been asked to submit a report in three days. Meanwhile, the hospital building has been sealed for further investigation. Meanwhile, police detained Bharat Mahant who runs the hospital and a ward boy identified as Chirag Patel for questioning.  Soon after the tweet, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a probe into the matter to be conducted by Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban Development) Mukesh Puri. They have been asked to submit a report in three days. Meanwhile, the hospital building has been sealed for further investigation. The chief minister has ordered a report within three days. "As of today, we are looking at the case as an accidental death and investigating it based on expert opinions, forensic evidence and statements of fire officials. The PM report reveals that the patients died of suffocation and burnt injuries. We will take further action in accordance with the evidence emerging in the probe," special police commissioner, sector-1, R V Asari told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-patients-dead-after-fire-breaks-out-at-covid-19-hospital-in-ahmedabad-870075.html
06-08-2020||West||Kolhapur on flood alert||The Kolhapur district of Western Maharashtra that borders Karnataka, has been put of alert with the Panchganga river flowing over the flood line in some places. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation in Kolhapur, that along with the neighbouring district of Sangli, that saw massive floods in July-August, 2019. Four teams of NDRF have reached Kolhapur and are assisting the district administration in flood-relief work. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has asked people to be evacuated from low-lying areas to safer locations. The Panchganga river is flowing at 41.2 feet level whereas the alert level is 39 feet and the danger mark is 43 feet, according to the State Disaster Management Authority. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar visited the Mantralaya control room and reviewed the ground situation in the Konkan region and the Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. The Gaganbawda, Shirol tehsil has been receiving heavy rainfall for the last two days. “The Panchganga river is the immediate cause of concern now, people need to be safe,” Wadettiwar said. According to the IMD-Mumbai, heavy to very heavy rains are expected in Kolhapur on Thursday. "For the last couple of days, the district is witnessing 150 mm rainfall every day which is leading to an increase in the level of the Panchganga,” Desai said, adding that around 90 weirs in the district have gone underwater. The Sangli district administration also asked the people living on the banks of the Krishna and Warna rivers to stay alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kolhapur-on-flood-alert-870094.html
06-08-2020||West||Heaviest one-day August rain in 46 years slams Mumbai||South Mumbai on Wednesday saw record rainfall in 46 years with the Colaba observatory of the Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD recorded 330 mm plus rainfall. The rainfall also left a trail of destruction in the financial capital of the country. In the wee hours of Thursday, a landslide was reported along the otherwise busy Peddar Road. A team of civic workers were seen clearing the trees that fell down from the hillock. Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant and Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar inspected the spot and the damage. BJP MLA from Malabar Hill and Mumbai BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha too visited the spot. Efforts were on to make the road operational by evening. This is the second landslide within Mumbai in three days – the other being the one reported in Kandivli along the Western Express Highway. The Maharashtra government, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and Mumbai Police have asked people to stay indoors and step out only if necessary. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region that besides Mumbai comprises Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, have been receiving heavy rainfall since the last three days. “Mumbai Rainfall updates at 5.30 am - Santacruz 146.1mm, Colaba 330 mm. Radar image indicating intense clouds over north of Palghar. Mumbai, Thane not much clouds.  Night rains reduction observed, but Colaba is setting up another rerord for August rainfall. Today could see reduction in day's rainfall,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD. The weathermen had advised fisherfolk of MMR and the coastal Konkan belt not to venture into the Arabian Sea for next two to three days. The fishing season commenced on Monday on Narali Purnima. Many of the fishing boats and trawlers have returned. Five NDRF teams are camping in Mumbai. A crane in the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust collapsed but no damage to any vessel was reported. The winds caused extensive damage to the DY Patil Stadium in Nerul.  Trains on the Central Railway and Western Railway resumed but they were moving with cautionary signals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heaviest-one-day-august-rain-in-46-years-slams-mumbai-870132.html
06-08-2020||West||Mahrashtra HC adjourns hearings due to staff shortage after rains||The Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned its proceedings for the day as many staff members could not reach the court following incessant rains in Mumbai and neighbouring areas. Seven benches of the court were scheduled to conduct virtual hearings on Thursday. "Due to the acute shortage of staff owing to disruption in train services, the benches are unable to take up matters. Judicial proceedings for the day, thus stand suspended, a notice issued by the high court registrar V R Kachare said. All matters scheduled to be heard on Thursday will be taken up on Friday, the notice said. Mumbai and some neighbouring districts has been witnessing heavy rains since the last couple of days, resulting in water-logging in several areas and disruption of rail and road transport services. This is the second time this week that court hearings have been adjourned in the wake of the heavy rains. On Tuesday also, the high court had suspended its proceedings for the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahrashtra-hc-adjourns-hearings-due-to-staff-shortage-after-rains-870156.html
06-08-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Anil lauds Palghar cops for saving 22 people in flood||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday praised Palghar Police for saving the lives of 22 people who were stranded after heavy rains caused floods in parts of the district. Those rescued by the Palghar Police on Wednesday included a five-year-old girl, who remained atop a tree for over four hours. @Palghar_Polices Superintendent of Police Dattatreya Shinde and his colleagues saved the lives of 22 people in flood situation caused by extremely heavy rainfall," Deshmukh tweeted. "Also streamlined traffic removing roadblocks at many places. I am proud of the promptness shown by Palghar Police in work, he added. In another tweet, the minister also hailed the district's assistant police inspector Siddhava Jayabhaye and others for heroically saving the five-year-old girl, who clinged to a tree for over four hours after water entered her house. "She was stuck on a tree surrounded by water. The courage & determination shown by Mamta& Palghar Police is commendable, Deshmukh tweeted with the hashtag of SaviourMahaPolice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-anil-lauds-palghar-cops-for-saving-22-people-in-flood-870163.html
06-08-2020||West||Sheena Bora murder case: CBI court rejects Indrani Mukerjea's bail plea||A special CBI court here rejected the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, noting that the possibility of the accused influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out. After failing to secure bail multiple times on medical grounds, Mukerjea in December last year filed another plea, seeking bail on "merits" of the case. Special CBI court judge J C Jagdale rejected the plea on Wednesday. The court observed that some important case witnesses like Rahul Mukerjea, son of accused Peter Mukerjea, and Vidhi, daughter of Indrani Mukerjea and her former husband and co-accused Sanjeev Khanna, were yet to be examined. "There is no doubt that the accused is an influential and wealthy person. Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out," the judge said. While arguing for bail, Indrani Mukerjea told the court that the prosecution's case was "false and baseless" and she had nearly 120 documents to prove it. She submitted that there is no scientific evidence to prove that the crime happened. She pointed out inconsistencies in the evidence put forth by the prosecution to prove her role as a conspirator and one of the killers of her daughter Sheena Bora. She also raised doubt about the "credibility and legality" of the probe. Indrani Mukerjea claimed there are numerous contradictions in the testimonies of prosecution witnesses, including accused-turned-approver Shayamwar Rai. "They have either contradicted their own statements, or the statements of other witnesses, or the prosecution's story itself," she had submitted. However, the judge in his order observed that in the middle of the trial, the court cannot declare that the part evidence is either wholly reliable, or partly reliable, or totally unreliable. "At the present juncture, the court can not conclude that the evidence led by Shyamvar Rai (approver) has falsified or suffered from fatal infirmities due to cross-examination of the said witness," the court noted. The judge further observed that at this stage, the trial court cannot pass a final conclusion about the evidentiary value of the witnesses. "In my opinion, the accused and the advocate concerned should co-operate with the trial court to finish the said trial," the judge added. Indrani Mukerjea is currently lodged at the Byculla women's jail in Mumbai. Last month, the court rejected her another bail plea, citing the risk of contracting coronavirus in the wake of the disease outbreak in the jail. Sheena Bora (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and Sanjeev Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Indrani Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. He is currently out on bail, which was granted by the Bombay High Court earlier this year. His 17-year-old marriage to Indrani Mukerjea ended during the period of incarceration as the two got divorced in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sheena-bora-murder-case-cbi-court-rejects-indrani-mukerjeas-bail-plea-870209.html
06-08-2020||West||Bihar Police team probing Sushant Singh Rajput case leaves Mumbai||The four-member Bihar Police team, which was in Mumbai to investigate the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, left the city on Thursday, an official said. The police team arrived here on July 28 to probe the 'abetment to suicide' case registered by Rajput's father in Patna against the late actor's friend Rhea Chakraborty and others. After collecting evidence and recording statements of nearly 10 people, the Bihar Police personnel left the city on Thursday morning, the official said. During their stay in Mumbai, they recorded the statements of Rajputs sister, his former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, director Rumi Jaffrey, the late actor's flatmate Siddharth Pithani, his manager, cook, doctors among others, he said. The Bihar Police team had also visited some banks to look into the financial transactions made from Rajput's accounts, he said. "We collected good evidence in connection with the case and the Mumbai Police also cooperated with us," one of the officials from the team said. Earlier, Patna City Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari, who came to Mumbai on Sunday to supervise the probe being conducted by his state police team, was quarantined by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation at the SRPF guest house in suburban Goregaon. The Supreme Court Wednesday said the truth behind the actor's death should come out, even as the Centre informed that it has accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe in the matter. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh have been saying that there is no need to hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), despite the pressure mounting on them from various quarters. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Mumbai Police had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) and an investigation is underway in the case. Till now, the Mumbai Police have recorded statements of more than 55 people, including Rajput's sisters, Chakraborty and some other film personalities. Rajput's father K K Singh last week lodged a complaint with Patna police against Chakraborty and her family members, accusing them of abetting the actor's suicide. The Patna police registered an FIR against Chakraborty and six members of her family under various Indian Penal Code Sections, including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bihar-police-team-probing-sushant-singh-rajput-case-leaves-mumbai-870210.html
06-08-2020||West||Palghar lynching: SC asks Maha govt to present charge sheets before it||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the Maharashtra government to bring on record the charge sheets filed in connection with the case of mob lynching of two Hindu seers and their driver at Palghar on April 16. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy also sought to know the action taken against police personnel accused of handing over the victims to the mob. The court decided to go through the charge sheets against those who formed a mob of over 100 people to kill the victims, from Juna Akhara. During the hearing, the Maharashtra government said that two charge sheets have already been filed in the case. A third one would also be filed for the offence of attacking  policemen. The court was hearing a batch of petitions including those by Mahant Shraddhanand Saraswati of Panchdasnam of Juna Akhara and family members of the two deceased through advocates Balaji Srinivasan and Ashutosh Lohia, for a CBI probe into the matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, suggested filing the charge sheets before the top court as well for its perusal. Counsel for petitioners advocates Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Shashank Shekhar Jha contended that so far no action has been taken against the policemen. One of them apprehended that Sadhus would continue to be killed in Maharashtra, unless a central agency like the NIA was called in to probe the Palghar incident. The court decided to consider the matter after three weeks. In its latest affidavit, filed on July 31 on behalf of state DGP, the state police pointed out that the Maharashtra's CID has so far filed two charge sheets and the third was in the process of being filed against the 47 accused. It also pointed out after departmental enquiry, five police personnel have been suspended and show cause notices issued against 18 of them including 13 from the riots control unit. Meanwhile, the petitioner from Juna Akhara sought a direction from the top court to stay proceedings in as many as six PILs filed in the Bombay High Court in the case till the present matter was being examined here. He also pointed out that the Maharashtra government sought dismissal of the present matter in the Supreme Court due to pendency of six PILs before the High Court. However, before the High Court, the state government sought adjournment on the ground that the present case was pending before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-sc-asks-maha-govt-to-present-charge-sheets-before-it-870213.html
06-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to supply milk powder to children, lactating mothers||The Maharashtra Government has decided to supply milk powder manufactured from additional milk stock to pregnant women, lactating mothers and children under the Amrut Aahar scheme. Milk powder will be packaged and provided to 6.51 lakh children and 1.21 lakh pregnant women and lactating mothers, a release from the Chief Minister's Office stated on Wednesday. The scheme will be implemented for a year at the cost of Rs 121 crore, while the manufacturing cost of the milk powder is over Rs 246 per kg, it was stated. Milk powder contains 34 per cent protein, which is essential for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. As per the release, during the lockdown period from April to July, the state government procured 5.94 crore litre milk from farmers and over 4,927 metric tonnes of milk powder and 2,575 metric tonne butter was produced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-supply-milk-powder-to-children-lactating-mothers-870217.html
06-08-2020||West||Tiger Reserve in Goa; HC issues notices to govt, NTCA||Hearing a PIL seeking establishment of a Tiger Reserve in the state, a division bench of the Bombay High Court in Goa on Thursday issued notices to the state government as well as the National Tiger Conservation Authority. The petition in connection with which the notices were issued, seeks directions from the Court to the state government "to notify a tiger reserve for the tigers of the state and of adjoining wildlife sanctuaries". "This urgent relief is sought in the wake of the tragic killing of 4 tigers in Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in January, 2020," the public interest litigation filed by a green NGO Goa Foundation states. "The purposeful killing has also revealed the urgent need for better management of the protected areas in the state and of tiger-human conflicts. These protected areas of Goa form an integral habitat for the tigers in Goa and in the rest of the contiguous Western Ghats complex," the petition adds. According to the HC order on Thursday, the two bodies i.e., the Goa government and the NTCA have been directed to file a response by August 24. The NTCA had been commissioned for a probe by the Union Ministry for Environment and Forests earlier this year, after four tigers were found dead due to poisoning the state's Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in North Goa. In its report the NTCA had recommended setting up of a Tiger Reserve in the state, failure of which, the national tiger conservation body warned, could pose a "death trap" to the tigers in the region on account of the increasing man-animal conflict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tiger-reserve-in-goa-hc-issues-notices-to-govt-ntca-870220.html
06-08-2020||West||Coast Guard rescues 16 fishermen off Thane||The Indian Coast Guard on Thursday rescued 16 fishermen off the coast of Thane district. The Thane-registered fishing boat named Dev Sandesh with 16 fishermen onboard was reported to be in distress about 70 km west of Arnala coast, Thane. The boat was caught up in rough to very rough sea conditions and very high speed winds prevailing at sea. The distress message of the stranded and distressed fishing boat was relayed to Coast Guard Mumbai Maritime Search & Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) by Yellow Gate Police Station on the evening of 04th August. The MRCC (Maritime Rescue coordination Centre) Mumbai swung into action and after ascertaining the exact location of the distressed fishing boat at sea, activated the International Safety Net and continuously relayed the message on broadcast for all the ships in area specially the transiting ships to render assistance to the boat in distress. In the meantime MRCC successfully identified an offshore supply vessel Greatship Asmi in vicinity of the distressed fishing boat while tracking the traffic at sea and diverted her for rescue operation. The distressed boat was taking water onboard due to flooding owing to long swell and rough weather. Since the situation at sea was worsening due to prevailing rough weather condition and high speed winds, while OSV Greatship Asmi was directed to keep a strict vigil, Coast Guard coordinated with another offshore support vessel Colonel SP Wahi in the vicinity and directed her to pick up all the distressed fishermen from the stranded fishing boat and resuce them safely onboard the ship. After six hours of continuous effort facing the rough sea the 16 crew were rescued and taken onboard. All the rescued fishermen are safe and will arrive in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coast-guard-rescues-16-fishermen-off-thane-870231.html
06-08-2020||West||Kolhapur district put on flood alert as Panchganga river overflows||The Kolhapur district of Western Maharashtra that borders Karnataka, has been put on high alert with the Panchganga river flowing over the flood line at several places. Movement on nine state highways and two dozen roads in the Kolhapur district were affected because of rainfall since the last three days. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation in Kolhapur, that along with the neighbouring district of Sangli, saw massive floods in July-August, 2019. Four teams of NDRF have reached Kolhapur and are assisting the district administration in flood relief work. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has asked people to be evacuated from the low-lying areas to safer locations. The Panchganga river is flowing at 41.2 feet whereas the alert level is 39 feet and the danger mark is 43 feet, according to the State Disaster Management Authority. Thackeray asked Konkan and Pune divisional commissioners to focus on overflowing rivers in Kolhapur, Raigad, Ratnagiri and shift local residents to safer places in view of flooding of rivers. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar visited the Mantralaya control room and took a review of the ground situation in the Konkan region and the Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. The Gaganbawda, Shirol tehsil has been receiving heavy rainfall since the last two days. “The Panchganga river is the immediate cause of concern now, people need to be safe,” Wadettiwar said. According to the IMD-Mumbai, heavy to very heavy rains is expected in Kolhapur district for the next 24 hours. "For the last couple of days, the district is witnessing 150 mm rainfall every day which is leading to an increase in the level of the Panchganga,” Desai said, adding that around 90 weirs in the district have gone under water. The Sangli district administration also asked the people living on the banks of the Krishna and Warna rivers to stay alert. Kolhapur’s guardian minister Satej Patil, visited several flood-affected areas and assessed the situation and directed the administration to remain alert and prepared for any flood-like situation in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kolhapur-district-put-on-flood-alert-as-panchganga-river-overflows-870292.html
06-08-2020||West||Kalasa-Banduri: Jal Shakti Ministry snubs Goa's plea||In a significant boost to Karnataka's efforts to build the Kalasa-Banduri project, the Union Jal Shakti Ministry has refused to give a specific assurance to the Goa government vis-a-vis processing of permissions from the central agency which are required to clear the project across the Mahadayi river. In a letter to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, which was released to the media on Thursday, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat also said that the Roorkee-based National Institute of Hydrology had been appointed to examine the issue of salinity of the Mahadayi (also known as Mhadei in Goa) river. “The Government of Karnataka has recently submitted feasibility report of Kalasa Nala Diversion Scheme and Banduri Nala Diversion Scheme to Central Water Commission (CWC), and these are under appraisal as per the existing CWC guidelines and as per the directions given in the Report cum decision of MWDT (Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal),” Shekhawat said in his letter to Sawant on July 29. “The upper riparian States of Karnataka and Maharashtra, though do require requisite clearances and approvals, as required by law and from the Central Government, and the Planning Commission (Now NITI Aayog), but they do not require any prior consent of the lower riparian State of Goa," Shekhawat also said, referring to a letter written by Sawant to his Ministry in March this year, which had requested that Goa be given an opportunity to state its case before granting permission to the water diversion project. Shekhawat however has agreed to share the proposal submitted to his Ministry by Karnataka, with the Goa government. The ruling BJP-led coalition government in Goa has been on the backfoot, ever since the central government, following a Supreme Court directive, notified the award given by the Mahadayi Interstate Water Dispute Tribunal, making the coast clear for the Karnataka government to start construction of the disputed Kalasa-Banduri dam project, which aims to divert water from the Mahadayi basin to the deficit basin of the Malaprabha river. Goa Karnataka are battling out a two decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court, after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” and increase the salinity in the waters of the Mahadayi river. Shekhawat said that the issue of salinity would be examined by the Roorkee-based institute. "Taking into account the concerns raised by you regarding the issue of salinity in Mahadayi River, this Ministry has assigned National Institute of Hydrology. Roorkee to take up the study of salinity of river Mahadayi and submit a report to this Ministry,” Shekhawat said in his letter to the Goa CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalasa-banduri-jal-shakti-ministry-snubs-goas-plea-870303.html
06-08-2020||West||Landslide in Peddar Road in Mumbai affects traffic, water supply||The record rainfall in 46 years in south Mumbai on Wednesday has left a trail of destruction in the financial capital of the country including a landslide at the busy Peddar Road. In the wee hours of Thursday, the landslide was reported along the otherwise busy Peddar Road, an address to the who’s who of Mumbai. The landslide site is at the edge of the Malabar Hill just off the Kemp’s Corner flyover. Traffic movement and water supply has been badly affected in parts of Mumbai. A team of civic workers is clearing the debris and removing trees that have come down from the hillock. Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal inspected the spot and the damage. “I visited the Peddar Road in south Mumbai where the entire road got blocked due to landslide. Not only traffic got affected but water supply too,” leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said after visiting the spot. The road begins at the well-known intersection of Kemp's Corner and extends down Cumballa Hill past the Mahalaxmi temple to the Haji Ali intersection. BJP MLA from Malabar Hill and Mumbai BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha too visited the spot and demanded that a proper geological survey be conducted. “The water supply in the area has been affected,” he said. There is a water tank in the Malabar Hill area. Efforts are on to make the road operational by evening. This is the second landslide in Mumbai in three days – the other being the one reported in Kandivli along the Western Express Highway. The Maharashtra government, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, and Mumbai Police have asked people to stay indoors and step out only if necessary. On Wednesday, the Colaba observatory of the Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD recorded 330 mm plus rainfall for south Mumbai, the highest in 46 years. The Mumbai metropolitan region that besides Mumbai comprises Thane, Palghar, and Raigad districts, has been receiving heavy rainfall for the last three days. “Mumbai Rainfall updates at 5.30 am - Santacruz 146.1mm, Colaba 330 mm. Radar image indicating intense clouds over north of Palghar. Mumbai, Thane not much clouds.  Night rains reduction observed, but Colaba is setting up another record for August rainfall. Today could see a reduction in day's rainfall,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD. The weathermen had advised fisherfolk of MMR and the coastal Konkan belt not to venture into the Arabian Sea for the next two to three days. Sixteen fishermen who were stranded off Arnala off Thane district have been rescued by the Indian Coast Guard. The fishing season has just commenced on Monday on Narali Purnima, which coincides with Raksha-Bandhan. Many of the fishing boats and trawlers have returned. Five NDRF teams are camping in Mumbai. A crane in the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust collapsed but no damage to any vessel was reported. The winds caused extensive damage to the DY Patil Stadium in Nerul.  Trains on the Central Railway and Western Railway have resumed but are moving with cautionary signals. Traffic jams on arterial roads continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/landslide-in-peddar-road-in-mumbai-affects-traffic-water-supply-870312.html
06-08-2020||West||No links with Disha Salian or her death: Sooraj Pancholi||Opening up for the first time in nearly two months, actor Sooraj Pancholi on Thursday said that he never knew Disha Salian and was in no way linked to her death. It may be recalled that Pancholi (29), son of actor-couple Aditya Pancholi and Zarina Wahab, is already facing charges of abetment to suicide vis-à-vis the death of actress-model Jiah Khan. “I am always presumed guilty until proven innocent…I am 29 now, I was 21 then (when the Jiah Khan incident) took place…I am battling this and now my name gets linked to the death of Disha Salian,” he told a TV channel. He repeatedly and categorically said that he has not meet Disha even once. “I neither have her phone number, nor have I had been to any party where she was present or invited her to any party,” he said. Asked about BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane's charge that he threw the party in which Disha was raped and murdered,” Pancholi said: “First of all, I want to know from where he has got the information.” He said that there was a “blind post” in Facebook which went viral on social media. “This should stop…..I have suffered a lot,” he said. Pancholi admitted that he knew Sushant Singh Rajput, however, it was very formal in nature. “I am trying to make my living in this industry. And I don’t want to give up on that soon. Because this is my dream. It is my passion. It is what I have worked for. People think I have just gotten out of bed and walked on a film set which is not true. I have worked very hard. Starting as an assistant director in two films. I have done my acting course, I have my acting degree. I have done everything possible to get my first film. So, this is my passion and I’m not going to give up that easy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-links-with-disha-salian-or-her-death-sooraj-pancholi-870338.html
06-08-2020||West||Ahmedabad fire: Devasted family members narrate tale of shock and grief||"Only Yesterday night we had a video chat with my sister-in-law and we discussed that she should be out of the ICU ward in a day or two. She had tested negative for the coronavirus. Hours later on Thursday morning, we watched in horror about the incident on TV news. We didn't get a single call from the hospital authority. The whole family is devastated," said brother-in-law of Jyoti Sindhi, 55, outside the postmortem building at civil hospital while breaking down repeatedly in grief and trying to console his brother Vishnu, the victim's husband. "We didn't know anything. She had been tested negative and was to be shifted to a special ward for further treatment," said Saad Kazi, a relative of Ayesha Tirmizi, 51. Wife of advocate Sohail Tirmizi, Ayesha had been admitted to this hospital some two weeks ago and had tested negative after covid-19 treatment. Her relatives said that she was to be shifted to a special ward for further treatment in a day or two since she had comorbid conditions. In the incident, a father-son duo identified as Navneet Shah, 80, and Narendra, 61, also died. The relatives said that the father had been admitted to the hospital some two weeks ago while the son was admitted only ten days back. Their relative Arvind Shah said the Shahs are from Dholka town in Ahmedabad district. The death of 42-year-old Arif Mansuri, a resident of Sarkhej in Ahmedabad, has left his family devastated as he was the only earning member. His friend Sabir Luhar, who had come to the hospital, said that Arif was first admitted to civil hospital but seeing the poor condition, he got himself admitted to Shrey. "He borrowed money from many people and had already paid Rs 3.5 lakh. The family is not only in shock but also in debt." Arif's family members didn't come to the hospital. Luhar told DH that "One of his brothers came to the graveyard for the last rites later in the day after the postmortem was completed." According to officials at civil hospital, where the post mortem was conducted, the dead body of two victims were handed over to their relatives for last rites while six others were cremated as per the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-fire-devasted-family-members-narrate-tale-of-shock-and-grief-870348.html
06-08-2020||West||Enforcement Directorate set to grill Rhea Chakraborty||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is set to question model-actress Rhea Chakraborty and is armed with a questionnaire on her property details and accounts. Rhea, who owns two properties in Mumbai that she bought in the last few years, is worth Rs 14 lakh, according to her latest Income Tax Return records. Rhea had been summoned by the ED to appear before the agency on Friday. However, there is no clarity on whether she would appear or not. Her brother Showik could be called next week to record his statement. Sushant Singh Rajput's two companies in which Rhea and her brother Showik are partners - Vividrage Rhealityx Pvt. Ltd. and Innsaei Ventures Pvt. Ltd. - will be examined by the agency. The ED also questioned Samuel Miranda, a suspect in the case who worked as Sushant's house manager, and chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/enforcement-directorate-set-to-grill-rhea-chakraborty-870349.html
