07-08-2020||First Edit||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra's conduct unconstitutional||There is an apparent lull in political activity in Rajasthan with Governor Kalraj Mishra accepting Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s recommendation to convene the state Assembly on August 14. Until then, the Congress MLAs and other legislators backing Gehlot will be politically quarantined in hotels and resorts, and the 18 MLAs backing former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will be cooped up in Manesar in BJP-ruled Haryana. This is low politics which shows the MLAs as vulnerable, unprincipled and prone to commerce, and their leaders as unsure, insecure and ready to use coercion and confinement to keep their flock together. These scenes have been seen before in other states. What is new is the Governor acting in a way no other Governor has acted before in rejecting a Council of Ministers’ right to call an Assembly session.  The Governor stalled the government's recommendation for over a week, asking for clarifications, demanding fresh proposals and laying down conditions, without a law, a constitutional provision or a court judgement to support his conduct. The Constitution is clear that the Governor has to convene the session on the recommendation of the cabinet, and the Supreme Court has clearly said that no discretion is vested “with the Governor, in the matter of summoning and dissolving the House.” The court has also said that the Governor, being a nominee of the President, “cannot have overriding powers over the representatives of the people and/or the executive government.’’ The Rajasthan Governor has set another bad precedent, marking another low in constitutional conduct. It should be noted that he violated the Constitution and went against court judgements literally and most brazenly, not by making use of some loopholes or by clever interpretations of laws. It shows that he did not care for what the Constitution or the courts said and had no compunction in devaluing his constitutional office and acting as a political agent of the central government.  Gehlot had no choice but to accept the Governor’s condition of giving a 21-day notice for the Assembly session. No such conditions have ever been made in the past, but the chief minister had to make a compromise and accept that because a stalemate might only make his government’s position weaker. He also seems to be ready for a political compromise with his statement that the rebels are welcome if they come back, repenting. Unfortunately, it will be the people of Rajasthan who will pay the price for this long-drawn, Governor-facilitated political drama. A quick confidence vote would have settled the matter one way or the other and allowed the state to focus on the pandemic and governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rajasthan-governor-kalraj-mishras-conduct-unconstitutional-870422.html
07-08-2020||In Perspective||Iran, our gateway to Afghanistan, Eurasia||The leaked draft of the “economic and security partnership” between Iran and China has raised concern over India’s relations with and investments in Iran. It is believed that China has promised to invest $400 billion in Iran’s infrastructure and military development. Chinese investments are accepted by Iran at a time when US sanctions are hurting its economy. This will ensure that Chinese influence over Tehran will increase. India, under US pressure, has stopped oil imports from Iran, and Iran, in turn, has raised concerns over New Delhi’s policies and actions on Kashmir. Any political space vacated by the US or India is filled by China through its investments, which countries seem unable to resist. When India stops oil imports from Iran, Tehran would naturally perceive India to be aligning itself with the US. India should project its independent foreign policy, and its decisions should be perceived to have been taken in self-interest. India’s relations with Iran are not beneficial just economically but have strategic implications, too. Unlike other South Asian countries, India needs Iran geographically and politically to counter Pakistan and the Taliban in Afghanistan and also to counter Chinese influence in Central Asia. Gateway to Afghanistan In the late 1980s, Pakistan had huge influence in Afghanistan, especially among the ‘mujahideen’ groups and diverted them to fight against India in Kashmir. Pakistan-backed insurgency declined in Kashmir only after the US ‘Global War on Terror’ in Afghanistan. India realised with greater intensity that the strategic relationship with Afghanistan is important to counter Pakistan. India did not choose military relations to increase its influence in Kabul, as it could have backfired with rising insurgency in Kashmir once the US left Afghanistan. India cautiously increased its soft power by increasing its investments in Afghanistan. India has invested in the construction of the country’s parliament building, hydro-power dams and other infrastructure projects. Afghanistan, being landlocked, is accessible only through Pakistan over land or through Iran from the Arabian Sea. Pakistan took advantage of this and did not allow India to access Afghanistan through the land route. So, India developed strategic relations with Iran and got access to Chabahar port, which has helped India bypass Pakistan and reach Afghanistan. India now exports most of its goods and aid to Afghanistan from Chabahar port. Afghanistan has also started exporting its wares from Chabahar port. This has increased India’s influence economically and reduced Afghanistan’s over-dependence on Pakistan. Recently, the UN’s ‘6+2+1’ had talks with the Taliban and accepted the Taliban demand that the Afghan government should not be part of talks. India stood firmly with the Afghan government at the UN and argued that any talks without the participation of the elected government in Kabul would be an injustice to the Afghan people. India pushed for an “Afghan-owned, Afghan-led and Afghan-controlled” peace process. This led to political support from the Afghan government and people. Today, the Taliban has talks with the Afghan government internally. And if it is to be successful, it needs India’s support. Realising India’s role, the Taliban, which was once against India’s position in Kashmir, has recently recognised Kashmir as internal issue of India. This will  ensure that Pakistan would not be able to use Afghanistan against India and will help reduce insurgency in Kashmir post-US withdrawal from Afghanistan. At this point, if India loses Iran to China completely, then India will lose its influence in Afghanistan slowly and India’s position may be taken by China, which would support Pakistan and strengthen its position. Central Asia and Russia After the disintegration of the Soviet Union, India’s economic relations with the Central Asian countries and Russia declined. The main reason for this was that Central Asia’s landlocked countries were inaccessible to India. China increased its influence in this mineral-rich region through the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation and now the Belt and Road Initiative. India also understands the significance of this region and has proposed several infrastructure projects which would connect Central Asia to Iran and then to India. The International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC) and the Ashgabat Agreement would help India to reach Central Asia. If India loses Iran, then India will also lose access to Central Asia. India has strategic and military relations with Russia, but the economic relations between the two countries is almost insignificant. If India can reach Russia through the INSTC, then it would ensure growth in economic relations as well. So, Iran plays an important role in our ability to reach Russia, too. Way forward India should be cautious in dealing with any country in the world today. Every Indian loss will be a Chinese gain, whether it is Iran, Nepal or any other country. Even though India cannot invest billions of dollars like China, India has some advantages. India is one of the largest oil consumers and Iran definitely wouldn’t want to lose the Indian market. India’s connectivity projects would help Iran also to diversify its markets and grow economically. India should balance its relations with Iran and the US and strive to maintain an independent foreign policy to ensure that its strategic relationship with Tehran is not compromised to please the US. (Vinjarapu is a civil service aspirant; Sandeep is faculty at Navodaya Foundation,  Mysore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/iran-our-gateway-to-afghanistan-eurasia-870423.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu sees 10 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally rises to 620||A total of 382 infected have recovered and they've been discharged from hospital while 229 infected are undergoing treatment at the hospital and in Covid Care Centres. Following the surge in fresh Covid-19 cases, eight more containment zones have been notified by the district administration—Karaguru in Virajpet, quarters near Chaingate in Madikeri, Kunda Road in Ponnampet, T R Road in Ponnampet, Koynad in Sampaje, Above Kuppu and Sons shop near LIC office in Madikeri, first block Vijaynagar and Dundalli. On the other hand, four containment zones near G T School behind Omkareshwara Temple, postal quarters in Madikeri, Mayura Complex in B M Road in Suntikoppa and Yemmemadu in Napoklu have been denotified after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-sees-10-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-620-870490.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Outflow increased to 60,000 cusecs from Kabini||With a large quantum of water entering Kabini dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote Taluk, the authorities of the Dam have increased the outflow to 60,000 cusecs at 10.30 am. The district administration has issued a flood alert to the downstream villages. The outflow was 56,600 cusec and inflow is 45,612 cusec. Now, the outflow of water has been increased to both canal and river. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 TMC and the dam has stored 15.96 TMC. The dam has a capacity to store water up to 2,284 foot and the water level has already reached to 2278 ft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/outflow-increased-to-60000-cusecs-from-kabini-870533.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Revenue Minister R Ashoka visits Udupi's Padubidri beach||Revenue Minister R Ashoka visited Udupi's Padubidri beach, where sea erosion has been reported, and took stock of the situation on Friday. Ashoka said that measures have been taken to ensure that last year’s rain tragedies do not recur this year. He was speaking after visiting the sea erosion-affected Padubidri beach in Udupi on Friday. He said Rs 20 crore has been released to the fire service and emergency department to procure all required materials for rescue operations. The police, revenue, and fire service personnel will tackle flood situations in the state. Additional Rs 5 crore will be released to the district, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revenue-minister-r-ashoka-visits-udupis-padubidri-beach-870556.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Snanaghatta of Kukke Subrahmanya remains inundated||With the Western Ghats receiving bountiful rainfall, the inflow of water to river Kumaradhara in Dakshina Kannada has increased. As a result, the snanaghatta (bathing ghat) of Kukke Subrahmanya continued to remain inundated for the fifth consecutive day, on Friday. The floodwater has entered the toilets, bathrooms and luggage rooms near the snanaghatta. Several plantations and paddy fields on the low-lying areas have been inundated with the floodwater from River Kumaradhara. On the other hand, landslides have occurred at several locations in Bisile Ghat that connects Sakleshpura in Hassan to Subrahmanya and disrupted movement of vehicles. The mounds of soil along with trees have fallen on the ghat road. On the other hand, minor landslides have occurred at Charmadi Ghat and have disrupted movement of vehicles. The work on clearing the mounds of soil and fallen trees are in progress. Several houses have been damaged in Charmadi, Thitathadi, and Bajire, after trees fell on them. As many as 115 people from 24 families are taking shelter in the relief centre started at government school at Mithabagilu in Belthangady.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/snanaghatta-of-kukke-subrahmanya-remains-inundated-870595.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Outflow from Kabini touches 70K cusec||Several villages have lost connectivity as Kapila river is overflowing, with an increase in outflow of water to 70,600 cusec from Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli of HD Kote taluk. The river is receiving almost 78,000 cusec of water, including the outflow from Nugu dam. As heavy rainfall continues in Wayanad of Kerala and other catchment areas of Kabini, the dam is receiving a large quantum of water. While Kapila River is receiving 70,000 cusec of water from Kabini, 6,000 cusec is received from Nugu dam and nearly 2,000 cusec of water from Tarak and Hebballa dams. According to the authorities, there is an increase in water level even after discharging 60,000 cusec from 10.30 am. The Kabini dam is receiving 69,000 cusec of water and thus, the outflow was increased to 70,000 cusec at 6.30 pm on Friday. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 tmcft and the dam has stored 15.96 tmcft. The dam has a capacity to store up to 2,284 feet and the water level was maintained at 2,278 ft. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar visited Nanjangud and inspected the water flow. The DC directed the officials to shift the people, who reside in low lying areas, to safer places. A few paddy fields and farm lands are submerged as the river swelled. As the outflow increased, the Kapila River water entered Halladakeri and Thoopinabeedi in Nanjangud town. As many as eight families were shifted to safer places. Part of ‘Madikatte’ and and Sopana Katte, place to perform rituals of Srikanteshwara temple, were submerged. The river water is likely to enter Mallana Moole Mutt by night. Suttur Bridge in Suttur of Nanjangud taluk is submerged and vehicle movement is banned. The bridge connecting Madapur and Bellathur have been submerged. With water overflowing, nearly 40 villages have lost connectivity. The authorities have made alternative transport facilities to K Belatthur, Manuganahalli, Hunasalli and other villages. The connectivity between Sargur town and HD Kote is likely to be cut as Thumbasoge bridge will be submerged by night.    With Kapila and Kaveri Rivers overflowing, there was a flood-like situation in parts of T Narasipur taluk. The authorities have ordered the people to move to safer places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/outflow-from-kabini-touches-70k-cusec-870743.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain fury: More than 100 houses damaged in Hassan district||More than 100 houses were damaged due to the rain fury in Hassan district. Maize, paddy and other crops on hundreds of acres of land have been destroyed. Nearly, a hundred houses collapsed and were damaged in Sakleshpur taluk alone. Earth caved in at a few places on the rail route between Hassan and Kukke Subramanya. With Harangi dam filled to its maximum level, outflow into Cauvery River has increased. Low-lying areas in Ramanathapura are facing flood threat, this year also. With heavy rain in Malnad region, the inflow to Hemavathi dam increased to 47,000 cusec. With River Hemavathi in spate, District in-charge Minister K Gopalaiah offered bagina at Sakleshpur. Later, he visited the flood-hit region. Azad Road in Sakleshpur town is partially inundated. A cattle shed collapsed at Changadihalli and one Gurulingappa, who was milking the cow, had a narrow escape. Heavy rain over the last four days had destroyed transplanted paddy on more than 100 hectares of land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-fury-more-than-100-houses-damaged-in-hassan-district-870744.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Be prepared to handle flood, says dist in-charge secy||District in-charge Secretary Jayaram directed the district and taluk administrations to be prepared to handle the flood situation and also suggested to take immediate measures to shift people and animals to safer places. Addressing the officials of Taluk Task Forces through video conference at the Zilla Panchayat office here, on Friday, he said that the district is likely to receive heavy rainfall for Saturday as per the reports and the water level in the rivers may increase. The secretary suggested shifting of people and animals from low lying areas, without delay. District-level officials, who are deputed as nodal officers, must-visit taluks and must take measures to open rehabilitation centres and ‘Goshalas’ immediately. Jayaram asked the officials to concentrate more on areas which were affected by floods during the previous years and also advised them to take local people’s representatives into confidence. The secretary directed the officials to conduct a survey of crop and property loss. “The accurate report must be submitted to the government. The officials of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) should repair the damaged power lines immediately,” he said. He asked them not to take leave unless an emergency. “Despite flood and Covid-19 work, the officials must complete their routine work without delay. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar have been directed to be prepared to manage floods and the officials must be ready to handle the situation,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the government has directed to follow the previous year guidelines to issue compensation to flood-related damages. “Until now, no cattle death is reported, but a man lost life due to floods. There will be crop loss as Cauvery, Kabini and Lakshmana Tirtha rivers are overflowing. As many as 66 houses are damaged since August 1,” he said. ZP Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/be-prepared-to-handle-flood-says-dist-in-charge-secy-870745.html
07-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Flood alert in villages on banks of Cauvery||With heavy rain lashing Kodagu district, the inflow into Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam increased considerably. Thus, the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam has issued an alert, cautioning the people that around 30,000 cusec of water would be released into Cauvery River from Friday evening and it may increase later. The inflow to the dam increased to 54,000 cusec on Friday and the water level reached 115.35 ft. With the inflow expected to rise, water is being let out of the dam, as a safety measure, the officials said. Hence, people living on the banks of Cauvery River, downstream, are cautioned to move to safer places, along with their livestock and valuables. Boating is suspended at Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary of Srirangapatna taluk, as a precautionary measure. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said that around 30,000 to 50,000 cusec of water would be released into the river on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flood-alert-in-villages-on-banks-of-cauvery-870747.html
07-08-2020||Main Article||Draft EIA 2020: Inviting disasters, pandemics||Despite the large-scale damage caused by natural disasters and zoonotic diseases such as Covid-19, it is distressing to note that the Narendra Modi government seems determined to go ahead with the Draft EIA Notification 2020 (EIA 2020). If implemented this will sign the death knell of India’s forests, with adverse economic and environmental impacts. When the government’s efforts should be focused on overcoming Covid-19 and the threats on our northern borders, it is lamentable that under the cover of the pandemic, the government is weakening the environmental laws of the country for the benefit of corporates, the real estate sector and the corrupt. The preamble of the notification states that “the central government seeks to make the process more transparent and expedient through implementation of online system, further delegation, rationalisations, etc.” It cites a National Green Tribunal order of 2018 which directed the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to strengthen the monitoring mechanism for compliance of conditions of prior clearance. Rather than strengthening the regulatory mechanism and enhancing penalties for violators the proposed changes seek to weaken environmental regulations and allow violators to go scot-free. As per media reports, one reason advanced by the central government for the proposed changes is to facilitate ‘ease of doing business.’ But while the EIA notification of 2006 (EIA 2006) runs into 45 pages with six appendices, EIA 2020 runs into 83 pages with 15 appendices. The application forms and requirements are so complex and cumbersome that rather than helping in the ease of doing business it will only repel investors, increase red tape, and fatten the purses of corrupt officials. The concern about EIA 2020 is centred around three issues, namely omission of public consultation for certain categories of projects even if these may have adverse environmental and social impacts; post-facto approval of projects that were implemented without prior environment clearance; and reducing the time period for public consultations. The draft EIA 2020 categorises projects into three categories -- A, B1 and B2 -- based on their potential social and environmental impacts, and spatial extent of those impacts. While categories A and B1 projects mandate prior environmental clearance and public consultation, category B2 projects are exempted from public consultation even if they may have adverse environmental and social impacts. Category B2 projects include highways, expressways, ring roads, expansion of existing or widening of existing highways, buildings, and construction with prescribed threshold limits. These threshold limits themselves are to be increased under EIA 2020. For instance, highway projects of up to 100 km under EIA 2020 will now receive the green signal without any public consultation even if they involve destruction of tree cover or pristine forests. While there is a strong case for strengthening the participatory process for approval of such projects, EIA 2020 seeks to reduce the time frame for public notice and consultations. EIA 2020 continues the rule that allows for commencing public consultation proceedings without any quorum! The ominous signs of the government’s intentions are visible. In the midst of the pandemic, the National Board for Wildlife met, with Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar chairing it (instead of the Prime Minister, who heads it but has reportedly never attended it), through video-conferencing and approved 31 proposals without even assessing their environmental impacts. These include 16 projects in ecologically fragile or bio-rich areas such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves. Environmental organisations and activists from the ecologically fragile Himalayan region have, in a memorandum to the MoEFCC, pointed out that the Himalayan region has already witnessed large-scale destruction due to climate change and unbridled development. It notes that if the Himalayan region is developed to generate a potential of 150,000 MW of power, nearly 90% of the Indian Himalayan valleys would be affected by dam-building and 27% of these dams would affect dense forests, and the lives and livelihoods of people. The clearance of a hydro-electric project in Arunachal Pradesh will mean the felling of 278,000 trees in the Himalayan biodiversity hotspot. In Karnataka, the State Wildlife Board which had earlier rejected the Hubballi-Ankola railway line was steamrolled into clearing the project due to the pressure tactics of two BJP ministers. This railway line will cut through the dense forests of the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot in Uttar Kannada district and will require the destruction of about two lakh trees. To deflect criticism, the state government claimed that a study by a scientist from the  Indian Institute of Science had endorsed the project though nobody is aware as to who conducted this study, whether a social cost-benefit appraisal was conducted and what its findings were. To facilitate environmental clearance, even government agencies are fudging data. A recent Deccan Herald report (July 25) notes that the Bangalore Development Authority, which had consistently maintained that only 200 trees would be affected by the Peripheral Ring Road (PPR), has now admitted, after a rap from the Supreme Court, that about 33,838 trees would be affected by the project, of which 9,300 trees are located in the Tippagondanahalli catchment area. Post-facto approval of projects without prior environmental clearance, as proposed by EIA 2020, implies that buildings or apartment complexes which have encroached on catchments or lakebed areas, illegal resorts near national parks, and industries that pollute will all be approved, most likely without even any penalty. In its climate action plan submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), India had said it would endeavour to increase the forest and tree cover by 2030 so as to create an additional carbon sink of 2.5-3 billion tons of CO2 equivalent. Rather than making sincere efforts to protect our forests, the Modi government is weakening India’s environmental regulations and thereby giving an open invitation to  disasters and pandemics. (The author is an economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/draft-eia-2020-inviting-disasters-pandemics-870424.html
07-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 7||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 20 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 20,23,253 as of August 7 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  41,592   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-7-870451.html
07-08-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: The Brahmaputra and Covid-19 engulf Assam||In this episode, get to know the ground situation in Assam, a state that is seeing the fury of the flood and the travails of the pandemic, at the same time. Excerpts: Ahmed Shariff: When did Assam start facing issues from floods? Sumir Karmakar: This year Assam faced flood from May onwards, as we speak today 15 districts are affected by flood and more than 1 lakh people are affected by the flood. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority, 270 villages are still inundated and 1.43 lakh people are affected and 3, 105 people are still in relief camps even today. This year what happened actually is that the flood was consistent. Its tarted in May and it is still on. So, in fact, this year it was more compared to the past. 20% of Assam's population has been affected and out of 33 districts, 30 districts were affected. 110 people have died in the flood and this is the scenario as of today... Sumir: Dear listeners we are joined by Dr Chiranjeeb Kakoty, who is a doctor based in Guwahati and leads an NGO called Northeast society for the promotion o youth and masses. Welcome to DH podcast, Dr Kakoty.This is regarding the serious flood that Assam is facing. This year Assam is facing the flood in the middle of the Coronavirus pandemic. Since you are visiting the affected areas and your team members are on the ground, so give us an idea about the situation. Dr Kakoty: Sumir, this time as you know that 30-31 districts of Assam have been affected by the flood that is about 31 lakh population of Assam which is approximately about 14 lakh of children. Floods in Assam are not new, what is news is the juxtaposition of Covid-19 and floods. However, let us be clear about one thing that one is not serious than the other. Both are serious and both are having a great impact on the lives of people. We already have 100 deaths due to Covid-19, 100 deaths due to floods and more importantly 75 deaths due to Japanese encephalitis syndrome. Now, having said that, we need to be mindful of four core issues. Number 1 is the livelihood issue, because of the lockdown whatever savings people had have got exhausted in the last three months and poor people don't have the savings to last themselves for three months, maybe two months is what they on average save for. And now, when we have flood, these people who have invested their money for flood conditions, like for food, clothing and for medical care but the source of income has stopped because of Covid-19 and this is having the direct impact on the health. If you go to government setting or a private setting, the priority is on Covid. Everything is Covid-centric as a result other health needs have been left on a second or a third priority... To know more about the conversation, tune in to the podcast! Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-the-brahmaputra-and-covid-19-engulf-assam-870454.html
07-08-2020||National||New education policy will focus on 'how to think': Key takeaways from PM Modi's addres on education reforms in NEP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered the inaugural address at the 'Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy' on Friday. Focusing on the highlights of the policy, PM Modi said the National Education Policy was approved after extensive discussions held over the past three to four years and upon deliberations over lakhs of suggestions and will strengthen the nation. The policy will focus on 'How to Think' instead of 'What to Think,' Pm Modi said "Every country goes ahead by connecting its education system to its national values and reforming it as per its national goals," he said, adding that the policy is aimed at keeping its present and future generations 'future-ready'.  He said that the National Education Policy is being discussed across the nation today. People from different fields and ideologies are giving their views and reviewing the policy. "It's a healthy debate. The more it is done, the more it will be beneficial to the education system of the country". Noting that India's earlier education was focused on herd mentality instead of curiosity and creativity, he said, " If our education is lacking in philosophy, the purpose of education, how can it inculcate critical thinking, innovation?" The National Education Policy is based on a holistic approach as "changing times have given rise to a new global system,""A new global standard is rising. It was essential that India changed its education system as per this. Creating a 5+3+3+4 curriculum, while moving ahead from the school curriculum's 10+2 structure, is a step in this direction," he said.  India's education system needed to be modified to be at par with a new global standard. "But the focus must also remain on being rooted in one's native," he added On the language changes in the new draft, he said that if children were taught in their mother tongue, their speed of learning will be much higher and their base will be stronger. Highlighting the need for change in methodology, the PM said, "Our older education focused on 'What to think', while the new National Education Policy will focus on 'How to think'." If the focus is shifted away from a big syllabus and hefty textbooks, education can be more centralised towards the discussion and analysis, he said. Students will also be able to follow their passions. "They will be able to drop streams, go for multiple entry and exits under the credit system. It will allow them to move towards the era where people do not just stick to one profession throughout their lives. We must look at re-skilling and up-skilling," he said. "The NEP addresses the dignity of labour," the prime minister said. Adding at length the importance and relevance of teachers, their training and academic institutions' need for improving infrastructure. PM Modi said the dignity of teachers has been given emphasis in this policy because the "role of teachers in education must be recognised as essential and central."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-will-focus-on-how-to-think-key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-addres-on-education-reforms-in-nep-870523.html
07-08-2020||National||Indian Railways to end colonial-era khalasi system, halts hiring||Indian Railways has decided to end a colonial-era practise of appointing khalasis or ''bungalow peons'' who worked at the residences of senior officials. "The issue regarding the appointment of TADK (telephone attendant-cum-dak khalasis) was under the review of Railway Board. It has, therefore, been decided that any appointment of fresh face substitutes as TADK should not either be processed or made with immediate effect", the Railway Board order issued on August 6 said. "Further, all cases approved for such appointments since July 1st,  2020 may be reviewed and position advised to Board. This may be complied with strictly in all Railway establishments," the order said. Earlier, there were allegations that some railways officials misuse this facility. A TADK is Group D category employee in the national transporter. Bungalow peons have been posted at the residences of railway officers to perform duties such as attending to telephone calls and carrying files from their offices to homes. However, there were complaints that TADKs were being used by officers to perform their household chores. Since Railways is introducing modernisation on several fronts, it has decided to end the services as per changing working conditions. Earlier, Railways had ended another practice of using Dak Messengers, or personal messengers, for official communications and had asked officials to use video conferencing or mail to communicate to save costs. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, after taking charge of the ministry of railways in 2017, asked the railway officials to discontinue British-era practices and use technology as per changing working conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-end-colonial-era-khalasi-system-halts-hiring-870525.html
07-08-2020||National||Gold smashes record high as safety rush intensifies||Gold smashed a record high on Friday as a safety rush fuelled by the worsening coronavirus pandemic and its mounting economic toll gathered pace and put bullion on track for its longest weekly winning streak in nearly a decade. Spot gold was up 0.3% at $2,069.78 per ounce by 0308 GMT after hitting an all-time high of $2,072.50 in early trade. It has added 4.7% so far this week in what would be its ninth straight weekly gain. US gold futures rose 0.6% to $2,081.60. Silver too continued its stellar run. It rose as much as 3.1% to $29.84, adding nearly 19% so far this week in what would be its best week since 1987. "It's difficult to hold anything but a constructive view (on gold)," said ING analyst Warren Patterson. "Whilst the pace of the rally may slow, there certainly does seem to further upside in the near term, and for the remainder of the year." Gold is likely to hover around $2,020-2,080 an ounce in the near term, said National Australia Bank economist John Sharma. "The key factor will be how this virus plays out, and whether there is any progress on vaccines," he added. Benchmark 10-year US Treasury yields were at five-month lows, making the non-interest bearing bullion an attractive investment, and helping it rise more than 35% so far this year. The next focus is closely-watched US employment data, due at 1230 GMT, which is expected to show a payroll increase of 1.58 million in July, compared to 4.8 million in the previous month. "A below consensus number could provide another boost for gold," ING's Patterson said. Elsewhere, platinum dropped 2.1% to $976.72 an ounce and palladium fell 0.6% to $2,208.82.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-smashes-record-high-as-safety-rush-intensifies-870528.html
07-08-2020||National||SC asks Centre, J&K to take definite stand on 4G restoration||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration to take a definite stand on the restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory. A bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana also asked if the high-speed internet could be made available in certain areas over there. The Centre referred to change of Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu with former Union Minister Manoj Sinha. It, however, maintained that the special committee, formed to review the decision on the availability of 4G internet remained the same. The court noted that it had earlier sought clarification in view of previous Lt Governor's press statement on the availability of high-speed internet services. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time to file a reply in the matter. The court posted a contempt petition filed by NGO Foundation for Media Professionals for consideration Tuesday. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for the applicant, contended they were taking a long time to respond in the matter. To this, the bench told him, you have waited this long, wait for some more days, we need to have the government's response, then we will see if there is any contempt and if the order by the court was complied with or not. The NGO filed the contempt plea alleging no special committee was formed to decide on the restoration of the 4G network, in terms of the top court's judgement of May 11, within the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-jk-to-take-definite-stand-on-4g-restoration-870541.html
07-08-2020||National||On National Handloom Day PM asks people to be vocal for handmade products||Lauding those associated with India's "vibrant" handloom and handicraft sector, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked people to be "vocal for handmade" products to strengthen efforts for a self-reliant India. "On National Handloom Day, we salute all those associated with our vibrant handloom and handicrafts sector. They have made commendable efforts to preserve the indigenous crafts of our nation. "Let us all be #Vocal4Handmade and strengthen efforts towards an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Modi said in a tweet.  Several Union ministers and BJP leaders also posted tweets to mark the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-national-handloom-day-pm-asks-people-to-be-vocal-for-handmade-products-870550.html
07-08-2020||National||Aurobindo Pharma working on Covid-19 vaccine; Shortlisted for BIRAC funding||Aurobindo Pharma Limited is working on developing several viral vaccines including one for Covid-19 even as the candidate was approved for funding by the Department of BioTechnology, the company said in its latest annual report. "During the year (FY20), we have further strengthened our presence in the vaccines segment through the acquisition of R&D assets from Profectus Biosciences through Auro Vaccines. Using those R&D assets, the team is working on developing several viral vaccines, including a vaccine for Covid-19," it said. In November 2019, Aurobindo Pharma said its subsidiary Auro Vaccines LLC entered into a pact to acquire certain business assets from Profectus BioSciences Inc USA for an upfront cash consideration of $11.29 million (around Rs 80 crore) with potential earn-outs on achieving certain milestones. "Our vaccine candidate underwent an evaluation by BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, Department of BioTechnology). BIRAC has evaluated our platform extensively and we have been informed that our vaccine has been shortlisted by BIRAC for funding initial development up," the city-based drugmaker said in the annual report. The company is developing a Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV). The global market size of the product is $6.2 billion. The company has successfully completed the Phase-I and Phase II studies. Phase-III clinical study is expected to be initiated by December 2020. The final product would be launched by the end of FY22, Aurobindo said. "The acquisition (of Profectus BioSciences) will also lead to the enhancement of our R&D capabilities and expertise in developing new vaccines from basic discovery to FDA approved products. As part of our commitment to patient needs, we have started working on developing a vaccine for Covid-19," the report said. Aurobindo is setting up manufacturing facilities for orals in China, injectables and other routes of administration like patches, topicals, inhalers, among others in India and in the USA. Also, its biosimilars (Unit XVII) and vaccines facilities (Unit XVIII) are ready for commercialisation. The Covid-19 pandemic impacted select business segments like generic injectables due to a decline in inpatient volumes and out-patient footfalls in the hospitals during the last fiscal. However, the muted growth was offset by volume improvement in other businesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aurobindo-pharma-working-on-covid-19-vaccine-shortlisted-for-birac-funding-870557.html
07-08-2020||National||Probe into 'laddu' distribution at police station in Kerala on groundbreaking ceremony of Ram Temple||A probe is on into the distribution of 'laddus' at a police station in Kerala on Wednesday when the foundation stone for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was laid. The 'laddus' were reportedly distributed among police personnel at the Muvattupuzha police station in Ernakulam district. District police chief K Karthick told DH that a report was sought from Muvattupuzha Deputy Superintendent of Police on the matter. Meanwhile, a police official at the Muvattupuzha police station said that the 'laddus' were kept by a person, who runs a bakery near the police station, in the visitors' room of the police station. He did not mention any reason. Some police officials at the station had it without any other intention. The 'laddu' distribution at the police station in Kerala raised many eyebrows especially since the CPM-led left front is in power in Kerala. The CPM had opposed the Ram Temple bhoomi pujan. Reacting to the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had even said that the priority of the hour was fighting the pandemic and alleviating poverty of the people. He also alleged that the Congress was maintaining a soft Hindutva stand. For these reasons, some anti-CPM cadres were making use of the 'laddu' distribution at the police station to attack the CPM on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-into-laddu-distribution-at-police-station-in-kerala-on-groundbreaking-ceremony-of-ram-temple-870558.html
07-08-2020||National||First Kisan Train begins operation||The first Kisan Special Parcel Train carrying fruits and vegetables between Maharashtra and Bihar started its operation on Friday from Devlali near Nasik in Maharashtra. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal flagged off the train via video conference. Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Opposition Leader in  Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra Agriculture Minister Chagan Bhujabal also joined the event through video conference. The first Kisan Rail started  from Devlali near Nasik to Danapur near Patna on August 7 at 11 am. The train will reach Danapur at 6.45 pm on the next day, covering 1,519 km in 31.45 hours, the statement it said. The same train will return from Danapur at noon on Sunday and reach Devlali at 7.45am on Monday. The parcel trains will have a composition of 10 +1 coaches.  The train will run on weekly basis. There will be at least 14 stoppages on this route, from Nasik Road to Bhusawal to Jabalpur and Buksar. The Railways is also open to increasing the number of stoppages upon farmer demand, a Railways official said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this initiative in her Budget speech earlier this year envisaging setting up of a 'Kisan Rail' through the public-private-partnership (PPP) mode for a cold supply chain to transport perishable goods. Though the proposal to use refrigerated parcel vans to ferry perishables was first announced by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee in the 2009-10 Budget, it failed to take off. This special parcel train operated by the Bhusaval division of Central Railways.Bhusawal Division is primarily an agro-based division and Nasik and the surrounding region produce huge quantities of fresh vegetables, fruits, flowers, other perishables, onions and other agro products. These perishables are mainly transported to areas around Patna, Allahabad, Katni, Satna and others. "Aggressive marketing is being done with local farmers, loaders, APMC and individuals" said the statement said. The railways so far commissioned temperature-controlled perishable cargo centres at Ghazipur Ghat (UP), New Azadpur (Adarsh Nagar, Delhi) and Raja ka Talab (UP) as a pilot project under the Kisan Vision Project by Container Corporation of India Limited (CONCOR) through a CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiative. Another project is under construction at Lasalgaon in Maharashtra's Nasik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-kisan-train-begins-operation-870566.html
07-08-2020||National||New education policy is foundation of new India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) focusses on 'how to think', while the education system till now in the country emphasised on 'what to think'. Referring to the policy as foundation of "new India," the prime minister asked all stakeholders to focus on implementation of reforms laid down in the new policy. "NEP has given rise to a healthy debate and the more we discuss and debate the more it will benefit the education department. It is palpable that questions will arise on how this huge plan will be implemented. We all will together do this implementation. Each one of you is directly involved in implementation of the NEP. In terms of political will, I am totally committed and with you," he said. The prime minister made these remarks while delivering the inaugural address at the ‘Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy’ via video link. He also said that there were no major changes in the country's education system over the years. As a result, instead of promoting values ​​of curiosity and imagination, herd mentality got encouraged. "In recent years, there have not been major changes in education and thus the values of curiosity and imagination were not given the thrust. Instead, we moved towards a herd community. The mapping of interest, ability, and demand was needed. We need to develop critical thinking and innovative thinking abilities in our youths. It will be possible if we have purpose, philosophy, and passion of education," he said. "Till now, we have focussed on what to think but NEP 2020 focuses on how to think. At a time when there is a flood of information and content, it is important that we know which information is necessary and which is not. We need inquiry-based, discovery-based, and analysis-based modes of teaching. This will increase the interest to learn and participate in class," he said. Modi said it is a matter of happiness that after the introduction of the National Education Policy, no region or section has said that it has any kind of bias, or is leaning towards one side. "We are also trying to ensure that the talent of India stays in India and works for the development of generations to come," said the prime minister. The NEP allows top ranking institutes of the world to set-up campuses in India. Earlier, the HRD Ministry had introduced several initiatives under the Study in India program. "India is split on the topic of autonomy. One school of thought says that the government should have the say in education institutes, while the other believes every institute should have freedom. The way to quality-education goes from between both these schools of thought. The institutes which will work more on quality education will be given more freedom as a reward. This will increase the quality and encourage higher education institutes to grow," he said. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Choice between 3 or 4 year undergraduate courses, multiple entry and exit options in degree courses, adding 3.5 crore seats in higher education institutions, which will now have a single regulator, discontinuation of M.Phil programmes and fixation of fees are among the higher education reforms outlined in the new NEP. The conclave to discuss the roadmap for implementation is being organised by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grants Commission, it said. The conclave will have sessions dedicated to significant aspects of education covered under the new National Education Policy (NEP), including holistic, multidisciplinary and futuristic education, quality research and equitable use of technology for better reach in education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-is-foundation-of-new-india-pm-modi-870588.html
07-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 management marked by rising recovery rate, falling fatality rate: Centre||India's Covid-19 management is marked by "two significant achievements" of continuously rising recovery rate among Covid-19 patients and a case fatality rate that has remained much below the global average, according to the health ministry. While the recovery rate among coronavirus patients has risen to a record high of 67.98 per cent, the fatality rate has gone down to 2.05 per cent, it said on Friday. "These two in tandem have enabled a higher and rising difference of more than 7.7 lakh between the number of recovered patients and active cases in India," the ministry said. With 49,769 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours, the number of recoveries have jumped to 13,78,105 on Friday. The recovery rate has increased from 51.08 per cent on June 15 to 67.98 per cent on August 7, while active cases which comprised 46.06 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload now account for 29.96 per cent, it said. "Ramped up hospital infrastructure and emphasis on efficient treatment of hospitalised patients through the standard of care incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol issued by the Centre, have effectively ensured improvement in the recovery rate," the ministry said.  It said the average daily recovered cases (seven-day moving average) have increased from around 26,000 cases to 44,000 cases in the last two weeks. Sustained efforts by the Centre, states and Union Territories through focused and coordinated containment, widespread testing combined with supervised isolation and effective treatment have ensured the decline in the percentage of active cases and rise of the percentage of recoveries, the health ministry said.  Registering a record 62,538 cases in 24 hours, India's Covid-19 tally galloped past 20 lakh on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 41,585 with 886 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-management-marked-by-rising-recovery-rate-falling-fatality-rate-centre-870592.html
07-08-2020||National||National Education Policy's nutritious breakfast idea for school children a welcome step: Vice-President||The Centre accorded the highest priority for health and nutrition and the latest move to provide nutritious breakfast to school children announced in the new National Education Policy 2020 is a welcome step, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday. The recently announced education policy has a provision to provide a nutritious breakfast to school children, the Vice President said inaugurating a virtual consultation 'Science for Resilient Food, Nutrition and Livelihoods: contemporary challenges' organised by the MS Swaminathan Research Foundation here. "This (announcement in the NEP) is a welcome step but much more needs to be done in the context of pandemic and problems of hunger," he added. Among the Centre's health and nutrition initiatives are the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana which has benefited more than 98.16 lakh women, the POSHAN Abhiyan, and rotavirus vaccination, he noted. On farming techniques, the Vice President said, India is a treasure trove of traditional wisdom in the field of agriculture. "Instead of rejecting this wisdom as archaic, we must make every attempt to integrate the best of these techniques into agriculture along with modern technology." Food, agriculture and trade policies have to be constantly reviewed and updated to suit the times, he said. "We must step up investments in improved storage, processing and preservation to retain the nutritional value of food products, rather than investing in highly processed foods," the Vice-President said. There is an imminent need to make agriculture more efficient, resilient, profitable and productive, in order to ensure food and nutrition security to millions. Also, pre-harvest and post-harvest losses have to be minimised, he emphasised. Pointing out that the need to invest in resilient communities, equipped to face these challenges has never been more urgent than today, Naidu called for steps to "build resilient individuals, households as well as communities." Healthy, socially connected, prepared people are better able to withstand, manage, and recover from disasters. He said India has made significant strides in reducing hunger, undernourishment, infant mortality and stunting among children in recent years and the Government of India has accorded the highest priority to combating health and nutrition problems in the country. Lauding Professor Swaminathan as the "Encyclopedia of Agriculture," the Vice President said "It is heartening to note that MSSRF founded by Swaminathan aims to accelerate the use of modern science and technology for agricultural and rural development to improve the lives and livelihoods of communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-education-policys-nutritious-breakfast-idea-for-school-children-a-welcome-step-vice-president-870598.html
07-08-2020||National||Focus now on implementation of National Education Policy: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said he was “fully committed” to the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) and asked officials to draw up a roadmap for the same by next month. Addressing a conclave on ‘Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under NEP’, Modi said the policy was finalised after extensive deliberations and there have been no accusations of bias or leaning towards a particular side. “All eyes are now on the implementation of the policy. We have to do it together. You are directly involved in the implementation and your role is very important. As far as political will is concerned, I am fully committed and completely with you,” the prime minister said at the virtual conference that was attended by vice-chancellors and educationists from across the country. The Prime Minister asked Education Ministry officials to draw up a strategy and roadmap for implementation and complete the mapping of resources for the same. Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare said universities would be identified in each state to hold consultations through webinars to draw up a roadmap for implementation of the NEP. “By end of September a complete roadmap for implementation of NEP will be available,” Khare said. Modi said a major shift in the policy was the emphasis on ‘how to think’ as against the thrust in the previous policy on ‘what to think’. “There is no dearth of information and content these days. The effort is to lay emphasis on inquiry-based, discovery-based & analysis-based ways to help children learn,” the prime minister said. The Prime Minister said the NEP 2020 is being widely discussed across the country and that people from different fields and different ideologies are giving their views and reviewing the policy. “This is a healthy debate. The more it is, the more benefit the country’s education system will get,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-now-on-implementation-of-national-education-policy-pm-narendra-modi-870599.html
07-08-2020||National||Be careful who you mess with: Sushant’s sister Shweta shares cryptic post||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti on Friday posted a cryptic quote on her social media platforms saying people should think about the consequences before messing up with someone. Sushant was found dead at his Bandra residence on June 14. The post featured an image of Lord Shiva and read, “Someone said be careful who you mess with because you don’t know who protects them in the spiritual world.” She captioned the picture with #justiceforsushant. Shweta shared the post hours before the late actor's girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty appeared in front of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the money laundering case lodged by it. Sushant’s untimely demise was followed by a high-profile investigation by Mumbai Police during which many big names from Bollywood, including filmmakers Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Aditya Chopra, recorded their statements. While the Mumbai Police had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) into the death of Sushant, the Patna police had last month registered a case on a complaint from the actor’s father K K Singh against Rhea, her parents Indrajit Chakraborty and Sandhya Chakraborty, brother Showik Chakraborty, and common friends Samuel Miranda and Shruti Modi. The Patna police had filed the FIR under the IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy, abetment to suicide, wrongful confinement, criminal breach of trust, theft and criminal intimidation which was forwarded to the Centre for a CBI probe on Thursday. Rhea had initially refused to appear in front of the ED, citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-careful-who-you-mess-with-sushant-s-sister-shweta-shares-cryptic-post-870606.html
07-08-2020||National||SC asks Centre to bring on board families of fishermen, killed by Italian marines||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to bring on board members of the families of two fishermen, who were allegedly killed by two Italian marines off Kerala coast in 2012, as they were required to be paid adequate compensation. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file an impleadment application on behalf of victim's families within a week. Mehta said the government was willing to withdraw the prosecution against the marines as Italy has agreed to prosecute them over there following the decision by an international tribunal. "We cannot think of any relief for marines till their prosecution is not withdrawn here," the bench said. Mehta said the government was willing to file a petition for withdrawing prosecution. "But the family of victims will have a problem. They will have to be heard," the bench said. The court was also informed that compensation has already also been paid to the families of the two fishermen. In July, the Centre has informed the court that it has taken a decision to accept and abide by the International Tribunal's award.  The Tribunal set up under the  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020, ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter involving two Marines would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by them, and India would be entitled to grant of compensation.  The Centre has asked the top court to close the matter pending before it. On August 26, 2015, the top court had stayed the proceedings before it against the NIA probe, in view of the pendency of the issue before International Tribunal on Law of the Sea (ITLOS). Marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who were aboard the Italian-flagged commercial oil tanker 'Enrica Lexie', were accused of killing two Indian fishermen off Kerala coast on February 15, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-bring-on-board-families-of-fishermen-killed-by-italian-marines-870632.html
07-08-2020||National||SC declines to consider plea for NIA probe into 2008 MoU between Congress and CPC||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea for an NIA or CBI probe into 2008 agreements signed by the Congress party and the Communist Party of China. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the petitioners that what has been averred in the plea was unheard of. "How absurd! You are saying a political party has entered into an agreement with China. We will allow you to withdraw this. However, you must tell you that we want you to examine the averments," the bench told the counsel, appearing for petitioners advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha and journalist Savio Rodrigues. "The agreement needs to be brought in public domain. There are sinister motives," Jethmalani said. He claimed that the issue was centred around offences related to the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The court, however, asked him to approach the High Court. The petitioners claimed details of Memorandum of Understandings were yet not revealed, in violation of right to life of citizens. In their joint plea, they sought transparency and clarity on the agreement signed on August 7, 2008 in Beijing for "exchanging high-level information and co-operation between them". The MoU also provided the two parties with the “opportunity to consult each other on important bilateral, regional and international developments”. They named Congress party, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Union government as parties to the petition. The petition was filed at a time amid tension between India and China their troops were involved into bloody clash along Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, leading to martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers. They cited news report stating that there were about 600 intrusions and face-off on China's side of border between 2008 and 2013, making it all the more necessary to disclose details of the agreements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-for-nia-probe-into-2008-mou-between-congress-and-cpc-870657.html
07-08-2020||National||SC dismisses advance bail plea by activist in case of painting half-nude body||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea for anticipatory bail by Kerala activist Rehana Fathima in a case arising out of her children painting on her half nude body, saying her acts were a little baffling and unthinkable. "It is a clear obscenity that you are spreading. It will leave the society in a very bad taste," a bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra told her counsel Gopal Sankaranarayana. As he contended that she has been charged with child pornography and not obscenity, the bench asked him, "Why do you do all this? You might be activist but why do this. What kind of nonsense is this! What impression will the kids get." The court pointed out her act would fall within the meaning and definition of child pornography, rejecting the counsel's further contention that her children were fully clothed. The Kerala HC had on July 24 rejected Fathima's plea for advance bail after a complaint was lodged against her by a BJP worker with the child rights panel, which ordered for lodging of the FIR under provisions of the POCSO Act, the Information Technology Act and the Juvenile Justice Act. Fathima, who shot into limelight after attempt to enter the Sabarimala temple in 2018, claimed she asked her children, a boy and girl, aged 14 and eight respectively, to paint her body as they were required to be imparted sex education. She had then uploaded the video in social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-advance-bail-plea-by-activist-in-case-of-painting-half-nude-body-870660.html
07-08-2020||National||Mumbai police sided with Rhea Chakraborty, Bihar police tells SC||The Bihar police on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has recommended for the CBI probe into June 14 death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, given "the sensitivity and inter-state ramifications and presence of the accused in Mumbai and rest of the country". In an affidavit, the Bihar police claimed jurisdiction to register the FIR and investigate the matter as per the law laid down by the Constitution bench of the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari case (2014). It also submitted that the transfer petition was not maintainable for transfer of the investigation. The response was filed in a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty, live-in partner of the actor, for transfer of Patna FIR to Mumbai. The FIR in Patna was lodged on July 25 by the actor's father who accused Rhea and others of abetment to suicide, illegal confinement, and misappropriation of funds, among others. The affidavit by the Patna SSP also claimed that the conduct of Mumbai police "casts a serious aspersion on their role" as it "is apparently siding with the petitioner (Rhea) for the reasons best known to them". "The Mumbai Police has not supplied any documents such as Inquest Report, Post Mortem report, FSL report, CCTV footage etc to the Patna Police despite several requests. No cognizable case has been registered in Mumbai in connection with death of the actor," it said. In a related development, the Union government sought to be impleaded as a necessary party in the transfer petition by Rhea, which is slated to come up for consideration next week. On Friday, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde refused to entertain a PIL filed by a law student, Dwivendra Dubey seeking CBI probe into the actor's death as the issue became infructuous with the Centre accepting Bihar government’s recommendation for CBI probe. The court said the petitioner was a total stranger in the case and a complaint was already filed by the actor's father, which was acted upon by the Bihar government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the CBI has already taken over the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-sided-with-rhea-chakraborty-bihar-police-tells-sc-870666.html
07-08-2020||National||PM anguished by loss of lives in Kerala landslide||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed anguish at the loss of lives in a landslide in Kerala's Idukki district following heavy rains. The Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) would be given to the next of kin of those killed in the landslide. Ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to a landslide in Rajamalai, Idukki. Rs. 50,000 each would be given to those injured due to the landslide. Rs 50,000 each would be given to those injured. Five people were killed when a mound of earth caved in on a row of houses of tea estate workers at Pettimudi in the high range Idukki district early this morning as heavy rains pounded the area triggering the landslide. "Pained by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Rajamalai, Idukki. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families," the prime minister tweeted. Praying for the early recovery of the injured, Modi said NDRF and the administration are working on the ground, providing assistance to the affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-anguished-by-loss-of-lives-in-kerala-landslide-870668.html
07-08-2020||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on PIL for setting up body to regulate news broadcasters||The Supreme Court Friday sought the Centre's reply on a PIL seeking direction to set up an independent body to regulate and facilitate broadcasting services in the country. Besides the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also issued notices to the News Broadcasters Association, the News Broadcasting Standards Authority of India and the Press Council of India on the PIL filed by Delhi-based lawyer Reepak Kansal. The plea said that an independent body with the name of the Broadcast Regulatory Authority of India be set up to check “sensational reporting” and discourse by TV news channels on critical issues. "The petitioner seeks indulgence of this court to protect and safeguard right of life with dignity as guaranteed under the Constitution and which have been assassinated by uncontrolled and unregulated broadcasting electronic channels claimed to be ‘Press’," the PIL said and referred to some news channels' reporting in support of the claim. The freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 (1) of the Constitution doesn’t permit anyone to assail the dignity of individuals and political and religious organisation, it said. Referring to reasonable restrictions on freedom of speech and expression as mentioned in clause (2) of Article 19, it said that they prevent "any person from making any statement that injures the reputation of another". The Constitution also prohibits a person from making statements that incite people to commit offense. Under Indian law, the freedom of speech is not an absolute right to express one's thoughts freely, not even the Press, the plea said. The Constitution enables the legislature to impose certain restrictions on free speech if it adversely affects "security of the state, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency and morality, contempt of court, defamation, incitement to an offence and sovereignty and integrity of India", the plea said. "The airwaves are public property and it is necessary to regulate the use of such airwaves in national and public interest, particularly with a view to ensuring proper dissemination of content and in the widest possible manner," it said. Some of these said electronic broadcasting channels claimed to be news channels, have been spreading negativity and enmity among the different communities of the nation, it said. Some channels have been targeting one community and instigating one community towards another, it said, adding that "due to said illegal activities in the name of journalism by these self regulated broadcasting channels, India’s ranking fell from 138 to 140 out of 180 countries in RSF's 2019 World Press Freedom Index". The plea has also sought a direction to the Centre "to control these uncontrolled and unregulated broadcasting electronic channels". The lawyer in the PIL has also sought a direction to restrict "media trial" and interference in the administration of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-pil-for-setting-up-body-to-regulate-news-broadcasters-870669.html
07-08-2020||National||PM Modi to inaugurate submarine cable connectivity to Andaman & Nicobar Islands on August 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and dedicate to the nation via video conferencing the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair on August 10, an official release said on Friday. The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat. This will enable delivery of faster and more reliable mobile and landline telecom services to Andaman & Nicobar Islands, at par with other parts of India. "Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to inaugurate submarine cable connectivity to Andaman & Nicobar Islands (A&NI) on Monday 10 August," the statement said. The foundation stone for the project was laid by the prime minister in December 2018 at Port Blair. The submarine optical fibre cable link will deliver bandwidth of 2 x 200 Gigabits per second (Gbps) between Chennai and Port Blair, and 2 x 100 Gbps between Port Blair and the other islands. "Provision of reliable, robust, and high-speed telecom and broadband facilities in these islands will be a landmark achievement from the viewpoint of consumers, as well as for strategic and governance reasons," the release said. Besides this, 4G mobile services, which were constrained due to limited backhaul bandwidth provided via satellite will also see a major boost. "Enhanced telecom and broadband connectivity will boost tourism and employment generation in the Islands, give an impetus to the economy and raise standards of living. Better connectivity will also facilitate delivery of e-Governance services such as telemedicine and tele-education," the statement added. At the same time, small enterprises will benefit from opportunities in e-commerce, while educational institutions will utilise the enhanced availability of bandwidth for e-learning and knowledge sharing. Business Process Outsourcing services and other medium and large enterprises too also benefit from better connectivity. The project is funded by the Government through the Universal Service Obligation Fund under Ministry of Communications. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) executed the project while Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) was the technical consultant. About 2,300 km of Submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) has been laid at a cost of about Rs 1,224 crore, and the project has been completed in time, the statement noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-submarine-cable-connectivity-to-andaman-nicobar-islands-on-august-10-870674.html
07-08-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on plea for defining press freedom||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea to "restrict the assassination of dignity" of individuals, communities, religious saints, and political organisations as well as personalities by electronic channels in the name of freedom of press. A three-judge bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, sought a response from the Union government within four weeks after hearing senior advocate Jitendra M Sharma on behalf petitioner-lawyer, Reepak Kansal. In his plea, Kansal said that there were many TV channels which indulged in the "uncontrolled and unregulated" media trial, parallel trial, judgmental views and interfering in the administration of justice. He sought a direction to the Union Government to constitute an independent authority to be known as the Broadcast Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) for the purpose of regulating and facilitating development of broadcasting services in India. He said the court should ask the government to stop misuse of airwaves by the electronic channels in the name of media, press and journalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-defining-press-freedom-870675.html
07-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir, six injured||In today’s episode, landslides resulting from heavy rain in Western Ghats had lead to traffic disruption and IMD issues orange alert in certain parts; Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the Enforcement Directorate, and Serum Institute of India (SII) has entered into a new landmark partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and low and middle-income countries.  Here are the top news of today, Friday: August 7, 2020: An army official has said that six civilians were injured as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Naugam and Tangdhar sectors of Jammu and Kashmir today by resorting to unprovoked firing towards Indian positions. He said six civilians were injured due to Pakistani shelling in Tangdhar sector while no casualties had been reported from Naugam sector so far.  He said a "befitting response" was given to the Pakistani aggression by the Indian Army.  Over the past couple of months, the Indian government citing security concerns related to user privacy data, banned more than 105 Chinese apps including the TikTok, ShareIT, Mi Browser, and others. Now, popular mobile maker Xiaomi announced that it will be releasing a special MIUI update for the Indian market, which will clean pre-loaded apps, which were recently blocked by the government. Also, Xiaomi clarified that Clean Master, which is often confused as the app developed by the notorious Cheetah Mobile, is not present in any of the Redmi, Mi, or any other Xiaomi-branded phones. The company added it has its own clean app used to clear memory to improve the response time of the phone. To allay the fears, the MIUI Cleaner app is being disabled by default via a firmware update. Users can manually update the software on Settings by going to System apps updater. Also, the company iterated that the user-data of the citizens using the Xiaomi phones are stored in India and also asked consumers not to fall prey to misinformation on social media sites over unsubstantiated reports of Xiaomi not adhering to Indian government orders on blocking some Chinese apps.  It can be noted that the company formally opened the local data centers in 2018.  An "in principle" government approval has come for the BCCI to take the IPL to the UAE this year and the eight franchises have started their preparations by initiating quarantine and Covid-19 testing protocols for their players and support staff. A BCCI source told PTI that the permission in writing is due to come any time in the next few days. "We have got the approval in principle to go ahead and the papers will be landing anytime," a top source said. Most of the franchises will be leaving base after August 20 mandated by the BCCI. The Chennai Super Kings are set to leave on August 22. The Mumbai Indians, on the other hand, has quarantined its Indian players at its base. Some franchises are arranging Covid-19 tests for their players in their respective cities before heading for departure bases (Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru) for UAE. Amid mounting pressure, actor and model Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday in the wake of her pending petition in the Supreme Court. Rhea (28) has been accused by Sushant Singh Rajput’s family of abetting the actor’s suicide and swindling off his money. The ED has registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) based on the first information report (FIR) lodged in the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna. The CBI has now taken over the case after the Bihar government wrote to the Centre. The ED had summoned Rhea to appear before it on Friday, however, her lawyer Satish Maneshinde in a brief message in the morning saying: “Rhea has requested that the recording of her statement be postponed till Supreme Court hearing.” The ED, however, decided to register a case of non-compliance with summons, after which Rhea drove to Mumbai’s ED office and presented herself and joined investigations. The Serum Institute of India (SII) has entered into a new landmark partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and low and middle-income countries (LMICs). The collaboration will provide upfront capital to SII to help them increase manufacturing capacity now so that, once a vaccine, or vaccines, gains regulatory approval and WHO prequalification, doses can be produced at scale for distribution to India and LMIC as part of the Gavi COVAX AMC mechanism as early as the first half of 2021. The funding will support at-risk manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO Prequalification. The institute has set an affordable ceiling price of US $3 per dose, a press statement said here on Friday. The arrangement also provides an option to secure additional doses if the vaccines pillar of the ACT Accelerator sees a need for it. The landslide at Pettimudi near Maunnar in Idukki occurred almost exactly one year after Kerala witnessed two major landslides. The state is also witnessing natural calamities in the month of August for the third year in a row. The landslide at Pettumudi took place during the early hours of Friday morning. It was on August 8 last year, that the state witnessed major landslides at Puthumala in Wayanad and Kavalapara in Malappuram districts that claimed 17 and 59 lives respectively. The total death toll in calamities during August 2019 was 121. Back in Karnataka, the rain situation may be turning worse. Let’s listen in to our correspondent in Coastal Karnataka Naina to know what’s happening there:  Flood and other natural calamities along with the pandemic  may be the perfect recipe to criple the resources. Listen in to our today’s episode of The Lead to know the ground situation in Assam, a state that has seen floods three months now... Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-six-injured-870681.html
07-08-2020||National||RBI reveals nation's mood: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed on Friday that the RBI has revealed the "mood of the nation" saying people's confidence is at an "all-time low" and insecurity high. He also said one can expect more bad news on jobs and the country's economy. "RBI reveals the real 'Mood of the Nation': People's confidence at all time low. Fear and insecurity are at all time high. Expect more bad news on the economy and jobs front," the former Congress chief wrote on Twitter. RBI reveals the real 'Mood of the Nation': People's confidence at all time low.Fear and insecurity at all time high. He also tagged a graph showing a dip in people's confidence levels. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept the interest rates unchanged on Thursday to help tame the inflation that in recent times has surged past the six per cent-mark and said the economy is in an extremely weak condition following the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-reveals-nations-mood-rahul-gandhi-870682.html
07-08-2020||National||Media can't be gagged with blanket order: Centre to SC on Tablighi Jamaat reports||The Union government on Friday told the Supreme Court that an “attempt to seek a blanket gag order against the entire media” would meddle with freedom of Indians to know about various sections of the nation and the right of the journalists to ensure an informed society. Responding to a plea for strict action against the media for communalisation of the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz, the Centre said in an affidavit that “media cannot be gagged” and that Citizens, in fact, have the right and freedom to know. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the matter can be looked at from the perspective of reporting standards. Senior Advocate Dushyant Dave said that the Prime Minister has himself said not to communalise the Covid crisis. The issue was required to be addressed. To this, the bench said we were not belittling the problem but we're handicapped due to lack of expertise.  An expert body can have a look at the issue, the bench added. The court gave two weeks time to the petitioners including Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind to file their rejoinder.  The News Broadcasters Association, for its part, said it was already looking at the issue especially from the perspective of Tablighi Jamaat. The court also sought a response from the News Broadcasting Standards authority and News Broadcasting Federation. Over thousands of members, including foreigners, participated in Tablighi Jamat in Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. Hundreds of them were subsequently found to be infected with the coronavirus. After the incident, several news reports were shown with "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by presenting the information in a "twisted and incendiary manner". The petitioner alleged that certain sections of media have excerbated tension in society by showing "virulent and vitriolic statements" inciting hatred against the entire Muslim community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-cant-be-gagged-with-blanket-order-centre-to-sc-on-tablighi-jamaat-reports-870686.html
07-08-2020||National||Online exit exam for seafarers launched||Union Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday launched online exit examination for the seafarers via virtual ceremony. The seafarers, who are getting training in different Maritime Training Institutes under Directorate General of Shipping, can now appear in the exam from the comfort of their homes in this unprecedented time of Covid-19 pandemic, a statement from Shipping Ministry said. In his inaugural address, Mandaviya said from 1.54 lakh seafarers in 2017, we have reached 2.34 lakh seafarers in 2019. But our target is to prepare 5 lakh seafarers to cater to the growing needs of Indian and global maritime industry, he said. Mandaviya added that India is the only country in the world, which has started online examination for the seafarers from the comfort of their home in this pandemic. He said that because of the online exam, accuracy of the exam and uniformity in assessment of candidates can be ensured. With the online exam, seafarers will get a chance to qualify the exit exam at the comfort of their homes. In a virtual inauguration ceremony, Director General Shipping Amitabh Kumar said online exit examination designed with enhanced security features, enables candidates to take examination from home, with almost zero possibility of any misconduct during the exam, he said. Sanjeev Ranjan, Secretary Shipping along with senior officials of the ministry, officers from Directorate General of Shipping, Maritime Training Institutes and seafarers were present in the virtual launching ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-exit-exam-for-seafarers-launched-870687.html
07-08-2020||National||16 crore people watched Ayodhya ceremony live on Doordarshan: Prasar Bharati CEO||Over 16 crore people are estimated to have watched the live telecast of the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony in Ayodhya for the Ram Temple by Doordarshan, Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi S Vempati said on Friday. He said it resulted in the viewership of more than seven billion viewing minutes. "(As) Per preliminary estimates over 160 million people watched the live telecast of the Ayodhya Ram Temple Bhoomi Pujan ceremony, resulting in viewership of more than seven billion viewing minutes across the TV universe in India," Vempati tweeted. "Above viewership is of Doordarshan’s live coverage which was carried by nearly 200 TV channels during the main events between 10:45 AM and 2 PM on Wednesday," he added. On August 5, Vempati tweeted that there was a viewership of 15 million digital watch minutes on the YouTube channels of DD National and DD News. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for the temple in Ayodhya, where Lord Ram is believed to have taken birth. Doordarshan, the state broadcaster, had telecast the entire function live. Earlier, parties like CPI(M) and CPI had objected to the use of the state broadcaster for the live telecast of the event, saying the government was mixing religion with politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-crore-people-watched-ayodhya-ceremony-live-on-doordarshan-prasar-bharati-ceo-870689.html
07-08-2020||National||NDRF rescuers to sport new tricolour-bearing uniform||Rescuers of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will now sport the Indian tricolour on their orange-coloured operations uniform as an order has been issued to change and give it a "distinct" new look, officials said. The decision has been taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired a meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in August last year on "adopting distinctive and uniform pattern dress for response force at the Centre and states". The federal contingency force has issued an order that states that the NDRF uniform used in operations will now have a "tricolour patch" on the left side of the chest. The uniform shirt, an orange-coloured bearing radium reflective stripes, will also have the NDRF logo on the right side of the chest while the top back portion will have 'NDRF INDIA' embossed on it, an order issued by the NDRF headquarters on August 5 said. No other photo or letters will be printed on the operational dungaree or the reflective jacket, the order accessed by PTI said. The order directed NDRF battalion commanders that these guidelines are to be "enforced without exception". At present, NDRF personnel wear full or half-sleeved orange-coloured reflective shirts, which had 'NDRF INDIA' printed on the back while in some it was not mentioned.  The shirts are matched by similar orange-coloured half or full pants. A senior official said the addition of the country flag and force name to the uniform will give a distinct identity to the rescuers wherever they work, be it in the country or abroad. Also, it will bring uniformity to the combat dress, which has various formats within the force, he said. The NDRF was raised in 2006 and has its 12 battalions, comprising over 13,000 personnel, based at various locations in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndrf-rescuers-to-sport-new-tricolour-bearing-uniform-870702.html
07-08-2020||National||Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral on Friday tested positive for Covid-19, prompting several MPs who attended a Parliamentary Standing Committee along with him to take precaution. The 72-year-old MP attended the meeting of Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice, which discussed the Functioning of Courts through Video Conferencing/Virtual Courts’ and heard representatives of Bar Council of India, Delhi High Court Bar Association and Co-ordination Committee of Delhi District Court Bar Associations. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien once again demanded virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee and said there was enough scope to tweak rules. "An MP who attended a Parliament Standing Committee meeting on Thursday, tested positive today (Friday). We wish him a speedy recovery. Trinamool MPs are not attending. For 4 months we have been urging that these meetings happen virtually. Enough scope to tweak rules. Anyone listening!" he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akali-dal-mp-naresh-gujral-tests-positive-for-covid-19-870709.html
07-08-2020||National||Amid China's aggression, Pompeo, Jaishankar discuss Quad meet||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterparts from the United States, Japan and Australia are likely to hold talks soon to give a fillip to the ‘Quad’ to counter China’s belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India but also across the Indo-Pacific region. Jaishankar and his US counterpart, Mike Pompeo, had a phone call late at night on Thursday. They discussed scheduling the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the four members of the Quad. They also discussed China’s aggressive moves to alter the status quo along its Line of Actual Control or de facto boundary with India as well in the South China Sea and the East China Sea. The External Affairs Minister and the American Secretary of State reiterated the “strength” of the India-US relationship “to advance peace, prosperity, and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe”. They agreed to “continue close cooperation on a full range of regional and international issues and look forward to quadrilateral consultations and the India-US 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year”, according to a press release issued by the American State Department. “A wide-ranging conversation yesterday night with @SecPompeo. Reviewed our bilateral cooperation including working of relevant mechanisms. Shared assessments on regional and global issues including South Asia, Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific & (and) beyond,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter. “Exchanged views on responding to the coronavirus challenge. Discussed meeting in the Quad format in the near future.” India, US, Australia and Japan had first launched the 'Quad' in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the 'Quad' in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter China’s growing assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific area. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers when US Secretary of State hosted his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India on the side-line of the UNGA in September 2019. China’s post-Covid-19 military aggression prompted India and the US to renew its focus on the Quad. India of late quietly added a military heft to the Quad by inking an agreement on Mutual Logistics Support Arrangement (MLSA) with Australia. The agreement is intended to open up the military bases of India and Australia for each other’s army, navy and air forces. India is also likely to sign a similar agreement with Japan soon. It had already signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the US in August 2016.   Prime Ministers of Japan and Australia, Shinzo Abe and Scott Morrison, agreed to expand the military cooperation among the Quad nations to counter China’s expansionist moves in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-chinas-aggression-pompeo-jaishankar-discuss-quad-meet-870712.html
07-08-2020||National||Ministry of External Affairs holds programme on good governance practices during Covid-19 pandemic||A two-day programme on good governance practices during Covid-19 pandemic was held in the national capital by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). In a statement, the MEA said the event saw 70 participants from Azerbaijan, Bhutan, Bolivia, Cambodia, Colombia, Kenya, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Somalia, Zambia and other Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) partner countries. "A two-day eITEC programme on 'Covid-19 – Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic' at National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG) was inaugurated by V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs and Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, PG and Pensions, on August 6," the statement said. This is the 11th such eITEC programme on Covid-19 organised by the Ministry of External Affairs in which around 900 participants from different ITEC partner countries have participated and benefited, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-external-affairs-holds-programme-on-good-governance-practices-during-covid-19-pandemic-870714.html
07-08-2020||National||DDA partners with CSCs to rollout PM-UDAY to provide ownership rights||Residents of unauthorised colonies in Delhi can now walk into their nearest Common Services Centers (CSC) to apply for ownership rights to their property, with CSC and Delhi Development Authority (DDA) partnering to roll out Pradhan Mantri Unauthorized Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY). The DDA has tied up with CSC e-Governance Services India Limited, a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics & IT managing the CSC scheme,  for carrying out online registration of citizens under the scheme as well as filing of applications for conferment of right in unauthorized colonies. As a first step, the Village Level Entrepreneur of CSC will help the resident to register under the scheme through the DDA’s e-Portal by entering the property details. Once the form is submitted, the VLE will provide the print-out of the Acknowledgement Receipt to the resident. The receipt will contain the unique Registration Number and details of the Empaneled GIS Agencies for fixing geo-coordinates of the property. Once the empanelled GIS Agency visits the property and uploads the geo-coordinates on the DDA portal, the resident will receive a unique "GIS ID" on the registered mobile number and email ID. The resident can then visit the CSC for filing application form through PM-UDAY portal. Along with the filling of the form, the scanned copies of documents like the General Power of Attorney (GPA), Sale Deed, Will, Payment Receipt, Documentary Proof of Construction, Electricity Bill, Property Tax Mutation, Affidavits, etc. will also be uploaded. Once the form is submitted and payment made, the VLE will provide a printout of the final submitted application with the Unique Case ID to the resident.  "With the scheme and service being extended by CSCs, citizens can use the digital processes through facilitation by VLEs who are from nearby communities,"  Dinesh Tyagi, Chief Executive Officer of Common Service Centre said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dda-partners-with-cscs-to-rollout-pm-uday-to-provide-ownership-rights-870717.html
07-08-2020||National||PM SVANidhi: Centre launches 'Letter of Recommendation' module for street vendors||Street vendors, who don't have identity cards or certificate of vending, will now be able to avail benefits under the PM SVANidhi scheme as the Centre on Friday launched the ''Letter of Recommendation module'' through which they can get loans of up to Rs 10,000. Union Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra launched the facility and said an eligible vendor can request for a Letter of Recommendation (LoR) with an urban local body, said a statement from the ministry. Under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, vendors can avail a working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000 which is repayable in monthly instalments in the tenure of one year. Mishra said after getting the LoR, a vendor can apply for the loan under the scheme. According to the ministry, the LoR module is designed to give access to street vendors who do not have identity cards and certificates of vending and are not in the surveyed list for availing benefits under the scheme. To apply for the LoR from the urban local body through an online module on the PM SVANidhi portal, a vendor needs to possess any one of these documents -- proof of availing one-time assistance provided by certain states during the period of lockdown, membership details with the vendors'' associations, or any other documents to prove that he is a vendor. "Also, a vendor can also request ULB (urban local body) through a simple application on white paper to conduct a local enquiry to ascertain the genuineness of the claim as a vendor. ULBs will have to dispose of the request for issue of LoR within a period of 15 days," said in the statement. It stated that the vendors possessing LoR will be issued a certificate of vending or identity card within a period of 30 days. PM SVANidhi was launched by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on June 1 for providing affordable working capital loan to street vendors to resume their livelihoods that have been adversely affected due to the pandemic-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-svanidhi-centre-launches-letter-of-recommendation-module-for-street-vendors-870720.html
07-08-2020||National||OCI card holders from US, Germany, France, Kuwait can fly to India: Govt||In further relaxations on restrictions placed after the Covid-19 pandemic, the government on Friday allowed Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) card holders from the United States, Germany, France and Kuwait to fly into India. The decision came after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) cleared the proposal to allow OCI card holders from countries with which India entered into an "air bubble" agreement. So far, OCI card holders were not allowed to travel into India following restrictions placed on international flights.  Besides the four countries, an MHA office memorandum said, other countries may be included under this scheme in future. Other foreigners have also been allowed to avail Indian visa facility for business, medical & employment purposes.  Indian citizens have also been allowed to travel to such countries on any type of visa provided there is no travel restriction there. “It would be for the airlines concerned to ensure that there is no travel restriction for Indian nationals to enter the country concerned with the particular visa category before the issue of tickets/boarding pass to the Indian passenger,” the MHA document said. In June, the government had relaxed visa rules further to allow minor foreign nationals whose one of the parents is an Indian national or an OCI card holders and foreign nationals married to Indian citizens among others to fly into the country. Foreign nationals who are single parents of minor children holding Indian passports or OCI cards and students who are foreign nationals with at least one of their parents is an Indian citizen or OCI card holders were also allowed to enter the country in June.  Earlier on May 22, India had allowed minor children born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards and OCI card holders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like a death in family were allowed to travel to India/ Similarly, couples where one spouse is an OCI card holders and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India as well as university students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India were also allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oci-card-holders-from-us-germany-france-kuwait-can-fly-to-india-govt-870724.html
07-08-2020||National||Cord blood to be used for Covid-19 treatment: Mamata Banerjee||The CM also announced that tele-counselling would be employed to help Covid-19 patients, a task that would be assisted by psychology students. “We already have a plasma bank where blood is donated by recovered coronavirus patients. We also have a cord blood bank. This cord blood bank can also be utilised for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients,” said the TMC supremo. According to Chief Secretary Rajiv Sinha, the state intends to set up a more systematic Covid management system. All hospitals, whether public or private, would update their Covid-19 numbers, including critical, mild and asymptomatic ones. This information will be publicly accessible. 500 people are expected to be recruited as Covid staff. They would be selected on the basis of a walk-in interview. The chief secretary also detailed the other measures taken regarding the pandemic, including the addition of over 500 beds for Covid patients in public and private facilities. He added that over 25,000 tests had been conducted in Kolkata itself, 80 per cent of which were Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cord-blood-to-be-used-for-covid-19-treatment-mamata-banerjee-870725.html
07-08-2020||National||ICMR proposes national registry to study Covid-19 in detail||After eight months and more than 20 lakh cases, Indian Council of Medical Research has initiated a process to establish a national clinical registry of Covid-19 to systematically investigate various aspects of the pandemic in India. In the registry, ICMR seeks to enrol at least 100 hospitals representing every region and hotspot cities. They would be mentored by 15 tertiary care hospitals such as All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi; National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry. "The process to set up the registry has been initiated. It should be up and running within a month,” Aparna Mukherjee, a senior ICMR scientist associated with the project told DH. The aim is to analyse patient data to study the natural course of the Covid-19 in India, disease spectrum, prognostic factors, risk factors and how Covid-19 impacts those suffering from tuberculosis and malnutrition. The study would initially be carried out for one year but can be extended later depending on the requirement.  "In the registry, we plan to collect Covid-19 information from hospitalised patients. There are similar registries in the USA and other developed countries,” she said. When it's operational, the National Clinical Registry of Covid-19 will generate weekly reports, help formulate patient management protocols and develop policy guidelines for decision making and understand the predictors of disease severity so that patient management protocols can be optimised accordingly. Each of the 15 mentor institutes has been assigned different states so that they reach out to the Covid-19 hospitals in those states and enrol them as study sites if they are willing. NIMHANS is responsible for Karnataka while AIIMS, Delhi will cater to Delhi and Bihar. JIPMER will cover Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry whereas Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad will look after Telangana.  ' Some of the other mentor hospitals are AIIMS, Bhubaneswar (Odisha); AIIMS, Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh); AIIMS Raipur (Chhattishgarh, Jharkhand); AIIMS, Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Armed Forces Medical College, Pune (Maharashtra, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli) and King George Medical University Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). Among other things, such a registry would also help understand variations in clinical signs and symptoms and spectrum of diseases in India as compared to other affected countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-proposes-national-registry-to-study-covid-19-in-detail-870726.html
07-08-2020||National||'Ram temple will be able to withstand natural calamities for thousand years'||A member of the trust overseeing the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Friday said its structure will be earthquake resistant and withstand natural calamities for a thousand years. Addressing reporters at Ayodhya’s Karswakpuram, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra general secretary Champat Rai said the foundation of its pillars will be deep as the bridges built on rivers, making the temple earthquake resistant. The temple will be strong enough to withstand nature calamities for a thousand years, he added. Rai said Larson and Turbo, the company tasked with construction of the temple, has told him that the plan of its foundation will be ready soon as it is in its final phase. “We will get the plan passed by the Ayodhya Development Authority after paying the due fee. We don’t want any exemption," he said. Champat Rai said the sculptures found during the digging and levelling of the land will be put on display at the temple. He also said the trust has so far around Rs 42 crore in its bank account and people are donating from Re 1 to Rs 1 crore. He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for visiting Ayodhya for the “bhoomi pujan” of the temple on August 5. "In this time of crisis and amid criticism, the PM decided to visit Ayodhya and paid due respect to Ram Lalla by offering a 'saashtang pranaam,” he said. He said around 15 to 20 thousand seers in India had participated in the temple movement but it was not possible to invite them all. We were able to invite only 90 seers from outside Ayodhya, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-will-be-able-to-withstand-natural-calamities-for-thousand-years-870731.html
07-08-2020||National||Sadiq Jamal Encounter: 7 years on CBI yet to complete probe, two cops seek discharge||Even as the wait for the CBI to wrap up its investigation continues, the 2003 case of extrajudicial killing of Sadiq Jamal Mehtar came out from the cold this week after two suspected policemen filed applications before a special CBI court seeking discharge from the case. The court has issued notice to the CBI and sought a response by August 11. The 19-year-old Bhavnagar youth, Sadiq, was killed in a police encounter on January 13, 2003, in Naroda area, Ahmedabad, by a team of policemen allegedly on suspicion of being a Lashkar-e-Taiba operative who was out to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders. After a petition in the high court, the CBI was entrusted to investigate the case. In December 2012, the CBI filed its first chargesheet against eight policemen, including J G Parmar, I A Saiyed, KM Vaghela, R L Mavani, G H Gohil, A S Yadav, C M Chudasama and Tarun Barot. Since then all the accused are out on bail. On August 4, Mavani and Yadav filed separate applications for discharge citing no evidence against them in the chargesheet, among other grounds. Another accused Vaghela had also filed a discharge application which was rejected in 2017 that he has challenged in the high court where the matter remains pending. While filing the chargesheet in 2012, the CBI had stated in the court that it will file a supplementary chargesheet. After taking several extensions, it is yet to come up with the final part of the investigation that would involve senior police and intelligence officers, posted with Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB) in Ahmedabad and Mumbai, whose roles were revealed during the probe. The CBI probe has revealed that Sadiq worked as domestic help for Tariq Parveen, a close associate of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, at his home in Mumbai and then in Dubai between 1996 to October 2002. The CBI has said that Sadiq left Dubai following an altercation with Parveen’s associate, a Pakistan-based gangster Salim Chiplun. According to the CBI, SIB, Mumbai generated an intelligence input claiming that he was associated with D-Gang and allegedly planning to kill saffron leaders. In November 2002, he was arrested with five others for gambling at Bhavnagar police station limit and was released on bail. The chargesheet stated that Sadiq left for Mumbai since he was fearing arrest in an old case. Sometime in December, he was arrested “in a stage-managed joint operation” conducted by the SIB, Mumbai and Central Intelligence Unit, Andheri, of Mumbai Crime Branch. On January 2, 2003, Tarun Barot, took custody of Sadiq from the Mumbai Police and brought him to Ahmedabad. On January 12, 2003, he was taken in a tempo traveller to the Sai Baba Complex near Galaxy cinema in Naroda area where he was allegedly shot dead at around 1.15 am. Eleven rounds were fired by the encounter team, including five to six rounds from the service revolvers of police inspectors Parmar and Saiyed. The CBI investigation found there was no evidence suggesting Sadiq was working for any terror outfit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadiq-jamal-encounter-7-years-on-cbi-yet-to-complete-probe-two-cops-seek-discharge-870734.html
07-08-2020||National||After Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, trouble brewing for Congress in Punjab||After Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, a factional rivalry is brewing in Congress-ruled Punjab as two key detractors of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh approached the state Governor demanding a CBI probe over the government’s handling of the hooch tragedy that claimed 112 lives. Former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa and Rajya Sabha member Samsher Singh Dullo approached Governor V P Singh Badnore with a demand for a CBI probe, triggering a sharp reaction from party chief Sunil Jakhar and the entire Punjab council of ministers. Jakhar accused Bajwa and Dullo of “back-stabbing” the party and scripting a Sachin Pilot-like conspiracy by railing against the party-led government. He recalled that Pilot had flayed his own government on the issue of infant deaths in Rajasthan. “Had action been taken against Pilot then itself, what is happening today in Rajasthan could have been avoided,” he said. On Thursday, the entire Punjab council of ministers sought the expulsion of Bajwa and Dullo for “anti-party and anti-government activities”. Bajwa and Dullo hit back at the council of ministers and reminded them that it would be against the principles of democracy if they did not criticise the government that was working against the interest of the people that had elected them to power. “We are disheartened by the lack of effective action by the state administration in ensuring that the families who have lost loved ones due to the liquor mafia are delivered justice,” the duo said. Bajwa said during his tenure as the state Congress chief, Amarinder not only opposed and criticised the party but also had the “audacity to criticise Rahul Gandhi, who is our esteemed leader”. Bajwa and Dullo also criticised the handling of the investigation in the drug case against former minister and Akali Dal leader Bikram Majithia and the sacrilege case that had rocked the state in 2015. Bajwa, a Rahul Gandhi favourite, was forced to step down as Punjab Congress chief in the face of the rebellion by Amarinder ahead of the assembly elections in 2017. Bajwa has been pushed to the margins in Punjab Congress as Amarinder strengthened his hold over the party after being sworn-in as chief minister for the second term in 2017. Once close friends, Bajwa had a bitter parting of ways with Amarinder after the latter’s leadership qualities post-Congress loss in the 2012 assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-madhya-pradesh-rajasthan-trouble-brewing-for-congress-in-punjab-870737.html
07-08-2020||National||Digital news operate in vacuum of regulation, need to break chain of misinformation: INS study||With the environment of digital news operating in a "vacuum of regulation", a study has recommended granting the Press Council of India limited powers to oversee its functioning while taking steps to break the "entire chain of misinformation". The study 'The Future of News in India: Sustaining Credibility in an Age of Digital Transformation' by Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy also said the advertisement-revenue model for digital news may be displaying indications of market failure and to orient, the market for digital news towards the public good, the role and practices of online advertising platforms must be systematically studied by a specialised authority.  The study, discussed by Indian Newspaper Society (INS) recently, said an investigation by the Competition Commission of India into the dominance of online advertisingplatforms could be a starting point.  Pointing out that the news industry today stands at a "vital crossroads", the report said the worsening economic health of print journalism "threatens its ability to credibly inform" the public and act as an institutional check upon power.  At the time, the environment of digital news "operates in a vacuum of regulation. The emergence of a post-truth paradigm in public communications and the widespread proliferation of misinformation are barriers to realising the benefits of digital news distribution", it said. The report highlighted that the entire chain of misinformation needs to be addressed in order to effectively tackle the crisis of misinformation. It suggested a range of legislative, co-regulatory and voluntary measures which provide an integrated framework to prevent the spread of misinformation and enhance reader literacy. Referring to the legal vacuum in which digital news entities are operating, the report said it needs to be filled in such a manner, which is "sensitive to the nuances" of online discourse.  The report recommended granting limited powers to the Press Council of India, in conjunction with a voluntary registration procedure and the development of a brief, accessible code of conduct as a mechanism for the imposition of editorial responsibility.  "The role of online platforms in the distribution of news should be addressed through targeted interventions based on the design aspects of such platforms," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-news-operate-in-vacuum-of-regulation-need-to-break-chain-of-misinformation-ins-study-870741.html
07-08-2020||National||Four fire-fighting robots acquired by West Bengal Fire Brigade: Report||The West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services acquired 4 firefighting robots. The robots were tested at the Brigade Parade Ground behind Elliot Park, Kolkata while Fire Minister Sujit Bose and DG Fire Jag Mohan amongst others were in presence.  The robots cost over 4 crore rupees.  Due to the nature of the city of Kolkata, with its crowded and winding lanes, firefighting becomes a greater challenge. In that scenario, these robots will be especially helpful.  “During fire accidents, chances of the explosion are high or even the temperature recorded is very high. In such cases, people’s lives are also at risk. These robots are equipped with thermal imaging camera with which it will be easy to estimate the inside temperature,” DG Fire Jag Mohan told IE.  Along with the robots, 100 bikes with water tankers have also been procured. These would be used in places inaccessible by fire tankers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-fire-fighting-robots-acquired-by-west-bengal-fire-brigade-report-870748.html
07-08-2020||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad tests negative for Covid-19||Minister for IT and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday said he has tested negative for Covid-19. Prasad, who is also the Law Minister, had earlier this week gone into self-isolation as per protocol, after he met Home Minister Amit Shah on August 1 evening. In a tweet on Friday, Prasad said, "Friends! My Covid-19 test is negative. The report came today. I was in isolation for the last one week because I had attended a meeting with Amit Shah Ji a day before he was found positive". He thanked his friends and well-wishers for their support. Prasad said he had been fine throughout, and following his daily routine, exercise and also working from home. In another tweet, he said, "Many friends and well-wishers sent their overwhelming messages of support. I was fine throughout, following my daily routine, exercise and also working from home. My sincere gratitude and thanks to all. God bless". Shah, on Sunday, had said he had tested positive for coronavirus and was getting admitted to a hospital following the advice of doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-tests-negative-for-covid-19-870760.html
07-08-2020||National||Special NIA court holds six people guilty in ISIS conspiracy case||A special NIA court here has held six people guilty in a case of a criminal conspiracy by the ISIS to establish its base in India by recruiting Muslim youths through different social media platforms to carry out acts of terrorism in the country, an official said. The order was passed on Thursday by special judge for NIA at Patiala house courts complex Parveen Singh. The case, registered by the NIA on December 9, 2015 under relevant sections of the IPC and the UA(P) Act, pertains to the larger criminal conspiracy hatched by the ISIS to establish its base in India by recruiting Muslim youths for the proscribed terror group through different social media platforms, an NIA spokesperson said. During investigation, searches were conducted in various cities and 19 accused were arrested. The accused had formed Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind organisation, seeking to establish a caliphate in India and pledging allegiance to ISIS, to recruit Muslim youths to work for the ISIS and commit acts of terrorism in India at the behest of Syria-based Yusuf-Al-Hindi who is purportedly the media chief of ISIS, the NIA official said. The NIA filed charge sheets against 16 accused in 2016-2017. Out of 16 accused, six of them -- Mudabbir Mushtaq Sheikh, Mohammad Shareef Moinudeen Khan, Asif Ali, Mohammad Hussain Khan, Syed Mujahid and Mohammad Azhar Khan pleaded guilty before the trial court, the official said. On Thursday, the court convicted the six accused under sections 120B of the IPC, Sections 17, 18, 18B, 23, 38, 39 and 40 of the UA(P) Act and Sections 5 and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act, the NIA official said. The date for the pronouncement of judgement and quantum of punishment has been fixed for August 19. This case was first of its kind in which terrorist conspiracy of this magnitude involving online radicalisation was effected on cyber space in the aftermath of declaration of Islamic Caliphate by ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in 2014, the NIA spokesperson said. No terror group prior to the emergence of ISIS had used the information and communication technology on such a large scale to scout, recruit, train and motivate its cadre for the acts of terror, the official said. Utmost precaution was taken by the group by using encrypted tools to keep the communication among the ISIS handlers and potential recruiters, both in India as well as abroad, secret, the NIA official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-nia-court-holds-six-people-guilty-in-isis-conspiracy-case-870764.html
07-08-2020||National||Dawood, other terrorists continue to enjoy 'patronage' in a neighbouring country: India to UNSC||India has told the UN Security Council that Dawood Ibrahim, who perpetrated the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts, and other UN-designated terrorists “unsurprisingly" continue to enjoy "patronage" in a neighbouring country, calling for focused international efforts to address threats posed by the fugitive gangster and terror groups Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. India said this in a statement on Thursday to the High Level Open Debate of the UNSC on "Addressing the Issue of Linkages between Terrorism and Organised Crime." “India has been a victim of terrorism sponsored from across our border. We have experienced first-hand the cruel linkage between transnational organised crime and terrorism. "An organised crime syndicate, the D-Company, that used to smuggle gold and counterfeit currencies transformed into a terrorist entity overnight causing a series of bomb blasts in the city of Mumbai in 1993. The attack resulted in the loss of more than 250 innocent lives and damage to property worth millions of dollars,” India said in the statement. The perpetrator of the Mumbai blasts, “unsurprisingly, continues to enjoy patronage in a neighbouring country, a hub for arms trafficking and narcotics trade, along with other terrorists and terrorist entities that have been proscribed by the United Nations,” the statement said without naming any country. India underlined that the success of collective action against the ISIL serves as an example of how focused attention by the international community yields results. “A similar focus on addressing threats posed by proscribed individuals and entities such as Dawood Ibrahim and his D-Company, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed, will serve humankind well,” it said. India added that terrorism is one of the most serious threats that mankind faces today and the scourge of terrorism does not distinguish between countries and regions. “It is the grossest affront to the enjoyment of the inalienable human right to life and to live in peace and security. India strongly condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. There can be no justification of any form of terrorism. And looking for root causes for terrorism is akin to finding a needle in a haystack,” it said. India underscored that it is important to hold States accountable for activities that support or encourage terrorism from territories under their control. The resolutions of the Security Council make clear the primary responsibility of Member States in countering terrorist acts and in preventing and suppressing their financing. It further said that Member States which suffer due to poor governance and inadequate oversight on financial institutions are more vulnerable for exploitation by the terrorist entities and organised criminals. “Implementation of recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in strengthening the capabilities of governance structure of financial and economic assets should be one of the topmost priorities to counter the menace,” it said. India said the UN needs to enhance its coordination with bodies like the FATF which have been playing a significant role in setting global standards for preventing and combating money laundering and terrorist financing. It emphasised that today it is a widely accepted fact that terrorist organisations and organised crime groups both constitute "transnational criminal groups”. India said that organised criminal networks also help terrorist groups funnel funds into legitimate businesses. “There is documented evidence where smuggling of narcotics, natural resources and cultural artefacts are sustained by safe transit corridors provided by terrorist entities. We have seen the destruction created by the narcotic trade in our region that has sustained and funded terrorist networks. It is a well known fact in common law that the accomplice is as culpable as the principal. Thus, by virtue of being in nexus with terrorist groups, transnational organised crime groups become accessories to terrorist acts,” it said. India said that over the years, terrorist groups have developed a diversified funding portfolio and raise funds through a range of criminal activities, including but not limited to extortion, kidnapping for ransom, robbery and theft, drug smuggling, and trafficking in blood diamonds, humans and antiquities. Terrorist organisations have also begun to exploit the anonymity afforded by blockchain technology for fundraising and finances. As data increasingly becomes the currency of the future, regulators will have to come up with better solutions to fight terrorism. While nations are focused on delivering healthcare to their people and on tackling the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, organised criminals have, however, been exploiting the crisis to find new avenues for their crimes including illicit trafficking of natural resources, narcotics, firearms and explosives, it said. “At this stage, it is imperative for all of us to remain alert on the nature of the symbiotic threat posed by the linkage between terrorism and transnational organised crime and reinvigorate our efforts to counter it,” it said. With the rapid development of information and communication technology as well as other technologies concerning financial transactions, encryption, mode of transportation and delivery, India said Member States should remain vigilant in identifying new trends in linkages between terrorist groups / terrorist individuals and organized criminals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dawood-other-terrorists-continue-to-enjoy-patronage-in-a-neighbouring-country-india-to-unsc-870767.html
07-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi offers condolences to those affected by Kozhikode plane crash||PM Modi offered condolences to those affected after an Air India Express flight from Dubai to Califuct skidded off the runway earlier today. The flight was travelling from Dubai to Calicut carrying 190 people, skidded off during the landing. Over 10 people have been reported dead.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi prayed for the recovery of those injured in the crash and offered condolences to the family members of those who died.  He added that he has spoken to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-offers-condolences-to-those-affected-by-kozhikode-plane-crash-870768.html
07-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari says probe hit as he was quarantined||Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, who had arrived here to oversee probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, said on Friday that the investigation in the case was affected as he was placed under quarantine. Talking to reporters near Mumbai airport before leaving for his home state, Tiwari, Superintendent of Police of Central Patna, said that along with him, the investigation was also quarantined. Tiwari had reached Mumbai on Sunday to oversee the probe into the FIR filed against actress Rhea Chakraborty in Rajput's death case. Chakraborty (28), girlfriend of Rajput, was booked on abetment to suicide and other charges on a complaint filed by the late actor's father in Patna. On his arrival in Mumbai, Tiwari was asked to remain in quarantine till August 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and was stamped as quarantined by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, the civic body on Friday said he has been exempted from quarantine protocols and allowed to return to his home state. "It is not a question of any particular person, but of the process. The investigation, which we were expected to carry out, was affected as I was put in quarantine," Tiwari told reporters. "Not only me, but the investigation itself was quarantined...The process, for which we had come, that was affected," the officer added. Before Tiwari, a four member team of Bihar Police had come to Mumbai to investigate the case filed against Chakraborty. They had left for Patna on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-bihar-ips-officer-vinay-tiwari-says-probe-hit-as-he-was-quarantined-870770.html
07-08-2020||National||Army, IAF to maintain very high-level of alertness along LAC: Sources on border standoff with China||The Indian Army and the IAF will maintain a very high-level of operational readiness in all areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh till a "satisfactory" resolution to the border row with China is arrived at, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army overseeing the operation of the frontline formations along the LAC to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", they said. In the last three weeks, the Chief of Army Staff held long and elaborate discussions with all the senior commanders responsible for overseeing the Army's operational readiness and deployment along the nearly 3,500 KM-long LAC, the de-facto border between India and China. The fresh directive to maintain a very high-level of alertness came in the wake of lack of forward movement in implementation of the disengagement process by China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) in several friction points in eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso, Depsang and Gogra. India has already conveyed to China that there is no option but to restore status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to end the row, the people familiar with the developments said. While Gen Naravane visited eastern Ladakh in mid-July with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Thursday he held wide-ranging deliberations with senior commanders of the eastern command in Tezpur-based 4 Corps headquarters. The Indian Air Force(IAF) is also preparing to maintain a relatively very high state of alertness in eastern Ladakh and other sensitive areas. Vice Chief of IAF Air Marshal H S Arora visited a number of air bases in Ladakh on Friday to take stock of the operational preparedness of the force. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations in eastern Ladakh. The Army has already made elaborate plans to maintain current strength of troops and weapons along the LAC during the harsh winter months in eastern Ladakh and all other sensitive areas along the LAC. The temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degree celsius in the winter months. The Army is in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troops. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks aimed at disengagement of troops from friction points in eastern Ladakh. On August 2, the two armies held the fifth round of Corps commander-level talks in an effort to expedite the disengagement process. At the talks, the Indian side insisted on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso. The Chinese PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso since mid-July, according to sources. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. In the first round of the Corp commander-level talks on June 6, both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian army personnel were killed. China has not released information on casualties on its side but according to an American intelligence report it was 35. The second round of talks took place on June 22. In the third round of military talks on June 30, both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. After the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-iaf-to-maintain-very-high-level-of-alertness-along-lac-sources-on-border-standoff-with-china-870780.html
07-08-2020||National||Kozhikode plane accident: MEA says its 24X7 helplines are open||The Ministry of External Affairs on Friday said it was deeply saddened by the Air India Express aircraft accident in Kozhikode and its 24X7 helplines were open for those affected by the incident. Sixteen people were killed and several others injured when a Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway here and fell into a valley, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening, police sources said. "We are deeply saddened by the tragedy of Air India Express Flight No IX 1344 at Kozhikode," Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a tweet. "MEA helplines are open 24x7: 1800 118 797; +91 11 23012113; +91 11 23014104; +91 11 23017905; Fax: +91 11 23018158; Email: covid19@mea.gov.in," he posted on Twitter. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-plane-accident-mea-says-its-24x7-helplines-are-open-870783.html
07-08-2020||National||Covid-19 not to wind down until at least October: Experts||The burning question on the minds of most people is when the Covid-19 epidemic will end. Not until October at the least, said a quartet of experts gathered to discuss the matter. In the ‘DH Sparks’ webinar series titled ‘Living with the Virus: How and when will the pandemic end?’ organised by DH on Friday, four eminent experts in their respective fields --- Dr Giridhar Babu (Epidemiologist and State Task Force Member), Dr Sashikumar Ganesan (Chair of IISc’s Department of Computational and Data Sciences), Dr C N Manjunath (Cardiologist and State Nodal officer for testing) and Dr Vishal Rao (Associate Dean, Centre of Academic Research, HCG Cancer centre) - conducted a lively discussion on what could be expected in the months to come. One thing the panellists made clearly in the discussion was that they were not soothsayers who could make accurate predictions about where and how the epidemic would end.  Dr Ganesan, whose mathematical model which takes into consideration key parameters such social distancing and quarantine breaches to make its prediction, said the latest data shows that the pandemic peaking in late October under the best-case scenario. However, under the worst-case scenario, it peaks only at the end of December, he said. Dr Vishal Rao specified that vaccine developments could herald the beginning of the end, explaining that 177 worldwide trials were going on. “While 90% are doomed to failure, we are optimistically estimating that by March that some of the hurdles to a vaccine will be crossed - provided the virus cooperates with us,” he said. There is substantial room for optimism despite the gloom of the current situation, added Dr Giridhar Babu. “An absolute number of cases does not mean anything in a country with a vast population, such as India. Instead of looking at the case fatality rate, we should be looking at the deaths per million. In India, the number of deaths per million is about 27. In contrast, if we look at all the other countries with more than 1,00,000 cases, their deaths per million are 157,” he said. When asked why the state was not testing more, Dr Manjunath explained that work was in progress to build up its testing infrastructure. “We have gone from eight labs in the beginning to over 100 labs currently. We are scaling up. The goal is to conduct 50,000 tests per day. As we test more and more, linearly we are going to get more and more cases,” he said. Dr Babu added, “If you ask me, we should ideally increase our testing by up to 10 times.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-not-to-wind-down-until-at-least-october-experts-870784.html
07-08-2020||National||Seven-day moving avg in daily Covid-19 tests significantly improved to 5.66 L since July: Govt||The seven-day moving average in daily tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in India has significantly improved from 2.69 lakh on July 14 to 5.66 lakh on August 6, the Union health ministry said on Friday, as 2.2 crore tests have been done so far. With India's cumulative testing rising from 1.2 crore on July 14 to 2.2 crore as on date, the Covid-19 positivity rate has seen an increase from 7.5 to 8.87 per cent during the same period, it said. "Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially, but as Delhi experience has amply shown, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, tracking and timely clinical management," the ministry underlined. In a testament to the consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre and the state and Union Territory governments, India continues its track record of testing more than 6 lakh Covid-19 samples each day for the fourth successive day, it said. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country have given a boost, and with 6,39,042 tests conducted on Thursday, India has done 2,27,88,393 tests so far.  The tests per million (TPM) has seen a sharp increase to 16,513, the ministry said. With 49,769 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours, the number of recoveries in the country has jumped to 13,78,105 on Friday pushing the recovery rate to a record high of 67.98 per cent while the fatality rate has gone down to 2.05 per cent. "These two in tandem have enabled a higher and rising difference of more than 7.7 lakh between the number of recovered patients and active cases in India," the ministry said. The recovery rate has increased from 51.08 per cent on June 15 to 67.98 per cent on August 7, while active cases which comprised 46.06 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload on June 15 now account for 29.96 per cent, it said. "Ramped up hospital infrastructure and emphasis on efficient treatment of hospitalised patients through the standard of care incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol issued by the Centre, have effectively ensured improvement in the recovery rate," the ministry said.  It said the average daily recovered cases (seven day moving average) have increased from around 26,000 cases to 44,000 cases in the last two weeks. Sustained efforts by the Centre, states and Union Territories through focused and coordinated containment, widespread testing combined with supervised isolation and effective treatment have ensured the decline in percentage of active cases and rise of the percentage of recoveries, the health ministry said. Registering a record 62,538 cases in 24 hours, India's Covid-19 tally galloped past 20 lakh on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 41,585 with 886 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-day-moving-avg-in-daily-covid-19-tests-significantly-improved-to-566-l-since-july-govt-870790.html
07-08-2020||National||AAIB to probe Kozhikode plane accident||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau will conduct a formal inquiry into the Air India Express accident at Kozhikode. Two investigation teams of professionals from Air India, Airports Authority of India and Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau were leaving for Kozhikode to probe the accident, which claimed 16 lives. An Air India Express flight from Dubai, with 191 persons on board, overshot the runway at the Kozhikode Airport in rainy conditions and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces, Puri said. According to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the aircraft was at full speed while landing at the Karipur Airport and overshot the runway. Air India and Airports Authority of India relief teams were dispatched immediately from Delhi and Mumbai to assist in relief efforts. “A formal inquiry will be conducted by the AAIB,” Puri said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and inquired about the situation. A meeting was underway at the Civil Aviation Ministry which was attended by officials of the DGCA, Air India Express and Airports Authority of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aaib-to-probe-kozhikode-plane-accident-870799.html
07-08-2020||National||Defence ministry report mentioning Chinese 'transgressions' has 'damaged' Rajnath Singh's image: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday claimed that a Defence Ministry report mentioning Chinese 'transgressions' has "damaged" Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's image. The Congress on Thursday had asked the government why the defence ministry report mentioning Chinese 'transgressions' in eastern Ladakh in May was taken down. The document, which was uploaded on the defence ministry's website, was removed on Thursday morning following publication of a media report based on it. "Someone is out to get @rajnathsingh out of the Defence Ministry! Otherwise, why would the @DefenceMinIndia website put out the truth about the Chinese aggression and occupation of Indian territory?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. "That single statement damaged Mr Rajnath Singh (people ask, did the Ministry and the Army fail to act on the intelligence inputs and allowed the Chinese to bring troops and equipment and cross the LAC?)," the former home minister said. "That statement also exposed the @narendramodi's famous declaration that 'no one intruded into Indian territory and no one is occupying Indian territory'," Chidambaram said. On Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked the prime minister on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-report-mentioning-chinese-transgressions-has-damaged-rajnath-singhs-image-p-chidambaram-870800.html
07-08-2020||National||Vice Chief Air Staff visits eastern Ladakh; takes stock of IAF's operational preparedness||Vice Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora on Friday visited a number of airbases along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and took stock of the IAF's operational preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region, officials said. They said Air Marshal Singh visited the strategically crucial air base in Daulat Beg Oldie, known as one of the world's highest airstrip where the IAF has deployed a number of its key platforms in view of the tense border row with China. The airbase is situated at an altitude of 16,600 feet. In his interaction with senior air warriors, the IAF Vice Chief asked them ensure a high state of combat readiness at all times, an IAF spokesperson said. During the visit, Air Marshal Singh also flew Chinook chopper and a light combat helicopter, they said. The IAF Vice Chief also held talks with Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army. Lt Gen Singh has held five rounds of high-level military talks with Chinese army's Major General Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military region, in an attempt to resolve the border row. "Besides reviewing the operational preparedness at these bases, the Vice Chief of Air Staff interacted with air warriors of the combat units currently operating at these locations. He was briefed about the operational readiness of IAF assets deployed in the area," the spokesperson said. In the last two months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations in eastern Ladakh. Sources said the IAF will continue to maintain its high state of readiness in all the bases along the Line of Actual Control till the border row is resolved to India's satisfaction. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks aimed at disengagement of troops from friction points in eastern Ladakh. On August 2, the two armies held the fifth round of Corps commander-level talks in an effort to expedite the disengagement process. At the talks, the Indian side insisted on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso. The Chinese military has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso since mid-July, according to sources. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-chief-air-staff-visits-eastern-ladakh-takes-stock-of-iafs-operational-preparedness-870805.html
07-08-2020||National Politics||BJP traces its 70-year-old commitment to abrogate Article 370||A day after the Ram temple event at Ayodhya, BJP on Thursday brought the spotlight on another of its core agenda—the abrogation of Article 370 that took away the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, a decision taken on August 5 last year. On a day a BJP Sarpanch was shot dead in Kashmir and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir got a new LG- Manoj Sinha, a dedicated party worker from Uttar Pradesh with roots in RSS, the ruling party took to social media to showcase  “New Jammu and Kashmir without Article 370” and highlighted the “sustained movement by Jana Sangh and BJP to remove Article 370” on the hashtag #OneYearOfNoArticle370. In a series of tweets the BJP said that due to abrogation of Article 370, 5,300 Displaced Persons’ families have been included in Rehabilitation Package and with the enforcement of 106 Central laws in J&K, rights of women, Dalits, Adivasis and refugees will now be protected and development will take place. The party traced the history of its well-pronounced stand on Article 370 in the last nearly 70 years since Independence, which though remained the same in the core aspect, but kept changing tone and tenor in different time zones. The most elaborate reiteration of the BJP to do away with Article 370 came in 2019 election manifesto in which the party said it was committed to annulling Article 35A of the Constitution of India as the provision is “discriminatory against non-permanent residents and women of J&K.” and linked with development saying “We believe Article 35 A is  an obstacle to the development of the state.”  It said, “we will make all efforts to ensure the safe return of Kashmiri Pandits and we will provide financial assistance for the resettlement of refugees from West Pakistan, Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (POJK) and Chhamb.” 68 years before that, BJP’s earlier avatar Jana Sangh in October 1951 had pitched for the abrogation of Article 370, “to end the state of uncertainty about Kashmiri’s future” and “integrate it with Bharat like other acceding states and not given any special position.” In 1957 polls, the party said that J&K should be brought fully under the Constitution of India by repealing Article 370 of the Constitution for the state’s safety and security. In 1966, the Jana Sangh described Article 370- a “psychological barrier” between the people of the state and their counterparts of the rest of India. which has been exploited all these years by anti-national elements and Pakistani agents to the detriment of vital Indian interests. In the 1984 election manifesto, the BJP proposed to restore “the balance between Centre and states as visualised by our constitution makers” and for this to “delete the temporary Article 370 of the Constitution.” Its 1989 manifesto, BJP stressed on National Unity and integration and for that, deemed the abrogation of Article 370 important. BJP’s stand on 370 was stronger in its Manifesto in 1991 general elections when the party had also launched a massive campaign for Ram temple. It reached a crescendo culminating into Murali Manohar Joshi hoisting tricolour at Lal Chowk in Srinagar on January 26, 1992. The 1996 manifesto read “we will abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution, which puts Jammu and Kashmir on a separate and separatist pedestal, for the state’s full and final integration with the Union.” On Thursday the party said, “a new wind of development is blowing in Jammu and Kashmir and there has been a check on terrorism, nepotism and corruption in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370.” Many take the claims with a pinch of salt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-traces-its-70-year-old-commitment-to-abrogate-article-370-870450.html
07-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Ram is love, he can never appear in hatred: 'Ram Bhakt' Rahul Gandhi||Lord Ram ultimate embodiment of supreme human values: Rahul Gandhi "Ram is love, he can never appear in hatred. Ram is compassion, he can never appear in cruelty. Ram is justice, he can never appear in injustice," said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-ram-is-love-he-can-never-appear-in-hatred-ram-bhakt-rahul-gandhi-870452.html
07-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi government over India's 20-lakh Covid-19 tally||India's Covid-19 tally breached the 20-lakh mark late on Thursday evening, while the number of recoveries surged to 13.70 lakh, according to data provided by the states and union territories. "The 20 lakh-mark has been crossed, the Modi government is missing," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, which was in rhyme. He also tagged a July 17 tweet of his urging the government to take concrete steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus. He had said that if the viral infection keeps spreading at the current pace then there would be more than 20 lakh cases by August 10. Gandhi has been critical of the government's handling of the pandemic and has questioned the Centre's claims on battling coronavirus. India is third in the world in terms of the Covid-19 cases after the US and Brazil. The death toll in the country due to the disease has climbed to over 40,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-government-over-indias-20-lakh-covid-19-tally-870530.html
07-08-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda attacks Congress over Supreme Court observations on PIL for probe into China pact||BJP president J P Nadda on Friday cited some observations of the Supreme Court on a PIL, which sought a probe into the alleged 2008 agreement between the Congress and the Communist Party of China, to seek explanation from Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi.  "Even the SC is surprised at the MoU signed by the Congress party with the Chinese Gov... Mrs Gandhi & her son, who led the signing, must explain. Does this explain donations to RGF and opening Indian market for the Chinese in return, which affected Indian businesses?" Nadda tweeted.  The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL seeking NIA probe into the alleged 2008 agreement.  The court, however, expressed his surprise when PIL petitioners' lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani said it was an "agreement between a political party of this country with the only political party in that country (China)" and the issue pertained to national security.   The court said, "Within our limited experience, we have unheard of it that a political party is making an agreement with other country."    Nadda latched onto this observation to attack the Congress over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-attacks-congress-over-supreme-court-observations-on-pil-for-probe-into-china-pact-870627.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput's case: Plea in SC to set free Bihar IPS officer quarantined in Mumbai||A day before the release of Bihar cadre IPS officer from quarantine, a plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday to set free Patna (Central) SP Vinay Tiwari, who has been forcefully detained by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on his visit to Mumbai for probe into the suspicious death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. The BMC, however, on Friday allowed the officer to return back to Patna. In a habeas corpus petition, Bihar resident, Nalin N Mishra contended Tiwari has been illegally confined without any authority of law in the name of alleged quarantine and in sheer violation of guidelines and his fundamental rights. The petition drawn by advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Ankur Azad and filed by Mithu Jain sought a direction of the top court to quash or set aside the order of illegal detention, portrayed as 14 days alleged quarantine. The petitioner said such an order was "expedient, necessary and imperative" when there is a blatant misuse of power by the detaining authority to prevent the IPS officer from lawful discharge and execution of his official duty. Tiwari had gone to Mumbai on August 2 to lead and coordinate with the investigation being carried out by a four-member special investigation team of Patna police following an FIR lodged by the actor's father K K Singh on July 25. The complainant had accused actress Rhea Chakraborty, live-in partner of the actor, of abetment to suicide, illegal confinement, extortion, cheating and misappropriation of Rs 17 crore. The four-member police team had already returned Patna after recording the statement of witnesses. Following the recommendation by the Bihar government, the case has been handed over to the CBI, which on Thursday lodged began its investigation. The petitioner said, "The alleged quarantine of the detainee is in derogation to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the State of Maharashtra wherein it was provided that if the passenger is returning within seven days of his arrival, there shall be no quarantine." In the circumstances, the detaining authority ought to have granted him exemption or given a statement of reasons for the rejection of it, when such a request was made by the DGP of Bihar Police, he pointed out. If an exception could not have been made for Tiwari or his stay exceeded seven days time, the detaining authority must have allowed him to go back to Patna, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajputs-case-plea-in-sc-to-set-free-bihar-ips-officer-quarantined-in-mumbai-870473.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Liquor shops in Delhi to remain open for one more hour||The Delhi government has extended timings for opening of liquor shops in the national capital by one hour. An official said the move will also help increase the government's revenue. According to an order issued by the excise department on Thursday, liquor shops in the city will now open from 10 am to 10 pm instead of the earlier timing of 10 am to 9 pm. "In pursuance to guidelines issued by chairperson, state executive committee, Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Government of NCT of Delhi vide order no..dated 31.07.2020, all L-6, L-7, L-8, L-9 and L-10 liquor vends are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm instead of 10 am to 9 pm with immediate effect till further orders," the order stated. Of the 863 liquor shops in Delhi, around 475 are run by four government corporations -- the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation and Delhi Consumer''s Cooperative Wholesale Store. Around 389 liquor shops are owned by private individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-shops-in-delhi-to-remain-open-for-one-more-hour-870522.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Friday opened heavy fire and shelled forward areas along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's poonch district, drawing retaliation from Indian forces, a defence spokesman said. This is the fourth day that Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire along the LoC. "At about 0630 hours, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Balakote sector of Poonch district", the spokesman said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he said. Pakistani troops have shelled forward areas along the LoC in Qasba, Krishnagati, Balakote, Mankote, Mendhar, Kirni, and sectors of Poonch district and Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in the last three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-870539.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Over 60,000 cases in a day take India's Covid-19 tally past 20 lakh||The coronavirus infection tally had crossed 19 lakh just two days ago. It took 110 days for Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh and 59 days more to cross the 10-lakh mark. Thereafter it took just 21 days more to go past 20 lakh. This was the ninth day in a row that the tally increased by more than 50,000. According to the health ministry data updated at 8 am, 62,538 cases were added in a day taking the total coronavirus caseload to 20,27,074. The death-toll climbed to 41,585 with 886 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours, the data showed. At the same time, the number of patients who recuperated from the disease surged to 13,78,105 on Friday taking the recovery rate to 67.98 percent. There are 6,07,384 active coronavirus cases in the country presently which comprise 29.96 percent of the total caseload. Case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.07 per cent, the Union health ministry said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 2,27,88,393 samples have been tested for coronavirus infection up to August 6 with 6,39,042 being tested on Thursday. Of the 886 new deaths reported, 316 are from Maharashtra, 110 from Tamil Nadu, 93 from Karnataka, 72 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from Uttar Pradesh, 56 from West Bengal, 27 from Gujarat, 26 from Punjab, 17 in Madhya Pradesh, 15 from Delhi and 12 from Rajasthan and Telangana. Ten fatalities have been reported each from Odisha and Jammu and Kashmir, nine in Jharkhand, eight in Bihar, five each in Tripura, Puducherry and Assam, three each from Kerala Haryana, two each from Goa and Andman and Nicobar Islands and one in Manipur. Of the total 41,585 deaths so far, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 16,792, followed by 4,571 in Tamil Nadu and 4,059 in Delhi, 2,897 in Karnataka, 2,583 in Gujarat, 1,918 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,902 in West Bengal, 1,753 in Andhra Pradesh and 946 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 757 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 601 in Telangana, 517 in Punjab, 458 in Haryana, 436 in Jammu and Kashmir, 363 in Bihar, 235 in Odisha, 145 in Jharkhand, 126 in Assam, 98 in Uttarakhand and 97 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 77 deaths, Puducherry 70, Goa 66, Tripura 36, Chandigarh 20, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 16, Himachal Pradesh 14, eight in Manipur, seven in Ladakh, six in Nagaland, five in Meghalaya, the ministry data showed. Arunachal Pradesh reported three fatalities while  Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu reported two and Sikkim reported one case. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-60000-cases-in-a-day-take-indias-covid-19-tally-past-20-lakh-870540.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court upholds DU decision to conduct online Open Book Examination for final years courses||The Delhi High Court on Friday gave its nod to the Delhi University for conducting online Open Book Examination (OBE) for final year undergraduate courses from August 10 with a slew of directions. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the questions papers will be sent to the students’ email ID and be uploaded on the varsity’s portal and they will be given an extra hour to upload the answer sheets. The varsity is directed to send an auto-generated email informing the students that their answer sheets have been received, the high court, which was pronouncing the judgement through video conferencing, said. “I wish the students and Delhi University all the best for the exams,” Justice Singh said. The court passed the verdict on a plea challenging the varsity’s decision to hold online OBE, as per the UGC guidelines, for final year undergraduate courses which will be in long-form exams. The DU is scheduled to hold final year undergraduate online OBE from August 10-31 and the students who will be left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held sometime in September. The high court, while delivering the judgement, also directed that details of nodal officer and central email ID be published on the DU website and asked the Common Service Centres (CSC), which have been set up to provide services to students who do not have the infrastructure to give OBE, to notify all its centres by the end of the day. “There shall be a grievance officer to address the issues raised by students, including problems in downloading question paper and uploading answer sheets. In case of non-redressal, the complaint to be forwarded to the Grievance Committee,” it said. The court reconstituted the Grievance Committee under the aegis of retired Justice Prathiba Rani and said that the panel will function till OBE continues and the students’ complaints need to be addressed within five days. The court said OBE results ought to be announced in a short period and the answer sheets be simultaneously sent for evaluation. It asked the DU and the committee to file their respective reports after the exams are over. The university had earlier informed the court that the idea behind holding online OBE was to prevent students from assembling in one hall where it would be difficult to maintain social distancing in the times of Covid-19 pandemic. The DU’s counsel had submitted that a student does not need very high technology to sit for online OBE as having an email will be sufficient and that connectivity issues will be far more in other modes. He had contended that the University Grants Commission guidelines, which mandates conducting exams for final year students, have foreclosed what is being sought by petitioners and they have to be subjected to examination. The UGC had submitted that for final year, majority of assessment cannot be internal based and so far as final year examinations are concerned, it has to be timed and can be online, offline or blended mode but they cannot be presentation based.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-upholds-du-decision-to-conduct-online-open-book-examination-for-final-years-courses-870542.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Manoj Sinha takes over as new Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir||Former union minister and senior BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh, Manoj Sinha, was sworn in as second Lieutenant Governor (LG) of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday Sinha (61) was administered the oath of office and secrecy by Justice Gita Mittal, Chief Justice of Jammu and Kashmir High Court, at a function held at Raj Bhavan, here, in the afternoon. The National Conference, PDP, Congress and other political parties stayed away from the ceremony. However, former PDP leader and Rajya Sabha member Nazir Ahmed Laway, BJP Lok Sabha member Jugal Kishore Sharma and Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party leader Ghulam Hasan Mir attended the oath ceremony besides senior bureaucrats and police officers. “August 5 is a very important day in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. After years of isolation, Jammu and Kashmir joined the national mainstream. I have been told that many works, which could not be completed in years, have been completed in the past year,” he told reporters after taking the oath. “I want to accelerate that development,” he added. Later in the day, he held his first meeting with all the administrative secretaries in the Civil Secretariat, Srinagar. He succeeds Girish Chandra Murmu, who resigned on Wednesday night and was appointed Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on Thursday. Murmu had taken over as the first LG of J&K after the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories on October 31, 2019. Earlier, Sinha quit his BJP membership in line with the decorum of his constitutional position. The BJP president JP Nadda accepted his resignation while heaping praise on him for his work to strengthen the saffron organisation. Sinha, who enjoys the confidence of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, was assigned the job to fill the “political vacuum” in the sensitive Union Territory because of his administrative experience, grassroots connection, rustic approach and low-key image, sources said. “The man with a mass base is seen as non-corrupt which played a key role in him being picked as J&K LG at a time when the Centre is keen to flush out corrupt babus. His immediate challenge will be to tackle ending factionalism within the bureaucracy in the UT, with some senior IAS officers recently found to be publicly indulging in verbal spats,” they added. His appointment takes place in the atmosphere of lingering stalemate. Peoples’ discontent in Kashmir is simmering against the Centre following the revocation of the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 last August, coupled with a shift in strategy by militants, who have now started killing BJP and other political workers. Sinha reportedly is a big Kishore Kumar fan and often hums his songs. His journey from being a member of the BJP's National Council in 1989 to J&K LG has been a fascinating ride.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-sinha-takes-over-as-new-lieutenant-governor-of-jammu-and-kashmir-870549.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 3 held for communal posts on social media on Ram Mandir 'bhoomi pujan' day||Three persons, including a doctor, linked to Popular Front of India (PFI) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) have been arrested for their social media posts on the day of Ram temple 'Bhoomi Pujan' which was allegedly against communal amity, police said on Friday. Additional Superintendent of Police Kunwar Gyananjay said they received information on Wednesday about some people sitting in the clinic of Dr Aleem forwarding messages on WhatsApp and tweeting comments which were against communal amity and national integrity. When police reached there, Dr Aleem, Kamruddin and Sahibe Alam were found involved in the act, he said. All three have been arrested. Among them Sahibe Alam was the former office-bearer of PFI and working as media in charge of SDPI, the police officer said. Both Dr Aleem and Kamruddin were members of SDPI WhatsApp group, he said, adding a detailed probe about their links to SDPI and PFI was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-3-held-for-communal-posts-on-social-media-on-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan-day-870559.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||SC declines to consider plea for NIA probe into 2008 MoU between Congress and CPC||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea for an NIA or CBI probe into 2008 agreements signed by the Congress party and the Communist Party of China. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the petitioners that what has been averred in the plea was unheard of. "How absurd! You are saying a political party has entered into an agreement with China. We will allow you to withdraw this. However, you must tell you that we want you to examine the averments," the bench told the counsel, appearing for advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha and journalist Savio Rodrigues. "The agreement needs to be brought in the public domain. There are sinister motives," Jethmalani said. He claimed that the issue was centred around offences related to the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The court, however, asked him to approach the High Court. The petitioners claimed details of Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) were yet not revealed, in violation of the right to life of citizens. In their joint plea, they sought transparency and clarity on the agreement signed on August 7, 2008, in Beijing for "exchanging high-level information and co-operation between them". The MoUs also provided the two parties with the “opportunity to consult each other on important bilateral, regional and international developments”. They named Congress party, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Union government as parties to the petition.  The petition was filed at a time when Indian and Chinese troops were involved into bloody clash along Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, leading to the martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers. They cited a news report stating that there were about 600 intrusions and face-off on China's side of the border between 2008 and 2013, making it all the more necessary to disclose details of the agreements. "Despite having a hostile relation with China, Sonia Gandhi had signed an agreement when it was heading the coalition government and had hidden the facts and details with the country. The party, which passed the Right to Information Act during its rule, failed to be transparent in this matter which is of national importance," their plea said. They said the true spirit of liberty, equality, and fraternity could be achieved through the medium of transparency and proper investigation which could be achieved only if the agreement was investigated and secured by National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-for-nia-probe-into-2008-mou-between-congress-and-cpc-870563.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||ED raids multiple cities in IAF Pilatus jet money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided multiple premises in various cities in connection with a money laundering case linked to alleged corruption in the purchase of 75 Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2009, officials said.  They said the agency is covering at least 14 premises including a dozen in Delhi and one each in Gurgaon and Surat. The central probe agency had filed a money laundering case to probe the deal and is carrying out the action to collect evidence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they said. The case involves absconding arms consultant Sanjay Bhandari, who is already facing separate ED and CBI probes for corruption and alleged possession of undeclared assets in the country and abroad. The CBI had filed a criminal case in the Rs 2,895 crore Pilatus deal last year in June. The CBI had booked Bhandari, unidentified officials of the Indian Air Force, the Defence Ministry and Switzerland-based Pilatus Aircraft Limited in the case. The Swiss company was one of the bidders for the contract floated in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-multiple-cities-in-iaf-pilatus-jet-money-laundering-case-870565.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus rages in small towns, and so does stigma||"Even though I have recovered fully, no one wants to come near me," Anand, a government employee, told AFP outside his home in Meerut, a northern Indian city home to 3.4 million people. On Friday India's official caseload passed two million, and while previously metropolises like New Delhi and Mumbai were the hotspots, smaller cities and rural areas are now reporting sharp rises. According to public health expert Preeti Kumar, the probable reason is the return home of millions of migrant workers who were left jobless by India's sudden lockdown imposed in March. "We are seeing the numbers rise especially in states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and with poorer healthcare systems, it is going to be a challenge," Kumar told AFP. The poor northern state of Uttar Pradesh, home to roughly as many people as France, Germany and Britain combined, has now seen the pandemic reach almost every district, no matter how remote. The state has recorded 1,00,000 cases. Its capital Lucknow is reporting more than 600 new infections every day, compared to only 100-150 just a few days ago. But the official number may be a big underestimate, experts say, with the real scale potentially hugely under-reported because of insufficient testing, and deaths not being properly recorded. Uttar Pradesh has conducted an impressive-sounding 2.8 million tests, according to a senior state official. But given its enormous population of over 200 million people, this equates to just 14,000 tests per million. In the US state of Texas, the rate is almost 10 times higher. Nationally, India has tested around 16,500 people per million, compared to 1,90,000 in the United States and 2,60,000 in Britain, according to a tally by Worldometer. Apart from having one of the world's lowest rates of spending per capita on health care, part of the reason is that coronavirus sufferers often become pariahs. This is particularly true in smaller conurbations and in rural areas, where some two-thirds of Indians live and wear face masks and social distancing are rare sights. "A new disease with relatively high levels of complications and mortality, with accompanying directives on physical distancing, inevitably leads to fears, apprehensions and... stigma," said Rajib Kumar, who heads the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University. "There's both the fear of the disease as well as of isolation and quarantine," Kumar told AFP. Anand in Meerut said that after becoming infected, he submitted a list of colleagues he had come in contact with to his office so that they could get tested as well. "But some of them were so angry," he said. "Even my seat in office has been changed. I want to feel normal but the social boycott hurts." Local media have reported incidents of returning migrant workers being barred from entering their villages by barricades set up on the outskirts with signs like "Outsiders not allowed". Authorities have inadvertently done their bit with quarantine stickers outside the homes of infected people and putting "danger ahead" signboards in containment zones. Ajay Kumar, another recovered coronavirus patient, said neighbours have stopped their children playing with his. "In my (neighbourhood) they are not even allowing the domestic help to work at my place. It makes me so sad and angry at the same time," Kumar said. "The disease did not kill me but the discrimination will."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-rages-in-small-towns-and-so-does-stigma-870569.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Anil Dujana gang member arrested after gunfight in Greater Noida||A member of a dreaded criminal gang was arrested following a gunfight with the police in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida in which he was injured, officials said on Friday. The arrested accused was a member of the Anil Dujana gang, they said. The gunfight took place around midnight in Badalpur police station area in which Kapil, involved in a dozen criminal cases, was arrested. However, his accomplice managed to flee, the officials said. "The Badalpur police station in-charge was patrolling the area when we were tipped off about the presence of two suspicious persons in the area," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said. When a police team reached the spot and questioned them about roaming around so late in the night, the accused opened fire on the personnel, he said. "Kapil was hit in retaliatory firing by the police team and was held. He was taken to a hospital for treatment, while his accomplice managed to escape. A combing operation is underway to trace him," Chander said. According to the police officer, Kapil is an active member of the Anil Dujana gang and also worked for gangster Billu Dujana. He has at least 12 cases registered against him in Gautam Buddh Nagar and nearby areas. Most recently, he was wanted in an extortion case lodged at the Sihani Gate police station in adjoining Ghaziabad district, the DCP said. An illegal firearm was seized from Kapil, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-anil-dujana-gang-member-arrested-after-gunfight-in-greater-noida-870571.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport develops online portal for international passengers||The Delhi international airport has developed an online portal that will allow international arriving passengers to fill a mandatory self-declaration form and eligible passengers to apply for exemption from compulsory institutional quarantine for coronavirus, said its operator DIAL on Friday. In a press release, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said the portal will make passengers' journey contactless as they won't have to fill physical copies of a self-declaration form and a quarantine exemption form at the time of arrival in India. From Saturday, a total of five categories of passengers can get an exemption from the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine -- pregnant women; those who have suffered death in the family; those suffering from a serious illness; parents accompanying children below 10 years of age; those who have Covid-negative certificate from a test done 96 hours prior to the journey. Passengers who are allowed the exemption would have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. All other international passengers arriving in India have to follow the usual process of undergoing mandatory seven-days institutional quarantine, at their own cost, followed by seven days of home quarantine. The DIAL said, "Passengers seeking exemption under the five specific categories will need to fill the e-form available on the website of Delhi airport www.newdelhiairport.in. They will have to submit it along with supporting documents, including a copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights." "However, there is no such time capping for passengers filling for the self-declaration form," it added. As per the rules, every passenger has to submit a self-declaration form that they have not tested positive for Covid-19 during the three weeks prior to the flight. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to the passengers. "Those who would be given exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at their respective airports, and walk out hassle-free," said the DIAL. "This process would not only help the flyers, who can seek exemptions, but also the authorities in completing the requisite formalities faster, and reduce congestions at the arrival hall of the airports," it added. The DIAL said the portal has been termed "Air Suvidha" and it can be accessed through Delhi airport's official website. This facility will be available for all international arrival passengers from Saturday. It said the online forms have been developed in collaboration with various state governments, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of External Affairs. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international repatriation flights and international charter flights have been permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA. Since May 6, special international flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission. Last month, India formed bilateral air bubbles with countries like the US, the UAE, France and Germany under which airlines of both the countries are allowed to operate special international flights with certain restrictions. Domestic flights resumed in India from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-develops-online-portal-for-international-passengers-870574.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||India coronavirus cases double to two million in three weeks||A record daily jump of more than 60,000 fresh infections was recorded, according to health ministry data, making the South Asian giant only the third country to surpass the two million milestone after the United States and Brazil. The rate of spread in the world's second-most populous country also appears to be increasing. India logged its first one million infections by July 17 and crossed the 1.5 million mark just 12 days after that. Official figures show the country has now recorded 2.03 million infections and 41,585 deaths. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government imposed one of the world's strictest lockdowns in late March. But with Asia's third-largest economy reeling from the impact -- tens of millions of migrant workers lost their jobs almost overnight -- the restrictions have been steadily eased. Individual states and cities have been imposing localised lockdowns including IT hub Bangalore last month, the eastern state of Bihar and parts of Tamil Nadu in the south. Previously the main hotspots have been the teeming megacities of New Delhi and Mumbai, home to some of the world's biggest slums. But now smaller cities and rural areas -- where 70 percent of Indians live -- have begun to see case numbers rising sharply. Many experts say the true numbers may be much higher among India's 1.3 billion people, many of whom live in some of the world's most crowded cities. Fatalities may also be higher than the official figures. Experts say that even in normal times the cause of death is not properly recorded in large numbers of cases. A study last week that tested people for coronavirus antibodies found 57 percent in Mumbai's slums have had the infection -- far more than official data suggests. A similar probe earlier in July indicated that almost a quarter of people in the capital, New Delhi, have had the virus -- almost 40 times the official total. In smaller cities and rural areas many people have been ignoring guidelines on social distancing and wearing masks. Monsoon floods in recent weeks that have affected millions have also hindered efforts to fight the pandemic. In addition, some of those infected are ostracised by their communities, leading to a stigmatisation of the virus that puts people off being tested. "A new disease with relatively high levels of complications and mortality, with accompanying directives on physical distancing, inevitably leads to fears, apprehensions and... stigma," said Rajib Kumar, who heads the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University. "There's both the fear of the disease as well as of isolation and quarantine," Kumar told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-coronavirus-cases-double-to-two-million-in-three-weeks-870579.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Kashmir hospitals gasp for oxygen, ICU beds||At Srinagar lone tertiary-care hospital SKIMS, Covid-19 infected patients initially admitted in emergency continue to remain there for days due to a limited number of beds with oxygen ports and limited cylinder supply in the wards designated for the coronavirus patients. Critically sick, but negative for viral infection patients are admitted in the same emergency. “The delay in scooping out the Covid-19 patients and isolating them is not because of the dearth of space in the hospital, but because of the unavailability of oxygen beds,” a senior medico at SKIMS told DH on the condition of anonymity as doctors have been barred from speaking to media over the Covid-19 issue in J&K. The failure to segregate patients, he said, was a “health catastrophe” given the rush of people in emergency and the high risk of other patients and attendants contracting the respiratory viral infection. Given the situation in SKIMS and SMHS hospitals in Srinagar, which are nearly full to capacity, health authorities are only playing catch-up with Covid-19 numbers, another senior medico said. “Covid-19 numbers are rising far more rapidly than critical-care beds that are the only way to save lives. The SKIMS had designated 260 beds for Covid-19, but the number of beds with oxygen is just 180. In other beds, the hospital is using oxygen cylinders, which too are limited in supply. Lack of oxygen often leads to casualties,” he added. Currently, officials said, approximately 300 patients severely sick with Covid-19 are admitted at the SKIMS hospital. “It is a struggle to arrange high-flow oxygen for everyone,” they said. At SMHS hospital, out of designated 232 beds for Covid-19 patients, 180 have wall-mounted oxygen. “There is no scope to increase the number of ventilators or high-flow oxygen devices,” a doctor at the hospital said. The condition in district hospitals and other health centres designated for Covid-19 in peripheries hardly have an oxygen bank. As a result, all patients in need of oxygen or ventilator are referred to Srinagar-based hospitals. Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo agreed that demand for oxygen beds was putting a strain on supply at tertiary care hospitals. “Efforts are on at multiple levels to prepare more hospitals for severely sick Covid-19 patients. We have also sought approval of the finance department for setting up oxygen generation plants in some big hospitals. However, that will take about six months,” he said. The Covid-19 death toll in Kashmir stands at 402, with Srinagar accounting for 144 of it. The way Covid-19 numbers are rising, the authorities need to act on a war footing to set up oxygen supported beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-kashmir-hospitals-gasp-for-oxygen-icu-beds-870582.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh may see temperature rise of 7 degrees by 2100: Study||Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh may witness a temperature increase of up to 6.9 degrees Celsius by the end of the century due to climate change, according to a study which warns that the glaciers in this Himalayan region could shrink by 85 percent if the projections come true. The study, published in the journal Climatic Change on July 29, predicted the impact of future climate change in the Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh Himalaya, by the end of the twenty-first century using an ensemble of 11 models under three greenhouse gas emission scenarios. It also highlights the changes in the distribution of the prevalent climate zones in the region. "The study has been carried over the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir, including Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Aksai Chin and other regions across the Line of Control (LoC)," noted Professor Shakil Ahmad Romshoo, Dean of Research at the University of Kashmir. "The average annual temperature is projected to increase by 4.5 degrees Celsius, 3.98 degrees Celsius, and 6.93 degrees Celsius by the end of the 21st century under three different scenarios, respectively," Romshoo, lead author of the research, told PTI. The temperature increase of 6.9 degrees Celsius for the Jammu and Kashmir Himalayas is way more than the projected average rise in the global and national temperatures by the end of the century. Romshoo added that if the current emission rates of greenhouse gases are sustained, the global average temperature is likely to rise by nearly five degrees Celsius by the end of the twenty-first century under the worst-case scenario. Similarly, the average temperature over India is projected to rise by approximately 4.4 degrees Celsius under such a scenario, he said. Romshoo noted that there will be significant impacts on almost every sector of the economy in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh due to this climate change driven temperature increase. "The glaciers, the most important resource of the region, are going to shrink by around 85 per cent by the end of the century if the projections come true," the professor at the Department of Earth Sciences, University of Kashmir, noted. He explained that this would lead to significant depletion of the streamflows in the Indus basin, the waters of which are shared between several countries in South Asia. Similarly, the impacts on agriculture, horticulture and even tourism shall significantly threaten the livelihood of the dependent population in the region, the environmentalist warned. The researchers, including Jasia Bashir and Irfan Rashid from the Department of Earth Sciences, University of Kashmir, noted that the drivers of climate change are primarily the increasing emission rates of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Greenhouse gas emission is directly related to fossil fuel use, industrialisation, deforestation, air pollution, and other environmentally unfriendly activities across the globe, they explained. "Though the mountainous regions like Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh are the least industrialised, unfortunately, they are bearing the brunt of the climate change as the phenomena have global dimensions and footprint," Romshoo noted. The projected climate change under the three emission scenarios also indicates significant changes in the distribution of prevalent climate zones. The projected climate change under different scenarios revealed that the subtropical and temperate climatic zones would expand while the cold desert climate zone is projected to shrink significantly under all the three scenarios, the researchers noted. "The cold desert climate zone in the Ladakh region would shrink by 22 percent and correspondingly the subtropical and temperate zones would expand due to the projected climate change," the researchers noted in their study. "The projected changes in the climate and climate zones by the end of the twenty-first century would have significant impacts on various sectors in the region which might lead to the redistribution and changes in the composition of vegetation, enhancement of snow depletion and glacier recession," said Romshoo. He noted that the situation would also lead to an increase in the frequency of climate extremes, changes in streamflows, in the faunal and floral biodiversity, plant invasions, changes in agriculture and horticulture productivity. This is in addition to the loss of hydropower generation, ecosystem services, and impacts on other key economic sectors in the region, according to the researchers. "The vital information generated in this research would inform policymaking for framing robust strategies for adaptation and mitigation of the impacts of climate change on various socio-economic and ecological sectors in the region," Romshoo added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-ladakh-may-see-temperature-rise-of-7-degrees-by-2100-study-870590.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Manoj Sinha’s ‘Mission Kashmir’: To bring peace, ensure development||“J&K is India’s heaven and crown. I have been given a chance to play a role here. I met some officers and they told me that in the past one year, there has been a lot of development in all sectors. I will take forward it with vigor,” he told reporters after taking the oath. Sinha said there is a need to instill confidence among the “aam janata” (common people) of J&K in democracy.  “I have no specific agenda and there will be no disparity. There will be equal treatment to all. And we will work for the welfare of people of J&K. I will be in touch with the media too besides common people of J&K,” the LG said. Sinha said peace, ending militancy and development by all means will remain his priorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-sinha-s-mission-kashmir-to-bring-peace-ensure-development-870593.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Yogi stirs controversy with "won't go to Mosque inauguration" remarks; SP seeks apology||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's reported remarks that he would not attend the inauguration of the proposed mosque to be built near Ayodhya has triggered a huge controversy with the opposition leaders demanding apology from him and even seeking his resignation. Adityanath, in an interview to a private TV news channel, reportedly said that he would "neither be invited to the inauguration of the Mosque nor would go there". "They (those building the mosque) will not invite me....I know that...I won't go there," the Chief Minister said when asked if he would go to the Mosque inauguration ceremony. "I will continue to discharge my duties as a chief minister and work for every section of the society," he added. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) took strong exception to Adityanath's remarks and not only sought an apology from him but also said that he had lost moral right to remain CM of the state. "Yogi Adityanath has violated the oath he had taken at the time of becoming the Chief Minister of the state....he cannnot discriminate on the basis of caste, race or religion....he must seek apology from the people...he has no right to continue as CM," said SP leader I P Singh here. A state Congress leader also slammed the Chief Minister's reported remarks and said that he must tender an apology. The Sunni Central Waqf Board has been allotted five acres of land at Raunahin, about 30 kilometres from Ayodhya for building a mosque as per the Supreme Court order. The Board has set up an Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust to oversee the construction of the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-stirs-controversy-with-wont-go-to-mosque-inauguration-remarks-sp-seeks-apology-870594.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||3 civilians injured as Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K||At least three civilians were injured as Pakistan Army resorted to ceasefire violation in Karnah sector along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Friday. A defence spokesperson said that Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to the shelling of mortars along the LoC in Karnah, 210 km from here, resulting in injuries to three persons. “(Indian) Army gave a befitting reply,” he added. The injured civilians were identified as Mohammad Arif, Mohammad Yaqoob and Syed Rafaqat, who were shifted to hospital. The condition of one among them is stated to be critical. Earlier in the day, Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the LoC in Boniyar sector of Uri in Baramulla district by resorting to unprovoked firing. As per the officials, the Pakistani troops fired small arms and mortar shells towards Indian positions in the sector. However, there was no loss of life or property reported. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year. Between January-June 2020, there have been 2,300 ceasefire violations by Pakistan against 1,321 in the same period last year. In 2019, there were around 3,168 ceasefire violations by Pakistan. An official in the security grid said that the ceasefire violations are expected to increase in the coming months as summer is the peak infiltration period from across the LoC in J&K. He said besides helping infiltration, Pakistani troops repeatedly target forward posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border (IB) to create fear psychosis among the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-civilians-injured-as-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jk-870612.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire, targets Indian positions in Naugam||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday by opening fire at Indian positions, an Army official said. He said a befitting response was given to the Pakistani aggression. “Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Naugam sector, in Kupwara (district of north Kashmir) by firing mortars and other weapons,” the official said. There were no reports of any casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-targets-indian-positions-in-naugam-870615.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal launches Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy, says it will boost economy||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday launched 'Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy' under which his government will waive registration fee and road tax, and provide incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh for new cars in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, he said the policy, which aims to boost the economy, create jobs and reduce pollution level, has been notified, adding that he hoped that after five years, Delhi's name will be taken when there is a discussion on electric vehicle in the world. The chief minister termed it a "progressive policy" of the country and said it also aims to constitute 25 per cent electric vehicles by 2024, which is currently just 0.29 per cent in the city. Under the policy, the Delhi government will give incentive of up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers, autos, e-rickshaws and freight vehicles while for cars, it will provide an incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh, he said. He said the AAP government will also give low-interest loan on electric commercial vehicles. "After launching this policy, we expect five lakh new electric vehicles in the next five years...the Delhi government will set up dedicated 'EV Cell' to implement the policy," Kejriwal said. He said the government will also set up a 'State Electric Vehicle Board', adding that his government will set up 200 charging stations in one year and ensure that people driving these vehicles can get a charging station within the radius of three kilometers. The Delhi government will give a ''scrapping incentive'' under the electric vehicle policy, which will be first-of-its-kind in the country. "We are also going to give a scrapping incentive for those wanting to exchange their petrol or diesel-run vehicles. In the country, this is the first time that scrapping incentive is being given," the chief minister said. Initially, this policy will be for three years and thereafter, the government will review it, he said, adding that if needed, amendments will be made during three years. The chief minister said that at present, there is already the Centre's scheme on electric vehicles called 'Fame India Phase-2', under which the Union government also provides some incentives. The Delhi government's electric vehicle policy will be an addition to the Centre's scheme and people can also avail benefits under both the schemes, Kejriwal said. He said youth will be trained so that they get jobs as electric vehicle sector will need them at a large scale after implementation of this policy. According to him, there has been a 25 per cent reduction in pollution level in Delhi in the last five years and the policy also aims to reduce pollution in the national capital. "We are not satisfied with it (25 per cent). We do not need such development where pollution level is high," Kejriwal said. At present, when there is a discussion about electric vehicles in the world, the name of China is taken, he said. "I hope that after five years, the name of Delhi will come atop due to this policy when there is a discussion on electric vehicles in the world... "Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy has been prepared after a detailed discussion in the last two-and-a-half years. It has not been prepared sitting in an AC room," the chief minister said. Kejriwal exuded confidence that after five years, Delhi Electric Vehicle Model' will also be discussed in the country. He also said in the country, "Delhi Development Model" was being discussed, under which good schools and hospitals were built. Under this model, free electricity and water were being provided to Delhiites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-launches-delhi-electric-vehicle-policy-says-it-will-boost-economy-870622.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||8.64 lakh people registered with Delhi govt's 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal: Employment Minister Gopal Rai||Delhi Employment Minister Gopal Rai said on Friday that 8.64 lakh job aspirants have registered with the government's 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal which has set up a "new model of employment" in the national capital. Addressing a press conference, Rai said there were currently nine lakh vacancies available on the portal, where 6,271 companies, including Flipkart, Amazon and HDFC Bank have made registrations. The minister said around 22 lakh vacancies had been posted by employers at the job portal so far, out of which 3.5 lakh were cancelled by the department during scrutiny due to doubling or other reasons. "So far, around 10 lakh vacancies have been closed by companies after they initiated or completed the process of hiring candidates," he said. "The Delhi government's job portal has set up a new model of employment in Delhi." Rai, who is also the labour minister, said the AAP dispensation would soon launch a poster campaign to inform more job aspirants about 'Rozgar Bazaar'. He underlined that the government was providing a common platform where job seekers and employers could meet their requirements. The minister said there was no charge for this service and appealed to job aspirants to not pay money to those who promised to get them registered at the portal and jobs. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched the job portal on July 27 and appealed to the traders, industrialists and people to join hands to revive Delhi's economy. Kejriwal had highlighted that many people had lost their jobs and businesses were affected due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/864-lakh-people-registered-with-delhi-govts-rozgar-bazaar-job-portal-employment-minister-gopal-rai-870626.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury questions G C Murmu's resignation as Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday sought to know why G C Murmu resigned as the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu & Kashmir, and alleged the former IAS officer paid the price for "venting his views". The Election Commission had on July 28 taken exception to Murmu's reported remarks on the timing of polls in the union territor and said, in the constitutional scheme of things, only the poll panel is authorised to decide on such matters. Murmu, who quit as the Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, has been appointed as the new Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India. "The question is, why the 1st LG of UT JAMMU AND KASHMIR has tendered his resignation? Voluntary or instructed? Whether he has been failed to hoodwink the people that everything is going hunky-dory?" Chowdhury tweeted. "I think he has committed a great wrong by venting his views much to the embarrassment of the govt and got axed. You may term it as #MurmuSyndrome," he added. Former Union minister Manoj Sinha was on Friday sworn in as the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir, the first political leader to take charge of the Union Territory. The Union Territory of J&K came into being on October 31, 2019, after the state was reorganised and bifurcated into two union territories, Ladakh being the other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-questions-g-c-murmus-resignation-as-jammu-kashmir-lieutenant-governor-870631.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||No nod for lawyers' inclusion in essential services: Maharashtra HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday told the Bombay High Court that it has rejected the representations made by lawyers from the city seeking that legal services be recognised as essential services and that lawyers and their staff be allowed to travel by local trains. On August 5, the secretary of the state Disaster Management Relief and Rehabilitation unit had passed an order saying that it was not possible at this stage to permit lawyers and their staff to use local train services and to declare them as essential services, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said. He told this to a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A S Gadkari. "However, in future when the Covid-19 situation improves, the state government will consider the request made by the lawyers on priority," he said. The court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations and applications filed by several lawyers, saying that in the absence of permission to use local trains, lawyers and their staff were unable to reach courts. The pleas said that while the high court has been conducting hearings through video-conferencing, several lower courts still require one's physical presence owing to the infrastructure issues or lack of adequate internet connectivity. The court on Friday took on record the order passed by the government and said the petitioners could take necessary steps in accordance with law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-nod-for-lawyers-inclusion-in-essential-services-maharashtra-hc-870634.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Dialogue with people will start soon, there should be peace in Jammu and Kashmir: New LG Manoj Sinha||Pitching for peace and stability in Jammu and Kashmir, the union territory's new lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Friday said the administration would soon initiate direct dialogue with the people to end the situation of uncertainty and the menace of terrorism. Talking to reporters after taking oath, Sinha termed August 5 an important day in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. "After years of isolation, Jammu and Kashmir have joined the national mainstream," he said. Discussing the priorities of the administration, the 61-year-old former Union minister said, "We need to establish a dialogue with the common people of Jammu and Kashmir. "We don't have any agenda in that, there will be no discrimination against anyone. Constitution will be Gita in that," he said. Sinha, who was administered the oath of office at a simple ceremony in the Raj Bhavan, said the process of direct dialogue with the people will start in a few days. "There should be peace and stability in Jammu and Kashmir. The situation of uncertainty should end, terrorism should end. Achieving all this along with accelerated development will be our aim, our mission," the lieutenant governor said. Sinha succeeds former IAS officer Girish Chandra Murmu, who resigned on Wednesday night and was appointed Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dialogue-with-people-will-start-soon-there-should-be-peace-in-jammu-and-kashmir-new-lg-manoj-sinha-870638.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Provide correct phone number & address during Covid-19 testing: Ranchi DC||The Ranchi district administration on Friday appealed to the people to give correct phone number and address while giving swab samples for Covid-19 testing. Taking to Twitter, the DC on Friday said, "There are many cases when we struggle to locate the #COVID-19 +ve persons location due to the unavailability of sufficient info provided during sampling. This not only creates difficulty for admin whereas it also keeps ones life in danger. Help us to Help You." On Thursday he said that in the last few days some people were registering wrong mobile numbers or giving wrong addresses at Covid-19 testing lab, which was creating problems to the administration to reach to the Covid-19 positive people to take them to hospital. He urged the people to give correct residential address, police station address and mobile numbers and register one alternate mobile to enable the administration to reach them and take them to hospital. Ranchi district has reported 2,724 Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths due to the disease till Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-correct-phone-number-address-during-covid-19-testing-ranchi-dc-870643.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court asks Centre, Jammu and Kashmir administration to take definite stand on 4G in UT||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration to take a definite stand on restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory. A bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana also asked if the high speed internet could be made available in certain areas over there. The Centre referred to change of Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu with former Union Minister Manoj Sinha and sought time for taking instructions. It, however, maintained that the special committee, formed to review the decision on availability of 4G internet remained the same. The court noted that it had earlier sought clarification in view of previous Lt Governor's press statement on possibility of making available high speed internet services. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time to file a reply in the matter. The court posted a contempt petition filed by NGO Foundation for Media Professionals for consideration Tuesday. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for the applicant, contended they were taking a long time to respond. To this, the bench told him, you have waited this long, wait for some more days, we need to have the government's response, then we will see if there is any contempt and if the order by the court was complied with or not. The NGO filed the contempt plea alleging no special committee was formed to decide on restoration of 4G network within the Union Territory, in terms of the top court's judgement of May 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-centre-jammu-and-kashmir-administration-to-take-definite-stand-on-4g-in-ut-870649.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||'Network of highways in J&K, Ladakh to give impetus to region's growth'||Creation of a network of highways in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh is bound to give impetus to growth in the region, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said on Friday. "A region-wise performance audit of the promises made, over the last one year, gives a fairly good account," the Ministry said quoting an article by Prasar Bharti member and eminent journalist Ashok Tandon. It added that although a complete transformation in the landscape of this beautiful region will be on canvas once all the ongoing projects, especially several strategically important national highways and tunnels, become operational. The article quotes the sacrifices by Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (predecessor of the present day Bharatiya Janata Party), who spearheaded a nationwide Satyagrah (non-violent agitation) demanding complete integration of Jammu and Kashmir into the Indian Union. "Mookerjee had defied the entry-permit order of the government on the J&K border on May 10, 1953, and courted arrest chanting "ek desh mein do vidhan, do pradhan aur do nishan nahin chalenge' (there can't be two constitutions, two prime ministers and two flags in one nation)," the ministry said quoting the article. It added that he was taken to Srinagar jail where he died under mysterious circumstances on June 23, 1953. Little did Mookerjee would have then realised that his mission would be accomplished when a second-generation party leader from Gujarat will lead the party to power at the Centre with absolute majority of its own, it said. "The NDA government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, 2019, revoked the special status granted to the state of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Indian Constitution," the statement said. It added that the move enabled people of the state to access all central government programmes and laws, including right to reservation for disempowered, right to education, right to information, the Minimum Wages Act, and the Minority Act. The historic presidential order nullifying all the provisions of the autonomy granted to the state was followed by another landmark and strategically significant State Reorganisation Act, 2019, dividing the state into two Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. "Since then, the NDA government, over the past one year, has been grappling with a series of challenges on various fronts, including border security, constructive engagement with international community on the J&K issue, and domestic political resistance," it added. It added that there was a stupendous challenge of fast-tracking all-round development ensuring peace, prosperity and welfare of the people and providing corruption-free governance in all the three regions. The central government converted these challenges into an opportunity to undo the betrayal inflicted upon the people of J&K as well as Ladakh in the name of Article 370 by the family-run political parties who ruled the state for most of the last seven decades, it said. The statement also added that the PM's appeal to the youth in the region, particularly the misguided elements in the Kashmir Valley, to be a part of this historic journey and walk together for a greater cause has shown tangible results on the ground. With both J&K and Ladakh as Union territories (Jammu & Kashmir not permanently) directly under the Centre, the Modi government unfolded an ambitious road map of peace and progress ushering in a new era of inclusive development and transparent governance in the entire region, it said. "The Team Modi adopted an integrated approach to build a state-of-the art infrastructure and unleashed a slew of fast track social welfare and employment-generation schemes and programmes," it added. The article also said good-quality all-weather roads and national highways enhancing the hitherto lacking inter-region and intra-region connectivity have gone a long way in promoting and creating fresh employment opportunities in the post-bifurcation period, it said. In Kashmir, the road transport and highways ministry, with its arms like the NHAI and NHIDCL and in concert with the Border Road Organisation and the state Public Works Department, are currently engaged in completing a series of projects, the statement said. The ongoing projects include Srinagar-Jammu-Lakhanpur highway, Banihal Qazigund Road Tunnel, and Srinagar Ring Road. Likewise, Jammu with rapidly growing rail and road connectivity, including the Jammu Ring Road, is getting a huge boost to its economy with flourishing religious tourism and star-ups in businesses like wood grain work, mills, basmati rice trade, rice mills, carpets, electronic items and electric goods, it said. Tandon said Ladakh, on the other side, is witnessing an unprecedented boost to the infrastructure development with all-weather roads and highway network coming up in a big way in difficult terrains and strategic locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/network-of-highways-in-jk-ladakh-to-give-impetus-to-regions-growth-870677.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Hooch tragedy: SAD leaders including Bikram Majithia detained by police during protest||Some leaders of opposition SAD including Bikram Singh Majithia were briefly detained here on Friday by the police as they tried to stage a protest near the Punjab Raj Bhawan demanding dismissal of the Congress government in the state over the hooch tragedy. Talking to reporters at the protest site, Majithia dubbed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's visit to Tarn Taran to meet families of the victims as a “mere photo op”.        Demanding a CBI probe into the incident which has so far claimed 121 lives, the senior Akali leader said, "Our party demands justice for the victims. We will continue our fight till they get justice”.       Another senior SAD leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder said the chief minister made a show of visiting the victim families.       “The truth is that he paid a twenty minute visit to the police lines in Tarn Taran which was heavily guarded as the Congress government feared a backlash from the people," he said. “People were summoned to be present like they are in a durbar due to which a large number of them refused to come despite intense pressure from SPs and DSPs deputed specifically for this purpose," he said. "The chief minister also refused to visit Amritsar and Batala – the two other sites of the hooch tragedy...,” he added.       The Akali leaders demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for each family of the victims.         Bhunder said since there was no scope of justice from the Congress government, the SAD leaders had come to the Raj Bhawan as they wanted to request Governor V P Singh Badnore to take action on the representation submitted to him on Thursday by a SAD-BJP delegation led by Sukhbir Singh Badal and Manoranjan Kalia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hooch-tragedy-sad-leaders-including-bikram-majithia-detained-by-police-during-protest-870688.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi has lauded steps taken by Himachal government to tackle Covid-19: Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said the steps taken by his government to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic have been appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also said the country is fortunate to have Modi as its prime minister as it is due to the timely steps taken by him that the death toll due to Covid-19 is very low in India as compared to other developed nations. Thakur was addressing the functionaries of Dehra BJP organisational district at Bagli, which falls in the Jaswan Paragpur Assembly constituency of Kangra district. He said the opposition is making an issue over the increase in bus fares in the state. Himachal has suffered a loss of over Rs 30,000 crore due to the pandemic and to cope up with this crisis, the government was forced to take the step, the chief minister said, while accusing opposition leaders of politicising even a pandemic. He said an effective coordination between the government and party organisation is vital to ensure the "Mission Repeat" for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 state polls. The chief minister said the BJP workers are fortunate that they are associated with the largest political party in the world, which is headed by JP Nadda, who hails from Himachal. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the state BJP has been in constant touch with the party workers up to the booth level, Thakur pointed out, adding that this was possible due to the optimism about the use of information technology. He said the prime minister had envisioned a "Digital India" way back in 2014 and this vision has come in handy not only in effectively maintaining liaison with the party workers but also in better functioning of the government. Thakur said the pace of development has not been hampered by the coronavirus, adding that the government has directed officers to ascertain the amount of unspent money with various departments so that the same could be used for development works. It is also monitoring various ongoing development projects to ensure their time-bound completion, he said. Thakur said the prime minister is also considerate towards the development aspirations of Himachal. He said a poll victory for a political party is always ensured by the hard work and commitment of its workers, while exhorting the BJP workers to continue to work for the party in an organised manner. Thakur also said the laying of the foundation for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya is a step towards realising the dream of "Ram Rajya". State BJP organisation secretary Pawan Rana said initiatives such as "Apna Booth, Sabse Mazboot", "Panna Pramukh" were launched before last year's Lok Sabha polls, which resulted in the unprecedented victory of the BJP in the country with a 69-per cent vote share. He said the saffron party has launched the "One Booth, Ten Youth" initiative to strengthen its base at the booth level, adding that each and every BJP functionary must ensure maximum use of social media to disseminate information about the welfare schemes of the state government. State Industries Minister Bikram Thakur, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, Political Advisor to the Chief Minister and state BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal, Dehra BJP organisation district president Sanjiv Sharma and the party's mandal president Man Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-has-lauded-steps-taken-by-himachal-government-to-tackle-covid-19-jai-ram-thakur-870710.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Mutual agreement between BJP and Congress, claims Aam Aadmi Party||The AAP on Friday claimed that there is a mutual agreement between the BJP and the Congress, due to which both support each other politically. Hitting back, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar called AAP and BJP two sides of the same coin and rubbished the allegations. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha, in a press briefing, hit out at the Congress. "There is a mutual agreement between the BJP and the Congress, due to which both support each other politically.  If the BJP increases the tax, the Congress remains silent in the House. The Congress remained silent even when lawyers were changed on the Delhi riots," Chadha told reporters. He further said law and order in Delhi comes under the Home Ministry but the Congress is protesting against the Aam Aadmi Party instead of demonstrating against the BJP on the incident involving the assault of a 12-year-old girl. "From the last few months, the people of Delhi have been wondering whether the Congress and the BJP have some kind of a nexus inside Delhi. This romantic understanding got exposed many times. Depending on this understanding they decide when they should attack, raise their voices, keep silent, and other related issues," he said. Delhi Congress president Kumar said Chadha should introspect why the party leaders including Arvind Kejriwal have been praising the BJP government at the Centre during the pandemic. "AAP and BJP are two sides of the same coin. I am fighting for the rights of the people and police registered three cases against me for protesting against the BJP government. I will continue to fight for the Delhi people's interests without caring what AAP leaders say," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mutual-agreement-between-bjp-and-congress-claims-aam-aadmi-party-870719.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Vasundhara Raje meets J P Nadda a week before assembly session; discusses political situation in Rajasthan||Former Rajasthan chief minister and senior BJP leader Vasundhara Raje on Friday met party president J P Nadda and is believed to have discussed the political situation in the state where the Congress government has been facing rebellion from a section of its MLAs.  There was no official word on what transpired in the meeting which has assumed significance as Raje has largely maintained silence and kept away from BJP meetings in Jaipur since the crisis broke out last month.  During the meeting, which comes a week before the assembly session in Rajasthan is scheduled to take place, Nadda and Raje, who is also a BJP national vice president, discussed the party's options in the state, and she apprised him of her views, sources said.  Congress leader Sachin Pilot and nearly 18 MLAs loyal to him have revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who many believe, still has an edge in the numbers game and is confident of having a majority.  The state assembly is meeting from August 14 and Gehlot may call for a trust vote.  While a section of the BJP has been keen to topple the Gehlot government with support of Congress rebels, sources said Raje has not been very enthusiastic about it. PTI KR PYK PYK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vasundhara-raje-meets-j-p-nadda-a-week-before-assembly-session-discusses-political-situation-in-rajasthan-870742.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab witnesses record single-day spike of 1,063 Covid-19 cases, 23 more deaths||Punjab reported 23 more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, pushing the death toll due to the disease to 539 in the state, while a record single-day spike of 1,063 cases took its tally to 21,930. Nine deaths were reported in Ludhiana, three each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and SBS Nagar and one each was registered in Fazilka, Kapurthala, Patiala and Sangrur, according to a medical bulletin issued by the state health department. According to the bulletin, a death reported from Ludhiana on Thursday was excluded as it was counted twice. Ludhiana reported 296 new cases, followed by Patiala (122), Mohali (77), Jalandhar (70), Amritsar (67), Gurdaspur (53), Bathinda (49) and Pathankot (41). A total of 381 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. So far, 14,040 people have been cured of the infection in the state. There are 7,351 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab now, according to the bulletin. Twenty-nine patients are critical and on ventilator support, while 117 are on oxygen support, it added. A total of 6,46,439 samples have so far been sent for testing in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-witnesses-record-single-day-spike-of-1063-covid-19-cases-23-more-deaths-870761.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Sexual assault case: Delhi court grants Rs 2 lakh interim compensation to 12-year-old girl||A Delhi court granted on Friday an interim compensation of Rs 2 lakh to a 12-year-old girl, who is fighting for her life at a hospital after being sexually assaulted by a 33-year-old man. Additional Sessions Judge Vrinda Kumari directed the secretary of the West District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Tis Hazari Courts, to release the amount to the minor girl considering her physical and mental health and the expenditure likely to be incurred on her medical treatment. The girl, who was assaulted on August 4, is in a critical condition at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The court said it would be appropriate if interim compensation of Rs 2 lakh was granted to the girl, keeping in view the gravity of offence, severity of physical harm or injuries and the expenditure likely to be incurred on her medical treatment for physical and mental health. The DLSA and the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had moved an application before the court seeking compensation for the minor girl's family for her rehabilitation, alleviation of her sufferings and appropriate educational development. A source from the DLSA said that the amount has been released and credited into the girl's bank account on Friday. During the hearing, the court was informed that the girl had suffered multiple injuries on her body and incarcerations on her head/forehead and had undergone surgery at AIIMS here. Sources at AIIMS said the girl would undergo another surgery. On Tuesday, the girl was sexually assaulted at her west Delhi home by 33-year-old Krishan, who also hit her on the face and head with a sharp object. Her rectum and intestines were injured severely by some kind of impalement for which she needed immediate intervention and that is why she was operated upon as soon as she reached the hospital, a senior doctor at the AIIMS had said on Thursday. On Thursday, the Delhi Police arrested Krishan. The police has registered an FIR under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and section 8 (sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. The offences entail a maximum punishment of life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sexual-assault-case-delhi-court-grants-rs-2-lakh-interim-compensation-to-12-year-old-girl-870765.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Basmati: Punjab CM opposes GI tag, MP CM writes to Sonia||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday wrote to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi after her party colleague and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh opposed grant of geographical indication (GI) tag for basmati rice produced in MP. Chouhan accused the Congress of working against the interest of farmers of MP. "I am asking you why the Congress party is against farmers of MP. Why is your chief minister openly working against the interest of MP farmers? Please reply," Chouhan's two-page letter said. On Thursday, Chouhan had tweeted that the Punjab CM's letter to the Centre was "politically motivated". Amarinder Singh had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him not to allow GI tagging of MP's basmati rice in the larger interest of Punjab and other states which already have this tag. Apart from Punjab, the other states are Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, western UP and select districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Madhya Pradesh has sought that 13 of its districts be included for GI tagging for basmati. The Punjab CM has urged the PM not to disturb status quo in this matter, saying it was essential for safeguarding the interests of farmers and basmati exporters of India. Singh had contended that any dilution of registration might help Pakistan, which also produces basmati as per GI tagging. Countering his argument, Chouhan had tweeted, "The case of APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority) with Pakistan has no relationship with Madhya Pradesh's claim as it is under the GI Act of India. It is not connected to inter-country claims of basmati rice." In June, Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel had said the state government would move the apex court to challenge a Madras High Court ruling on not providing the tag to MP's basmati-growing regions. The MP government and a basmati growers' association had lost two separate cases in the court filed in 2016 to challenge the exclusion of the districts from a map submitted by the APEDA for the tags. Meanwhile, former MP CM Kamal Nath expressed surprise over Chouhan writing to Sonia Gandhi instead of addressing it to the PM. "This reflects how much understanding he has of the issue. He just wants to do politics and has nothing to do with the farmers' or the state's interest," Nath said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/basmati-punjab-cm-opposes-gi-tag-mp-cm-writes-to-sonia-870769.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Haryana reports 9 more Covid-19 deaths, no. of cases crosses 40,000-mark||Haryana reported nine more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, while 751 fresh cases took the infection tally in the state past the 40,000-mark, according to the health department's daily bulletin. While three deaths were reported from Rewari, two were recorded in Panipat and a fatality each was reported from Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad. With this, the Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 467 in Haryana, while the total number of cases in the state is 40,054. Faridabad reported 159 fresh cases, followed by Ambala (79), Fatehabad (63), Sonipat (60), Gurugram (54), Rewari (49), Rohtak (43), Palwal (41), Panipat (38) and Panchkula (30), according to the bulletin. The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 6,143, while 33,444 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. As of Friday, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 83.50 per cent in Haryana, while the rate of doubling of infections is 27 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-reports-9-more-covid-19-deaths-no-of-cases-crosses-40000-mark-870773.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab: People not wearing masks to face public humiliation||People who step out without a mask in Punjab will face public humiliation, made to stand at the spot for an hour, according to instructions issued by CM Amarinder Singh who also announced a longer curfew in three cities. According to a government statement, the instructions regarding the mask will be implemented for a week on a trial basis. The violators will be made to stand at the spot for an hour with a mask on, it said. The CM also announced to increase the duration of the night curfew by two hours in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala after a surge in coronavirus cases, it said. Currently, the night curfew in the state remains in force from 11 pm to 5 am. But in the three cities, it will be implemented from 9 pm to 5 am. While answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also directed to prepare an integrated management plan for the treatment of the disease at both government and private facilities in all big cities or towns. The instructions were issued as the state witnessed it steepest single-day spike of 1,063 cases, taking the coronavirus tally to 21,930. Twenty-three fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 539. He urged people not to rush to a private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment is available in government hospitals. There are adequate testing facilities available in the state, he said, adding that four new testing labs will become operational on Monday. The delay in testing and treatment is the main cause of increasing number of Covid deaths, he said. Expressing concern over a steady increase in infections, the chief minister said with the peak projected to come in Punjab by the end of August or early September, one could not be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. “Given the recent increase in cases in districts like Bathinda, Barnala, Ferozepur, we cannot afford to be complacent,” he said, urging people to hold their nerve in these tough circumstances and fight the disease with strength and determination. In response to a question, the chief minister directed an inquiry into the death of non-Covid patient at Faridkot’s GGS Medical College as doctors there allegedly refused to treat him till the file work was completed. Strict action will be taken against those found responsible, he added. He also shared details of various announcements he had made earlier in Tarn Taran when he met families of the hooch tragedy victims. Amarinder said the magisterial probe into the tragedy, which has claimed 121 lives, will be completed within three weeks and all those found complicit will be brought to book. The chief minister said the families too want strict punishment for the culprits. Though they did not demand it, but he had announced financial help and had directed the deputy commissioner to ensure that they get what they need, in terms of jobs and improving their houses, he added. “We will go beyond financial compensation for the families of the victims,” he said. He reiterated his commitment to wiping out hooch problem from the state and said he had directed the DGP to crack down on the smugglers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-people-not-wearing-masks-to-face-public-humiliation-870776.html
07-08-2020||North and Central||CM Yogi Adityanath transfers loans of Rs 2,447cr to new MSME units||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday transferred online loans worth Rs 2,447 crore to 98,743 new MSME units. In a programme organised at his official residence here, he also inaugurated skill development training organised by the MSME department for handicraft workers besides training scheme for members of the scheduled castes -tribes, other backward caste and one district-one product marketing scheme, an official release said. Speaking on the occasion, Yogi Adityanath said that his government was working with full dedication to explore all possibilities to realise 'self reliant India'. He also termed providing employment to the people for making then self sufficient as the top priority of his government. On the occasion, he laid foundation stone of 13 common facility centres under One District One Product scheme and also inaugurated six facility centres for encouraging export under the export infrastructure scheme of the Government of India. An MoU between state MSME department and Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) was also signed for transfer of knowledge in technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-yogi-adityanath-transfers-loans-of-rs-2447cr-to-new-msme-units-870781.html
07-08-2020||Opinion||Sanctifying a blueprint for New India at Ayodhya||The Bhoomi Pujan ceremony for the Ram temple at Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a significant milestone on several pathways. But, more than being the penultimate event (the completion being the destination) in the timeline of the most divisive, yet triumphant, mass movement in Independent India, the function marked the formal unveiling of guidelines for social conduct, personal belief and relationship between the individual and the State, now formally an unquestionable synonym for the nation. In his standard length speech (a shade more than half-an-hour), Modi laid out what could well be the blueprint for the New India he evocatively promises to deliver to the people. In smaller measure, he was backed by Mohan Bhagwat. It is not that the prime minister or the RSS sarsanghchalak said anything dramatically new. Many of their articulations were paraphrases of postulations uttered by those associated with the RSS, VHP and even BJP in the past. But Modi's assertions carried a different weight given that these were not made at a political rally, a party conclave, during a partisan political debate in Parliament or any other state legislative floor. Instead, these words were uttered by an Indian premier after personally performing a religious ritual publicly that was hosted by a private body (Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is a 'private' body) during a nationally televised (at the exchequer's cost) function. It was choreographed to the last nod and facilitated by the state government, with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister virtually acting as the 'host'. To return to what was said on this in the past, there are the words of Atal Bihari Vajpayee who held the agitation to be a "symbol of national sentiment." He was speaking as prime minister during a debate on the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi dispute in Lok Sabha on the eve of the anniversary of the demolition in 1999. In his speech after the watershed ceremony, Modi said he was confident that the now-in-sight temple would be emblematic of the abounding heritage of Indian culture and that he was certain that the temple would inspire entire humanity till eternity.  It is true that the character of Ram and the Ramayan as epic has inspired – and continues doing so – people across faiths and cultures. Even the now abhorred Alamma Iqbal, for being designated national poet of Pakistan, wrote evocative lines in praise of  Ram: Hai Ram ke vajūd pe Hindostāñ ko naaz ahl-e-nazar samajhte haiñ is ko Imām-e-Hind (India is proud of the existence of Ram/ Spiritual people consider him prelate of India) But the plurality of the Ram tradition, the innumerable interpretations and manner of depiction of him and the tale, was negated in the course of the three-and-half-decades old agitation for the temple. Not all Ramayans in India and abroad narrate the way the story and the character has been depicted in the course of this agitation. In their place, a singular or narrow view has been foisted on people. Recollect the systemic campaign in 2008-09 to ban the essay, entitled ‘Three Hundred Ramayanas: Five examples and Three Thoughts on Translation’, by the historian, poet and litterateur A K Ramanujan and strike it out from the reading list of a Delhi University course. The attack was because not all versions of the Ramayan followed the narrative the sangh parivar wanted to universalise in contemporary India. Paradoxically however, Modi fell back on not just this myriad tradition, but revived the old way of hailing Ram – Siyavar Ram Chandra ki Jai and Jai Siya Ram – instead of the weaponised and Sankritised rendition used as a war cry in the course of the agitation. The diversity and multiplicity of the epic and its central character was significantly evoked by Modi to make an important political point: That Lord Ram is revered in Indonesia too, which houses the world's largest Muslim population. Does this not bolster pan-Islamism? After all, the message was to Indian Muslims, that their co-religionists in the archipelago idealised Ram and they too should follow suit. But this call to Indian Muslims to follow the footsteps of people of the same faith is dangerous, because not all Muslims may follow the Indonesian tradition and instead are on a path of violence and retribution. Modi and Bhagwat have a proclivity to claim their sentiment as universal and the passion of the Hindu community for Ram as shared by the entirety of Indians. Bhagwat said with the Bhoomi Pujan the process for constructing a virtuous abode for the self-awareness required to make India into a self-reliant nation (now a Modi copyright) had been started. It is ironical for leaders to reiterate at a major milestone of an agitation that pit one group of Indians against another that the foundational belief of our civilisation remains ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’ (the world is one family). Modi drew parallels between the freedom struggle and the temple movement. He said Gandhi drew Dalits, tribals and OBCs into the movement and the Ram Janmabhoomi movement followed suit. Modi made no mention of Muslim participation because it would be tough to draw parallels between the two. His speech in fact, left no space for people of other faiths but to believe in the greatness of Ram as dictated by the supporters of the temple movement.  The prime minister said that the Ram temple shall be the modern emblem of Indian culture, eternal faith of people, their national spirit, collective resolve of crores of people. It is worth recalling that while awarding the entire land at the disputed site to Hindu parties, the Supreme Court also asked the government to allot a "prominent and suitable" five-acre plot for Muslims to construct a mosque in Ayodhya. This land has been allotted, albeit at a faraway place near the highway to Lucknow.  All imaginations of a collective walk into a rosy future would sound genuine if the government took even half the interest in the mosque-to-be and facilitated its construction if need be. Modi's utterances of following Ram's inclusive ways and following his vision of taking care and empathising with each subject would appear genuine when he turns up to participate in a function to mark construction of that mosque. If he makes no effort in that direction, he would remain on the path of social exclusion his ideological mates have followed in the course of the agitation. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sanctifying-a-blueprint-for-new-india-at-ayodhya-870600.html
07-08-2020||Panorama||NEP 2020: Reimagining the future of Higher Education||The launch of the National Education Policy 2020 augurs a new era in Indian higher education. It is an outstanding vision statement and an inspiring policy document that seeks a fundamental transformation in the landscape of higher education. It has recognised the complexity and challenges of the higher education system with integrity and candidness. It has envisaged a vision for seeking substantive change with a view to harnessing the extraordinary potential of human development and India’s demographic dividend. The NEP 2020 has the following 10 big ideas for reimagining the higher education sector. World-class education, pursuit of excellence: It has boldly aspired to build a world-class higher education system and has recognised that this is critical and central to the future of India and for building a knowledge society. Multi-disciplinarity, liberal education: It has envisaged the creation of a liberal, multidisciplinary and inter-disciplinary education ecosystem with strong emphasis on the liberal arts, humanities and social sciences along with studies in STEM and Medicine. Regulatory reforms: It has sought fundamental and substantive regulatory reforms in higher education by removing the old barriers and distinctions between the public and the private higher education sectors.  Expansion with quality, access: It has envisaged the focus in policy relating to expansion, access, equity, inclusion and excellence – all of which are equally important goals and aspirations that need to be fulfilled simultaneously. Research ecosystem: It has emphasised research and a culture of innovation that is central to the imagination of higher education in the future, with an effort to creating significant funding impetus and grants for research through the National Research Foundation, while envisaging a higher investment in education. Faculty focus: It has paved way for the recruitment of outstanding faculty with a strong focus on mentoring, retention, incentives, achievements and faculty development programmes, recognising that the faculty members are the most crucial aspect of the higher education system. Governance and leadership: It has highlighted the importance of governance and leadership in the administration and institution-building efforts in which all aspects of the effectiveness of the institution will depend upon the leadership and governance structures that are in place. Academic freedom, institutional autonomy: It has underlined the significance of academic freedom and institutional autonomy in funding, curriculum development, student admissions, and faculty recruitment with substantial freedom and academic flexibility in determining the duration of the degree programmes. Public funding, private philanthropy: It has strengthened the framework for funding, with a promise of increased investment in higher education and recognising the role of both the public and the private sectors, with strong emphasis on philanthropy. Internationalisation, accreditation, digitalisation: It has appreciated the importance of internationalisation with a view to promoting global partnerships with leading universities around the world. It has taken accreditation and global benchmarking of universities, including rankings, seriously. It has envisaged the need for providing significant support to the digitalisation of higher education and to the promotion of online education and upgradation of digital infrastructure. In addition, NEP 2020 has also reimagined the regulatory architecture of the higher education system to create a comprehensive and integrated higher education commission, besides renaming the HRD ministry as the Ministry of Education. However, for NEP 2020 to be implemented, it is important for the government to focus on some of the institutional challenges and behavioural aspects. The higher education ecosystem and, in particular, the government agencies and regulatory bodies need to commit themselves to five key areas of reform, re-imagination and transformation. Building trust: We need to build a culture of trust, respect and collegiality between government agencies, regulatory bodies and higher education institutions (HEI). At present, this is a major challenge and is adversely impacting all our efforts to develop a unified and robust higher education system. Transparent decision-making: We need to create transparent and accountability-based mechanisms for swift decision-making within government agencies and regulatory bodies in a time-bound manner. There are numerous bottlenecks in this effort and precious time is lost in various aspects of decision-making. Institutional independence: We need to empower all HEIs to take decisions with responsibility and accountability vested with the institutions themselves. There is a need for giving more power and in that process, more responsibility, to HEIs. Active, participative consultation: We need to promote active and participative consultation mechanisms with higher education institutions by government agencies and regulatory bodies, especially while creating new regulations or amending existing regulations that may impact institutions in any manner. Empowering IoEs: We need to empower the ‘Institutions of Eminence’ and those that have attained ‘Graded Autonomy’ to fulfil the vision of Indian universities to become world-class universities and to achieve high global rankings. There is an urgent need for providing more autonomy and freedom to the IoEs and similar institutions. While the government has important national priorities to handle, developing trust among all stakeholders, creating transparency within the regulatory system, providing autonomy with responsibility and accountability and empowering institutions within a participative framework are indispensable for the success of NEP 2020. The NEP 2020 is a watershed moment for higher education. Effective and time-bound implementation is what will make it truly path-breaking. (The writer is the Founding Vice-Chancellor of OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nep-2020-reimagining-the-future-of-higher-education-870426.html
07-08-2020||Panorama||Reach out to Nepal||Recently, China held the first joint video conference with Nepal, Afghanistan, and Pakistan and urged the four-nation cooperation to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, boost economic recovery and resumption of projects under Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi presided the meeting with his counterparts from three nations. China’s growing clout with Nepal’s ruling political party and its recent outreach with Nepal troubles India. As India is busy in containing the pandemic of Covid-19, it hasn’t paid much attention to the ongoing tensions with Nepal. There is a high chance that Nepal may drift away from its sphere of influence. China’s political clout in Nepal is increasing. Recently, there were widening divisions in the leadership of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP), the ruling party of Nepal. The communist party of Nepal appeared to be heading for a split. Senior leaders of the party were united to unseat Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. But the growing involvement of the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal, Hou Yangqi, likely avoided the split. She held a series of meetings with top leaders of Nepal, including Pushpa Kamal Dahal, Jhalanath Khanal, and Madhav Kumar Nepal. According to some media reports, she calls for unity among leaders of the ruling party. The Embassy described the meetings as regular ones to discuss the role of China in Nepal’s response to Covid-19. But the meetings come at a time when the ruling party has seen widening rifts and senior leaders of the party have asked the Prime Minister Oli to resign. The Chinese President Xi Jinping also held a telephone conversation with Nepal’s Prime Minister Bidhya Devi Bhandari around the same time to discuss bilateral cooperation and China- Nepal matters. He also offered assistance to Nepal to contain the pandemic of Covid-19. The telephonic conversation of the Chinese President with his Nepali counterparts followed by the active participation of the Chinese ambassador also hints that China wants the Communist Party of Nepal to be united and in power. China’s involvement has increased after the 2015 economic blockade. The relations between India and Nepal have soured badly in recent years. When India imposed an unofficial blockade along the border of Nepal citing its unhappiness with Nepal’s newly-released democratic Constitution of Nepal, it opened a door for China. In recent years, China has pumped in millions of dollars into many infrastructures and hydropower projects in Nepal. During the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping to the Himalayan nation in 2019, China pledged nearly USD 500 million in financial assistance to Nepal. The tensions between Nepal and India further deepened when India inaugurated a newly built road connecting India to China via Lipulekh, as part of the Kailash Mansarovar route. The Himalayan kingdom claims that the road transverses its territory. Nepal also updated its political map to include the contested area of Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura as its part toughening stance on territorial disputes with India. These issues haven’t been resolved yet. China is actively engaging with neighbouring countries like Nepal while India is busy containing the Covid-19 pandemic. A recent video conference by Chinese foreign minister with the counterparts of three nations is the latest example of Chinese engagement where he urged to continue projects under the BRI. The BRI is an ambitious multi-billion dollar initiative, which was launched by President Xi when he came in power. The aim of this initiative is to link Southeast Asia, Africa, the Gulf region, Europe, and Central Asia with land and sea routes. If China can reach out with its neighbours even with virtual meetings, then why can’t India do the same? India should reach out to Nepal and resolve its border issues soon. Else, it will lose Nepal and Nepal will drift towards China’s influence. The Covid-19 pandemic is engulfing the world and let it not be the reason for India to lose its neighbours. (The writer is an author and businessman based in Nepal who writes for different local newspapers in Nepal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reach-out-to-nepal-870429.html
07-08-2020||Second Edit||Cartographic aggression: Pakistan's new political map||The tit-for-tat game that India and Pakistan often engage in has entered a new phase with the Pakistan government unveiling a ‘new political map’ of the country. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Imran Khan issued a map that shows the Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), and Ladakh as well as territory in Gujarat as part of Pakistan, a move that is in response to a map that India issued in October last year that showed Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK) and Gilgit-Baltistan as well as Aksai Chin as Indian territory. Desperation to be seen to be standing up to India appears to be driving Pakistan’s map-drawing exercise. Last year, Islamabad sought to mobilise the international community against India’s abrogation of J&K’s autonomy by taking the matter to various global forums and flexed its muscle along the Line of Control (LoC) by repeatedly violating the ceasefire. With these actions yielding nothing, Pakistan has set off on new campaigns. Besides cartographic aggression, it issued a postage stamp to ostensibly highlight ‘Indian atrocities’ in Kashmir. As it turns out, Pakistan’s ‘new’ political map has little that is new. Much of the territory depicted as Pakistan is land that Islamabad has long laid claim to. All that the new map does is to underscore with greater emphasis Pakistan’s position on these territories. If in the past, Pakistan described J&K as ‘Held Kashmir’ or ‘Indian-Occupied Kashmir,’ the ‘new map’ has the words ‘Indian illegally-occupied Jammu and Kashmir” emblazoned on it. It also mentions within parentheses that this is “Disputed Territory,” whose “final status will be decided in line with the relevant UNSC resolutions.” However, Pakistan’s new political map lays bare the true motivations that underlie its policy on Kashmir. By clearly showing J&K as Pakistani territory, it has revealed that it is annexation of Kashmiri territory that drives its policy. Its claims of supporting the aspirations of the Kashmiri people for an independent state stand exposed as a sham. Those Kashmiris who look to Islamabad to support their struggle for ‘azadi’ need to take a hard look at Pakistan’s new map and its reiteration of support for UNSC resolutions that deny Kashmiris the option of independence. Unable or unwilling to address problems at home, governments in India’s neighbourhood have taken to drawing new maps to deflect attention from problems at hand. Only recently, Nepal came up with a new map showing Indian territory as part of Nepal. Besides a shared bonding with China, Pakistan and Nepal seem to be adopting a common strategy of waging cartographic aggression on India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cartographic-aggression-pakistans-new-political-map-870421.html
07-08-2020||South||At least 80 feared trapped in landslide at Rajamala near Munnar||At least 80 persons were feared to be trapped in a landslide at Rajamala near Munnar in Idukki district in Kerala. There were unconfirmed reports that three bodies were recovered from the spot. The landslide reportedly took place during the early hours of Friday. Though the area was around 20 kilometres from Munnar, rescue workers could not reach the area yet owing to the tough terrain and rough weather. A team of NDRF and fire and rescue personnel were rushing to the spot. The number of people trapped was yet to be ascertained, said a local revenue official.  A local panchayat member told a television channel that at least 20 houses in four hamlets of workers of a plantation were washed away in the landslide. Since the power supply to the region was affected over the last few days, communication facilities like mobile phone were also affected. Kerala Forest Minister K Raju said that the information received from forest officials in the region was that it was a major landslide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-least-80-feared-trapped-in-landslide-at-rajamala-near-munnar-870495.html
07-08-2020||South||Landslide in Rajamala in Idukki district, several estate workers feared trapped||Torrential rains pounded Pettimudi in Rajamala in the high range Idukki district, triggering a landslide early Friday morning with several estate workers of a tea plantation feared trapped. Communication links to the area have been affected as the power lines have snapped in the rains. At least 70 people are suspected to be trapped under soil, burying nearly 20 houses of plantation workers. Police and Fire service personnel have rushed to the spot and the district administration has asked hospitals in the region to stay prepared. The India Meteorological Department has sounded a red alert in the region. In Ernakulam district, as the water level in the Periyar river rose, the famous Shiva temple on the river bank has been almost submerged. Shutters of various dams have also been opened causing water level in the Periyar river to rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/landslide-in-rajamala-in-idukki-district-several-estate-workers-feared-trapped-870545.html
07-08-2020||South||Five estate workers killed in landslide in Idukki district||Five people were killed when a mound of earth caved in on a row of houses of tea estate workers at Pettimudi in the high range Idukki district early Friday morning as heavy rains pounded the area triggering a landslide. Police sources told PTI that five bodies have been recovered. Five others who were injured have been rushed to the Tata General Hospital. At least 70 people were suspected to be trapped under the soil, burying as many as 20 houses of plantation workers. Police and Fire service personnel rushed to the spot and the district administration has asked hospitals in the region to stay prepared. The state Health Department has dispatched 15 ambulances and a special medical team to provide medical assistance to those affected by the landslides in Idukki. Meanwhile, the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has contacted the Air Force seeking its helicopter for the rescue mission in Idukki. "The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed for the rescue operations in Idukki. The team was already stationed in the district. Another NDRF team from Thrissur was also directed to move to Idukki," Vijayan said in a Facebook post. The India Meteorological Department had issued a red alert for Idukki on Friday, indicating extremely heavy rainfall of over 20 cms. Munnar MLA S Rajendran told the media that it was difficult to reach the spot as a bridge which provided access to the area was washed away in the rains. "At least 200-300 people live there. There are many lanes and a canteen at the location. We are yet to receive further details. Since one of the bridges to that area was destroyed last night, it has become difficult to access the region," he added. "Also, those who are there are finding it difficult to contact us because the only mobile tower there is not functioning properly due to power failure," Rajendran said. Workers from a nearby estate have rushed to the spot for rescue operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-estate-workers-killed-in-landslide-in-idukki-district-870547.html
07-08-2020||South||Telangana Covid-19 tally reaches 75,257; 12 deaths push toll to 601||Telangana witnessed a new single-day high in Covid-19 cases with 2,207 fresh infections being reported, taking the overall tally in the state to 75,257. The death toll rose to 601 with 12 more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 6. Out of the 2,207 new cases, 532 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Rangareddy (196), Warangal Urban (142) and Medchal-Malkajgiri (136). Except for Nirmal, all the remaining 32 districts reported cases in double digits. While the GHMC has been the hotbed of virus spread since the pandemic outbreak, some of the districts, including Warangal Urban, Karimnagar and Sangareddy, have been witnessing a steady rise in caseload in recent weeks. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.79 percent, while it was 2.07 percent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the virus was 53,239, while 21,417 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 70.7 percent in the state, while it was 67.62 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 14,837. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 23,495 samples were tested on August 6. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 5,66,984. The state government on Wednesday decided to conduct 40,000 Covid-19 tests daily. On age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34 percent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 25 percent (male-17.7 and female-7.3). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds in government facilities was 11,581 and 4,430 and 1,896 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 323 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The bulletin provided a list of laboratories, list of rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, list of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-covid-19-tally-reaches-75257-12-deaths-push-toll-to-601-870561.html
07-08-2020||South||Five more succumb to coronavirus in Puducherry, toll climbs to 75||Five people, including three women, died of Covid-19 in Puducherry, where 244 fresh cases were registered on Friday, taking the aggregate of those who tested positive to the pathogen in the union territory to 4,862. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that with 244 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Friday, the tally now stood at 4,862. Most of the patients who died of the viral infection had co-morbidities. The deceased were in the age group of 65 and 85 years. There are 1,873 active cases out of the total 4,862 patients, including 567 home quarantined patients, the Director said. Total patients who were treated and discharged were 2914 and fatalities were 75. The 244 new cases were identified after examination of 856 samples during last twenty-four hours of whom 233 are in hospitals in Puducherry, ten in government GH in Karaikal and one in Yanam region. Puducherry now has a positivity rate of 28.5 per cent while the rate of fatality is 1.5 per cent. He said 77 patients were discharged from hospitals during last twenty-four hours. Of the 45,098 samples tested so far 39,554 were found to be negative and results of an examination of remaining samples were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-more-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-puducherry-toll-climbs-to-75-870585.html
07-08-2020||South||Monsoon floods engulf Kerala for 3rd year in a row||The landslide at Pettimudi near Munnar in Idukki occurred almost exactly one year after Kerala witnessed two major landslides. The state is also witnessing natural calamities in the month of August for the third year in a row. The landslide at Pettumudi took place during the early hours of Friday morning. It was on August 8 last year, that the state witnessed major landslides at Puthumala in Wayanad and Kavalapara in Malappuram districts that claimed 17 and 59 lives respectively. The total death toll in calamities during August 2019 was 121. Kerala witnessed major floods across the state in August 2018 that claimed around 500 lives. Idukki, which is a hilly district, witnessed 977 landslides in 2018, which was the highest among all districts in Kerala. Many of the landslides were near Munnar. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority and other agencies had identified many landslide spots across the state and shifted people to safer places ahead of this monsoon. But the Pettimudi area seemed to be not considered as landslide prone area so far. Kerala Revenue Minister E Chandrasekhar and Power Minister M M Mani, who are natives of Idukki, said that families were residing at these areas over the last many decades and so far there were no reports of any threats in this region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monsoon-floods-engulf-kerala-for-3rd-year-in-a-row-870633.html
07-08-2020||South||12,000 people living within 2-km radius of CFS where ammonium nitrate is stockpiled: TNPCB||Around 12,000 people live within 2 kilometers radius of a Container Freight Station (CFS) near here where 740 tons of explosive chemical ammonium nitrate have been stored for the past five years, an on-the-spot inspection by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has found. The findings of the TNPCB are in clear contradiction with claims made the Customs Department that there was no residential locality within 2 km from the vicinity of the CFS. The explosive chemical was seized by the Customs Department in 2015 from the Karur-based Amman Chemicals for not possessing required license to import ammonium nitrate. A seven-member team from various departments of Tamil Nadu government like the TNPCB, Fire Services and Police conducted an on-the-spot inspection on Thursday after concerns were raised about the safety of the chemical, following a massive blast in Lebanese capital Beirut earlier this week that is suspected to have been caused by ammonium nitrate. As questions were raised whether huge quantities of an explosive chemical can be stored very close to the city, the Customs Department issued a statement on Thursday said the seized cargo was securely stored at the CFS and that there is no residential locality within the vicinity of 2 km. However, the report submitted by the Tamil Nadu government team says the Manali New Town and Sadayankuppam village are located within 700 metres and 1.5 km distance from the CFS. The CFS, which is operational since 2001, is spread across 18 acres and 740 tons of ammonium nitrate is stored inside 37 containers. The team, in its report, has recommended the Customs Department to clear the “stored ammonium nitrate” from the CFS premises, while asking the owner of the CFS to “earmark” the storage area and engage security personnel to safeguard the area till the chemical is cleared from there. While issuing a statement on Thursday, T Samaya Murali, Joint Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), said the seized cargo is securely stored, and safety of the cargo and public is ensured considering the hazardous nature of the cargo. He also added that an e-auction on the orders of the Madras High Court has already been completed and that the cargo will be disposed within a short period following all safety measures. Environmentalists have asked the state government and Customs Department to ensure that the chemical do not pose any danger to the people. Since the huge amount of ammonium nitrate was imported by Amman Chemicals from South Korea without required permission, the Customs Department had seized the chemical along with the containers in 2015 and have stored them at the aforesaid CFS. The consignment was seized in September 2015 after the firm’s licence was cancelled. Amman Chemicals also moved the Madras High Court against cancellation of the licence which upheld the government’s decision in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12000-people-living-within-2-km-radius-of-cfs-where-ammonium-nitrate-is-stockpiled-tnpcb-870667.html
07-08-2020||South||Karnataka rains: JD(S) demands special financial aid from Centre||With flood-like situation in several parts of Karnataka, the JD(S) on Friday said it will extend support to the relief measures the state government will undertake, while demanding special financial aid from the Centre. JD(S) patriarch H D Deve Gowda pointed out that the state was facing double crisis of Covid pandemic and floods, said his party will stand with the government; while his son and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said the situation is like "trial by fire" for this administration. Flood-like situation and landslides continue to cause havoc in several parts of Karnataka that has been battered by torrential rains. Many places in Malnad, coastal and north interior Karnataka regions have been affected by deluge, putting lives and properties at risk. In a statement released by his office, Gowda said, "people and animals affected by the floods in the state have to be rescued immediately. We will stand with the government in the relief measures it undertakes." Pointing out that the Chief Minister who is undergoing treatment for Covid infection is working from the hospital, he urged the CM and Ministers to constitute a task force to manage the crisis. Suggesting setting up of relief centres and providing immediate relief to those affected, the former Prime Minister urged special financial assistance from the Centre as the state is battered by floods repeatedly. He said the state government should also put pressure on the Centre in this regard. Kumaraswamy said the Centre must extend special financial aid to the State to help people continuously ravaged by the floods. The state government must also exert pressure on the Central government in this regard, he added. "The government must ensure that there is no dearth of funds to take up relief works in flood-hit areas. If not, the situation will become severe and have an adverse impact," he cautioned in a series of tweets. Suggesting that district-wise special task forces should be constituted to manage the flood situation, Kumaraswamy said the government must set up care centres for those affected, and it must immediately come to the aid of those who lost their homes, crop and dear ones. "For the government it is fire by trial (trial by fire) - on one side it has to contain spread of Covid 19 while on the other it has to manage floods. If they are not cautious enough, then it will be risking lives of people," he said, adding that Ministers and officials must camp in flood affected areas, supervise relief and rescue works and boost people's confidence. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who has released Rs 50 crore for emergency relief, has announced Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to affected families, Rs five lakh for completely damaged houses and in case of partially damaged, relief will be distributed considering the extent of damage. He has also directed the district in-charge Ministers to take precautionary measures in the wake of heavy rainfall, and has instructed them to remain in their districts and tour the damaged areas. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday had accused the state government of having failed to come to the rescue of those affected and raised questions about its very existence||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-rains-jds-demands-special-financial-aid-from-centre-870670.html
07-08-2020||South||DMK observes M Karunanidhi's second death anniversary||DMK president M K Stalin and party leaders paid floral tributes at the memorial of M Karunanidhi here on Friday on the leader's second death anniversary. Stalin, flanked by senior leaders including Duraimurugan, and T R Baalu showered flower petals at the decked up memorial of Karunanidhi on Marina beach. The DMK chief also visited the Gopalapuram residence of the late leader here, party headquarters 'Anna Arivalayam,' and garlandedthe decorated portraits of the former Chief Minister. Stalin, through a virtual link, unveiled a statue of Karunanidhi at hisnative Tirukkuvalai in Tiruvarur district and distributed welfare assistance to anti-COVID frontline workers including nurses. Party MP Kanimozhi, former State Minister K N Nehru were among those who participated in the anniversary event. In Puducherry, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy led the Union Territory to pay tributes to the DMK patriarch on the occasion. Karunanidhi died in Chennai on August 7, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-observes-m-karunanidhis-second-death-anniversary-870673.html
07-08-2020||South||17 killed, 54 missing in landslide in Kerala; Many parts of state under grip of calamity||As many as 17 persons have been killed and 54 still missing in a landslide at Pettimudi, about 20 kilometres from Munnar, a major tourist destination in Idukki district in Kerala. Many parts of Kerala are also under the grip of calamities owing to heavy rains over the last few days, posing a major challenge to rescue operations amidst Covid-19 spike. It is for the third year in a row that Kerala is witnessing major natural calamities in the month of August, claiming around 500 lives in 2018 and 125 in 2019. According to the Idukki district administration, the landslide at Pettimudi took place by around 11.30 pm on Thursday at the Nayamakkad estate of Kannan Devan Hills and Plantations. Settlement clusters of plantation workers comprising 30 rooms in four lines in which 83 persons were staying were reduced to debris as earth and rock caved in. The outer world came across the incident only by the morning after someone informed the nearest forest office. Power supply to the area allegedly remained affected over the last three days owing to rough weather, which affected the communication to outer world. A woman who had a narrow escape from the mishap told reporters that since it was total darkness in the area they came across the severity of the incident only by dawn. Fire and Rescue Services (FRS) and police personnel rushed to the spot and NDRF also followed. Tough terrain, damages caused to a bridge to the spot and rough weather affected the accessibility to the region and rescue operation. The 17 bodies recovered till evening included five women and two children. Four of the 12 rescued suffered serious injuries. Search operation for the remaining were continuing. A FRS personnel involved in the rescue operation said that the chances of persons washed away in the nearby river could not be ruled out and hence search was being carried out in the river also. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the rescue operations would continue in the night also as arrangements were made for lighting. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 each to the injured, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced relief of Rs. 5 lakh to the families of the deceased and entire medical expenses of the injured. Meanwhile, many part of Kerala, including Wayanad, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta were under the grip of a flood and landslides owing to continuous rains and rise in water-levels of rivers. Coastal areas across the state was also witnessing high tides and sea erosion. Around 20 families were rescued from a landslide hit spot at Mundakai near Kalpetta in Wayanad. Since many families were shifted to safe locations in advance, major casualty could be averted. Minor landslides were also reported at some other parts of Idukki, Wayanad and Malappuram districts. The chief minister said that shutters of 17 dams in the state were already opened. Hundreds of families were shifted to relief camps across the state. The India Meteorological Department had issued a red alert for Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad and orange alert in eight other districts for Saturday also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-killed-54-missing-in-landslide-in-kerala-many-parts-of-state-under-grip-of-calamity-870691.html
07-08-2020||South||NDRF team reaches Kerala's Idukki to help landslide-hit people: HM Amit Shah||A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has reached Kerala's Idukki to assist local administration in rescue and relief operations for the landslide-hit people there, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday. At least 14 people were killed and over 50 others feared trapped in debris after a landslide triggered by heavy rains flattened a row of dwelling units of tea estate workers in Idukki in Kerala. "Condolences to the bereaved families of those who have lost their lives in Rajamalai, Idukki (Kerala) due to landslide. Condolences to the bereaved families of those who have lost their lives in Rajamalai, Idukki(Kerala) due to landslide. Have spoken to DG NDRF, their team has reached the spot to provide all possible assistance to the administration with the rescue work. May injured recover soon. "Have spoken to DG NDRF, their team has reached the spot to provide all possible assistance to the administration with the rescue work. May injured recover soon," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ndrf-team-reaches-keralas-idukki-to-help-landslide-hit-people-hm-amit-shah-870707.html
07-08-2020||South||Kerala rains: Air India Express flight skids at Karipur airport in Kozhikode||At least 17 passengers were killed and 173 injured after an Air India Express flight from Dubai skidded off the runway and broke into two at the Kozhikode international airport at Karipur in Malappuram district on Friday. According to a statement from Air India Express, AIE flight IX 1344 from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway at 7.41 pm. “No fire reported at the time of landing. There are 174 passengers, ten infants, two pilots and four cabin crew on board the aircraft,” the statement said. Help centres are being set up in Sharjah and Dubai, the statement added. The DGCA, which ordered a probe into the incident, said in a statement that after landing on Runway 10, the plane continued till the end of the runway, fell into the valley and broke into two portions. Local sources said the aircraft fell to the deep side of the table-top runway and hit the compound wall after over-shooting the runway. The cockpit and the tail portion from the wings were detached due to the impact of the collision. The condition of several passengers was said to be critical. The deceased included the captain and the first officer, identified as Deepak Vasant Sathe and Akhilesh Kumar. Heavy rain and poor visibility were said to be the main reason for the mishap. Locals and fire fighting units of the airport initiated the initial rescue operations and were later joined by NDRF. Around 50 ambulances rushed to the spot and shifted all passengers to hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. The condition of around ten was stated to be serious. A youth who took part in the rescue operations said that many people suffered serious injuries. Fire and rescue teams from two districts — Kozhikode and Malappuram — have been engaged. Seriously injured passengers have been admitted to the Kozhikode medical college. Over 25 passengers were returning after losing jobs, while a same number of passengers were returning owing to expiry of visa. The condition of a mother and child injured in the accident was very serious, Health minister K K Shailaja said. There was a fuel leak in the aircraft, leading to us not being able to use electric cutters, two passengers were stuck in the tail section of the aircraft, said Malappuram district collector at 2345 hrs. We received several ambulances from nearby districts. It was a joint effort by NDRF, firefighters, and many others. We were able to evacuate all passengers in 90 minutes, he added. Air India Express AXB1344, B737 Dubai to Calicut, persons on board 191, visibility 2000 meter, heavy rain, after landing Runway 10, continue running to the end of the runway and fall down in the valley and broke down in two pieces, DGCA said in a statement. Relief teams from Air India and Airports Authority of India are being immediately dispatched from Delhi & Mumbai. All efforts being made to help passengers. A formal inquiry will be conducted by AAIB, said Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Kerala has been hit by heavy rains in recent days. Over 10 were killed on Friday after a landslide triggered by heavy rains flattened a row of huts in Munnar. Previously in 2010 an Air India Express Boeing 737-800 from Dubai to Mangalore overshot the runway and burst into flames. Both Mangalore and Kozhikode airports are considered tabletop airports. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rains-air-india-express-flight-skids-at-karipur-airport-in-kozhikode-870723.html
07-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh adds one lakh Covid-19 cases in 11 days; becomes third state to record more than two lakh infections||Andhra Pradesh has added one lakh more Covid-19 cases in just 11 days, with the state contributing majorly to the national tally lately. While 10,171 new cases were added on Friday, on Thursday it was 10,328 cases. Andhra Pradesh has thus become the third state to have more than two lakh infections, after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Karnataka is topping the list of states with less than two lakh cases. As of Friday morning, AP has a total 2,06,960 cases registered out of which 84,654 cases i.e., 41 per cent are active. While the total recoveries are higher in comparison offering some succour, 1842 patients died due to Covid-19 and comorbidities till now. 89 of these deaths were on Friday – the highest single-day fatalities yet. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has confirmed the first case on 12 March from Nellore – of an Italy returned young man. The cases surpassed the 1000 point on 25 April and breached the 5000-mark on 9 June. Covid-19 in AP had crossed the one lakh figure on 27 July.   Officials state their positivity (8.76) and mortality (0.89) rates are lower than the national average (8.9 and 2.05 per cent respectively) while attributing the worrying numbers to their vast testing numbers – 23.6 lakh samples tested till Friday morning. Health officials add that about 90 per cent of their tests are being conducted in the containment clusters, explaining the relatively high positivity.   The state is testing at-least 60 thousand samples every day, employing the RT-PCR, Truenat (used for TB tests), NACO method tests to detect AIDS and the rapid antigen procedures. East Godavari, Kurnool, Anantapuram, and Guntur are the worst affected of the 13 districts in AP. These four areas account for about half of the total cases. Meanwhile, Telangana has added 2,207 new cases on Thursday – its highest single-day addition till now, taking its total to 75,257. Total dead are 601. However, the Chandrasekhar Rao government is still lagging in testing. While AP tested 44,237 samples per million population, this rate is only 15,271 in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-adds-one-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-11-days-becomes-third-state-to-record-more-than-two-lakh-infections-870727.html
07-08-2020||South||Kerala CM rubbishes Swapna's claims of acquaintance; accuses media||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has rubbished statement of Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh about acquaintance with him. He also alleged that a section of media was becoming spokespersons of his political opponents. Vijayan told reporters on Friday that Swapna only stated that she knew the chief minister. It was blown out of proportion by a section of media which was acting as the spokesperson of his political opponents who wanted to tarnish his image and trying to establish that Kerala chief minister had nexus with gold smuggling. Vijayan, who almost lost his cool, said that he was not afraid of any probe as he had nothing to hide. Hence he himself sought NIA probe into the gold smuggling. The NIA probe would soon expose all the facts pertaining to it would be unpleasant to many others, he said. It was while opposing Swapna's bail plea that the NIA pointed out before the special court in Kochi on Thursday that Swapna stated about her 'casual association' with the chief minister as she was earlier serving as an executive secretary at UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The opposition parties Congress and BJP stepped up attack against the CM and demanded his resignation alleging nexus with gold smuggling accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-rubbishes-swapnas-claims-of-acquaintance-accuses-media-870732.html
07-08-2020||South||Not Stalin, people will decide on who should come to power: Tamil Nadu CM||The people of Tamil Nadu will decide who should come to power in 2021 and not DMK president M K Stalin, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Friday, as he mocked at the opposition leader's call to his party workers to ensure its victory in the assembly polls. Palaniswami, who is also the AIADMK's co-coordinator, said his government was taking forward late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's initiatives on securing investment and welfare measures as well. "It's the people, not Stalin, who will decide who should come to power," Palaniswami told reporters here when his attention was drawn to Stalin's appeal to party cadres to bring the DMK back to power. Stalin had written to party workers on Thursday on the eve of Karunanidhi's second death anniversary, asking them to strive hard to win the people's support and post a victory in the 2021 Assembly elections and dedicate it to the late leader. "We are doing everything within our means to attract investment to Tamil Nadu in a big way. Even during the challenging times of Covid-19, my government is striving hard to attract investment besides creating jobs and ensuring livelihood. Tamil Nadu has attracted investment of Rs 34,000 crore and signed 41 MoUs for the creation of 67,000 jobs. This is a big achievement during this crisis and Tamil Nadu is first among the states in India to attract such huge investments," Palaniswami said. "The government has formed an expert committee to examine the NEP," he said when asked about the stand taken by his government in rejecting the three language formula. Both Palaniswami and Stalin are on the same page with regard to opposing the "three-language policy" suggested in theNational Education Policy 2020. On the e-pass system which Stalin wanted cancelled, the chief minister said he has formed a committee to expedite the process of issuing e-passes. "A committee in addition to the existing one had been formed to issue e-passes without delay. Identity cards, which could be renewable the following month, will be issued to the employees based on the request from the companies," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-stalin-people-will-decide-on-who-should-come-to-power-tamil-nadu-cm-870746.html
07-08-2020||South||Amit Shah directs NDRF to rush to air crash site in Kerala||Union Home Minister Amit Shah directed the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Friday night to rush to the spot at Kerala's Kozhikode, where an Air India Express aircraft crashed, to assist in the rescue-and-relief operations. The Air India Express plane coming from Dubai overshot the runway at the Kozhikode airport. Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. Have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations. "Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. "Have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations," Shah tweeted||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-directs-ndrf-to-rush-to-air-crash-site-in-kerala-870766.html
07-08-2020||South||No ammmonium nitrate in custody of Customs in Vizag: Official||There is no ammonium nitrate in the possession of Customs at Visakhapatnam- Gangavaram, Kakinada and Krishnapatnam ports of Andhra Pradesh, a top Customs official said here on Friday. In the light of the explosion of the chemical in Beirut and the resultant fatalities and losses on Tuesday, storage of such substance in India has become a cause for serious concern. Chief Customs Commissioner and Central Tax, Visakhapatam Zone, Naresh Penumaka said the import and storage of the chemical in Andhra Pradesh has been examined. He said there was no ammonium nitrate in the custody of the Customs and that the ports in Visakhapatnam, Gangavaram, Kakinada and Krishnapatnam have no such cargo. Penumaka, however, said there are regular imports of ammonium nitrate at Visakhapatnam Port and the entire import is bagged cargo imported by manufacturers under licence. All the manufacturers have to obtain a pre-shipment import licence from Petroleum and Safety Organisations (PESO), Nagpur, for importing ammonium nitrate. On Thursday, Customs authorities in distant Chennai sought to allay fears over safety regarding the storage of nearly 700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate at a container freight station the city. The chemical worth Rs 1.80 crore was seized from a Tamil Nadu-based importer who had allegedly declared it as fertiliser grade although it was an explosive grade, a Customs official had said. However, the consignment, imported from South Korea, was safe and an e-auction process was on to clear it, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-ammmonium-nitrate-in-custody-of-customs-in-vizag-official-870792.html
07-08-2020||State||Water inflow to Belagavi district increases to 1.51 lakh cusecs||Water inflow into river Krishna and its tributaries increased to 1,51,800 cusecs on Friday resulting in water spreading to the areas near the bank which resulted in houses near agricultural lands in Chikkodi taluk being marooned. Water inflow into the Kallol barrage in river Krishna from Rajapur barrage increased to 1,21,000 cusecs and from its tributary Doodhganga to 30,800 cusecs. Water level at the Hippargi barrage in Jamkhandi in Bagalkot bordering the district has been maintained at 1,47,000 cusecs. Outflow of water into river Ghataprabha increased to 41,383 cusecs that include 23,625 from river Hiranyakeshi, 8,458 cusecs from river Markendaya and 9,300 cusecs from Bellary nalla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-inflow-to-belagavi-district-increases-to-151-lakh-cusecs-870489.html
07-08-2020||State||Kodagu continues to receive heavy rainfall||Kodagu continued to receive heavy rainfall, disrupting normal life on Friday as well. Rivers Cauvery, Lakshmanatheertha were running above the danger mark in several locations in the district. The water-level in River Cauvery at Bhagamandala continues to rise and flood water has entered inside the Bhagandeshwara Temple. With a steady rise in water- level, low-lying areas in the district are under the threat of inundation. Sayi Layout and Kuvempu Layout in Kushalnagar have been inundated and the residents have already been shifted to safer locations. The layouts are facing the flood threat for the third consecutive year. The heavy rain on Friday in the region is likely to pose threat to the rescue operations being carried out by the NDRF, police and fire service personnel at the site where landslides had occurred at Talacauvery on Thursday. The rescue teams could not visit the spot where a big chunk of Brahmagiri Hill slid for nearly 5-km. The district administration has decided to send one more rescue team to the spot. A landslide had also occurred at Cherangala near Talacauvery on Thursday night. The Madikeri-Mangaluru National Highway 275 has caved in near Jodupala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kodagu-continues-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-870529.html
07-08-2020||State||Bridge submerged in Karnataka village as river Krishna swells||After 1.83 lakh cusecs water was released from Narayanapur dam, the Sheelahalli bridge connecting Nadugadde village has been submerged. The road which connects Lingasgur via Yalagundi, Hanchinal, Yaragod and Kadadaragaddi has been closed. Due to this, people have to travel and additional 20 km to reach Lingasgur. A bridge near Jaladurga will also be under water if the flow touches 5 lakh cusecs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bridge-submerged-in-karnataka-village-as-river-krishna-swells-870572.html
07-08-2020||State||House collapses due to heavy rain in Shivamogga||A house at Seegehatti in Shivamogga city collapsed partially due to heavy rains that lashed the region over the last four days. District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa visited Tunganagar, Imaambada, BB street on Friday to ensure that residents of the areas move to safer places as the river Tunga was flowing at a dangerous level due to the release of water from Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga. Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar has asked people residing in low lying areas to move to safer places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain-in-shivamogga-870577.html
07-08-2020||State||8-yr-old washed away as heavy rain inundates Dharwad||An eight-year-old was washed away after the local tank at Ganjigatti village in Kalghatagi taluk of Dharwad breached on Thursday late night. An NDRF team began a search operation. The girl was identified as Sridevi Ganiger. On getting information from locals on the incident, the Deputy Commissioner visited the spot and consoled the parents. He is also monitoring the search operation. In the meantime, Tupparihalla and Bennihalla streams are in spate creating havoc in villages in Navalgund and Dharwad taluks. Water has gushed into fields causing large-scale damage to the green gram crop. Dharwad city continued to receive rains for the third consecutive day and 37 houses are partially damaged. Rainwater has gushed into several houses in low lying areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-yr-old-washed-away-as-heavy-rain-inundates-dharwad-870617.html
07-08-2020||State||1.5 L cusecs water being released from Alamatti dam||Following an increase in inflow into Alamatti dam on Friday, a total of 1.5 lakh cusec water is being let out through 26 gates of the dam The inflow has increased following copious rainfall in the Krishna river basin over the past few days in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The inflow which was one lakh cusecs on Thursday has increased to 1,26,374 cusecs on Friday. Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL) officials said, as more quantity of water is being released from Narayanapur dam, there is no imminent threat of floods. The dam would have filled to its fullest capacity if all gates were closed. Excess water is being released to avoid floods, they said. Incessant rains which wreaked havoc in Maharashtra for the past four days are said to have to subsided on Friday. Water level at the dam has touched 517.96 metres as against its full storage capacity of 519.60 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/15-l-cusecs-water-being-released-from-alamatti-dam-870625.html
07-08-2020||State||Flood threat at Ramanathapura, Hassan||With more than 14,000 cusecs being let into the Cauvery river from the Harangi dam, water has entered the houses in the low lying areas of Ramanathapura in Arkalgud taluk.   Hassan has been receiving heavy rains since the past four days and more than 100 houses in the Arkalgud taluk are facing flood threat as the outflow from the dam is expected to increase by the day. Some families were moved to safer places based on the taluk administration's directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-threat-at-ramanathapura-hassan-870630.html
07-08-2020||State||Congress is confused, frustrated over Ram Temple: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday criticised the Congress, saying it was confused on the Ram Mandir issue and in dilemma to take a firm stand fearing loss of Muslim or Hindu votes. "Congress opposed BJP's stand on constructing Ram Mandir in Ayodya, it called Lord Ram fictional and even decided to break the Ramsetu. Now, Congressmen are speaking the other way. Congress cannot think beyond vote bank politics which is in its DNA itself. Congressmen think that they are born to be in power," he charged. BJP is all for constructing a grand Ram Mandir peacefully and legally, due to its conviction and not for politics. Same was the case with the revocation of Article 370 for Jammu & Kashmir. Anti-national activities have comparatively come down now. Some people do not want everything going smoothly in the country, and Congress and Asaduddin Owaisi are among them, Joshi opined, adding that the Congress is merely frustrated. We are not saying anything about Kashi and Mathura, he said. 'No State politics' Joshi also clarified that he would not enter state politics. On talks that efforts were being made to lobby for Joshi to make him the chief minister if there was a change in leadership in Karnataka, Joshi denied the claims."B S Yediyurappa will complete the term as the chief minister," he said. On Kalasa-Banduri Admitting that getting forest clearance for Kalasa-Banduri project implementation would take time, Joshi stated that efforts would be made to get the clearance as early as possible if the State government submitted detailed plan including proposed afforestation measures and land identified for that. In coal block auction above Rs 200 crore, some restrictions are put for investments from many neighbouring countries, and not exclusively for Chinese companies, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-is-confused-frustrated-over-ram-temple-pralhad-joshi-870647.html
07-08-2020||State||Tungabhadra dam sees large inflow of water||Tungabhadra dam, a lifeline for the peasants of Ballari, Koppal and Raichur districts, is witnessing a huge inflow of water following incessant rains in its catchment areas of Shivamogga district. The inflow into the dam is around 80,000 cusec and the reservoir has received 2.5 feet of water in a single day. The dam officials said about one lakh cusecs water is being released from the Tunga dam located at Gajanur in Shivammoga district. More inflow into the reservoir is expected owing to copious rainfall. If the inflow continues at the same rate, the dam gets filled to the brim in a week, they said. Last year, the dam was filled to the brim on August 15 as inflow had increased from August 8. The situation has repeated this year as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tungabhadra-dam-sees-large-inflow-of-water-870651.html
07-08-2020||State||Jarkiholi warns private hospitals violating tariffs for Covid-19 treatment||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that action will be taken against private hospitals that were violating government norms and charging exorbitant fees charges for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and suspects. The government has taken action against private hospitals in Bengaluru and the same parameters would be adopted in Belagavi. Jarkiholi, also the district in-charge minister, told reporters on Friday that the government had noticed that patients were levied exorbitant charges for Covid-19 treatment. People too have complaints regarding the huge bills by these private hospitals and have demanded action. “We are not under the obligation of any private hospital and stringent action will be taken against all erring and violating government tariffs. They will have to treat patients and follow the tariffs fixed,” he stated. Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital had been directed to install CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards and install monitors at reception to facilitate monitoring of treatment and condition of the wards. BIMS management was taken to task for not following the directive and have been given a deadline to install CCTV cameras, Jarkiholi informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-warns-private-hospitals-violating-tariffs-for-covid-19-treatment-870659.html
07-08-2020||State||H D Deve Gowda greets Mahinda Rajapaksa for winning Sri Lanka general election||JDS Supremo H D Deve Gowda on Friday greeted Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa for his party's landslide victory in the island nation's parliamentary elections. In a tweet, Gowda said, "Congratulations to my dear friend President Rajapaksa for securing the people's mandate. I wish you the very best in your endeavour to lead your country and all its people to a path of peace and prosperity." Sri Lanka's strongman responded to the wishes positively. "Thank you for your kind wishes," Rajapaksa tweeted. The Rajapaksa led Sri Lanka People's Party (SLPP) had won 145 seats and with its allies have 150 seats, a two-thirds majority in the 225-member parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-deve-gowda-greets-mahinda-rajapaksa-for-winning-sri-lanka-general-election-870664.html
07-08-2020||State||In Covid-19 times, its politics over beds in Kalaburagi||Even as Covid-19 cases are ballooning and availability of beds has become a challenge in some parts of the state, politics over beds has surfaced in the district. The Congress has alleged that 450 beds donated by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge on behalf of the party for Covid patients were not being accepted by the district administration due to pressure from the BJP leaders. However, the saffron party leaders say that they had no role and it was purely an administrative matter. Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said the administration had accepted the beds. “There is no single centre where we can use all of them immediately. They are being used as and when the need arises. The beds are being used in Covid Care Centres in Chittapur, Jewargi, Afzalpur and Kalaburagi city,” he said. Taking to Twitter, former minister Priyank Kharge said about 450 beds donated by Mallikarjun Kharge on behalf of the Congress have been rotting in Kalaburagi as the BJP leaders have told not to accept “Congress beds”. Such narrow mindedness is affecting in setting up Covid Care Centres in the district, he said. “We are ready to put Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on beds if it helps the people of Kalaburagi” the ex-minister tweeted.  Priyank Kharge told DH that the Congress had donated masks, face shields and sanitiser worth Rs 50 lakh to the district administration. “We are not politicising anything but helping the district administration. We have taken 100 beds out of 550 and have started a Covid Care Centre in Chittapur,” he explained.           District Congress Committee president Jagadev Guttedar said BJP leaders had made beds as a prestige issue. District BJP president Shivaraj Patil Raddewadagi said the party was not politicising anything with regard to Covid-19. “The BJP has nothing to do with the allegations being levelled by the Congress. Accepting or refusing the beds donated by the Congress is left to the district administration. How can we meddle in the issue? We are not playing politics on Covid issue” he reiterated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-covid-19-times-its-politics-over-beds-in-kalaburagi-870750.html
07-08-2020||State||Spike in Covid-19 cases: students want NEET postponed||The students registered for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 have demanded that the examinations postponed following a spike in Covid-19 cases across the nation. Several students have started online campaigns on various social media platforms demanding the postponement of NEET-2020. The NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13. The students have said that many of them were from the containment zones and their homes had been sealed and therefore it would be difficult for them to appear for the test. The students who have registered for the test wanted the authorities to postpone NEET till November. Meanwhile, a petition has been filed by students in the Supreme Court for the postponement of NEET and Joint Entrance Examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/spike-in-covid-19-cases-students-want-neet-postponed-870754.html
07-08-2020||State||Siddaramaiah's son Yathindra tests Covid-19 positive; Wakf Board chairman dies of coronavirus||Karnataka State Wakf Board chairman Dr Mohammed Yusuf died of Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Friday. The 65-year old was suffering from renal ailments and was undergoing treatment for the past 20 days, according to his family. He was appointed as chairman to the Board, last year. Congress MLA Dr Yathindra, son of Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He is currently under quarantine. Siddaramaiah had also tested positive during the week and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru. According to a statement issued by the hospital, Siddaramaiah's symptoms had improved since admission and he was comfortable at present. On the health condition of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who also tested positive, the hospital said that the CM was comfortable and attending to his duties from his room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiahs-son-yathindra-tests-covid-19-positive-wakf-board-chairman-dies-of-coronavirus-870755.html
07-08-2020||State||Now, Malgudi has a railway station, literally||The Indian Railways has developed the Arasalu railway station in Shivamogga district - where the popular teleserial 'Malgudi Days' was shot - into "Malgudi Museum."  The late Kannada actor-director Shankar Nag had shot the scenes of "Malgudi Days" at Arasalu railway station in Hosanagar taluk of Shivamogga district in 1980s. Considering the huge popularity of the serial, the people from the region wanted Indian Railways to rename Arasalu station as Malgudi. However, the Railways has converted the station into a museum. A new railway station for Arasalu is constructed few meters away from the museum. Union Minister of State for Railways, Suresh Angadi will launch the railway station and the museum through a weblink on Saturday. Sources in the South Western Railway, Mysuru division stated that Rs 25 lakh had been spent on developing the old Arasalu railway station into Malgudi museum without changing the original architecture. Besides, the department has spent Rs 1 crore for the development of the new station. Arasalu was once a small railway station through which just two trains passed up and down every day and thus provided an ideal location for a few of the scenes of "Malgudi Days." Malgudi is the fictional town in 'Malgudi Days' a collection of short stories written by R K Narayan. The director, late Shankar Nag, chose the station as he found it ideal to recreate the British-era scenes. Many scenes were also shot at Agumbe in Thirthahalli taluk. Master Manjunath, Girish Karnad, Vaishali Kasaravalli, Anant Nag and others acted in the television series which was aired on DD National in 1986.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-malgudi-has-a-railway-station-literally-870758.html
07-08-2020||State||Land Reforms: Farmer groups to launch campaign||Several farmer organisations and volunteer groups will launch a campaign on Saturday opposing the controversial ordinance brought to amend the Land Reforms Act.  According to the organisers, farmers and members of self-help groups from various parts of the state will write to the government, demanding it to withdraw the ordinance. According to farmer leader Kurubur Shanthakumar, the ordinance benefits corporate companies and those behind land mafia. The campaign "Nammora Bhoomi Namagirali" will be held across the state, the organisers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/land-reforms-farmer-groups-to-launch-campaign-870759.html
07-08-2020||State||CUK to conduct online exam for UG, PG final-year students||Central University of Karnataka (CUK) will conduct examination online for the final year and post-graduate students as they have struck in their native places due to Covid-19.  The examination is likely to begin on August 14 and complete by the first week of September. All the students left the varsity campus soon after a 66-year-old elderly man died of coronavirus on March 11. They have not returned to the varsity so for as positive cases are on the rise across the country and colleges too have remained shut. CUK Vice-Chancellor H M Maheshwaraiah told DH that deliberations were held several times over conducting online exam and demonstration was held with the students recently. "The students are eager to take the online examination. Hence, we will conduct an exam from August 14," he said. As many as 1,900 students from across the country are studying in the CUK, of which about 700 are in final semesters (sixth semester for UG course and fourth semester for PG). The exams will be conducted through Google class, WhatsApp group and other modes. The soft copy of the question paper will be made available for students 10 minutes before the examination starts. The heads of the department concerned should jot down the timings of the download of the questions by each student. Duration of the examination will be two-and-half hours.  The CUK has software through which it can detect whether a student has downloaded an answer from the internet while writing the exam. The varsity will also give five to 10 minutes extra for the students if they can't upload their answer scripts due to slow internet.  Maheshwaraiah said all steps have been taken to ensure transparency in conducting the examination. "Our motto is to give a certificate for the students to help them get employment. Any delay in conducting the examination will have a bearing on their future. Hence, we decided to conduct an online exam", he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cuk-to-conduct-online-exam-for-ug-pg-final-year-students-870771.html
07-08-2020||State||Mysuru zoo elephant tramples mahout to death||An elephant trampled its mahout at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (zoo) in the city on Friday. Harish (38) is the deceased. According to zoo authorities, elephant Abhi trampled Harish to death. Though Harish was rushed to a hospital, he died. Harish, a resident of Lalithadripur near the city, was a contract employee of the zoo.  A complaint has been registered at Nazarband police station in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-zoo-elephant-tramples-mahout-to-death-870785.html
07-08-2020||State||Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary sealed after staffer tests positive ||Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna taluk was sealed on Friday after an employee tested positive for Covid-19. The sanctuary will remain closed for the public and tourists until further notice. According to sources, the sanctuary would be closed for around five to six days. However, boating has been suspended from Thursday, due to a surge in River Cauvery. Though water is being released into the river from KRS dam, there is no danger for the bird sanctuary. The sanctuary will face flooding, only if the outflow is more than one lakh cusecs. The bird sanctuary now has ibis, egret, cormorant, night heron and stone flower birds, and all the winged guests are safe, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-sealed-after-staffer-tests-positive-870787.html
07-08-2020||State||Relentless rain, landslides pour more misery on Kodagu, Malnad||Unrelenting rain, coupled with strong winds and landslides, has poured more misery on Kodagu and other Malnad districts. Landslides were reported at Cherangala and along Brahmagiri hills on Friday. Many families in the hilly district have been displaced due to flooding and landslides. The road connectivity between Madikeri and Mangaluru has been cut off after a portion of a hill caved in on the highway. Traffic on Madikeri-Kushalnagar route was stalled following the submergence of Bhetri bridge. A few residential areas in Kushalnagar have been inundated by the floodwaters ofCauvery. Meanwhile, the hostile weather prevented the NDRF personnel from taking up the search operation at the Brahmagiri Hills site where the family of chief priest of Talacauvery and several cattle heads were feared to have been buried alive in heaps of mud following a landslide on Wednesday night. District in-charge Minister V Somanna on Friday took stock of the flood situation in Bhagamandala. Bhagamandala recorded a whopping 40 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Friday). Madikeri received 23 cm while Virajpet witnessed 18 cm of rain.The vehicular traffic on Charmadi Ghat has been stopped till August 11 following a few landslides at several points on the stretch. People travelling to Dakshina Kannada from Chikkamagaluru have to take the Kottigehara-Kalasa-Kudremukh route or take the Shiradi Ghat. With Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga witnessing heavy to very heavy showers, Tunga, Bhadra, Hemavathi rivers and many rivulets, streams and falls have come alive. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi continued to receive copious rains. Red alert for Kodagu There’s no let-up in rain for four Malnad districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavier to very heavy rainfall for Kodagu, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru for Saturday. A red alert warning has been issued to the said districts. The weather department has predicted heavy showers in coastal districts and south interior Karnataka till August 11. With wind speeds touching 50 kmph and high tidal waves hitting the coast, the IMD has warned the fishermen not to ventureinto sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/relentless-rain-landslides-pour-more-misery-on-kodagu-malnad-870788.html
07-08-2020||State||Flood: JD(S) leaders demand relief from Centre||JD(S) leaders on Friday urged the Union government to release a special package for the flood-hit regions of the state. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy demanded the government to take up relief and rescue operations and their livestock on a war-footing. “The monsoon ferocity in Kodagu and Uttara Kannada districts has unleashed fear. District-wise special task forces should be constituted to manage the flood situation. The government must set up care centres for those affected,” he said. Kumaraswamy said, on one hand, it has to contain the spread of Covid -19 while on the other hand, it has to manage floods. If the government is not cautious enough, it will be risking lives of people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-jds-leaders-demand-relief-from-centre-870793.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees record 6,805 Covid-19 cases; state's tally rises to 1,58,254||Karnataka on Thursday reported a record 6,805 Covid-19 cases, with Bengaluru Urban leading the list with 2,544 infections, while India crossed the grim 20 lakh milestone. The state also saw 93 new deaths, taking the toll to 2,897, while the total number of cases stands at 1,58,254. As many as 5,602 people were discharged from institutional Covid care on Thursday, with Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar saying that the discharges showed the state's steadily improving recovery rate. “There has been an increase of 9.94% in the recovery rate in the past one week,” the minister tweeted. In Bengaluru, the number of containment zones now has gone up to 26,339. Out of the 2,544 cases registered in the city over the past 24 hours, 27% originated in the West Zone, while 17% each were found in Bommanahalli and East Zones. Among the deaths, the youngest fatality was a 36-year-old man in Udupi District, who died four days after being identified as Covid-positive on August 5.   The oldest victim was an 87-year-old woman, who had symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and was identified as Covid-positive on July 13. She died on July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-record-6805-covid-19-cases-states-tally-rises-to-158254-870414.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gusty winds, downpour batter coast and Malnad regions||Relentless downpour accompanied by uncharacteristic high winds over the last three days have caused significant damage in coastal and Malnad districts, even as Kodagu braced for more rain as a depression brewed in the Bay of Bengal. Against the normal wind speed of around 18-20 kmph, Malnad was recording wind speeds of 40 kmph, resulting in damage to property, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, adding that coastal districts had seen gusts of up to 50-60 kmph. The high wind speed was due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal, which was dragging the monsoon further inland. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said parts of nine districts in the state — Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kodagu, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad — were affected by floods. While 375 houses had collapsed partially, 12 were completely damaged. A total of 12 relief camps were operational in the state, he said. With rains continuing unabated in Kodagu district, five people are feared to have been buried alive in a landslide at Bhagamandala. A 70-year-old died after a wall collapsed due to heavy rainfall at Hampapura, Mysuru district, on late Wednesday evening, while one person was washed away while crossing a gushing stream at Sakleshpur in Chikkamagalurudistrict. Forecast Another depression in Bay of Bengal, forecast around August 10, could pour more misery on flood-hit Kodagu district, which saw much devastation on Thursday. Rainfall is expected to subside over Malnad in the next two days, while parts of the coastal region will continue to receive very heavy rainfall. The downpour during the week caused river Cauvery to flow beyond the danger level, submerging several parts of the district and throwing life out of gear. Strong gusts uprooted treats and power lines in Virajpet, Napoklu, Shanivarsanthe and other parts, affecting the movement of vehicles.  Though the rainfall reduced in intensity during the first half of the day, it picked up in parts of Kodagu, Hassan and Dakshina Kannada districts post-noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gusty-winds-downpour-batter-coast-and-malnad-regions-870418.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC exam results to be declared on August 10||The results of Karnataka Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations will be announced on Monday. Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "The results will be announced at about 3 pm on August 10." The department conducted the exams successfully despite resistance from various quarters and pressure to postpone the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-exam-results-to-be-declared-on-august-10-870568.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah's son tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MLA and former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah's son Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah on Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. A medical doctor himself, Yathindra requested all those who had come in contact with him recently to quarantine themselves. "My corona test reports have come positive. I request all those who had come in contact with me over the last few days to quarantine and take precautions," Yathindra tweeted. Yathindra, who is 40-years-old, is a first time MLA, representing Varuna assembly constituency in Mysuru district. His father and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah had on Tuesday tested positive for Covid and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. On Siddaramaiah's health, Manipal Hospital said in a statement on Friday that he is clinically stable and is responding to treatment. "He is comfortable and his appetite has improved. Our team of experts will continue to monitor him closely," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiahs-son-tests-positive-for-covid-19-870665.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka issues revised guidelines on handling bodies of Covid patients||Amid surging coronavirus infections,the Karnataka government has issued revised guidelines on handling bodies of Covid-19 patients where stress has been laid on avoiding autopsy unless it has to be done for special reasons. There have been instances of undignified disposal of bodies at some places in Karnataka and stigmatising families where people were tested positive for coronavirus. Issued by the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, the revised circular has given a set of directions on handling such bodies taking utmost precautions to avoid contracting the disease. "Autopsies should be avoided.If autopsy is to be performed for special reasons, following infection prevention and control practices should be adopted," the directorate said in its circular. Autopsy should be done by a trained team with a limited number of forensic experts and support staff, and in an adequately ventilated room. The directorate has laid emphasis on protecting the dignity of the dead, cultural and religious traditions. It said there should not be any hasty disposal of the bodies and asked the hospitals not to insist on conducting a coronavirus test in each case of death. "Only in suspected Covid-19 deaths with a history of influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory infection symptoms, swab shall be taken for Covid testing within six hours of death," the circular said. Bodies should be handed over to the family in a clean transparent, leak-proof, zipper body-bag in a dignified manner with a copy of dos and don'ts in English and Kannada, the directorate said. The directorate has said not more than 20 people should attend the funeral and has permitted viewing of the body by unzipping the face end of the body bag. Bathing, hugging and embracing the body should be avoided, it said. There are a set of directions to those health workers and paramedics who handle the bodies with stress on hygiene, proper usage of personal protection equipment. Also, the health workers should be cautious while dealing with sharp objects. They have also been asked to plug oral and nasal orifices to prevent leak of body fluid. However, embalming has not been allowed. Regarding transportation, the directorate said the remains should be secured in a decontaminated body bag and instructed that all standard protocols be followed. Noting that coronavirus can remain infectious on surfaces, the directorate insisted upon cleaning and disinfecting all touch surfaces. Ever since the outbreak of coronavirus in Karnataka, it has claimed about 2,900 people till Thursday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-issues-revised-guidelines-on-handling-bodies-of-covid-patients-870721.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||6,670 new Covid-19 cases, 101 deaths reported in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 6,670 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of active cases to 77,686. With 101 new Covid-19 deaths, the number of fatalities reached 2,998. However, eight patients died due to non-Covid reasons. The total positive cases are now 1.64 lakh with 678 in ICUs. Bengaluru accounts for 326 ICU patients. Bengaluru accounted for 2,147 cases of Friday's cases. with 22 deaths. the death toll is now 1,201. Ballari reported 684 cases, Belagavi 390, Kalaburagi 271, and Dharwad 266. With 3,951 discharges the total number of recoveries now is 84,232. The state conducted 43,553 tests on Friday out of which 23,664 were rapid antigen tests and 19,889 were RTPCR tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/6670-new-covid-19-cases-101-deaths-reported-in-karnataka-870739.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Admit students sans documents, govt schools told||The government schools across the state have been told to admit students without any documents/certificates this year. Considering the delay in the enrollment of students due to Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the primary education minister has instructed all schools across the state to admit students without asking for any documents. In a press release, Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "By this time, 10 lakh students should have been enrolled (in the schools) and it is not possible due to Covid-19 crisis. This year, the schools should not ask for any documents during admission and consider the statement made by parents itself as a document." The minister has even directed schools to conduct admission campaign between August 10 to 15 across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/admit-students-sans-documents-govt-schools-told-870749.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Guest faculties get helping hand from govt lecturers||More than 14,000 guest faculties, working in the state government degree colleges and in distress due to loss of a job, have got a helping hand from their counterparts who are regular employees at the colleges. The teaching faculties, drawing UGC payscale working with the government colleges, have come forward to help their counterparts who have lost their jobs and are struggling to lead even daily life. In a meeting of the Karnataka Government College Teachers' Association (KGCTA), the government college lecturers proposed to give at least their three-day salary for guest faculties who are in distress. It was accepted by everyone and official communication in this regard will be made on Monday.  Association president T M Manjunath said, "Several guest faculties have lost their jobs due to uncertainty over the academic year during the Covid-19 pandemic and many are undergoing a severe financial crisis and finding it difficult to lead their daily life." "Considering the crisis that our colleagues are undergoing, we have taken a decision to donate our three-day salary. There is also a discussion to give one month of our arrears pending with the government. We will finalise this and meet higher education minister to convey this proposal," Manjunath said. The association wants to give it through the state government so that they can get Income Tax exemption. Giving through the data available with the department of collegiate education will reach the real beneficiaries, said the association members. The one-day of the salary of the government teachers comes to around Rs 2 crore. The association wants to give at least Rs 20,000 per faculty. More than 7,000 guest faculties with 428 government colleges across the state. Some of the guest faculties, who have lost jobs, are working as security personnel while others are selling vegetables. They have not been paid for the last five months. Two faculties in Mandya district had attempted to end their lives due to financial crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/guest-faculties-get-helping-hand-from-govt-lecturers-870753.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Suspected Covid-19 patient jumps to death from 4th floor of hospital||A suspected Covid-19 patient ended his life by jumping from the fourth floor of a private hospital at Nehru Nagar here on Friday. The 72-year-old from Vadgaon suburb in the city had been admitted for treatment in the private hospital on August 5. He took the extreme step on Friday morning, police said. APMC police have registered a case. Meanwhile, A 32-year-old woman who was home quarantined ended her life by hanging herself in her house in the early of Friday in Sandur of Ballari district. According to the police, the deceased was a teacher at a private school.  The mother-in-law and father-in-law of the woman tested positive for Covid-19 and they were also in-home quarantine. The town police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/suspected-covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-4th-floor-of-hospital-870757.html
07-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Swollen Krishna, tributaries raise flood threat in North Karnataka districts||The intensity of rains has come down in catchment areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka, but the River Krishna and its tributaries continue to be in spate. A flood warning has been issued to the villages and towns downstream Krishna, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha. Krishna river and its tributaries have submerged huge tracts of farmlands in Belagavi, Dharwad, Bagalkot and Gadag districts. People and cattle on the banks of overflowing rivers have been evacuated to safety in the basin districts. As much as 1,50,000 cusecs of water flowed into the Almatti dam on Friday. With the inflows expected to climb further up, the dam authorities let out a staggering 1,80,000 cusecs by lifting all 26 gates for the first time this rainy season. The water level in the dam, the lifeline of north Karnataka districts, as on August 7, was 517.95 metres as against the full reservoir level of 519.60 metres. The Sheelahalli-Hanchinal bridge has been submerged following the discharge of 1.83 lakh cusecs from Narayanapur dam. With this the link between the island villages of Krishna river in Lingasugur taluk has been cut off. The villagers have to take a 20km detour to reach Lingasugur via Jaladurga bridge. Ghataprabha, a major tributary of Krishna, is flowing at danger levels in Bagalkot district. The swollen Markandeya river and the discharge from Dupadal dam have added over 30,000 cusecs to Ghataprabha, which is unleashing its fury on Mudhol taluk andMahalingapur. As many as 11 of the 12 barrage-cum-bridges in Mudhol taluk have gone under the swollen Ghataprabha. Several bridges at Nandagaon, Avaradi and Davaleshwar have been submerged following which many villages are cut off. Good inflows into Malaprabha river have bolstered Naviluthirtha dam. The outflow from the dam in Belagavi district is posing a flood threat to the downstream towns and villages in Dharwad and Gadag districts. Tupparihalla and Benne Halla streams are wreaking havoc in Navalgundtaluk. With Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru getting torrential rain, the water level in Tungabhadra has gone up considerably. On Friday, as much as 83,376 cusecs of water flowed into Singatalur barrage in Gadag district. The same quantum of water was released downstream Tungabhadra. UK grapples with landslides Meanwhile, Uttara Kannada got some respite from rain on Friday, but the Malnad areas of the district are grappling with landslides. Mounds of mud and loose soil along with trees slid at Nage village under Devalamakki GP limits. The hill near Yana Bhairaveshwar temple in Kumta taluk caved in on Friday. Varada river is flowing at danger levels in Sirisi taluk. Several bridges have been submerged, cutting off many villages. Meanwhile, two toddlers suffered injuries at Moguru in Dharwad taluk when a wall of their house collapsed on them. Vishwanth Kuri (2) and Yellapa Kuri (4) are undergoing treatment at Dharwad district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/swollen-krishna-tributaries-raise-flood-threat-in-north-karnataka-districts-870791.html
07-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Suspected Covid-19 patient kills self by jumping off 4th floor of hospital in Belagavi||The 72-year-old from Vadgaon suburb in the city had been admitted for treatment in the private hospital on August 5. He took the extreme step on Friday morning, police said. APMC police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/suspected-covid-19-patient-kills-self-by-jumping-off-4th-floor-of-hospital-in-belagavi-870538.html
07-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Khanapur MLA plants paddy with agricultural labourers to boost their confidence||MLA Dr Anjali Nimbalkar spent her time by planting paddy along with agricultural labourers in Khanapur.  Dr Nimbalkar has been moving around in Khanapur town and villages to help the people in wake of heavy rains. Many of the roads in the town got disconnected due to overflowing drainages and rivers.  While moving around the Khanapur town, Dr Nimbalkar took part in paddy plantation along with agricultural labourers. To ensure that she does not get soaked in rain, she also wore a raincoat.  Videos of the lawmaker planting paddy were being shared in the taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/khanapur-mla-plants-paddy-with-agricultural-labourers-to-boost-their-confidence-870637.html
07-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Bihar IPS officer released from quarantine in Mumbai||Amid a war-of-words and tussle between Maharashtra and Bihar vis-à-vis investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Mumbai’s civic body, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), decided to release Patna-based IPS officer Vinay Tiwari from quarantine. On Sunday, when Tiwari, a superintendent of police of Central Patna, landed in Mumbai, to head the four-member probe team from Bihar, he was put to “home quarantine” at the SRPF guesthouse at Goregaon here. On his arrival in Mumbai, he was asked to remain in quarantine till August 15 and was stamped as quarantined by the BMC. Meanwhile, the four-member team that arrived last month, investigated the case for 11 days and returned on Thursday to their home state. Hours after the CBI formally registered an FIR in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, the Maharashtra government seemed to have softened its stand and decided to release the officer from home quarantine. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu, in a letter addressed to Bihar’s inspector general of police Jitendra Kumar, said that it has been decided to exempt the officer from home quarantine. Velrasu, in the letter on Thursday night, said: “….Considering that it is the only fifth day of his arrival, and since the request to exempt from home isolation to go back to Patna has come from Patna police, and considering the provision in the SOP to exempt passengers on a short-duration visit, it is hereby decided to exempt Vinay Tiwari from home quarantine subject to fulfilling the conditions.”  The letter states that Tiwari shall leave Maharashtra before the seventh day of the start of quarantine, that is August 8, and he would have to submit return ticket details. Bihar’s director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey expressed happiness over the release of the officer. “After the observations of the Supreme Court, the Bihar police headquarters had again written to the BMC to release IPS officer Vijay Tiwari from quarantine. He has been released...I would like to thank the BMC,” Pandey tweeted. The issue snowballed into a major issue between the JD(U)-BJP government in Bihar led by Nitish Kumar and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi governments. “It is surprising and unfortunate to note that a visiting senior officer before proceeding to Mumbai has not acquainted himself with the (Covid-19) quarantine guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government to arrest the spread of the pandemic in the state. It may be noted that the guidelines are available in the public domain,” Velrasu said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-bihar-ips-officer-released-from-quarantine-in-mumbai-870475.html
07-08-2020||West||Bhojpuri actress Anupama Pathak dies by suicide||In yet another disturbing incident from Mumbai’s tinsel town, a Bhojpuri film actor Anupama Pathak died by suicide. Anupama, aged 40, was found hanging at her residence at Mira Road in Thane district on 2 August. The police has recovered a suicide note and had initially registered an accidental death report (ADR).  However, on Friday evening, it has been converted into a first information report (FIR) by the Kashimira police station and booked a person, whose name figures in the suicide note. The person has been booked for abetment to suicide. No one was present in the house when the incident took place. A day before her death, Anupama went live on Facebook where she spoke about feeling cheated and not being able to trust anyone.  “….people will make fun of you and disrespect you in front of others. So never share your problems with anyone and never consider anyone your friend," Anupama said in her Facebook live video. According to reports, a suicide note has pointed out that she had invested some money in a company in Malad and not getting it back even after maturity date in December 2019. Hailing from Purnea district in Bihar, she had moved to Mumbai and worked in Bhojpuri films and TV shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhojpuri-actress-anupama-pathak-dies-by-suicide-870491.html
07-08-2020||West||Panchaganga river still flowing above danger mark in Maharashtra||The Panchaganga river in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra is still flowing above the danger mark, but the rise in water level is slow and steady due to discharge of water from a dam, officials from the local administration said on Friday. According to the officials, the water level of the Panchganga at the Rajaram weir (barrage) as on Friday morning (at 7) was at 44.7 feet, which is above the danger mark. "The water level reached the danger mark (at 43 feet) on Thursday around 4 pm. Since then, the rise of water level at the Rajaram weir has been slow but steady," said a duty officer at the district disaster management cell. He said the intensity of rains in the district has reduced, but intermittent showers are continuing. "The reason behind the steady and slow rise in the water level of the Panchganga is the discharge of water from the Radhanagari dam, which is filled to capacity due to rains in its catchment areas," said the officer. Four gates of the dam, built on the Bhogawati river in Kolhapur district, has been opened so far to release excess water, he said. As the water level was rising in the Panchaganga on Thursday, the district administration had shifted some 1,750 families from 23 villages to safer places. "So far 4,413 people from 1,750 families in 23 villages in Gadhinglas, Panhala, Karveer, Gaganbawda, Ajara tehsils and Kolhapur city have been shifted," district collector Daulat Desai had said. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has already deployed four teams in Kolhapur district to deal with any situation. In Sagali, the district administration said it has distributed safety kits in 20 flood-prone villages. The kits include life jackets, rope, torch and bag, among other things. Last year, unprecedented rains had wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, claiming over 60 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/panchaganga-river-still-flowing-above-danger-mark-in-maharashtra-870516.html
07-08-2020||West||Goa: BJP inducts Congress MLA's son, draws criticism from Opposition||The Goa BJP has inducted the son of Congress MLA Ravi Naik, whom it had earlier allegedly linked with drug peddlers, drawing sharp criticism from the opposition parties. The BJP on Thursday inducted Roy Naik, the son of Ponda MLA and former state home minister Ravi Naik, into the party in the presence of state unit president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. Incidentally, Roy was named in a House Committee report submitted in 2013 by a panel headed by then tourism minister Francisco Mickky Pacheco, which had investigated the links between politicians, drug peddlers and policemen. Former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar, during his stint as leader of opposition in 2010, had demanded a CBI inquiry into Roy's links with drug peddlers. Tanavade on Thursday denied that his party had ever alleged that Roy was involved in drug peddling. "Show me one instance where we had said that it was Roy Ravi Naik. We had said Roy Naik, it can be any Roy Naik," he said during a press conference to announce the induction. The opposition parties have, however, reacted strongly to Tanavade's statement. Taking to Twitter, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said, "The pandemic has resulted in a cleaner environment. Bright future of @INCGoa clearly visible. Insecurity is rife in @BJP4Goa. As @goacm @DrPramodPSawant was confused between Corona and Covid, @ShetSadanand muddled between Roy Naik and Roy Ravi Naik. Goans will explain in 2022." Meanwhile, Goa Forward Party vice-president Durgadas Kamat said while Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was confused between coronavirus and Covid-19, BJP state unit president was confused between Roy Naik and Roy Ravi Naik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-inducts-congress-mlas-son-draws-criticism-from-opposition-870548.html
07-08-2020||West||Palghar man dies by suicide, live-streams it on Facebook||A 22-year-old man allegedly died by suicide and streamed the act live on social media in Jawhar town of Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Friday. The man, Navnath Bhange, a resident of Wada taluka, was employed at an eatery and stayed in his employer's house with other colleagues, inspector Appasaheb Lengre of Jawhar police station said. The incident took place on Thursday when Bhange locked himself in his room during a break from work and allegedly went live on Facebook as he hanged himself from the ceiling even as his colleagues pleaded with him not to take the extreme step, he said. While no suicide note was found at the scene, the body has been sent for post-mortem and a case of accidental death has been registered, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-man-dies-by-suicide-live-streams-it-on-facebook-870586.html
07-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death: BJP demands probe into role of mental health therapist||In a new spin in the case involving the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Maharashtra BJP unit on Friday demanded a probe into the role and conduct of mental health therapist Susan Walker Moffat. "Susan Walker in a media interview has revealed confidential aspects of Sushant Singh Rajput's mental health state, her actions seem prima facie in violation of Mental Health Act 2017 and her India residency visa conditions," BJP MLA and former state education minister Ashish Shelar said. The senior leader also wrote to the Mumbai police, CBI, ED, and IT department to take action against her. “Medical and mental health professionals hold the highest level of standards and ethics when it comes to confidentiality and reveal details only after following due process of law, as they are liable to face strict legal action for violating Indian Mental Health Act, 2017,” Shelar said. “What motivation or who made Susan Walker violate professional ethics, patient confidentiality, violate Mental Health Act and Indian law by disclosing details of Sushant's health to influence the course of police investigations. What or who made Susan Walker breach confidentiality, knowing fully well that her mental health practise, which is rumored to earn her upto crores rupees per year, will be badly affected by her disclosure?,” he said in the letter addressed to authorities. As Susan Walker is foreign citizen, steps be taken to ensure that she is available for investigation in Mumbai and she needs to be summoned, he said. “How is Susan Walker practising in Mumbai? Is she authorised to practise in India. Is she or her clinic registered with authorities and BMC? Has Susan Walker registered with the Rehabilitation Council of India and is accredited to any registered and recognised body of mental health professionals in India, which allows her to practise?,” he wanted to know. The counselling, medicines, treatment methods suggested to Sushant Singh Rajput by Susan Walker, without any license or permission to practise in India is illegal. “This must be probed for its effect on Sushant's actions leading upto his death,” he asked. “Huge sums of money, rumored to be between Rs 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 per hour, are alleged to be charged by Susan Walker for her mental counselling therapy sessions,” he said demanding a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bjp-demands-probe-into-role-of-mental-health-therapist-870648.html
07-08-2020||West||Sushant case: BJP MLA wants action against top cop||A BJP MLA on Friday demanded that Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh be sent on leave over the city police's handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Atul Bhatkalkar, a local MLA, claimed that even 50 days after the actor's alleged suicide on June 14, "Mumbai police haven't registered an FIR". "The police's attitude towards investigation of the Disha Salian and Rajput cases has been that of negligence. There is a perception that evidence is being destroyed," he said. Salian, Rajput's former manager, died after falling from a building a week before the actor's death. The police officials investigating both the cases should be suspended and the police commissioner be sent on forced leave till the probe reaches a conclusion, the BJP leader demanded. "With the CBI stepping in to investigate the case, I hope the state government will not create hurdles," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-case-bjp-mla-wants-action-against-top-cop-870735.html
07-08-2020||West||Gujarat: 1,074 new Covid cases, 22 deaths, 1,370 patients recover||The count of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 68,885 on Friday with 1,074 new patients being reported since previous evening, the state health department said. Twenty-two Covid-19 patients died during this period, taking the death toll in the state due to the pandemic to 2,606, it said. But in good news, the number of patients who were discharged from hospitals after recovery was more than fresh cases. 1,370 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total of recovered patients to 51,692. Gujarat coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 68,885, new cases 1,074, deaths 2,606, discharged 51,692, active cases 14,587 and people tested so far 9,30,373.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-1074-new-covid-cases-22-deaths-1370-patients-recover-870740.html
07-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: 10,483 new Covid cases, 300 deaths, 10,906 recover||Maharashtra registered a spike of 10,483 new cases on Friday which took its coronavirus case count to 4,90,262. The death toll in the state due to the pandemic reached 17,092 with 300 patients succumbing during the day, said a health department release. On the other hand, 10,906 patients were discharged from hospitals upon recovery, it added. So far 3,27,281 Covid-19 patients have walked out of hospitals in Maharashtra after recovery. There were 1,45,582 active cases as of Friday evening, while 25,69,645 people have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-10483-new-covid-cases-300-deaths-10906-recover-870762.html
07-08-2020||West||No air passenger to be exempted from quarantine without order: BMC||No passenger landing at the Mumbai airport should be granted exemption from home isolation unless the person has a written permission from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the civic body has said. The BMC issued this directive to its staff deputed at the airport as well as the airport officials on August 3. All arriving passengers without "written exemption" must be stamped, requiring them to undergo home quarantine for 14 days, it said. The order, signed by additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu, was tweeted by the BMC on Friday following a controversy over its decision to put Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari in home quarantine when he arrived here in connection with Sushant Singh Rajput case. On Friday, the BMC allowed Tiwari to travel back to Bihar. "Some instances have come to the notice that some government officials after landing in Mumbai show their Government ID card and secure exemption," read the August 3 order. A visiting government official seeking exemption from home quarantine rule should write to the BMC at least two days in advance before landing at the airport, giving details of the work and explaining its importance, it said. "The staff deployed at Airport shall not grant any exemptions at their level," it said. All the passengers arriving in Maharashtra are stamped on their left hand for identification and have to undergo home isolation for a period of 14 days as per the protocol. Local authorities can grant exemption in certain cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-air-passenger-to-be-exempted-from-quarantine-without-order-bmc-870774.html
