08-08-2020||First Edit||India-China tension: Hiding the truth from the public?||The removal from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) website of a document which contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement of June 19, that “no one had intruded” into Indian territory or taken Indian posts along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, shows the lengths that the government is willing to go to hide its mistakes. The facts laid out in the MoD document contrast sharply with the ‘all is well’ picture that the Prime Minister sought to paint in the immediate aftermath of the face-off at Galwan Valley. Chinese aggression had been increasing along the LAC and more particularly in Galwan Valley since May 5, the MoD document said, drawing attention to “Chinese transgression” that occurred in the areas of Kugrang Nala, Gogra and the north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-20. Both the document’s contents and the manner in which it was removed from the MoD website raise troubling questions. Clearly, Modi’s assertion of June 19 that no intrusion had taken place into the Indian side did not reflect the ground situation. On what basis then did the Prime Minister make the claim he did? Dissembling to the public on any issue is untenable; that this happened on a matter related to national security makes it all the more unacceptable, disquieting and dangerous. The MoD’s removal of the document is the latest in a series of steps that the Modi government has taken to cover-up the blunders it has made with regard to defending Indian territory vis-à-vis China. Not only did the security establishment fail to respond swiftly to the Chinese build-up and subsequent intrusions but also, the military top brass brazenly denied Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh. This refusal to admit to mistakes continued even after the June 15 face-off, manifesting in the Prime Minister using an all-party meeting to make a claim that was designed to impress the whole nation. The removal of the document from the MoD website shows that disingenuousness and reluctance to accept mistakes continues to define the government’s approach to the situation along the LAC. The repeated attempt at covering up decision-making blunders will undermine India’s capacity to defend its territory. Strategies that are built on self-deception fail. It is time that the Modi government woke up to this truth, indulged in some introspection, fixed accountability for decisions, and engaged in course correction. A strategy that is preoccupied with covering up, deflecting blame and managing the domestic headlines will only weaken India’s position, whether at the negotiating table or on the ground along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-china-tension-hiding-the-truth-from-the-public-870975.html
08-08-2020||In Perspective||How easily we forgot them in these times?||When Rukmini Devi announced that she would choreograph the Valmiki Ramayana into a six-part dance-drama, it left the artistes of Kalakshetra stunned. They had no resources to undertake this colossal project. Not even male dancers to fit the chief roles. Unfazed, she went ahead with her plans and sent her Kathakali dancer, Chandu Pannikar, to fetch two young boys from Kerala whom she would train. Her emissary met an elementary schoolteacher on the train who offered his own son for the role which, he explained, meant one less mouth to feed. This was the rags to riches story of the renowned Bharata Natyam dancer, Padma Vibushan VP Dhananjayan, who went on to establish his own prestigious institutions where hundreds of dancers followed in his footsteps. Kalakshetra can boast of several such outstanding alumni who came more “to eat three meals a day,” like PT Narendran, who has stormed the theatres of the world today, including the Bejart School of Ballet, with his dance and choreographic skills. He is one more artist who recalls his impoverished childhood when his only meal consisted of “beaten rice soaked in salt water.” The story of the legendary Vempati Chinna Satyam, who walked all the way to Bezwada – penniless and starving -- in search of the great Kuchipudi teacher Tadepalli Perayya Sastry, is another incredible example of impoverished artists who rose to fame through sheer grit and determination. The world of music has had its share of struggling artists, too – some who made good, some who didn’t. Art, too, needs money, background, connections. The best of musicians have fallen by the wayside for lack of these. Others, well connected and well heeled, have opportunities opening up for them like Ali Baba’s cave. Talent alone has not taken artists to the pinnacle of fame. The greatest composer in the history of music had to depend on his benefactors. The tragedy of Mozart epitomizes an artist’s struggle to survive. In India, it’s worse. For musicians, dancers, actors with no resources other than their own creativity, success is an elusive dream. Their careers often end in tragic circumstances.   Covid-19 is the latest challenge. Deprived of public performances in India and abroad, they are left in a vacuum. What has the government provided to help them and their families at this critical period of their careers? More importantly, have their audiences, who revelled in their performances in good times, thought of providing them relief when they need it most? Where are their earlier benefactors who used them to promote themselves? These artists were the brand ambassadors for business houses. They were the main props for religious festivals. Their presence lent colour and substance to that biggest of all festivals which boasted of being the largest held in the world -- the Madras Music Season – when sabhas fell over each other to bag the best, when the performing artists, too, left no stone unturned to grab programmes. The public revelled in this month-long carnival and the media had its hands full with enough material to fill its pages and channels. Why are the organisers of this festival silent now? The Government of India has provided some relief through its scheme for pension and medical aid to “scholars who have contributed significantly in their specialised fields.” Here, once again, the accent is on specialisation and academic inputs. What happens to the thousands of other struggling dancers, musicians, actors, painters, sculptors who used to eke out a living by their sheer skills, which have no takers today? Artists like weavers, who made a living by the skill of their fingers, from Kashmir to Kancheepuram – the matchless carpet makers and saree designers – how do they generate income with no takers for their creations? Or, the iconic veena makers of Thanjavur – where do they go in search of customers? We are not talking of famous, well paid artists here. Our focus has to turn to the lesser known, lesser in demand artists who have nowhere to turn without a stage and an audience. They are the ones who need support in these times. Indian audiences also take their artists for granted. They expect them to perform gratis. When the legendary dancer, Alarmel Valli, was invited to Bengaluru by the Ministry of Kannada and Culture, that department was flooded with requests for “free passes.” There were indignant cries of protest when the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) charged a pittance as entry fee. Why should we pay to see those paintings? Or watch plays by amateurs? Or hear musicians sing? Our sense of entitlement in these matters is deeply rooted. We feel we are obliging these artists by our mere presence. Our painters should be happy that we deigned to spend time looking at their work. A writer should thank her stars that we even cared to buy and read her book. Our musicians must feel grateful that we are giving them our precious time to listen. The sad part of this mindset is that we cannot visualise the time and effort it took them to arrive. When we pay to hear a four-hour long concert, we are actually paying the artist for 40 years of sadhana, sacrifice and drudgery. We are paying them for the lucrative careers they gave up, the arduous lifestyles they adopted and the personal sacrifices they made just to “entertain” us. If we don’t repay them, we are the poorer for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-easily-we-forgot-them-in-these-times-870979.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cheriyaparambu inundated, Balladabaavi canal brimming||Many villages, including Paluru, Kottamudi, Hodduru and Balamuri, on the banks of River Cauvery are inundated due to flood situation. Following heavy rain from Sunday, Bhagamandala - Napoklu road is inundated resulting in loss of connectivity. Napoklu has turned into an island as various connecting roads are flooded. Cheriyaparambu is also inundated. As many as 140 families on the banks of River Cauvery in the region are affected by the floods. The people have been shifted to safer locations. There have been several landslides too in the region. Balladabaavi flooded River Cauvery has flooded Balladabaavi canal, near Kushalnagar, signalling danger. The canal connects the old bridge near Koppa gate. Balladabaavi was build during the colonial rule. It is said that the canal was full for the  first time in last August after 1968. Pregnant woman suffers  A pregnant woman from Ayyangeri, who developed labour pain, was shifted to the hospital amidst floods. Mamatha, wife of Ishwar, was rushed to the hospital in Madikeri on Thursday. Initially, with the help of youth from Kuyyamudi family in Sannapulikotu, the woman was brought in a coracle and was shifted to a hospital in Bhagamandala. Due to power outage in Bhagamandala, she was later admitted to Madikeri hospital. Child rescued A three-month-old child was rescued from the flood-hit Balegundi. The houses of the two families were flooded due to incessant rain. The people, including the child and its mother, were stranded on the terrace of a house. The rescue teams tied a rope to the trees and saved the people, including the child. Many people in Cheriyaparambu and Kondangeri villages are stranded due to floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cheriyaparambu-inundated-balladabaavi-canal-brimming-870832.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more Covid-19 fatality, toll reaches 11 in Kodagu||A 58-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday and the total death toll reached 11 in Kodagu. As on Friday evening, the total cases were 639, of which the active cases were 247. The deceased woman was a resident of Tavarekere in Kushalnagar of Somwarpet taluk and was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and asthma. From the past four days, she had cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. She had visited a private hospital in Kushalnagar. Her throat and nasal swabs were collected and sent for testing. The report which arrived on Friday confirmed of Covid-19 infection. Twenty-nine fresh cases, including the deceased woman, were recorded on Friday. The infected also includes a health worker. Twenty-one cases were confirmed by RT-PCR tests while the rest through Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). The 28 positive cases are: a 28-year-old man from Boyikeri in Virajpet taluk, a 27-year-old woman from Thorenuru in Somwarpet taluk, a 54-year-old man from Chain Gate in Madikeri, a 59-year-old man from Muttappa temple in Madikeri, a 50-year-old man from Ponnampet in Virajpet; a 53-year-old woman from Ponnampet; a 32-year-old woman from Koinadu, Sampaje; a 53-year-old woman from LIC office in Madikeri; a 47-year-old man from Dundalli, Shanivarasanthe; a 52-year-old woman from Vijayanagara in Virajpet; a 63-year-old woman from Gejjehanakadu in Somwarpet; a 54-year-old woman heath worker from Heath quarters in Gowdalli, Somwarpet; a 25 year-old-man from Ranger block in Somwarpet; a nine-year-old girl from Apparanda extension, KEB Road, Suntikoppa; a 48-year-old man from GMP School, M G Road; a 32-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar, Siddapura; a 22-year-old man from ninth block, Chikkapete, Virajpet; a 77-year-old woman from Jamburbane, Madapura, Somwarpet; a 22-year-old woman from Abhyala, Chettalli, Somwarpet; a 45-year-old woman from Basavanakatte, Shantalli, Somwarpet; a 36-year-old man from Thithimathi; a 53-year-old man from Sunnadabeedhi, Virajpet; a 61-year-old man, a 55-year-old woman, a 28-year-old woman, a 21-year-old man and a 90-year-old woman all from Mullusoge, Kushalnagar. Of the infected, 17 were diagnosed with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and one with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Nineteen more areas have been notified as containment zones in the district. Meanwhile, the containment zones in the surroundings of GT School at Omkareshwara Temple road in Madikeri, Postal Quarters in Madikeri, Mayura complex at B M Road in Suntikoppa and Emmemadu in Napoklu have been denotified, according to Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-covid-19-fatality-toll-reaches-11-in-kodagu-870833.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Landslides on Brahmagiri hill range||Heavy rain has wreaked havoc this year too and has deprived many people of their homes in Kodagu. There were multiple landslides on Brahmagiri hill range and on Talacauvery road. A hill caved in at Cherangala, near Bhagamandala, on Thursday night. The bridge in the village was washed away in the floods. Eight families, that were stuck due to the floods, have been rescued and relocated. Heavy rain and gusty winds hindered rescue operations on Brahmagiri in Talacauvery where the family of Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Achar, along with others, are feared buried under the debris. Due to landslides on Friday, the rescue teams found it difficult to reach to the place where the house of the priest was located. Ruins of the house were washed away by the floods and were spotted in Bhagamandala. The Bhagandeshwara temple in Bhagamandala is inundated in flood water. A part of the highway near Jodupala has also caved in. Chedukaru bridge near Chettimani is inundated and the Biligiri bridge has been washed away. Madikeri - Siddapura road is severed. Residential layouts in Kushalnagar are waterlogged. Movement of vehicles on Madikeri-Kushalnagar road has been stopped. Bethri bridge is also submerged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/landslides-on-brahmagiri-hill-range-870834.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records 166 fresh Covid-19 cases, seven fatalities||Dakshina Kannada district on Friday recorded 166 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven fatalities. According to officials, the total positive cases in the district stood at 6881. Among the fresh cases, Mangaluru has the highest of 74 followed by Belthangady- 36, Bantwal-25, Puttur- 13, Sullia-1, and 17 from other districts. Of the fresh cases, 83 infected with the symptoms of ILI have been tested positive.  While 13 with symptoms of SARI too have been tested positive. The contacts of 51 infected are under tracing while 19 infected were the primary contacts of already infected persons. On the positive, the total discharges on Friday outnumbered the total positive cases. A total of 188 persons have been discharged, thus taking the tally to 3304. The active cases in the district are 3369. The district recorded seven more fatalities, thus taking the tally to 208. Of the deceased five were from Mangaluru, one each from Puttur and Belthangady. All the seven were suffering from comorbid conditions along with covid-19 infections, said the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-166-fresh-covid-19-cases-seven-fatalities-870876.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five more Covid-19 fatalities reported in Udupi||Udupi recorded five more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday along with a surge in Covid-19 cases. A total of 245 fresh cases were registered in the district. According to officials, a 78-year-old woman from Udupi taluk suffering from diabetes mellitus, pneumonia, chronic kidney disease, acute respiratory distress syndrome, hypertension, ischemic heart disease succumbed to the virus. A 49-year-old man from Karkala suffering from diabetes, type 2 coronary heart disease, acute coronary syndrome, sepsis failed to respond to the treatment. A 75-year-old man from Kundapura suffering from ischemic heart disease, a 70-year-old man from Kundapura suffering from diabetes, pneumonia, chronic kidney disease and a 65-year-old man from Kundapura suffering from hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2 too succumbed to the virus. Of the fresh cases, 91 infected were primary contacts of already infected persons, 57 had symptoms of ILI, while 5 had SARI. The contact tracking of 86 people is underway while five had inter-district travel history and one had international travel history. Udupi taluk has the highest with 125 cases, followed by Kundapura-92 and Karkala-25. Three of the infected were from other districts. As many as 1,485 infected are in home isolation in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-more-covid-19-fatalities-reported-in-udupi-870878.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Landslides on Charmadi Ghat disrupt movement of vehicles||Traffic was disrupted on the Charmadi Ghat (NH 234) on Friday as a string of landslides resulted in the falling of huge boulders and trees on the road. Dozens of labourers were engaged in clearing the mounds of soil and trees fallen on the stretch connecting the coastal districts with the hinterland. The road on the stretch had also developed wide cracks near Alekhan and disrupted the movement of vehicles again on Friday evening. As a precautionary measure, the movement of vehicles was suspended. The entry to the ghat road at Charmadi Ghat and Kottigehara check-posts was closed. As a result, vehicles were seen stranded in a long queue. Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner Dr. Bagadi Gautham said that the movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat will be banned till August 11. Vehicles bound to Dakshina Kannada can use alternative roads of Kottigehara-Kalasa-Karkala or Shiradi Ghat, he added. Landslides were also reported at many locations in Bisile Ghat that connects Sakleshpura in Hassan to Subrahmanya. The landslides disrupted the movement of vehicles in Bisile Ghat. Landslides were also witnessed on Madikeri-Mangaluru road at Jodupala||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/landslides-on-charmadi-ghat-disrupt-movement-of-vehicles-870880.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Outflow from Kabini reduced to 63,100 cusecs||The outflow from Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote taluk, reduced to 63,100 cusecs on Saturday morning. A total of 70,000 cusecs of water was released to Kapila River on Friday night due to heavy inflow. As inflow to the dam declined, the outflow to reduced at 6 am. While 63100 cusecs being released to Kapila River, 600 cusecs being released to Canal. Kapila River is overflowing and the district administration has issued flood alert. A few bridges have submerged and several villages lost connectivity. The dam can store water up to 2284.00 foot and the water level is 2278.02 ft. The maximum storage capacity is 19.52 TMS and live storage is 15.92 TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/outflow-from-kabini-reduced-to-63100-cusecs-870894.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Krishna water levels nearing danger mark||River Krishna and its tributaries were continuing to flow near danger levels in the district with the inflow of waters increasing to 162139 cusecs on Saturday. Discharge of waters from dams in Kolhapur and Sangli districts in Maharashtra has added to the inflow of waters into river Krishna. Water inflow from Rajapur barrage into river Krishna at Kallol barrage increased to 128875 cusecs and inflow from its tributary Doodhganga to 33624 cusecs leading the rivers continuing to flow near danger mark and waters spreading in the agricultural lands along the banks. Sugarcane crops along the river basin have been witnessing water clogging. Seven low-lying bridge cum barrages in Chikkodi taluk, Kuduchi bridge in Raibag taluk and Athani-Jamkhandi road near Jhunjarwad in Athani remained submerged in waters. Water outflow into river Ghataprabha increased to 41059 cusecs that included 23625 cusecs from river Hiranyakeshi, 8534 cusecs from river Markendaya and 8900 cusecs from Bellary nallah. Water inflow at Hipparg barrage was 1.75 lakh cusecs and outflow to 1.75 lakh cusecs. Water discharge from the Navilthirth dam in Savadatti into river Malaprabha increased to 5164 cusecs. The dam has a storage capacity of 37.731 TMC and water levels on Saturday were 27.293 TMC. River Markendaya too being in spate led in road connectivity of Ambewadi village in Belagavi taluk getting disconnected with the taluk headquarters. Waters of the river spreading in agricultural lands were posing threat to paddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishna-water-levels-nearing-danger-mark-870918.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Basavaraj Donur appointed as dean||Dr. Basavaraj Donur, a story writer and Central University of Karnataka's English Department's chairman, has been appointed as dean of the School of Humanities and Languages of the varsity for a period of three years. He has also worked as Controller of Examination,  CUK and IGNTU. He was the dean of the School of Humanities and Languages, CUK. Donur was also a member of the Academic Council and Executive Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/basavaraj-donur-appointed-as-dean-870967.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Phase-2 human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila vaccine commence||Phase-2 human clinical trials of the Zydus Cadila vaccine for the treatment of Covid-19 commenced at Jeevan Rekha Hospital here. Health individuals in the age group of 12 years to 60 years have been identified for the human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila vaccine phase-2. The vaccine has been administered to 20 healthy individuals as per protocols of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and they were on expected lines, Director Dr. Amit Bhate told DH. He said, "We are conducting phase-2 human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila. As per the norms of ICMR, more details cannot be divulged." It may be recalled that Jeevan Rekha Hospital has also been conducting human clinical trials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotect, Hyderabad in association with ICMR for treatment of Covid-19. Phase-1 trials have commenced and phase-2 will commence next week after 14 days. It’s the only hospital here that has been conducting vaccine trials of two different vaccines for the treatment of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-phase-2-human-clinical-trials-of-zydus-cadila-vaccine-commence-870972.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga-Ranebennur rail project to become reality: Suresh Angadi||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that Shivamogga-Shikaripur-Ranebennur railway project work would be commenced soon after the completion of land acquisition for the purpose.  Inaugurating lift facility in Shivamogga railway station and new facilities provided in Arasalu station and Malgudi museum in Hosanagar taluk through weblink from his office in Belagavi, on Saturday, he said Shivamogga-Shikaripur-Ranebennur railway project would be implemented without fail. Referring to the project, he said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has consented to allot land at free of cost to the department for the execution of Shivamogga-Ranebennur railway project worth Rs 994 crore. Besides, the chief minister has promised to bear 50% cost of the project. Similarly, the government has promised to allot land for the construction of double track between Davangere and Bengaluru. The railway department is all set to commence the project work after the land is handed over to the officials concerned.  Presiding over the programme at PESIT college auditorium, Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra said two lifts have been constructed in Shivamogga railway station at a cost of Rs 1 crore and it would become beneficial for senior citizens and passengers with physical disabilities.  Malgudi museum He said in order to pay tribute to the actor-director the late Shankar Nag, who had shot the scenes of teleserial Malgudi Days at Arasalu railway station in the 1980s, the old railway station has been developed into the museum at a cost of Rs 25 lakh and has been named as Malgudi museum. The teleserial was based on the collections of short stories written by famous Indian novelist R K Narayan in his books Malgudi Days. The platform in the Arasalu railway station has been extended. With this, train with 28 coaches can stop in the station against earlier 12 coaches. The place will be developed into a tourist spot in the coming days.  He said the government requires Rs 245 crore to acquire land for the Shivamogga-Ranebennur railway route and it would be completed in two months. Similarly, the proposed projects namely Shivamogga-Harihar, doubling work of Birur-Shivamogga, Talaguppa-Siddapura and Shivamogga-Mangaluru via Sringeri have to to be executed in the coming days. The long-pending 100 feet ring road work in Shivamogga is expected to be completed in two months. On rail over bridges, he said the railway minister has already approved construction of rail overbridges at Vidyanagar, Kashipura and Savalanga road in Shivamogga  and at Kadadakatte in Bhadravathi town and the works are expected to be started soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-ranebennur-rail-project-to-become-reality-suresh-angadi-871010.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi-Dharwad rail project to be included in next Budget||Projects for rail route between Belagavi and Dharwad and Shivamogga-Ranebennur will be included in the next year's budget, Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has said. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that the state government will provide land free of cost for the Rs 994-crore project of Shivamogga-Ranebennur rail line. He has also promised that the state will meet 50% of the project cost. Similarly, he has promised to provide land for tracking doubling project between Davangere and Bengaluru. The work will begin soon after the land is handed over the Railways department," Angadi said. The minister was speaking after inaugurating the newly constructed Arasalu railway station and lift installed at Shivamogga railway station, through a virtual platform from Belagavi on Saturday. Angadi said that the Railway department was keen on linking every town through rail network and needs the cooperation of the state government. He said that the department was considering the appeal made by Lok Sabha member B Y Raghavendra for setting up a rail coach factory in Shivamogga. Angadi said that the Railway staffers too worked like corona warriors in transporting fertilizers and medicines during the Covid crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-dharwad-rail-project-to-be-included-in-next-budget-871137.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kapila river in spate, inundates Nanjangud town||River Kapila continued to overflow as a large quantum of water is being released from Kabini and Nugu dams in H D Kote taluk in the district on Saturday. The river is receiving almost 70,000 cusec of water. While the river is receiving 60,000 cusec water from Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote taluk, 9,278 cusec of water is being released from Nugu Dam. The outflow of Kabini was 70,000 cusec until 7 pm and it reduced to 60,000 cusec.  The flood like situation continued at the bank of the river and the district administration has shifted a few families to safer places. Several bridges over River Kapila have remained submerged. Hunsur Assistant Commissioner B N Veena along with the respective tahsildars visited flood affected areas under Hunsur sub-division. The officials also interacted with the people and also urged their cooperation in handling the situation. The bridges over the river remained submerged from Friday. Suttur Bridge in Suttur of Nanjangud taluk is submerged and vehicle movement is banned. The bridge, connecting Madapur and Bellathur, has been submerged. With water overflowing, nearly 40 villages have lost connectivity. The authorities have made alternative transport facilities to K Belatthur, Manuganahalli, Hunasalli and other villages.   National Highway 766 is blocked near Mallaiana Moole Mutt in Nanjangud as the river water flowing on the NH. The authorities have restricted and diverted the vehicle movement. The NH that connects Mysuru-Ooty was blocked last year too.  Both Kabini and Nugu dams filled to the brim and the authorities are maintaining water level. The maximum storage capacity of the dam is 19.52 tmcft and the dam has stored 15.66 tmcft. The dam has a capacity to store up to 2,284 feet and the water level was maintained at 2,277.54 ft. Similarly, Nugu dam has capacity to store 5.44 tmc, the dam has stored 4.58 tmc water. The dam is receiving 7,596 cusec water and 9,878 cusec of water is being released from the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kapila-river-in-spate-inundates-nanjangud-town-871161.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain relents, loss estimated at Rs 250 crore||The rain, which was lashing from last five days, have been subsidised in the taluk on Saturday. The authorities have estimated a loss of Rs 250 crore due to heavy rainfall. The villages such as Magajahalli, Donahalli, Bachanahalli lost connectivity as Benachina Halla near Hanbal collapsed due to overflow of rainwater. The taluk has recorded an approximate 850 MM of rainfall in last five days. MLA H K Kumaraswamy, who visited rain-affected areas said, it is a challenging task to repair the damages. The roads works need to be taken up immediately and other emergency works will be done soon, he said.   Hundreds of electricity poles, trees have collapsed across the taluk. A large quantity of coffee, paddy, pepper, areca, ginger crops has damaged due to floods. The MLA said that he will urge the District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah to sanction Rs 25 crore to take up emergency works in the taluk. The authorities are clearing the collapsed trees and also taking up emergency works at war-footing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-relents-loss-estimated-at-rs-250-crore-871163.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||75K cusec of water released from KRS dam||A total of 75,000 cusec of water was released from Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam here, on Saturday. The reservoir is filled to the brim, following copious rains in the catchment area of River Cauvery. The 34 crest gates of KRS dam at Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district, have been opened and 75,000 cusec of water is being released into the river. The inflow into the dam stood at 80,000 cusec on Saturday. According to the authorities, the inflow to the dam is increasing and the outflow would be increased by night. The swollen Cauvery has flooded various places in the taluk. The islands at Ranganathittu Bird sanctuary have also been submerged and Saibaba Ashrama, Anjaneya Swami temple, Paschima Vahini, Nimishamba temples in the town are partially submerged. Agriculture lands on the banks of the river have submerged. The water level at the dam, which measures 124.80 ft, has reached to 118.15ft. The dam has stored a total of 40.75 tmcft of water. Last year, on the same date, the dam had stored 16.5 tmcft of water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/75k-cusec-of-water-released-from-krs-dam-871165.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru district: Hundreds of houses damaged due to rain||Hundreds of houses, cattle sheds and crop on hundreds of acres of agriculture land was damaged due to heavy rainfall and flood in the district. While a man lost life, three animals died in floods. Except Mysuru taluk, all other seven taluks are affected due to rainfall and floods. As many as 96 houses and four cattle sheds were damaged on August 7 and 8. A total of 257 houses were damaged due to heavy rainfall and floods since August 1. A highest of 61 houses were damaged in HD Kote taluk. While 41 houses were damaged till Friday morning, 20 houses were damaged between Friday noon and Saturday morning. While 49 houses were damaged in Periyapatna taluk, 14 houses were damaged in Nanjangud taluk, 22 in Hunsur taluk, 38 in Sargur taluk and six houses are damaged in T Narasipur taluk. A total of four cattle sheds, three in Nanjangud taluk and one in T Narasipur, are damaged. In addition, three sheep died in Nanjangud. However, there are no reports about death of animals in other taluks. According to the authorities, the  and there is no major mishap due to rain or floods. The district administration and the respective taluk administrations are ready with all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of people and cattle. Owing to overflow of Kapila, Lakshmana Thirtha and Kaveri Rivers, several bridges are submerged and many villages lost connectivity. Crops on hundreds of acres of land is destroyed due to floods, caused due to overflow of the rivers. Crops have been damaged in Sargur, Hunsur, HD Kote, KR Nagar and T Narasipur taluks. While standing crop on 74.8 acres of land lost in HD Kote taluk, crops on 25 acres is lost in Periyapatna taluk, one acre each in KR Nagar and Sargur taluks, as on Friday. An officer said, a detailed report on the damages will be submitted to the state government every day. The government has announced compensation and last year’s guidelines will be followed to compensate the damage of houses. All measures have been taken to shift the affected people to safer places and rehabilitation centres have been opened at suitable places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-district-hundreds-of-houses-damaged-due-to-rain-871167.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi: Kidnaper chased, caught by father||The father of a girl chased a youth who tried to kidnap his daughter and handed him over to the police after being caught at Zubair Colony here on Saturday. The three-year-old girl, Nahera Begum, was playing with her elder sister in front of their house. The accused arrived at the spot and took the children till the main road. Leaving Nahera Begum with the youth, her sister returned home. Panicked father came searching for his daughter till the main road and noticed the accused taking the girl on his shoulder. The accused tried to escape after being caught but was beaten by the people who surrounded him in the vicinity. On learning about it, the police of rural police station arrived at the spot and took the accused to the police station. The police said the accused is the resident of Shahabad town and has kept some medicines with him. A video clip of the people interrogating the accused went viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-kidnaper-chased-caught-by-father-871172.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Red alert sounded in Dakshina Kannada today||Incessant rains in the catchment areas has resulted in flood waters inundating many houses and destroying standing crops in Bantwal taluk on Saturday. Heavy rains damaged over seven houses, flash floods inundated 6.73 hectares of horticultural crop and 20.2 hectares of paddy crop. Shops, houses located in low lying areas including Panemangaluru, Aladka, Goodinabali, Thumbe, Talapady, were inundated with flood water. The road connecting BC Road and Upiinangady and the bridge connecting Nandavar were completely submerged disrupting vehicular movement. Video goes viral A pick-up van parked near a channel in Neerakatte by its owner Arif of Kolpe near Nelyady, was washed away due to the sudden increase in the water-level in the river. Arif had parked the pick-up van to wash it. With the help of local people, he managed to drag the vehicle to safety. A video of the van being swept in the river went viral on social media on Saturday. Umesh Shetty of Kallumattu in Sullia and Mary Shrijaof Nekkilady had a narrow escape after a portion of their house was damaged due to landslides. A 70 year-old woman identified as Lakkamma from Hanumanthanar in Bengaluru, was foud dead in Bajathur, near Neerakatte. Uppinangady police have registered a case and suspect that the woman might have drowned in Dharmasthala. Due to heavy rains, all rivers, including Netravati, Nandini, Palguni, Kumaradhara and Kapila were flowing in spate. The rivers, on the verge of breach, however receded by evening. The district administration has declared a red alert on Sunday and are expecting a rainfall of 204 cm. The district administration has identified as many as 102 villages as very vulnerable. Belthangady taluk topped the list of taluks with as many as 35 such vulnerable villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/red-alert-sounded-in-dakshina-kannada-today-871182.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five fatalities, 314 fresh cases in Udupi||Udupi district confirmed five deaths and a record of 314 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday. Among them 156 had contracted an infection from primary contacts, 69 with ILI symptoms, 6 with SARI symptoms had tested positive to Covid-19. Four patients had domestic travelling history and the contacts of 79 are being traced. 203 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted to the designated Covid hospitals and remaining are under home isolation. As many as 3,347 patients were discharged so far, including 89 patients on Saturday. Including five deaths, the total death stood at 60. Among the 314 fresh cases, 192 are in Udupi and 87 in Kundapur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-fatalities-314-fresh-cases-in-udupi-871184.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada district records 194 fresh cases, six fatalities||The death toll and infection rate continue to surge with six deaths and 194 persons testing positive to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday. With the 10 deaths, Dakshina Kannada district’s total death toll is now at 214. So far 7,075 in the district hadtested positive for Coronavirus. As many as 98 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 12 patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) tested positive for Coronavirus. 15 people had contracted the virus from primary contacts and the contacts of 69 Covid-19 positive patients are being traced. Mangaluru taluk topped the list with as many as 129 people testing positive to Covid-19. Belthangady and Puttur taluks trailed behind with 16 Covid-19 positive cases. As many as 183 patients recovered and were discharged on Saturday. The number of patients discharged from the hospital is over 3,487. All six Covid-19 positive patients, barring one patient, were also suffering from other co-morbidities, a press release from Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr K V Rajendra stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-district-records-194-fresh-cases-six-fatalities-871185.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Residential layouts flooded in Kushalnagar||The residential layouts in Kushalnagar are still waterlogged even though the intensity of rain reduced on Saturday. The town is partly inundated. Hundreds of houses, anganwadis, schools, colleges, temples and private bus stand are flooded. More than five houses have collapsed and a couple of protective walls have caved in. Several establishments in Koodige, Guddehosuru and Koodumangaluru Gram Panchayat limits are surrounded by water. Movement of vehicles has come to a halt on Kushalnagar-Madikeri road. The roads leading to Madikeri-Hassan state highway are inundated as large amount of water has been released from Harangi reservoir. Rescue works are being carried out by NDRF and SDRF personnel. People stranded on flooded areas are being rescued. The hanging bridge across River Cauvery in Teppadakandi was damaged due to the floods. In Virajpet More than 12 houses in Asarunagar, Maletirikebetta, Ayyappa hills and Nehrunagar have been damaged due to heavy rains that lashed the region for the past five days. There have been landslides in various areas. Taluk administration has opened rescue centres. Flood water is gradually receding in Arji, Betoli and Kadanur villages were fields were inundated  Banana plantation in eight acres of land on Betoli road was destroyed. Plantation owner Kolatanda Bopaiah said he suffered a loss of around Rs 3 lakh. Coffee plantations have been affected by incessant rain in Aimangala and Maggula regions. Water supply has been hit in Virajpet town as the storage and supply unit in Bethri village is inundated. In Napoklu Power disruption continued in Napoklu. People have been facing huge difficulties as there is no power supply for daily activities. Some people have been using power generators. Students relying on mobile phones for online classes are the worst affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residential-layouts-flooded-in-kushalnagar-871193.html
08-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Speed up rescue work on Brahmagiri Hills'||District in-charge Minister V Somanna issued directions to the concerned to expedite the rescue works on Brahmagiri Hills. Speaking during a meeting at the deputy commissioner’s office on Saturday, he said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has taking Brahmagiri landslides seriously. “Rest of the persons stuck under the debris should be recovered soon.” Reviewing the flood situation, the minister said that the people in the relief centres should be tested for Covid-19. Social distancing should be followed in the relief centres. All necessary facilities should be provided. Somanna further asked the officials from various departments to work in coordination. A survey on crop loss should be conducted. Grants have been issued to repair the protective wall near the DC office, he added. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that Rs five crore will be released by the government towards flood relief. People who have lost their houses will be compensated with a maximum of Rs five lakh. An urgent compensation of Rs 10,000 will be provided to those who are sheltered in the relief centres. MLC Sunil Subramani, MLC Veena Acchaiah, ZP vice president Lokeshwari Gopal, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra and Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Sneha were present. Somanna visits Ayyappa Hills The district in-charge minister also paid a visit to Ayyappa Hills on Saturday and reviewed the situation caused by the landslides in the region. He directed the deputy commissioner to provide permanent rehabilitation to the affected. People residing in Ayyappa Hills, Maletirikebetta, Arasunagara and Nehrunagar will be shifted to safer locations, he said and assured of rehabilitation measures for people in the rest of the flood-affected regions. The minister asked why the Town Panchayat officials are following a dilly-dallying attitude in earmarking the sites for rehabilitation, even though it has been directed to purchase sites. M P Prathap Simha, MLC Sunil Subramani, Town Panchayat Chief Officer A M Shridhar was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/speed-up-rescue-work-on-brahmagiri-hills-871195.html
08-08-2020||Main Article||Symbol over substance||If the current President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, could be compared to Sultan Mehmet II, who made the Ottoman conquest formal in the name of Islam by praying in the Cathedral of Hagia Sophia is a theoretical question. But the outrage and alternate wave of triumphalism after the reconversion of Hagia Sophia into a mosque does not signify Islamisation and Ottomanisation of Istanbul as it might have once done. The significance of the recent act of reconversion lies elsewhere. Just as Mehmet the Conqueror, with his interest in forging links with the Roman Empire, was hailed to be very much a man of his time, it might appear today that Erdoğan speaks the voice of the zeitgeist, as the global trend is to revert to authoritarian majoritarianism. But what is almost certain is that this act of reconversion and consequent declaration of the mosque being open to Muslims and non-Muslims alike is a challenge to the theme of secularism dominant in the history of the Ottoman Empire and the Turkish Republic from the early 19th century onwards. It was not until the mid-1920s that the Republican government under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk expressly sought to put an end to the political, social and cultural hegemony of Islamic institutions, over which he sought to achieve a total dominance of the secular State. It is also significant that because of the nature of Turkey’s secularism being so hard-earned, coming about at the cost of a bitter struggle against a dominant religion – secularism was achieved, to cite two examples, in Quebec in a pitched battle against the Catholic church and in Turkey against Islam in the former caliphate – a certain version of French and Turkish secularism cannot be held to represent a true position of neutrality because of its antagonistic relationship to religion. And that’s how the symbolic act of the reconversion of the iconographic Hagia Sophia into a mosque can be cited, by extension, as a metaphor of the Indian predicament. The removal of religious elements from government, law, education and culture was fundamental to the Kemalist concept of modernity and his idea of secularism. Nehruvian tradition in India upholds an unrevised Western model of secularism and its upholders seek a stricter separation of religion from political life. The Gandhian tradition that conceives of tolerance as a distinctively Indian model of secularism proved to be more realistic because it does not rule out the role of religion in Indian society. In India, the Nehruvian tradition, by seeking to detach religion from political life, made religionists suspicious of his brand of secularism. The middle space was occupied by proponents of the Gandhian tradition who championed the virtue of religious pluralism (“Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava”) by the dictum of equal respect for all religions, roots of which were to be found in the indigenous traditions of tolerance. Much in the same instance, many social representations are rooted in different dimensions of the concept of secularism in Turkey. For Turkey, the Kemalist imposition was resented by many since his brand of secularism was not transmitted naturally and implicitly but, on the contrary, was a cultural imposition in the name of modernity which focused on enculturation and forceful assimilation. Ataturk, who identified himself with the position of the most extreme ‘Westernists’ (garbcılar) of the Young Turk era, failed to harmonise European civilisation (medeniyet) with Turkish culture (hars). However acceptable and agreeable it sounds to an Eurocentric, westernised mind to know that secularism became one of the main planks of Kemalist ideology, scientism and biological materialism (as well as social Darwinism) occupied a more prominent place in Kemalist thinking. It has lessons for us. The gradual withering of the Nehruvian consensus and the rise of the right-wing of India contain germs of the social upheaval experienced by Turkey as it is starkly similar to the erosion of Kemalism there. Kemal’s famous dictum, “the only real spiritual guide in life is positive science” (müspet ilim), or the passage in his 1933 anniversary speech, where he proclaims that “the torch which the Turkish nation holds in its hand while marching on the road towards progress and civilisation is positive science,” can be compared with Nehru’s assumption that the spread of science and technology and economic development would result in a greater secularisation of Indian society and polity. That this has not happened and the forces of fundamentalism in both the Hindus and Muslims have strengthened and the polity has become more communalised can again be related to the rise of Islam in Turkey. The alternative of militant Kemalism saw secularism as an order protecting freedom of conscience and religion and made “a distinction between a lay public arena and religiously inspired individuals who should be allowed to function in it and express their religiosity.” It reminds one of the need for moderation, as even a surfeit of good things administered from above and with force on the people of a nation can prove counter-productive. Erdoğan and Ataturk represent the dichotomy of religion and secularism as much as Modi and Nehru signify the extreme pulls between which the idea of India and Indianness is torn. If the Hagia Sophia is an outcome of competing pasts, so is the most iconic representation of the India belonging to the Mughal past – the Taj Mahal. To forfeit (or underplay) the Mughal past is to forfeit the Taj Mahal, just in case we are not taught to think of it as a temple to the Hindu god Shiva. The impulse of revanchism remains the same, be it in the construction of a Ram temple in India or Erdoğan’s reconversion of Hagia Sophia into a mosque, as both acts, in seeking to orchestrate majoritarian movements, prize symbol over substance. The only lesson to draw for India is to accept the multiplicity of her cultural wealth and to save it from the forces of revisionism, and to not to keep on reclaiming it from its imaginary enemies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/symbol-over-substance-870974.html
08-08-2020||National||Indian consulates in Dubai, Sharjah set up hotline numbers for Kerala Air India plane crash victims||The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the Air India Express flight that skidded off the runway at Karipur airport in Kerala and fell into a 50 feet valley, killing at least 16 people on Friday evening. The IX 1344 Dubai-Calicut flight was carrying 191 passengers and crew, including 10 infants, two pilots and four cabin crew members. After landing at Runway 10, the Boeing 737 aircraft continued running to the end of the runway and fell down in the valley and broke into two portions, an official statement said. “We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew and will keep you updated as and when we receive further updates. Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090571, +971543090575,” Dr. Aman Puri, Consul General of India, told PTI. The helpline number to call in Sharjah for updates is +97165970303 He also said the Indian consulate will be available for any assistance it may be able to render at this time of grief. “We convey our deepest condolences to the family members of those who have been injured in this tragic incident, and we are obtaining more information from the relevant authorities on the ground at Calicut International Airport,” Puri said. “The Airport authorities are providing medical assistance to all those injured in this tragedy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-consulates-in-dubai-sharjah-set-up-hotline-numbers-for-kerala-air-india-plane-crash-victims-870811.html
08-08-2020||National||Deeply distressed to hear about tragic plane crash at Kerala's Kozhikode: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said he was deeply distressed to hear about the tragic plane accident at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport and his thoughts and prayers were with the affected passengers, crew members and their families. Kovind said he spoke to Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and enquired about the situation there. “Deeply distressed to hear about the tragic plane crash of Air India Express flight at Kozhikode, Kerala. Spoke to @KeralaGovernor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan and inquired about the situation. Thoughts and prayers with affected passengers, crew members and their families,” the President tweeted. At least 16 people were killed and several others injured when a Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway at Kozhikode and fell into a valley, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening, police sources have said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deeply-distressed-to-hear-about-tragic-plane-crash-at-keralas-kozhikode-president-ram-nath-kovind-870812.html
08-08-2020||National||Covid-19: 16 districts asked to raise tests per million population, ensure ambulance availability||With 16 districts in four states reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national and their respective state' average, the Centre on Friday advised them to increase tests per million population and reduce case confirmation percentage in addition to ensuring availability of ambulances with a target of zero refusal. Districts that are reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national and states' average are a cause of concern, the Union Health ministry said as India's death toll due to the disease climbed to 41,585, according to its data updated at 8 am.    The 16 districts are Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat, Belagavi, Bengaluru urban, Kalaburagi and Udupi in Karnataka, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Theni, Thiruvallur, Tiruchirappalli, Tuticorin and Virudhnagar in Tamil Nadu and Hyderabad and  Medchal–Malkajgiri in Telangana. "Apart from the higher case mortality, these districts account for 17 per cent of India's active cases, high daily new cases, low tests per million, and high confirmation percentage," the ministry said. As part of Centre-state coordinated strategy for effective containment and management of the Covid-19 pandemic, a high level virtual meeting was chaired by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan to engage with the district and state administration in order to analyse the factors driving the high Covid-19 mortality and devise ways and means to reduce it, the ministry said.  Principal Secretary (Health) and Mission Director of National Health Mission (NHM) from the four states along with district surveillance officers, district collectors, commissioners of the municipal corporation, Chief Medical Officers, and Medical Superintendent of Medical Colleges participated in the meeting.   The districts were advised to ensure that the advisories, guidelines and clinical treatment protocols issued by the Health Ministry are adopted and effectively implemented to reduce the mortality among Covid-19 patients and other preventable deaths among all sections of the people, particularly those with comorbidities, pregnant women, the elderly and children.  "Following the Continuum of Care approach, as sincere containment and surveillance efforts have a bearing on the case mortality, states were advised to ensure optimum capacity utilization of testing labs, increase tests per million population and reduce confirmation percentage, in addition to ensuring timely availability of ambulances with target zero refusal," the ministry said. They were also advised to analyze availability and need for projected beds and oxygen, and plan in a timely manner. It was pointed out to them that it was critical to ensure good infection prevention and control practices to control infection in the healthcare workers. Registering a record 62,538 cases in 24 hours, India's Covid-19 tally galloped past 20 lakh on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 41,585 with 886 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-16-districts-asked-to-raise-tests-per-million-population-ensure-ambulance-availability-870813.html
08-08-2020||National||Air India Express flight overshot runway, no fire during landing: Aviation Ministry||The Air India Express flight from Dubai, with 190 people onboard, that met an accident at the Kozhikode airport Friday evening overshot the runway, but no fire was reported during its landing, the Civil Aviation Ministry said. "Air India Express flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai to Calicut overshot runway at Kozhikode at 1941 hrs tonight. No fire reported at the time of landing," the ministry said in its statement. There were 174 passengers, 10 infants, two pilots and four cabin crew on board the aircraft, the ministry noted. "As per the initial reports, rescue operations are on and passengers are being taken to hospital for medical care," the ministry noted. The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the flight -- IX 1344 -- continued running to the end of the runway amid heavy rain and "fell down in the valley and broke down in two pieces". The Air India Express is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India and it has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, since May 6, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission. A spokesperson for the Air India Express said that help centres are being set up at Sharjah and Dubai for affected people. "We regret that there has been an incident regarding our aircraft VT GHK, operating IX 1344," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-express-flight-overshot-runway-no-fire-during-landing-aviation-ministry-870814.html
08-08-2020||National||Kerala plane crash: Maharashtra NCP leaders express grief||NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his party colleague and Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar among others expressed grief on Friday's plane crash in Kerala's Kozhikode. An Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew skidded off the tabletop runway in the evening and fell into a 50-foot deep valley while landing. The death toll as on late Friday night was 16, as per officials. "Disheartened to learn about the plane crash in #Kozhikode. Condolences to the family members of those who have lost their lives. #AirIndiaExpress," Sharad Pawar tweeted. "Saddened to hear about the #AirIndiaExpress tragedy in #Kozhikode. Praying for speedy recovery of the injured," said Ajit Pawar in a tweet. Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil and NCP MP from Baramati, Supriya Sule, too expressed grief. "Saddened to hear about the #AirIndiaExpress Plane Crash in Kerala. My thoughts and prayers with family members who lost their loved ones. Wishing the injured a speedy recovery #KozhikodeAirCrash," Sule tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-plane-crash-maharashtra-ncp-leaders-express-grief-870822.html
08-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 8||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 20 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 21,43,213 as of August 8 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  43,358   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-8-870856.html
08-08-2020||National||DH toon: 8.64 lakh people register with Delhi govt's 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal||Delhi Employment Minister Gopal Rai said on Friday that 8.64 lakh job aspirants have registered with the government's 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal which has set up a "new model of employment" in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-864-lakh-people-register-with-delhi-govts-rozgar-bazaar-job-portal-870857.html
08-08-2020||National||Captain Deepak Sathe who died in Air India Express flight crash was part of IAF's Golden Arrows squad||A topper throughout, Captain Deepak Sathe has achieved almost everything that a pilot aspires. The 58-year-old Mumbai resident was commandeering the ill-fated Air India Express Dubai-Kozhikode flight when it crash-landed on Friday evening. Capt Sathe served the Indian Air Force from 1981-2003 reaching the rank of Wing Commander and in 2005 joined the Air India and then Air India Express. Capt Sathe has flown MiG-21 and MiG-27 became a flying instructor in IAF Academy and a test pilot with the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. He was commissioned in IAF on June 11, 1981 and retired on June 30, 2003.  As a commercial pilot, he initially flew Airbus-301 and then Boeing-737. Capt Sathe was from 58th course of National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla in Pune. He was from Juliet Squadron.  In June 1981, he passed out from Air Force Academy with the Sword of Honour. He was also part of the flying formations of Operation Vijay during the Kargil conflict in 1999. Air Vice-Marshal (Retd) Manmohan Bahadur, who is the Additional Director General, Centre for Air Power Studies, tweeted: “This is sad. Wing Co Sathe was a comrade in arms at the IAF’s flight testing establishment with me….RIP Tester.” Capt  Sathe is survived by his wife Sushma, two sons – both IIT Bombay graduates, including elder son Shantanu – who got married on March 8, a fortnight before the national lockdown started and currently is in the USA, while younger son Dhananjay works for a firm in Bengaluru. A pall of gloom descended at Nahar Amrit Shakti complex in Chandivli area, where Capt Sathe stayed with his family. “We used to meet during our morning walk, he was a fine gentleman,” a resident said. “This is another personal loss…knew  Wg Cdr Deepak Sathe since 1988 when he did FIS with Girish and later was a test pilot with my brother. Hearts with wife Sushma and two sons...Please keep all families who have lost loved ones/ injured in your prayers,” tweeted Meghna Girish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/captain-deepak-sathe-who-died-in-air-india-express-flight-crash-was-part-of-iafs-golden-arrows-squad-870914.html
08-08-2020||National||G C Murmu takes charge as Comptroller and Auditor General||Former Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Girish Chandra Murmu was sworn in on Saturday as the Comptroller and Auditor General, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Murmu made and subscribed to the oath of office before President Ram Nath Kovind, it said in a statement. At a ceremony held in the Ashoka Hall, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Murmu was sworn in as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, it said. Murmu, a 1985-batch IAS officer (retired) of Gujarat cadre, will have a tenure up to November 20, 2024, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. As a constitutional functionary, the CAG is primarily entrusted with the responsibility of auditing the accounts of the central and state governments. CAG reports are laid before the Parliament and legislatures of the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g-c-murmu-takes-charge-as-comptroller-and-auditor-general-870920.html
08-08-2020||National||Fighter pilot Augustine Vinod remembers flying with the deceased Wing Commander Deepak Sathe||Group Capt MJ Augustine Vinod VSM (Retd) shared with Deccan Herald his memories of Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe, the deceased pilot-in-command of the Air India Express that crashed at Kozhikode Airport. He explained how "every single time, pilots calculate everything before landing".   "Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe was from the 127 Pilots Course and passed out top of his class, winning what was then called the ‘Navanagar Sword of Honour’ instituted by the Raja of Nawanagar. He topped all courses he ever attended. He was also the President’s Medal winner at the National Defence Academy and was an Experimental Test Pilot. As a person, he was quite sharp and had photographic memory. "I remember once I gave him something to read, which was a document that was part of his test profile, a lengthy document. The next morning, he knew it by heart. That was the kind of memory he possessed. "Being a test pilot, one doesn’t need to talk of his analytical skill, diligence and methodical approach to aviation. It was par excellence to say the least. "Not many know that he was instrumental in the success of the Air Surveillance platform, the first ever AWACS (a radar in the sky) that India tried to develop. Nine years, India worked on the project and achieved 90% success on it until it was shelved. "Wg Cdr DV Sathe, I remember was still with the project when he cheated death as he wasn’t in the flight that crashed with a rotating antenna on top. I met him later, he was quite peeved about HAL shelving the project. By then, the IAF was well on its way to getting the IL-76-based AWACS. "He fought for the country during Kargil and commanded a Mobile Air Defence missile unit before he hung up his uniform in 2003. "In civil aviation too he is a rare breed, he flew the Airbus and Boeing passenger planes, only the very competent make the switch as it means studying and gaining experience all over again. Studying and experience came as second nature to Sathe sir. "On that fateful Friday, Sathe sir’s aeroplane made approach for Runway 28 and the winds were blowing from 260 direction about 12 knots. Winds were perfectly placed for Runway 28. But he had to go around and land from the opposite direction with winds now blowing from behind. "Aeroplanes land with reference to airspeed (aeroplane's speed with reference to air) and not ground speed (aeroplane’s speed with reference to ground). Therefore, if an aeroplane is landing with an air speed of, say 300 kmph with winds blowing from the front, say at 30 kmph, then on touch-down, the ground speed is 270 kmph. But if the aeroplane is landing with winds blowing from behind (tailwinds), then on touch-down the ground speed is 330 kmph. The brakes must work that much harder to stop the aeroplane. "IX 1344 did an approach for Runway 28 and could not land. Therefore, it did an approach for Runway 10 and landed, probably in tailwind. 'Is the pilot to blame?' is the natural question. The answer is 'no, he is not' because the manufacturer permits the aeroplane to be landed with a certain amount of tailwinds. "Moreover before landing, pilots always do calculations using an on-board computer to calculate using all these parameters like winds, aircraft weight, outside temperature, how high is the airfield from the sea level and the condition of the runway. "After having done the calculations only do they attempt the landing. This happens every time, even if the weather is good and the runway is very long. Every single time, pilots calculate everything before landing.” (As told to DH's Anupama Ramakrishnan)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fighter-pilot-augustine-vinod-remembers-flying-with-the-deceased-wing-commander-deepak-sathe-870946.html
08-08-2020||National||Centre asks states to test grocery shop workers, vendors for Covid-19||Centre has asked state governments to carry out Covid-19 tests on grocery shop attendants, vegetable vendors and persons coming in contact with several others as they could emerge as potential spreaders of the infection. In a letter to state governments and union territory administrators, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also stressed on early identification of Covid-19 patients and aggressive contact tracing to avoid the spread of the disease. Once a positive case is identified, prompt contact-tracing should be undertaken and at least 80 per cent of the contacts must be identified and quarantined within 72 hours, he said. Normally, a person would have an average of 30 contacts for a period of two days before the symptoms' onset, Bhushan said. “There can be potential hotspots for spread of infection like industrial clusters with closed work environments, people coming from high prevalence areas, other high density areas such as slums, prisons, old age homes, etc,” he said. Bhushan stressed on enhanced surveillance for influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) as their symptoms are mostly the same as Covid-19. He also asked states and UTs to undertake weekly death audits to assess the determinants of death such as age differentials, comorbidities, late reporting to hospital and clinical protocols that were followed. “This will help identify challenges to be addressed and will facilitate effective case reporting and ensure timely and required medical interventions,” Bhushan said. “An ambulance transport system with oxygen facility and quick response mechanism needs to be operationalised. The refusal rate of ambulances must be monitored on a daily basis and must be reduced to zero,” Bhushan stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-test-grocery-shop-workers-vendors-for-covid-19-870947.html
08-08-2020||National||Over 160 million watched live telecast of Ram temple event: Prasar Bharati CEO||Over 160 million people tuned in to watch the live telecast of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, resulting in viewership of more than 7 billion viewing minutes across the TV universe in India, according to preliminary estimates by Prasar Bharati. Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati said the viewership was of Doordarshan's live coverage was carried by nearly 200 TV channels during the main events between 10.45 am and 2 pm on Wednesday. "Per preliminary estimates over 160 Million (16 crore) people watched the live telecast of the Ayodhya Ram Temple Bhumi Pujan ceremony, resulting in viewership of more than 7 billion viewing minutes across the TV universe in India," he said on Twitter. In a highly-anticipated event, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday laid the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Amid the chanting of shlokas, Modi consecrated the very first bricks for the temple at the spot where many devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-160-million-watched-live-telecast-of-ram-temple-event-prasar-bharati-ceo-870949.html
08-08-2020||National||Terrible tragedy: Bachchan, Shah Rukh, Akshay, others on Air India Express plane crash||Amitabh Bachchan, Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn are among the film personalities who have expressed grief over the Air India Express aircraft crash that killed 18 people. On Friday, the Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 onboard overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people. Bachchan called the mishap a "terrible tragedy" and sent his prayers for the people who lost their lives.  "A terrible tragedy .. Air India crash in Kerala, Kozhikode airport, plane skids off the runway on landing in heavy rain .. Prayers," he wrote on Twitter.  Shah Rukh tweeted, "My heart goes out to the passengers and crew members on board the #AirIndia flight. Deepest condolences to the bereaved families who lost their loved ones. Thoughts and prayers..." Akshay also mourned the loss of lives in the accident and said he is praying for the safety of all passengers and crew members.  "Terrible news! Praying for the safety of all the passengers and crew onboard the #AirIndia Express flight. My deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones," he said.  Ajay Devgn said he is "disturbed" by the tragedy. "Disturbed by the #AirIndia flight tragedy. My prayers are with all the passengers and crew members onboard and deepest condolences to those who lost their loved ones," Devgn said. Actor Sonu Sood wrote on Twitter, "Heartbroken to know about the #Airindia tragedy..imagine the plight of the families who were waiting for their loved ones stranded abroad for months." "No point in showing your concern only in words, It’s time to come together and do something for them. They need you. Do your bit," he added. South star Mahesh Babu said he is "deeply saddened" by the tragedy as he wished for speedy recovery of everyone aboard the plane.  "Deeply saddened by the news of #KozhikodeAirCrash. My condolences to all the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident. Prayers for a speedy recovery of all those injured," he tweeted.  Actor Sanjay Dutt tweeted, "Deeply saddened to hear about the #AirIndia flight tragedy. Praying for all the injured ones to recover soon. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the bereaved." "Saddened to hear about all those who lost their lives in the #AirIndia flight tragedy. My prayers and condolences are with their families and loved ones. Hoping the injured recover soon," wrote Siddharth Malhotra. Music maestro A R Rahman said he is hopeful that "this too shall pass". "Prayers for the families who have lost their loved ones ..this too shall pass ..#AirIndia," Rahman said in a tweet.  Actor Nimrat Kaur said 2020 has been a "merciless year" and she is praying for "simpler, kinder times".  "Have so far refrained from letting my optimism weaken, but today I really do pray hard for simpler, kinder times, where we don’t have to chase silver linings and saving graces. What a relentlessly merciless year it’s been. May faith comes on top in this dark age," Kaur said in a tweet. Actor Prithviraj Suumaran posted on Twitter that it was a "sad day for Kerala". "And as the fortunate amongst us, sit in the comfort of our homes, waiting or the world to return to how we knew it, I cannot shake off the feeling that so many others, all hopes of a happy tomorrow ended today. "May you find the strength to hold on and tide through. My deepest condolences to the families and loved one of those who left us from Rajamala and Calicut. Prayers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrible-tragedy-bachchan-shah-rukh-akshay-others-on-air-india-express-plane-crash-870969.html
08-08-2020||National||UPSC chairman Pradeep Kumar Joshi to have tenure till April 4, 2022||UPSC's new chairman Pradeep Kumar Joshi will have a tenure till April 4, 2022, officials said on Saturday. Joshi had joined the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as its member on May 12, 2015. On Friday, he was administered the oath of office and secrecy by Arvind Saxena, the outgoing chairman of the UPSC. The commission conducts the civil services examination to select the country's bureaucrats and diplomats. The officials said Joshi will have tenure till April 4, 2022, as the chairman of the UPSC. Prior to joining the UPSC, he was the chairman of the Chhattisgarh Public Service Commission and the Madhya Pradesh Public Service Commission, according to an official statement. He also served as the Director of National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA) here, it said. "In his illustrious academic career, Prof Joshi taught more than 28 years at post-graduation level and held many important positions in various policy-making, academic and administrative bodies," the statement said. A specialist in the field of financial management, Prof Joshi has published and presented research papers in several national and international conferences and seminars, it added. With his appointment as the chairman, there is a vacancy of a member in the UPSC. At present, Bhim Sain Bassi, Air Marshal A S Bhonsle (retired), Sujata Mehta, Manoj Soni, Smita Nagaraj, M Sathiyavathy, Bharat Bhushan Vyas, T C A Anant and Rajiv Nayan Choubey are members of the UPSC. The commission conducts the civil services examination annually in three stages -- preliminary, mains and interview -- to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Foreign Service (IFS), among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-chairman-pradeep-kumar-joshi-to-have-tenure-till-april-4-2022-870984.html
08-08-2020||National||Fire breaks out at chemical factory in Gujarat's Vapi||A fire broke out at a chemical factory in Vapi in Valsad, Gujarat. More than eight fire tenders are at the spot. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-gujarats-vapi-870985.html
08-08-2020||National||Crowded villages show why coronavirus cases are surging in rural areas||By Bibhudatta Pradhan In the remote Valad village in the southern state of Kerala, 236 people have been found positive in the last two weeks. In Katapali village in eastern Odisha, nearly 200 people were infected and the area locked down for almost 50 days before the outbreak was controlled. It’s still early days for Katapali, where hundreds more risk becoming infected. Many villagers who were mostly asymptomatic were afraid to be tested over concerns they’d be forced to leave their families to be quarantined in the local Covid-19 care centre. Living in a strictly-policed containment zone for more than six weeks meant their fields were neglected and many could not venture out to find work. Although restrictions have lifted in most areas, money remains tight. Authorities struggled to check the spread of the virus in the village, with its over crowed houses in narrow lanes, said Jyoti Ranjan Pradhan, the main administrative officer of the Bargarh district, where the village is located. “This village has the characteristics of an urban slum,” Pradhan said, where it is a challenge to provide support to citizens. The disease is now widespread outside metropolitan areas, said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor at the School of Public Health, University of Michigan. “We need commitment and collective sacrifice from people of rural India to keep contact diaries, symptom diaries, and to not feel stigmatized if they test positive or have symptoms, so that the disease does not infest villages like an enemy in the dark.” Escalating Epidemic Emerging rural hotspots, where health care infrastructure is fragile and living conditions are already difficult, pose a challenge to the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as it attempts to rein in infections and kickstart the country’s ailing economy. The epidemic in India is now one of the world’s fastest-growing, with more than 50,000 new cases added each day. It trails only the US and Brazil in the total number of confirmed infections. The virus has spread to about 711 of 739 districts, including 100 of the country’s poorest rural areas. “Even if people need hospitalization, they are unlikely to be able to reach a Covid facility in time,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, which has offices in Washington and New Delhi. “It is going to be a tough few months ahead but there is effectively no brake on the virus and I don’t expect a decline for quite some time.” Several districts in nine major states -- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha and Gujarat -- all of which have sizable rural populations, are highly vulnerable to new infections, according to a Lancet study. And this vulnerability extends beyond infections to their socio-economic conditions and the ability of the local health system to handle the challenge of surging infections. “Under testing may be an even more serious problem in rural areas due to lack of sufficient testing infrastructure,” said Rijo M John, a Kerala-based economist and public health policy analyst who consults for the World Health Organization. “The increasing presence of undetected cases can potentially lead to super spreader events which, in turn, can have devastating consequences.” He expects India to report as many as three million infections by the end of the month. Mukherjee also believes the worst is yet to come. “This is a long and painful crisis till we have a vaccine,” said Mukherjee. “I know we are all tired but we cannot surrender.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crowded-villages-show-why-coronavirus-cases-are-surging-in-rural-areas-870996.html
08-08-2020||National||Outgoing CAG to audit e-NAM, Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan: Report||Rajiv Mehrishi, the outgoing CAG of India, said on Friday that the authority intends to rope in independent experts for certain audits. Audits like Delhi Metro might be given to the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. Some of the important schemes the CAG will audit include the pan-India electronic trading platform National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) which facilitates farmers, traders and buyers in trading commodities online. The focus of the audit will be on the effectiveness of the platform and whether it provides access to farmers. It will also audit the direct benefit transfer with a focus on coverage which will include, correct payments that are made directly to beneficiaries, efficiency and design of payment process. A retired IAS officer of Rajasthan cadre, Mehrishi will be stepping down as the CAG. GC Murmu, who resigned as the lieutenant-general of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 will be sworn in by President Ram Nath Kovind today as the new CAG.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/outgoing-cag-to-audit-e-nam-ayushman-bharat-and-pm-kisan-report-870998.html
08-08-2020||National||PM Modi to launch financing facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund on August 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday launch a financing facility of Rs one lakh crore under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. He will also release the sixth instalment of funds of Rs 17,000 crore to 8.5 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme, an official statement said on Saturday. The virtual event will be witnessed by lakhs of farmers and cooperatives across the country. Union Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will also be present. The Union Cabinet had approved the Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under the "Agriculture Infrastructure Fund" of Rs one lakh crore. The fund will catalyse the creation of post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets such as cold storage, collection centres and processing units, the statement pointed out. These assets will enable the farmers to get greater value for their produce as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reduce wastage and increase processing and value addition, it said. Rs one lakh crore will be sanctioned under the financing facility in partnership with multiple lending institutions. Eleven of the 12 public sector banks have already signed MoUs with the Department of Agriculture. A three percent interest subvention and credit guarantee of up to Rs two crore will be provided to the beneficiaries to increase the viability of these projects. The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM-KISAN) scheme, launched on December 1, 2018, has provided a direct cash benefit of over Rs 75,000 crore to more than 9.9 crore farmers, it said. This has enabled them to fulfil their agricultural requirements and support their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-financing-facility-of-rs-1-lakh-crore-under-agriculture-infrastructure-fund-on-august-9-871008.html
08-08-2020||National||Indian Medical Association says nearly 200 doctors in India have succumbed to Covid-19 so far; requests PM's attention||A total of 196 doctors in the country, majority of them being general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19 so far, said the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday, requesting the prime minister for his attention on the issue. "As per the latest data collected by the IMA, our nation has lost 196 doctors, out of which 170 of them are above the age of 50 years, with general practitioners attributing to around 40 per cent of it," the IMA said expressing concerns over the safety of doctors losing their lives in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis. While an increasing number of doctors are getting infected and losing their lives every day, substantial number of them have been found to be general practitioners.  Since, significant proportion of the population consult general practitioner due to fever and its related symptoms, they remain the first point of contact as well as care, the doctors' body. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the IMA requested him to ensure adequate care for doctors and their families who are a special risk group and extend the state-sponsored medical and life insurance facilities to doctors in all the sectors.  "The IMA represents over 3.5 lakh doctors spread across the country providing next door affordable healthcare, it is pertinent to mention that Covid-19 does not differentiate between government and private sector and affect all same. "Further disturbing are the reports that state that the doctors and their family members are not getting beds for admission and deficiency of drugs in most of the cases. The IMA thus requests the government of India to provide adequate attention for the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic," said Dr Rajan Sharma, National President, IMA Dr R V Asokan, Secretary General, IMA, said the mortality rate among doctors due to Covid-19 has reached an "alarming proposition" now. "Saving each and every life of a doctor will ensure safety of thousands of patients who depend on their care. Doctors who have died in line of their professional duty merit favourable consideration for succour and solace to their families. It is thus pertinent for the IMA to also draw your attention to the demoralising effect to our healthcare community," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-medical-association-says-nearly-200-doctors-in-india-have-succumbed-to-covid-19-so-far-requests-pms-attention-871016.html
08-08-2020||National||10 years ago, an Air India Express plane went up in flames after overshooting runway at Mangalore airport||Back in 2010, an Air India Express aircraft overshot the runway at Mangalore airport, fell into a gorge, caught fire and 158 people lost their lives. And the crash of the airline's plane in Kozhikode on Friday is a stark reminder of that accident ten years ago. In both instances, Air India Express pilots had overshot tabletop runways. Also, the flights were coming from Dubai. In its report on the Mangalore accident that happened on May 22, 2010, the Court of Inquiry had said the direct cause was the captain's failure to discontinue the unstabilised approach of the plane. "Despite the constraints of terrain surrounding the tabletop runway, the rescue and fire fighting operations had been carried out with due diligence," the report dated October 31, 2010 said. As per the report, Air India Express's Boeing 737-800 aircraft overran the runway, including the strip and the RESA (Runway End Safety Area). "It then impacted the concrete mounting structure of ILS (Instrument Landing System) Localiser Antenna and fell into a gorge. In the resultant impact and post crash fire, 152 passengers and all 6 crew members lost their lives. There were 8 survivors," the report said. On Friday, the airline's plane overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport, fell into a slope before breaking into two pieces. While there was no fire, at least 18 people, including two pilots, are dead in the crash, which also happened when there were rains. Tabletop runways are constructed in a hilly or an elevated terrain. The 2010 report had said that there were three tabletop airports in the country from where scheduled flights operate at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. "Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. "The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident," the report said. Further, the report also said that tabletop runways have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents. Citing the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) data, the report had also said that most of the accidents occur during landing and take-off phases, with a large number of runway excursions and aircraft overrunning into the overshoot area. "Considering the large momentum of these aircraft, a downward slope in the overrun area can worsen the outcome. It is therefore recommended that such downward slopes as obtaining in Mangalore be brought to the same level of the runway surface. "This also needs to be ensured at all tabletop airports in the country," the report said. The Court of Inquiry had said the cause of the accident was the captain's failure to discontinue the "unstabilised approach" and his persistence in continuing with the landing, despite three calls from the first officer to "go around" and a number of warnings from Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System (EGPWS). This was mentioned as the direct cause of the accident. At the time of Mangalore crash, there was no Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), which was set up only in 2012. The AAIB is probing the Kozhikode accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-years-ago-an-air-india-express-plane-went-up-in-flames-after-overshooting-runway-at-mangalore-airport-871017.html
08-08-2020||National||Will take corrective action after receiving probe report: Airports Authority of India chief on Kozhikode plane crash||Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh on Saturday said "corrective action" will be taken after receiving the probe report on the Air India Express plane crash at Kozhikode airport on Friday. The airport in Kerala, which has a tabletop runway, is operated by state-owned AAI. Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is probing the accident at the Kozhikode airport that has left at least 18 people dead, including the two pilots of the plane. The Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) have been recovered at the crash site. Singh said rescue work is over and reasons for the crash would be known once the AAIB report comes. "This report will tell us about all the issues... we are awaiting the inquiry report and then we will take corrective action," he told PTI. On whether there were any safety issues had come to the notice of the AAI in recent times, Singh replied in the negative. He noted that prior to Covid-19, there were around 70 departures as well as 70 arrivals at the Kozhikode airport on a daily basis. After domestic flights resumed on May 25, there have been 10 departures and 10 arrivals every day. Domestic and international flight services were suspended in late March in the wake of Covid-19. Domestic flights resumed operations on May 25 while overseas flights remain suspended. However, special international flights are operating. The plane that crashed on Friday was operating a Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai to Kozhikode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-corrective-action-after-receiving-probe-report-airports-authority-of-india-chief-on-kozhikode-plane-crash-871030.html
08-08-2020||National||Border row: India, China hold Major General-level talks||Talks between senior army commanders of India and China were underway on Saturday to take forward the disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at a number of friction points including in Daulat Beg Oldi and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said. The Major General-level talks are being held at a border personnel meeting point in Daulat Beg Oldi(DBO) area on the Chinese side of the LAC, they said. The meeting comes a week after the two armies held the fifth round of Corps commander-level(Lt Gen) discussions in an effort to expedite the disengagement process. At the military talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso. The Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of its troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang as demanded by India, according to sources. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. Both sides held several rounds of Major General-level talks in May and June before the level of negotiations was upgraded to the level of Corps commanders. The people familiar with the developments said Saturday's talks will primarily focus on the disengagement process in Daulat Beg Oldi and Depsang areas. Considering the situation on the ground, the Indian Army and the IAF have decided to maintain a very high-level of operational readiness in all areas along the LAC in Ladakh, North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh till a "satisfactory" resolution to the border row with China is arrived at, sources said. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", they said. The fresh directive to maintain a very high-level of alertness came in the wake of lack of forward movement in implementation of the disengagement process by Chinese military in friction points like Pangong Tso, Depsang and Gogra. The Indian army has already made elaborate plans to maintain current strength of troops and weapons along the LAC during the harsh winter months in eastern Ladakh and all other sensitive areas along the LAC. It is also in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troops The temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degree celsius in the winter months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-row-india-china-hold-major-general-level-talks-871031.html
08-08-2020||National||Former ESIC DG P C Chaturvedi, officials under CBI scanner||Former Director-General of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) P C Chaturvedi has come under the CBI scanner for alleged irregularities in sanctioning 14 projects worth Rs 6,255.39 crore and a PSU consultant transferring ownership of private companies to his family members during 2007-2009. Those named in the FIR besides Chaturvedi are former Financial Commissioner Rajiv Dutt, former Chief Engineer P R Roy, former Finance Director A K Sinha, former Chief Engineer Rajiv Kumar, former Joint Director V Subramonian, former ESIC Consultant J Sarup (all from ESIC) and former HLL Life Care consultant D Kumar. The CBI said the ESIC functionaries had "acted in an arbitrary manner by abusing their official position and entered into criminal conspiracy" with each other with an objective to give undue favour to Architecture Consultants. Also, Kumar entered into a "criminal conspiracy with PC Chaturvedi in his appointment" as a consultant to HLL Life Care Ltd for procuring medical equipment. The ESIC had contracted HLL Life Care Ltd for providing consultancy services for procurement of medical equipment and Kumar being a consultant with the latter played a role. In return, the FIR claimed, Kumar "created (a) few companies and the ownership of which was later transferred to (Chaturvedi's) family members and P C Chaturvedi himself after his retirement". According to the FIR registered on August 6 after three preliminary enquiries on a complaint by ESIC Chief Vigilance Officer T N Tripathi in 2016, Chaturvedi sanctioned 14 projects worth Rs 6,255.39 crore while he had no powers to sanction construction of medical colleges, including in Karnataka's Kalaburgi, as well as clearing capital works beyond Rs 25 crore. The FIR said there was no transparency in selecting private architect consultants while Chaturvedi also purchased medical equipment through construction agencies chosen on nomination basis by sanctioning Rs 798 crore violating rules and regulations. He also made the appointment of Roy as Chief Engineer without issuing advertisements and without consulting UPSC. It is also claimed that the ESIC paid architect consultants for the tendering process, which never took place, as the works were awarded to construction companies on a nomination basis. Even ineligible architect consultants were appointed though they did not fulfil the criteria of having a minimum of Rs 50 lakh average consultancy fee earned in the last three financial years. Two other architect consultants were even attending meetings without them being formally empanelled, the FIR said. On the construction of medical colleges, the FIR said he initiated the construction of seven medical colleges through the consultant for medical education project had not examined the issue in its feasibility report. Of this, the projects in Kalaburgi, Alwar (Rajasthan), Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) and Bihta (Bihar) though it did not fulfil the criteria of having the mandatory insured person units. "The interest of the Corporation was not safeguarded by P C Chaturvedi in the matter of establishing medical colleges," it said. Charging the accused for criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct, the FIR said all the officers acted in an "arbitrary manner" to give "undue favour" to Architectural Consultants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-esic-dg-p-c-chaturvedi-officials-under-cbi-scanner-871038.html
08-08-2020||National||Air India Express plane crash: Co-pilot was going to become a father||In the next few days, Akhilesh Kumar Sharma, the co-pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express plane, that crashed at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Thursday evening, would have become a proud father. Kumar's pregnant wife is due for delivery in a few days, according to family sources. A resident of Uttar Pradesh's Mathura town, about 400 kilometres from here, Kumar was among those killed when the plane skidded off the runway while landing amid heavy rains and fell into a valley. A pall of gloom descended on the Sharma family, which lived in the Govind Nagar area in the town, after news of Akhilesh's death in the crash reached them. People from the locality made a beeline before the house to offer their condolences. Family members said that Akhilesh had got married two years back. He was survived by his wife Megha, two brothers, a sister and parents. Akhilesh had joined Air India as a co-pilot in 2017. He had visited his family before the countrywide lockdown in March, they said. His brother Rahul and a relative had reached Kozhikode, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-express-plane-crash-co-pilot-was-going-to-become-a-father-871045.html
08-08-2020||National||Capt Sathe had planned to pay surprise visit on mother's b'day||Captain Deepak Sathe, pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express flight who died along with 17 others after the plane crashed at Kerala's Kozhikode airport, had planned to pay a surprise visit to Nagpur on his octogenarian mother's birthday on Saturday, his relative said. However, even before his mother could celebrate her 84th birthday, Capt Sathe, 58, died in the air crash. "Today is the birthday of Capt Sathe'smother. He had last met his parents in March and was constantly in touch with them over phone since then. They had last spoken a day before yesterday," his nephew Dr Yashodhan Sathe told PTI on Saturday. "Captain had told some of the relatives that if flights are available, he would pay a surprise visit to his mother on her birthday," he said. Captain Sathe lived with his wife in Mumbai. His mother, Neela Sathe, who lives with her husband Vasant Sathe, a retired colonel, in Bharat Nagar locality of the city, said that after the coronavirus outbreak, he had told her not to step out of the house. "He used to tell me not to go out due to the pandemic. He would tell me that if something happens to me, he would feel bad. And suddenly this tragedy struck...what can we do before the will of the God...," she said with tears in her eyes. She remembered him as being "top" in everything- be it studies or sports. "He was brilliant in table tennis, squash. He was also very good at horse riding," she said. "Our Son had also received the rare'Sword of Honour'. However, he would not boast about his achievements," she said, adding that he was the first Maharashtrian to get all the eight prizes of Air Force. "He was very helpful and would do anything for others. During the Gujarat floods, he had saved the children of servicemen by carrying them on his shoulders. He was a very bright officer," she said. Hismother also remembered her elder son Vikas Sathe a lieutenant in Army, who died in a road accident. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway in Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions. Captain Sathe, who was the pilot-in-command and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died in the incident. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force's flight testing establishment. He was from 58th course of National Defence Academy (NDA), Pune. Dr Yashodhan Sathe said that the body of Captain Sathe is yet to be handed over to the family. "His wife and brother-in-law are in Kozhikode, but the decision about where the last rites will be held is yet to be taken. Due to the coronavirus restrictions, we will not be able to go there," he said. Captain Sathe has two sons- Dhananjay and Shantanu. "Dhananjay lives in Bengaluru and he is trying to reach Kozhikode by road. His second son is in the USA and he won't be able to come," Dr Yashodhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capt-sathe-had-planned-to-pay-surprise-visit-on-mothers-bday-871047.html
08-08-2020||National||Aviation expert flagged concerns about Kozhikode airport runway in 2011||Flights landing on runway 10 in tailwind conditions in rain at the Kozhikode airport endanger the lives of people onboard those flights, a civil aviation expert had warned in 2011. Captain Mohan Ranganathan had flagged concerns about the runway in a communication to then Civil Aviation Secretary Nasim Zaidi in June 2011. Ranganathan was then a member of the operations group of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee (CASAC). The communication assumes significance against the backdrop of the Air India Express plane crash at the airport on Friday that killed at least 18 people, including two pilots. The Boeing 737-800 plane, coming from Dubai, had overshot the runway while landing in heavy rains and broke into two pieces. "... in spite of the danger if the crew accept a landing in wet and tailwind conditions, their concept of ALAR (Approach and Landing Accident Reduction) is very poor," he had said in the communication. The communication came against the backdrop of an Air India Express aircraft crash at Mangalore airport in 2010. As many as 158 people had died in the crash. "... all the flights that land on Runway 10 in the tailwind conditions in rain, are endangering the lives of all on board," Ranganathan had said. With tailwind conditions, the descent of an aircraft at the time of landing might be affected. Kozhikode airport in Kerala comes under the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The airport has a tabletop runway. Details about action taken by authorities concerned following the communication could not be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-expert-flagged-concerns-about-kozhikode-airport-runway-in-2011-871051.html
08-08-2020||National||India records 61,537 new Covid-19 cases, 933 deaths||With India registering 61,537 more cases, the coronavirus tally reached 20,88,611 on Saturday, while 14,27,005 people have so far recuperated from Covid-19 pushing the recovery rate to 68.32 per cent, the Union health ministry said. The death toll due to the disease rose to 42,518 with 933 fresh fatalities being reported in a day, data updated at 8 am showed. There are 6,19,088 active cases of Covid-19, comprising 29.64 per cent of the caseload. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.04 per cent.  This was the 10th day in a row that the Covid-19 tally increased by more than 50,000. A total of 5,98,778 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total to 2,33,87,171 so far, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Of the 933 fresh deaths reported, 300 are from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 101 from Karnataka, 89 from Andhra Pradesh, 63 from Uttar Pradesh, 52 from West Bengal, 23 in Delhi,  22 from Punjab and Gujarat, 16 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 each from Uttarakhand and Telangana, 13 from Jammu and Kashmir, 12 from Odisha and 10 each from Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Nine fatalities were reported from Haryana while six each from Bihar, Assam and Jharkhand, five in Kerala and Puducherry, four in Goa, three in Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Nagaland and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 42,518 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 17,092, followed by 4,690 in Tamil Nadu, 4,082 in Delhi, 2,998 in Karnataka, 2,605 in Gujarat, 1,981 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,954 in West Bengal, 1,842 in Andhra Pradesh and 962 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 767 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 615 in Telangana, 539 in Punjab, 467 in Haryana, 449 in Jammu and Kashmir, 369 in Bihar, 247 in Odisha, 151 in Jharkhand, 132 in Assam, 112 in Uttarakhand, 102 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 87 deaths, Puducherry 75, Goa 70, Tripura 37, Chandigarh 23, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 19, Himachal Pradesh 14, nine in Ladakh and 10 in Manipur, seven in Nagaland, five in Meghalaya, three in Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-61537-new-covid-19-cases-933-deaths-871054.html
08-08-2020||National||At least five Indian airports have tabletop runways||Constructed on elevated terrains and mostly having little space for last-minute maneuver, tabletop runways at times pose challenges for pilots while landing their aircraft. And Air India Express planes have crashed at least twice on such runways in little over a decade. At least five airports, including at Kozhikode where an Air India Express aircraft crashed on Friday, have tabletop runways. Tabletop runways are constructed on hilly or elevated terrains. Also, there could be low lying areas adjacent to such runways and there could be gorges at the end of such runways. Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh told PTI that tabletop runways are there at four airports operated by it. They are at Kozhikode, Mangalore (Karnakata), Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) and Pakyong (Sikkim). The Lengpui airport in Mizoram, which is with the state government, also has a tabletop runway. State-owned AAI operates 137 aerodromes, including the ones through joint ventures. A senior Air India pilot said that automation might not help in the case of tabletop runways. There is also the issue of optical illusion, where the runway might seem to be nearer whereas it would actually be further away, he added. The pilot also stressed that there is not much buffer zone unlike normal runways. There are tabletop runways in different parts of the world and only when the runway length is less, there could be issues with landing of aircraft. In the case of Kozhikode airport, the runway is about 9,000 feet which is quite long, according to a senior regulatory official. Tabletop runways are there at some airports, both in north and south India, he added. According to the official, pilots are generally told about such runways and various restrictions. In the Court of Inquiry report about the plane crash at Mangalore airport in May 2010, it was mentioned that there were three tabletop airports in the country from where scheduled flights operate at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. "Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. "The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident," the report had said. It had also said that tabletop runways have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents. Citing ICAO data, the report had also said that most of the accidents occur during landing and take-off phases, with a large number of runway excursions and aircraft overrunning into the overshoot area. "Considering the large momentum of these aircraft, a downward slope in the overrun area can worsen the outcome. It is therefore recommended that such downward slopes as obtaining in Mangalore be brought to the same level of the runway surface. "This also needs to be ensured at all tabletop airports in the country," the report had said. Regarding the Air India Express plane that crashed on Friday, AAI said it had touched down around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway at the Kozhikode airport before breaking up into two pieces. The Boeing 737-800 aircraft while landing overshot the runway and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces. The pilot of the flight -- IX-1344 -- could not sight the runway in the first landing attempt due to heavy rains. An AAI spokesperson said that runway 28 was in use and in the first landing attempt the pilot could not sight the runway and requested for runway 10. The pilot then steered the plane to runway 10 and came from the other side, according to an AAI official. Citing information from the Air Traffic Controller (ATC), the spokesperson said the aircraft touched down near taxiway 'C', which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of runway 10. The total length of the runway is 2,700 metres. The spokesperson also said that it was raining over the airfield and reported visibility at the time of landing was 2,000 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-five-indian-airports-have-tabletop-runways-871080.html
08-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: River Krishna, its tributaries continue to flow near danger levels||In today's episode, Union minister Hardeep Puri announced interim relief for Kerala plane crash victims; River Krishna and its tributaries continue to flow near danger levels; The incubation period of Covid-19, which is the time after which those infected with the novel coronavirus start showing the first symptoms, could be as much as eight days and Girish Chandra Murmu assumes office as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.  Here is the top news of today, Saturday: August 8, 2020: After a landslide, Kerala received a late-night shocker yesterday after Air India Express flight IX 1344 carrying 190 passengers on board skidded off the runway while landing. Prima facie, what seems to have happened is that the aircraft overshot the runway. Bad weather which has been hovering over the west coast for the past few days seems to have been the cause.  The plane arriving at Karipur airport in Kozhikode from Dubai had also delayed its landing by over 30 minutes owing to the bad weather. Meanwhile, Union minister Hardeep Puri announced an interim relief of Rs 10 lakh for kin of deceased, Rs 2 lakh for people who are seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for persons with minor injuries. Arvind Singh, Airport Authority of India Chairman said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had some issues with the runway in 2015, but after resolving those issues, clearance was given to it in 2019. The jumbo jets of Air India also used to land there. Ober queries that after the accident, will the Vande Bharat mission continue? Ministry of Civil Aviation has said that the Vande Bharat Mission flights have no problem and that the mission will continue. In other related news, Mumbai-bound Air Asia flight (i5-632) aborted take-off at Ranchi Airport due to a bird-hit and  Airport officials said that all passengers are safe. River Krishna and its tributaries were continuing to flow near danger levels with the inflow of waters increasing to 162139 cusecs on Saturday. Discharge of waters from dams in Kolhapur and Sangli districts in Maharashtra has added to the inflow of waters into river Krishna. Water inflow from Rajapur barrage into river Krishna at Kallol barrage increased to 128875 cusecs and inflow from its tributary Doodhganga to 33624 cusecs leading the rivers continuing to flow near danger mark and waters spreading in the agricultural lands along the banks. Sugarcane crops along the river basin have been witnessing water clogging. Seven low-lying bridge cum barrages in Raibag taluk and in Athani remained submerged in waters. The incubation period of Covid-19, which is the time after which those infected with the novel coronavirus start showing the first symptoms, could be as much as eight days -- longer than previous estimates of four to five days -- says a new study which involved the largest amount of patient samples to date in such an analysis. The research, published in the journal Science Advances, identified pre-symptomatic individuals at their time of departure from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the Covid-19 pandemic originated, and then followed these infected people until their symptoms developed. According to the scientists, including Chong You from Peking University in China, the existing estimates of four to five days for the incubation period were based on small samples sizes, limited data, and self-reports that could be biased by the memory or judgement of the patient or interviewer. Phase-2 human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila vaccine for the treatment of Covid-19 commenced at Jeevan Rekha Hospital here. Vaccine has been administered to 20 healthy individuals two days ago and progress was on expected lines. Health individuals in the age group of 12 years to 60 years have been identified for the human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila vaccine phase-2. Vaccine has been administered to 20 healthy individuals as per protocols of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and they were on expected lines, said, Director Dr Amit Bhate. Dr Bhate told DH that the protocols of ICMR were being followed for the phase-2 trials of Zydus Cadila vaccine. After screening and tests, 20 individuals have been administered the vaccine and the progress has been good. He said we are conducting phase-2 human clinical trials of Zydus Cadila. As per the norms of ICMR, more details cannot be divulged. Girish Chandra Murmu has assumed office as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India from August 8, 2020, an official statement said on Saturday. Earlier in the morning, the former Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor were sworn in as the Comptroller and Auditor General at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Murmu made and subscribed to the oath of office before President Ram Nath Kovind, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement. A former bureaucrat, Murmu is a 1985-batch IAS officer of Gujarat cadre. His tenure as the new CAG will be up to November 20, 2024. He succeeds Rajiv Mehrishi, who demitted office on Friday, the office of the CAG said in the statement. As a constitutional functionary, the CAG is primarily entrusted with the responsibility of auditing the accounts of the central and state governments. The CAG reports are laid before Parliament and legislatures of the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-river-krishna-its-tributaries-continue-to-flow-near-danger-levels-871088.html
08-08-2020||National||AI plane crash: Two Indian expats thank God for missing flight at last moment||One may call it good luck, but for two Indian expats it was God who prevented them at the last minute from boarding the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala, killing at least 18 people on board. According to India's Civil Aviation Ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft on a flight from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday evening. There were 184 passengers including 10 infants, 2 pilots and four cabin crew onboard the aircraft. Noufal Moin Vetten, an Ajman resident working as an office boy in a Sharjah school, was booked to travel on the flight and had checked in as per schedule. Recounting his miraculous escape, Vetten, a resident of Malappuram, Thirunavaya, whose visa was cancelled a week ago, told Gulf News: “I was handed my boarding pass, but when I reached immigration, they told me I had to pay a fine of Dh 1,000 (Rs 20,430) for overstay. I had only Dh 500 (Rs10,215) with me. "I called my school PRO and he told me to come back. He said they would follow protocols and pay the fines before sending me,“ he said. Vetten was disappointed and called his family to let them know. “When I heard about the crash, I was saddened for all the passengers. But I'm so relieved I missed it. God has been really merciful,” said Vetten. Afsal Parrakodan, a resident of Abu Dhabi, had a similar stroke of luck. “My work visa was cancelled about a week ago. After getting my boarding pass, I was told I had to pay a fine of Dh1,000 at the immigration counter, but I had only Dh500 on me.” “I was very keen to board the flight and be with my family. So I called a friend who brought me the additional Dh500, but by then, my baggage had been offloaded and the flight's doors were closed,” said Parrakodan. “I was feeling very sad and called my mother to tell her I had missed the flight. But a few hours later, when I learnt of the crash, I couldn’t help but feel relieved and thankful to God for saving my life,“ said an overwhelmed Parrakodan who plans to fly back next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ai-plane-crash-two-indian-expats-thank-god-for-missing-flight-at-last-moment-871090.html
08-08-2020||National||Explanation sought from SC Registry for mistake in listing contempt plea by N Ram||The Supreme Court has called for a response from its Registry officials for "mistake" and "ignoring established practice and procedure" in listing a writ petition filed by eminent journalists N Ram and Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan, before a separate bench than the one led by Arun Mishra.  Ram and others have challenged the validity of Contempt of Court Act, for stifling free speech.  Calling the move as "yet another mistake", the Supreme Court sources claimed as per practice and procedure in use, the matter should have been placed before a bench which has been seized with a similar matter.  It was a three-judge bench led by Justice Mishra which had on July 22 issued a notice for Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings to Bhushan for his two tweets made on June 27 and 29 on the role of four former CJIs in "destruction of democracy" and current CJI riding on a high-end bike and shutting down the Supreme Court. This particular bench had already reserved the judgement in the contempt case. On Saturday, the sources said the writ petition by Ram and others has been listed before a bench led by Justice D Y Chandrachud "ignoring established practice and procedure". In this regard, explanations of concerned officials have been called, they added. According to the Supreme Court's website, the writ petition by Ram and others filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal and listed before of Justices Chandrachud and K M Joseph has now been deleted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explanation-sought-from-sc-registry-for-mistake-in-listing-contempt-plea-by-n-ram-871096.html
08-08-2020||National||After Kozhikode crash, Goa Opposition cautions about upcoming airport plans||In wake of the tragic accident, involving an Air India Express flight at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport, Opposition parties in Goa have advised caution vis a vis the upcoming greenfield airport at the Mopa plateau in North Goa.  While the Goa Forward party has questioned the decision of the state government last month to reduce the length of the runway, the Aam Aadmi Party in Goa has said that the upcoming airport was also based on a tabletop model, like the aviation facility at Kozhikode, which could bode risk in the future.  In July this year, the Goa cabinet had passed a decision to reduce the length of the airport from 3,750 to 3,500 metres, in order to comply with the parameters of the International Civil Aviation Organisation.  Goa currently has one operational airport, which functions out of an Indian Navy base at Dabolim in South Goa. The first phase of the upcoming airport at the Mopa plateau in North Goa is expected to be operational next year, with the completion of the project delayed on account of legal tangles, following petitions filed by green activists.    18 persons died and several dozen were injured, after an Air India Express flight ferrying 190 passengers, crash-landed at the runway of the Kozhikode airport in a tragic accident earlier on Saturday.  The Aam Aadmi Party has also cautioned against the upcoming airport, claiming that like the facility at Kozhikode, where the tragic accident occurred, the new airport too was based on a tabletop model.  “Goa’s Mopa Airport is designed as a tabletop airport built on a hilly plateau like the airports at Mangalore and Kozhikode, where the limitation on runaway lengths have caused aircraft crashes that have claimed hundreds of lives,” AAP spokesperson Siddharth Karapurkar said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-kozhikode-crash-goa-opposition-cautions-about-upcoming-airport-plans-871105.html
08-08-2020||National||Agriculture sector most unaffected by Covid-19 pandemic: Union Minister||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said that the Covid-19 pandemic did not have any major impact on the agriculture sector in the country. Speaking at a webinar in Kolkata organised by Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry Tomar said that complete harvesting of rabi crops was successfully done even during the pandemic. “The pandemic did not have any major impact on the agriculture sector and it is mostly unaffected. The rural economy is also stable,” said Tomar. As for the Centre’s efforts for the welfare of farmers, Tomar said that on Sunday Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer Rs.17500 crore to farmers through direct benefit transfer. “The Centre is preparing guidelines for the Farmer Producer Organizations and Rs.6500 crore has been allotted for this,” said Tomar. He also said that through contract farming farmers will not be ensured of a buyer but will also get the minimum support price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agriculture-sector-most-unaffected-by-covid-19-pandemic-union-minister-871107.html
08-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 68.32%, fatality rate declines to 2.04%: Health Ministry||Focused and effective efforts towards containment, testing, isolation and treatment by the Centre, states and Union Territories have resulted in the recovery rate rising to 68.32 per cent and fatality rate steadily declining to 2.04 per cent, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. India has one of the lowest cases per million at 1,469 as against the global average of 2,425, it said. According to the ministry, effective surveillance and improved testing network have ensured early detection of cases and consequentially leading to timely clinical management of severe and critical cases. Coordinated implementation of 'test, track, treat' strategy by the Centre, states and Union Territories has ensured that case fatality rate has been low compared to the global scenario, it said. "It has continued to fall progressively and stands at 2.04 per cent as on date. With focused efforts to reduce mortalities due to Covid-19, India has registered one of the lowest deaths per million at 30 as compared to the global average of 91 deaths per million," the ministry said. There has been a sharp increase in Covid-19 recoveries. With 48,900 patients discharged in 24 hours, India's total recoveries from Covid-19 has reached 14,27,005. "The recovery rate, on a steady rise, stands at 68.32 per cent," the ministry said. According to the health ministry, 6,19,088 active Covid-19 cases, which is the actual caseload of India, account for 29.64 per cent of the total positive cases as on date. These patients are under medical supervision either at hospitals or in home isolation. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country has resulted in India testing a total of 2,33,87,171 samples for Covid-19 infection. A total of 5,98,778 tests were conducted on Friday, the ministry said. "Tests Per Million has seen a sharp increase to 16,947 today," it said. A key factor in this widespread testing is the continuously expanding network of diagnostic labs. With 936 labs in the government sector and 460 private labs, India has 1,396 labs for Covid-19 testing. With a single-day rise of 61,537 cases, India's coronavirus tally reached 20,88,611 while the death toll due to the disease rose to 42,518 with 933 fresh fatalities being reported in a day, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-6832-fatality-rate-declines-to-204-health-ministry-871111.html
08-08-2020||National||Chennai specialist proposes immunity passport for those recovered from Covid-19||With barely any sign of Covid-19 reinfection in the past eight months, a leading Indian doctor has reached out to the World Health Organization and the Prime Minister’s Office with a proposal to consider issuing an “immunity passport” for easy travel of lakhs of people who got the infection and recovered. Since such individuals developed immunity against Covid-19 and pose no risks to others, an immunity-linked travel certificate would allow them to move around freely to contribute to economic development, argued Abdul Ghafur, a Chennai-based specialist on infectious diseases, associated with Apollo Cancer Institute. For over a decade, Ghafur played a key role in red-flagging the menace of antibiotic resistance in Indian hospitals, compelling the government to frame an antibiotic policy for the clinical establishments and change the rules governing the sale of OTC medicines. On Covid-19, Ghafur’s idea is based on the fact that nowhere in the world, there been any large-scale reporting of reinfection ever since the novel coronavirus 2019 arrived on the world scene in December 2019. The first case in India was reported in January. “More than six months after the emergence of SARS-CoV-2, there have been no confirmed cases of reinfection. There are a few anecdotal reports of a handful of potential cases of reinfection (or reactivation). At least for now, reinfection is not a serious concern. If reinfections were a significant problem; by now, we could have had hundreds or at least tens of thousands of cases of reinfection at the global level,” he wrote in his letter. Ghafur’s prescription is to issue immunity-linked travel certificates for three or six months for people who tested positive on RT-PCR test – the gold standard in Covid-19 testing – and cured. India currently has more than 14 lakh such patients and the numbers are increasing. "As against an earlier proposal to the WHO to allow immunity passports on the basis of antibody tests, my idea is to permit a travel document on the basis of RT-PCR tests that are more reliable. The certificate would be for people who tested positive, were in quarantine or home isolation for the stipulated period and got cured,” he told DH. “Since the governments have the list of PCR positive patients, they can easily issue Covid-recovered certificates with a validity of three to six months. Based on the presence or absence of significant and genuine reports of reinfections in the future, we can revoke or extend these certificates.” Of course, even people with such a certificate would have to travel following social distancing norms, practice hand hygiene and wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-specialist-proposes-immunity-passport-for-those-recovered-from-covid-19-871117.html
08-08-2020||National||Indira Jaising questions SC's 'inertia' on granting senior advocate designations||Senior advocate Indira Jaising has filed a plea in the Supreme Court, questioning "inertia" and "failure" to comply with its 2017 judgement on guidelines for conferment of senior advocate designation.  She contended that the process can be initiated by the top court and conducted via virtual mode similar to virtual court hearings due to present Covid-19 situation. In a plea filed by advocate Anandita Pujari on Jaising's behalf, it was pointed out that the guidelines were published on August 6, 2018 which required inviting applications for designation of senior advocates twice a year. On March 27, 2019, as many as 37 advocates were conferred with the designation out of 105 applicants. But since then, the process has remained standstill and the Supreme Court's Registry ought to have invited applications in January, and July, 2019 and 2020. Though different High Courts in the country dutifully followed the 2017 judgement delivered on October 12, 2017 on Jaising's writ petition, the apex court has filed to comply with it, her plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-jaising-questions-scs-inertia-on-granting-senior-advocate-designations-871120.html
08-08-2020||National||J&K Chief Secretary’s remarks on politicians trigger controversy||Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam’s remarks that “no one cried” over the detention of mainstream political leaders Saturday triggered a political storm in the union territory (UT) with leaders hitting back saying the assertions were baseless and politically motivated. Subrahmanyam had said that Jammu and Kashmir was a “broken state and there was no system in place due to years of misgovernance, corruption and unbelievable levels of fraud committed by leaders of mainstream parties and separatist organizations.” Hitting back at the CS, regional National Conference rejected the allegations saying these were intended to evade the concerns of the public on the ‘failures’ of J&K administration on every conceivable matrix. “The language used by CS while hurling allegations against mainstream political parties is exactly similar to what BJP is saying. If he is so keen to be a politician, I would suggest that he quit his job and join politics,” the NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement. He said that such sordid allegations from a civil servant put a big question mark on his professionalism, work culture and impartiality. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) termed the remarks uncalled for and utterly flagitious. In a statement, a spokesman of the party alleged that the CS had come to Kashmir with a colonial mindset and being the chief executioner of RSS in Kashmir. “It was ironic that he is finding fault with the entire population of Jammu and Kashmir while running the most corrupt administration that the state has ever witnessed. The Chief Secretary is heading a cabal of officers who are affiliated with RSS and are enforcing their agenda in Kashmir,’ he alleged. “The BJP and its chosen bureaucrats are not only heaping insults, humiliation, and atrocities on the people of Jammu and Kashmir but they are also misleading and exploiting the so-called nationalist sentiments in the rest of the country," the spokesperson added. CPI (M) while terming the CS’s utterances as highly unacceptable questioned him what his administration has done to eradicate corruption in J&K for the last more than two years when there is no elected government in the region. “Leveling baseless allegations against politicians without any credible evidence is fraught with serious consequences,” a spokesperson of the party said. J&K Peoples Conference led by Sajjad Lone advised the CS to speak “within his pay and grade.” “Kashmir has this problem where people get delusions of grandeur. It seems like the Chief Secretary is the latest victim of the same set of delusions. We extend our sympathy and hope he comes out of it,” a party spokesperson said.  “If the utterances of the Chief Secretary are any indicators of what he thinks of himself and this is what he briefs his bosses in Delhi, then Delhi doesn’t need enemies in Kashmir. Talk of inventing a lie and then believing in it. He takes the cake,” he said. Even the newly launched party, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, blamed the senior-most bureaucrat for breach of service rules “which are legally and ethically unwarranted.” “An officer of the rank of chief secretary in J&K seems to have forgotten about service conduct rules which warrant serving officers not to talk about issues pertaining to politics and instead should work for strengthening the institutions of governance on the ground,” JKAP senior leader and former minister Ghulam Hassan Mir said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-chief-secretary-s-remarks-on-politicians-trigger-controversy-871121.html
08-08-2020||National||AI crash: CISF personnel quarantined after passengers test positive for Covid-19||The CISF has directed its personnel to go into preventive quarantine after at least two passengers of the Air India Express flight that crashed in Kozhikode tested positive for Covid-19, officials said Saturday. The Central Industrial Security Force said it was the "first responder" to rescue passengers as its Assistant Sub-Inspector Ajit Singh was on runway patrol when the flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the table-top runway, fell into a 35-foot valley and broke into two on Friday. Eighteen passengers, including the two pilots of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft, were killed in the accident. "We are identifying our personnel, who rescued the passengers who have tested positive for the coronavirus," CISF Special Director General (Airports) M A Ganapathy told PTI. Another senior officer said the force has information that two passengers have tested positive for Covid-19. Around 50 CISF personnel and their family members were involved in the rescue operation and they have been asked to self-quarantine, he said. The force will also conduct Covid-19 tests of those who were exposed, the officer said. The CISF provides counter-terrorist cover to the Kozhikode airport. Another official said the rescuers of the National Disaster Response Force and other airport officials have been asked to go into self-quarantine. ASI Singh, who saw the crash first, immediately alerted his control room, which informed the airport authorities, and rescue teams from CISF, airport authority, fire and police were rushed to the crash site. CISF chief Rajesh Ranjan announced awarding the Director General (DG) commendation disc to ASIs Ajit Singh, Mangal Singh and airport chief security officer Deputy Commandant Kishor Kumar AV for showing "exemplary alertness and presence of mind by alerting the control Room and guiding the CISF rescue to the site." The senior officer said about 40 CISF personnel were involved in the rescue operation. "Reinforcement also responded from the CISF unit lines and helped the personnel who were engaged in rescue operation. Not only the barrack personnel, even those who stay outside the airport campus, rushed to the site on coming to know about the crash, regardless heavy rain," he said. The CISF was deployed at this airport in January 2002 and has a strength of about 300 personnel, an officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ai-crash-cisf-personnel-quarantined-after-passengers-test-positive-for-covid-19-871122.html
08-08-2020||National||Now, 18 Rajasthan BJP MLAs on pilgrimage to Gujarat||After Congress, it is the turn of BJP MLAs in Rajasthan to go resort hopping ahead of the assembly session scheduled to begin on August 14 when Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expected to take a floor test in the face of a rebellion by his former deputy Sachin Pilot. BJP has sent 18 MLAs, mostly from the tribal districts adjoining Gujarat, on a pilgrimage to Somnath Temple and other spiritual destinations for five to six days. “These MLAs were facing coercion from the state administration to switch sides,” Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia told DH. Poonia said the BJP actions cannot be compared with the Congress MLAs, which as got the mandate to rule and is staying in hotels instead of governing the state in difficult times. “They will return in time for the assembly session,” he said ruling out any dissent within the party. Congress MLAs have been staying at a resort in Jaisalmer since August 1, days after Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra summoned the session of the state assembly from August 14. Gehlot had claimed that rates for horse-trading have increased after the summoning of the session and shifted MLAs supporting him from a hotel in Jaipur to Jaisalmer. Meanwhile, the Pilot camp accused the chief minister of recording phone conversations of MLAs supporting him. The 19-month old Gehlot government plunged into crisis after Pilot walked away with 18 MLAs supporting him, expressing no confidence in the leadership of the chief minister on July 13. Soon after, Congress removed Pilot from the posts of the Deputy Chief Minister and the President of the party’s state unit and suspended two of his supporters from the organisation. Congress has been accusing Pilot of hobnobbing with the BJP and trying to topple the Gehlot government. However, Pilot has rejected accusations of joining the BJP but has also not responded to overtures by the Congress to bring him back to the party fold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-18-rajasthan-bjp-mlas-on-pilgrimage-to-gujarat-871129.html
08-08-2020||National||Centre alerts states, industry to be vigilant about 'mystery seed parcels'||The alert by the Agriculture Ministry comes after thousands of “suspicious seed shipments” were reported from across the world, which was seen as an attempt to introduce a pathogen or diseases that could pose a threat to the environment, agriculture ecosystem and national security. “All states' department of agriculture, agriculture universities, seed associations, seed certification agencies, seed corporations, ICAR vis-a-vis their crop-based research institutes are directed to be vigilant about the suspicious seed parcels,” the ministry said. It also referred to a US Department of Agriculture report that termed the mystery seed parcels as a “brushing scam” and “agricultural smuggling” that could threaten the biodiversity of any country. “It's best to proactively work to avoid their release than to have to bear huge costs for controlling them in future. All of us should be careful not to use any seed coming from unknown sources. Plant quarantine and customs checks at ports and airports have to be stringent,” Ram Kaundinya, Director General of the Federation of Seed Industry of India, said in a statement. He said the seeds could be of an invasive species or weed that could compete or displace native species. “Right now, it is only an alert for a possible spread of plant diseases through seeds coming from unauthorised sources without orders. There are limitations to what diseases a seed can carry,” Kaundinya said. According to the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA), residents in Washington, New York, Virginia, Florida and a few other states in the US had received unrecognised seed packets without details of origin through e-commerce companies which were not ordered by them. Similar parcels were reportedly received by residents of New Zealand, Canada, UK, Japan and a few European countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-alerts-states-industry-to-be-vigilant-about-mystery-seed-parcels-871153.html
08-08-2020||National||Indian Army makes govt reject China's Pangong Tso pullback terms||With the Indian Army putting its foot down, New Delhi has finally declined to pull back its troops further away from the “Finger 4” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), although the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has set it as a condition for its withdrawal from the territory of India. The Indian Army early last month withdrew troops nearly 1.5 kilometers away from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley after the Chinese PLA did the same to create a “buffer zone” in order to avert a repeat of the June 15 violent face-off. It, however, rejected a similar proposal put forward by the communist country’s military recently for resolving the stand-off on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. The proposal was mooted by Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA during his latest meeting with his counterpart Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, on August 2. A panel comprising top bureaucrats and the military and intelligence officials of the Government of India discussed the proposal during a meeting in New Delhi on August 4. The top brass of the Indian Army “strongly recommended” that the Chinese PLA’s proposal should be rejected. The implementation of the proposal would require the Indian Army to vacate a critical post – named after the 1962 India-China war hero Maj Dhan Singh Thapa – near the “Finger 3” and would thus, give an edge to the Chinese Army. It would also require the PLA to pull back troops from its current position near “Finger 5”, but the communist country’s soldiers would still continue to hold a large chunk of the territory claimed by India, sources told DH.      The senior diplomats involved in New Delhi’s engagements with Beijing for resolving the stand-off also argued that accepting the Chinese PLA’s proposal on the bank of the Pangong Tso would turn the understanding reached specifically for Galwan Valley into a precedence. It would also lend credibility to China’s claim on the entire northern bank of the lake and would be tantamount to giving in to the aggressive moves made by the communist country to unilaterally change the status quo in the area and to occupy territory of India. The “political leadership” in New Delhi finally accepted the views of the senior diplomats and the military officials and decided against accepting the proposal put forward by Beijing, sources in New Delhi said. The government drew flak from analysts after it got the Indian Army pull back troops 1.5 kilometers away from the LAC in Galwan Valley and create a “buffer zone” with moratorium on patrolling – even after rejecting the “exaggerated and untenable” territorial claim by China. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. It remained stalled for the past three weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas. The PLA thinned out troops from the “Finger 4” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). It, however, did not restore the status quo ante and held on to the area between “Finger 5” and “Finger 8” – an eight-kilometre-long stretch it took over after its stand-off with the Indian Army started in early May. The Indian Army is currently holding on to its position between “Finger 2” and “Finger 3”.    The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso just towards the lake like the ‘fingers’ of the palm, with the “Finger 1” at the western end and the “Finger 8” at the eastern end. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the Pangong Tso, goes through the “Finger 4”. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the “Finger 8”.  The Indian Army earlier regularly sent patrols from its Maj Dhan Singh Thapa post near “Finger 3” all the way up to “Finger 8”. But the Indian and Chinese soldiers had a scuffle near “Finger 4” on May 5. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area, thus, denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops in response to the PLA build-up and the stand-off started and spread to other areas along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations. That China dug in its heels in the ‘finger’ areas on the bank of the Pangong Tso was evident when its envoy to India, Sun Weidong, recently asserted the communist country’s claim on the entire stretch. “On the northern bank of Pangong Lake, China's traditional customary boundary line is in accordance with the LAC. There is no such (thing) as China expanded its territorial claim,” Sun said, while responding to a question during a webinar hosted by Institute of Chinese Studies in New Delhi on July 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-makes-govt-reject-chinas-pangong-tso-pullback-terms-871155.html
08-08-2020||National||Storm, runway, perhaps pilot error are cited in Air India crash||The sky had turned black. Rain smeared the windows. Air India Express Flight 1344 was midair, roaring through a thunderstorm toward the city of Kozhikode’s tabletop runway, which has a sudden drop-off at its end and was known to be potentially dangerous. The pilot, a decorated military flyer, circled the airport once, then twice. With visibility so bad, he radioed the control tower to switch runways. On his second attempt at landing Friday night, he apparently hit Runway 10 too late — more than a half-mile into the 1.6-mile strip — and with the wind at his back, which was exactly the scenario that Indian aviation experts had warned against. “All the flights that land on Runway 10 in tail wind conditions in rain are endangering the lives of all on board,” said a report submitted to India’s civil aviation authorities in 2011. The plane, a Boeing 737 returning to southern India from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, slid right off the rain-slicked runway, tumbled down a hillside and split in half. Indian officials say that 18 people, including both pilots, were killed and more than 150 were injured. Looking at pictures of the wreckage taken on Saturday — with the skin of the plane ripped off and huge chunks of the cabin scattered across the mud — it is remarkable that more passengers weren’t killed. The plane was carrying 190 people. Rescue crews, including many villagers, rushed to the crash site within minutes and pulled people out. The plane apparently never caught fire; the relentless rain may have dampened any sparks. Survivors said they knew something was wrong the instant the wheels hit the ground. “The plane landed at such a high speed and then braked really hard,” said Latheesh Muttooly, who was sitting by a window. “There’s usually a jerk when you land, but this was much harder, and then suddenly the plane started going faster.” The overhead bins burst open. Heavy pieces of luggage fell on people’s heads. “The next thing I heard was a loud crashing sound, the loudest sound I’ve ever heard,” Muttooly said. His face smashed into the seat back in front of him, in Row 15, splitting open his chin. He was dazed. “When I opened my eyes and looked around,” he said, “there was only one row in front of me.” The front of the plane had torn off. With the crash investigation just starting, Indian aviation officials are already beginning to pin the blame on the pilot, not the runway. “The basic problem, as we understand it in this incident, is that on a runway of 8,500 feet, the plane landed after crossing one-third of the strip, beyond 3,000 feet,” Arun Kumar, India’s director general of civil aviation, said in an interview. “What normally happens under such conditions is that the pilot does a go-round and either tries to land again or not land at all, given the weather conditions. Touchdown must happen within the first 500 feet of the strip. “The rules of aviation are too well laid out,” Kumar added. “Either the pilot goes around or should not have landed at all.” The crash was very similar to another, much deadlier Indian air accident at a tabletop runway in 2010, which had prompted a closer look at similar hilltop runways. India has four or five of them, officials said. The 2010 crash involved the same kind of plane, a Boeing 737 belonging to the same airline, Air India Express, and a similar runway with steep gorges on each side. In that case, the aircraft skidded off a hill in Mangalore, fell into a valley and burst into flames. More than 150 people were killed. After that, the Indian civil aviation ministry formed a safety advisory council that included aviation experts such as Capt. Mohan Ranganathan, a pilot who wrote the 2011 report warning that Kozhikode’s Runway 10 was dangerous. Some of his recommendations, like adding a safety zone at the end of the runway, were heeded, at least in part. But on Saturday, Ranganathan said in an interview that he was dismayed to learn that the pilot tried to land in the very circumstances that he had warned about. “Landing in rain with a tail wind is the most dangerous way you can think of landing,” he said, especially on Kozhikode’s Runway 10. For a plane to crash, a bunch of things usually have to go wrong, which seems to have been the case in Flight 1344. The runway was clearly a concern. The captain, Deepak Sathe, a former Indian air force test pilot, seems to have misjudged the distance he needed to bring the plane to a halt. And the weather was horrendous. This is monsoon season, the time of year of lashing rains, and Sathe was trying to bring down a plane in the middle of a torrential downpour. For the past several days, Kerala state, where Kozhikode is and which has a long history of ties to the Persian Gulf, has been drenched. India’s meteorological department had issued a red alert for several areas, including Kozhikode, on Friday. Earlier that same day more than 20 people were killed in a landslide in another part of the state after a hillside of rock and sludge crashed into a workers’ hostel on a tea plantation. The way the announcements were made to the passengers didn’t help either, passengers said. The cabin crew used Hindi and English, India’s most widely spoken languages. But this was a special repatriation flight, run by the Indian government to rescue citizens who had been stranded in the Persian Gulf during the coronavirus pandemic. Most passengers were working-class people (and their families) from Kerala who had been performing jobs such as clearing tables or driving trucks. They spoke Malayalam, Kerala’s tongue. “They had no idea they had to keep wearing their seat belts,” said Riyas Madaparambathu, another passenger who had been working at a restaurant in Dubai. He said more lives might have been saved if the crew had made the announcements in Malayalam “so that everyone could have understood the instructions.” On Saturday, officials said they had found the aircraft’s black box. Most of the surviving passengers remained in more than a dozen hospitals. Indian media reported that after some had tested positive for the coronavirus, survivors were not allowed to leave the hospitals just yet. Many were clearly shaken up. “The flight had been going fine,” said Muhammed Ali Meethal, who spoke by phone from his hospital bed. “The pilot announced that we were going to land. There was no warning or signal of any kind of impending doom.” But after the plane skittered off the runway and down the hillside, he said. “There was a thud. And then a complete silence. I could smell death. “I want to erase these memories,” he said, breaking into tears. “I need to keep the fear aside.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/storm-runway-perhaps-pilot-error-are-cited-in-air-india-crash-871168.html
08-08-2020||National||Girish Chandra Murmu takes charge as Comptroller and Auditor General of India||Girish Chandra Murmu on Saturday assumed charge as the new Comptroller and Auditor General of India, an official statement said. Murmu, the former Lt Governor of Jammu & Kashmir union territory, was administered the oath of office and secrecy by President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan in the morning. At a ceremony held in the Ashoka Hall, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Murmu was sworn in as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, outgoing CAG Mehrishi, were among the dignitaries present at the ceremony, the Finance Ministry said. Murmu, a 1985-batch IAS officer (retired) of Gujarat cadre, will have a tenure up to November 20, 2024. As a constitutional functionary, the CAG is primarily entrusted with the responsibility of auditing the accounts of the central and state governments. He succeeds Rajiv Mehrishi, who demitted office on Friday, the office of the CAG said in the statement. "After the oath ceremony, Murmu came to the CAG office, where he was welcomed by the senior officers of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department," the CAG office said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman congratulated Murmu on taking oath as CAG. "Congratulations Shri.#GCMurmu on taking the oath to serve as the next Comptroller & Auditor General of India (C&AG). Good wishes," Sitharaman tweeted. Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda said that the prime minister has shown respect to the tribal community by appointing Murmu to such an important position. "I express gratitude from the bottom of my heart to Prime Minister @narendramodi. He has given respect to the tribal community by appointing G C Murmu to such an important position as the CAG of India. The Prime Minister has rightfully rewarded a tribal officer," Munda said in a tweet in Hindi. Murmu is probably the first tribal to head the 160 years old institution. The first CAG of India was Edmund Drummond who held the office between 1860-62 under the British ruled India. V Narhari Rao (1948-1954) was the first Indian to take charge as the head of the government auditing body after India gained independence, as per the CAG website. Rao was preceded by Sir Bertie Staig (1945-1948). Murmu was the first Lt Governor of Jammu & Kashmir after the state was converted into a union territory following abrogation of Article 370 last year with effect from October 31. Before appointed as the Lt Governor of union territory J&K, he served as Joint Secretary in the Department of Expenditure, Additional Secretary in the Department of Financial Services and Department of Revenue and then Special Secretary before serving as full-fledged Secretary of the Department of Expenditure. Before his tenure at the Centre, Murmu served on important assignments in Gujarat. He has wide experience in administrative, economic and infrastructure fields. Murmu is a post graduate in Political Science from Utkal University. He holds an MBA degree from the University of Birmingham. He was born on 21st November, 1959 in Mayurbhanj District of Orissa. He is married to Smita Murmu. They have a daughter Ruchika and son Ruhaan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girish-chandra-murmu-takes-charge-as-comptroller-and-auditor-general-of-india-871176.html
08-08-2020||National||All issues red-flagged by DGCA in past addressed by Kozhikode airport operator: Aviation minister||All issues such as excessive rubber deposits, water stagnation and cracks that were red-flagged by aviation regulator DGCA in the past were "addressed and rectified" by the Kozhikode airport operator, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday. The minister's statement came after various news reports stated that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had issued a show cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses" in different places, including the runway and the apron. "It is indeed a fact that several issues were routinely red-flagged by DGCA, and were addressed by the (Kozhikode) airport operator. These pertain to excessive rubber deposits, water stagnation, cracks and other routine issues," Puri tweeted a day after the plane crash in Kozhikode that claimed at least 18 lives. The point is that raising such concerns is the normal work of the DGCA, he noted. "The DGCA also strictly ensures that these are complied with and rectified under all circumstances. This was done by the airport operator," the minister added. Puri said an enquiry has been ordered under the Aircraft Act in case of the Kozhikode accident and findings of the investigation will be made public. "I will encourage all to exercise patience and refrain from making speculative observations bordering on the irresponsible. Again to emphasize, all the issues were addressed and rectified," the minister said. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the runway at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala at 7.40 pm on Friday in rainy conditions and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two, killing at least 18 people. Puri reached Kozhikode on Saturday afternoon to take stock of the relief measures. He went to the accident site at the airport, before visiting the Kozhikode Medical College, where senior doctors briefed him and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan about the condition of the injured people admitted for treatment. "Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of the ill-fated aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) is conducting investigations," Puri said in another tweet. A DGCA official said the two devices -- DFDR and CVR -- were with the AAIB and would be sent to Delhi for further investigation. "Reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status and implementation of relief measures after the air accident last evening," Puri tweeted earlier in the day. "My heart goes out to the families & friends of the 18 people who lost their lives in the air accident involving @FlyWithIX Flight IX-1344 in Kozhikode last evening & offer my heartfelt condolences (sic)," he said. Reasons for the plane crash are being investigated, the minister added. At 3.47 pm, Puri said on Twitter that he visited the Kozhikode Medical College hospital with Muraleedharan. "Senior doctors briefed us on the status of various people admitted for treatment. 149 people have been admitted to various hospitals. 23 have been discharged while 3 are critically injured (sic)," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-issues-red-flagged-by-dgca-in-past-addressed-by-kozhikode-airport-operator-aviation-minister-871177.html
08-08-2020||National||BJP MP Arjun Meghwal tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to AIIMS here. The minister of state for heavy industries and parliamentary affairs said after developing Covid-19 symptoms he was tested twice and found positive in the second report. However, he said his health is fine. "After developing symptoms of Covid-19 I had undergone a test and was found positive in the second report. On the advice of doctors, I got admitted to AIIMS and I request all those who came in contact with me to take care of their health," he said. Meghwal is BJP MP from Bikaner. Earlier in June, Meghwal endorsed a 'papad' brand to help fight Covid-19, claiming that it contains ingredients that help develop antibodies. In the video launching 'Bhabhi ji Papad', Meghwal makes claims about the health benefits of consuming the papad. "It will be very helpful in fighting coronavirus," he is heard saying. Another MP from Rajasthan and Union Minister Kailash Chaudhary has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-arjun-meghwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-871186.html
08-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams govt over ASHA workers' strike for more benefits||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Centre on Saturday over the ASHA health workers' strike to press for better service conditions and benefits, saying the government was "mute" already, but now maybe "blind and deaf" also. "ASHA workers take health protection to homes across the country. They are truly health warriors, but today they are forced to go on strike for their own rights," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. He tagged a media report about workers under the ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist), Anganwadi, and National Health Mission being on a two-day nationwide strike from Friday to press for better service conditions and benefits. "The government was mute already, but now maybe blind and deaf also," the former Congress president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-asha-workers-strike-for-more-benefits-870942.html
08-08-2020||National Politics||Mulayam Singh Yadav's condition stable: Hospital||The condition of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav who was admitted to a hospital in Lucknow a day ago is stable, the medical facility said on Saturday. "His treatment is going on under the strict monitoring of doctors, and, at this point of time, his condition is stable," Kapoor said. The hospital director added that the 80-year-old SP leader also underwent ultrasound, blood test and urine test. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his wife Dimple Yadav had gone to the hospital on Friday night to know about the health of the party patriarch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mulayam-singh-yadavs-condition-stable-hospital-870970.html
08-08-2020||National Politics||'Centre's anti-democracy experiment': Rahul Gandhi on removal of MoD report||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday stepped up his attack against the Centre on the issue of removal of a defence ministry report mentioning Chinese 'transgressions', saying this was not a coincidence but the government's "anti-democracy experiment". "Whenever the country has gotten emotional, files disappeared. Be it Mallya or Rafale, Modi or Choksi…,"Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, referring to the accusations made by the party on issues like purchase of Rafale jets, or the cases against Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. In the missing list, the latest are the documents on "Chinese transgressions" the former Congress chief said. "Ye sanyog nahi Modi sarkar ka loktantra-virodhi prayog hai (This is not a coincidence, but Modi government's anti-democracy experiment," he alleged. The Congress on Thursday asked the government why the Defence ministry report mentioning Chinese 'transgressions' in eastern Ladakh in May was taken down. The document, which was uploaded on the Defence ministry's website, was removed on Thursday morning following publication of a media report based on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-anti-democracy-experiment-rahul-gandhi-on-removal-of-mod-report-871118.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Government announces AatmaNirbhar Bharat App contest winners||The government on Friday announced a list of 24 top mobile apps developed by Indian entrepreneurs under the AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge. The initiative was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce dependency on foreign apps. The app challenge was launched on the Innovate platform of MyGov, the citizen engagement platform of the government, and received as many as 6,940 entries from tech entrepreneurs and startups across the country in nine categories -- business, eLearning, entertainment, games, health, news, office and work from home, others and social. "Interesting and innovative Apps were received in all categories and the Jury after the presentations identified 24 Apps to be rewarded with prizes. Another 20 Apps were identified for Special Mention which has a great potential in being Apps for the future," MyGov said in a statement. The contest was started after the government banned 59 Chinese apps, which included some widely used platforms like TikTok, Helo, UC Browser, Likee and ShareIt. Chingari app won the contest in the social app category. It was followed by YourQuote and Koo. CaptionPlus was declared the winner in the entertainment category, fake news checking app Logically in the news category, Hitwicket in games, Zoho Workplace and Cliq in office, stepsetgo in health, disprz in eLearning, Zoho Invoice, Books & Expense in business and MapmyIndia in the other category. The winner in each of the categories will get Rs 20 lakh in prize money, the first runner up Rs 15 lakh and second runner up Rs 10 lakh.           "Jury also made a mention that there are many other Apps who are at various stages of development and they will also compete with the award-winning Apps in the near future. Accordingly, it was suggested to have a policy to have such challenges on a regular basis to constantly update the leader boards," the statement said. The jury has suggested providing institutional support through mentoring and tying up with incubation centres of Atal Innovation Mission as also other government institutions to kick-start the app-building ecosystem in India, the statement said. Social media app Mitron and Hidoc Dr were listed among the apps that have the potential to be winners of such contests in the future. MyGov also recognised SparkLive, Iamhere, Kaagaz Scanner, Boom, docubay, paperboy, math games, aster, kite fly, sasta sundar and xploree AI keyboard among the apps that have potential to win such a contest in the future. "For the award-winning Apps, MyGov has also launched a Poll on MyGov for citizens to vote for their favourite Apps," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-announces-aatmanirbhar-bharat-app-contest-winners-870902.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Target of three years set to make Madhya Pradesh 'aatmanirbhar': Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that a target of three years has been set to make the state 'aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant). He said this while addressing the concluding session of the 'Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh' webinar on Friday. Chouhan sought suggestions from different sections of the society and subject experts for drafting a roadmap for 'Aatmnirbhar Madhya Pradesh'. He said the government alone cannot take the state to new heights of development and active cooperation of all was necessary for it. "An action plan of 'Aatmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh' will be prepared and promptly implemented based on the suggestions received in the webinars organised in this regard," the chief minister said. "We have set a target of three years for Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh," he added. Chouhan appreciated the suggestions given during the webinar, which include the creation of national logistics hub in the state, Narmada tourism, and also related to air cargo, futuristic industry, tiger reserve adaptation, among others. Former Union minister Suresh Prabhu, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and other experts took part in the webinar. Prabhu said the coronavirus pandemic has badly affected the global economy. "To overcome this challenge, there is no other alternative but to become self-reliant," he said. Prabhu said that the state has to be linked with the global value chain and global supply chain to make it self- reliant. "There is immense potential to make Madhya Pradesh a national logistics hub. Its internal trade will also get a boost. Global futuristic industries should come to the state," he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/target-of-three-years-set-to-make-madhya-pradesh-aatmanirbhar-shivraj-singh-chouhan-870913.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||BSF kills suspected Pakistan intruder along International Border in Rajasthan's Barmer||A Pakistani infiltrator was killed by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday along the India-Pakistan International Border in Rajasthan's Barmer district, officials said. "BSF troops observed a Pakistani intruder who crossed the IB and attempted to sneak over the fence. He was challenged but he still crossed the fence and ran towards the other side." "Troops fired upon him and he hid behind a bush but was found dead during the search of the area," the BSF said. The incident took place around 1 am at the Bakhasar area along the border, they said. The BSF patrol also saw "10 to 15 torchlight flashes and heard shouting from the Pakistan side." The BSF is on high alert in view of the forthcoming Independence Day celebrations in the country, a senior officer said. An official said the BSF has asked Pakistan Rangers to identify the intruder, and more details will be made available regarding him after Pakistan responds. At the same time, the BSF also noticed movement on Pakistan side, it said. "Earlier, similar attempts made by Pakistan during day time were also foiled by the BSF. However this is the first time that infiltration attempt has been made during night in this area," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-kills-suspected-pakistan-intruder-along-international-border-in-rajasthans-barmer-870917.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Noida gets 400-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital, UP CM Yogi Adityanath reviews facilities||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated a dedicated 400-bed government hospital for Covid-19 patients in Noida. The facility is located in Sector 39 of the city and has come up in association with the Tata Trusts and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, according to officials. Adityanath also reviewed the facilities in the hospital, which is expected to begin services with 200 beds initially from Sunday and will have 400 beds in the course of time, the officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, District Magistrate Suhas L Y, District's Covid-19 response officer Narendra Bhooshan and senior government doctors were present during the inauguration. The chief minister had arrived in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday evening to review the district's preparedness in the fight against Covid-19. The virus has infected over 5,800 people in the district and claimed 43 lives so far, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-gets-400-bed-dedicated-covid-19-hospital-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-reviews-facilities-870953.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Since April, 417 health workers test positive for Covid-19 in Kashmir||In Kashmir, 417 health workers, including 147 doctors, have tested positive for Covid-19 till August 6, exposing numerous flaws in the healthcare system of the violence hit region. Official figures reveal that Srinagar city, where all major tertiary care hospitals are situated, has been the worst hit with the highest number of positive healthcare workers. Healthcare workers blame the government for exposing them to the coronavirus by not providing them enough personal protective equipment (PPE) and testing. “Testing is an early warning system. The government is not testing enough and its policy is putting doctors and frontline workers at extreme risk,” a medico at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital told DH. He said it was also found that due to a shortage of PPE at the hospitals, the doctors and medical staff have become vulnerable to Covid-19 patients they are treating. “The actual number of health care workers, who have tested positive, is likely to be higher as there is no separate centralised data on them from either public or private hospitals and no data from smaller nursing homes and clinics either,” the doctor added. In J&K, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has already breached the 24000-mark. The only silver lining in this gloomy situation is the improving recovery rate of infected patients which has reached 62%. President, Doctors Association of Kashmir, Dr. Nisar ul Hassan said that health care workers were at greater risk as the Covid-19 seems to hit health care workers harder than others “Administration must ensure the rationing of health staff in order to reduce their exposure. Medical staff must remain safe because if healthcare workers collapse, the health system will shut down, and people will suffer,” he said. Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Wednesday that 99 doctors, a majority of them general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19 in India since the pandemic broke out in March. Of those dead, 73 were above the age of 50 years, 19 in the age-group of 35-50 and seven below 35 years, the data showed. The IMA has declared a red alert for medicos and medical administrators asking them to raise their guard. For nurses and doctors on the front line, the pandemic has been relentless. It has led to anxiety and fear as the risk of exposure is double-edged, at the workplace as well as outside the hospital premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/since-april-417-health-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kashmir-870955.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||9 more succumb to Covid-19 in Rajasthan; 499 fresh cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rose to 776 on Saturday after nine more people succumbed to the disease, while 499 fresh infections pushed the caseload to 50,656, a health department official said. Baran and Kota reported three fatalities each and one each in Jaipur, Bikaner and Udaipur, he said. In Jaipur alone, the death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 214. On Friday, the tally of fatalities in the state was wrongly reported as 797. There are 13,570 active cases in the state, while a total of 34,069 people have been discharged after recovering from the infection, the official said. Of the 499 new cases, 91 were reported from Alwar, 42 from Jaipur, 52 from Nagaur, 85 from Kota, 27 from Barmer, 26 from Sikar and 25 from Banswara among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan-499-fresh-cases-870957.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||61,537 new coronavirus cases in India, 933 deaths||The number of recoveries surged to 14,27,005 and the recovery rate rose to 68.32 percent, according to ministry data. There are 6,19,088 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), comprising 29.64 percent of the caseload. A total of 61,537 cases were added in a day, taking the tally to 20,88,611, it said. This was the 10th day in a row that the Covid-19 tally increased by more than 50,000. As many as 5,98,778 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total to 2,33,87,171 so far, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Of the 933 fresh deaths reported, 300 are from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 101 from Karnataka, 89 from Andhra Pradesh, 63 from Uttar Pradesh, 52 from West Bengal, 23 in Delhi,  22 from Punjab and Gujarat,  16 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 each from Uttarakhand and Telangana, 13 from Jammu and Kashmir, 12 from Odisha and  10 each from Rajasthan and Chattisgarh. Nine fatalities were reported from Haryana while six each from Bihar, Assam and Jharkhand, five in Kerala and Puducherry, four in Goa, three in Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Nagaland and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 42,518 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 17,092 followed by 4,690 in Tamil Nadu, 4,082 in Delhi, 2,998 in Karnataka, 2,605 in Gujarat, 1,981 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,954 in West Bengal, 1,842 in Andhra Pradesh and 962 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 767 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 615 in Telangana, 539 in Punjab, 467 in Haryana, 449 in Jammu and Kashmir, 369 in Bihar, 247 in Odisha, 151 in Jharkhand, 132 in Assam, 112 in Uttarakhand, 102 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 87 deaths, Puducherry 75, Goa 70, Tripura 37, Chandigarh 23, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 19, Himachal Pradesh 14, nine in Ladakh and ten in Manipur, seven in Nagaland, five in Meghalaya, three in Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/61537-new-coronavirus-cases-in-india-933-deaths-870973.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: New ministerial group to review previous Congress govt's work||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has constituted a fresh group of ministers to review the decisions taken by the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress dispensation in the state. This fresh ministerial group has been formed days after the expansion of the state cabinet and includes new ministers, an official said on Saturday. Earlier in May, the BJP government led by Shivraj Singh Chouhan had formed a group of ministers to review the decisions taken by the previous dispensation in six months prior to March 23, when it came to power. The general administration department on Friday issued an order stating that a new group of ministers has been constituted for the same purpose, an official from the public relations department said. The group formed in May had state Health and Home Minister Narottam Mishra, Water Resources Minister Tulsi Silawat and Farmer Welfare Minister Kamal Patel as its members. While Patel and Silawat have been removed, Commercial Tax Minister Jagdish Devda, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bisahulal Singh and Labour and Mining Minister Brajendra Pratap Singh have been included in the new group, it said. One of the ministers in the group, Govind Rajput, was a revenue minister in the previous Congress government, which collapsed in March this year following the resignation of 22 MLAs. As per the order, the discussions of the previous ministerial group would also be considered by the new group, the official said. Meanwhile, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta questioned the inclusion of Rajput in the group. "How will Rajput review the decisions of the revenue department, which was his portfolio during the Kamal Nath government?" he asked. The BJP government should come out with the review done by the previous group of ministers, he said. "The decisions taken by the Congress government were during in the pre-coronavirus outbreak period and they have an impact on the present situation when the pandemic has spread widely," he said. Apart from this, there may be some decisions, which can adversely affect the financial situation now, Agrawal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-new-ministerial-group-to-review-previous-congress-govts-work-870981.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Air Asia flight aborts take-off from Ranchi airport due to bird-hit||An AirAsia India aircraft departing for Mumbai on Saturday morning aborted its take-off at Ranchi airport after encountering a bird hit, said the airline spokesperson. This incident occurred a day after an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport in rainy conditions and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces, killing at least 18 people. "AirAsia India aircraft VT-HKG operating from Ranchi to Mumbai as flight i5-632 encountered a bird hit during scheduled departure at 11:50 hrs, today, 8th August 2020," stated the airline spokesperson. The pilot aborted take-off and the aircraft is currently being inspected, the spokesperson noted, adding that the flight is scheduled to depart once the aircraft is cleared for operations. "AirAsia India prioritises the safety of our guests and crew and regrets the inconvenience caused on account of this delay," the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-asia-flight-aborts-take-off-from-ranchi-airport-due-to-bird-hit-870990.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath to be invited to lay foundation stone for mosque in Ayodhya||Days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that he would not attend the inauguration of the proposed mosque to be built near Ayodhya, the 'Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation' Trust, which was overseeing the mosque construction, said that it would 'invite' the CM for laying the foundation stone for the hospital, library, a research centre to be built inside the mosque complex. A Trust spokesman said on Saturday that the five-acre complex on which the Mosque would come would also have a hospital, a library, a community kitchen and a Research Centre beside the mosque. ''As all these things are for the welfare of the people, we have decided to invite Yogi Adityanath for their brick laying....we expect the CM to only take part in the event but also lend all possible help in their construction,'' he said. He said that there was no plan to hold a brick laying ceremony for the mosque construction. The spokesman said that no decision had yet been taken on whether to 'name' the proposed mosque. There were speculations that the proposed mosque could be named 'Babri Masjid', which had been demolished by the 'karsevaks' in Ayodhya in 1992. Adityanath had recently said that he would ''neither be invited to the inauguration of the Mosque nor would he go there''. ''They (those building the mosque) will not invite me....I know that...I won't go there,'' the chief minister said when asked if he would go to the Mosque inauguration ceremony. The Sunni Central Waqf Board has been allotted five acres of land at Raunahin, about 30 kilometres from Ayodhya for building a mosque as per the supreme court order. The Board has set up an Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust to oversee the construction of the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-be-invited-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-mosque-in-ayodhya-870994.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||DGCA had issued notice to Kozhikode airport in July 2019 over critical safety lapses||Aviation regulator DGCA had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses" in different places, including the runway and the apron, officials said on Saturday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice. The DGCA conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a "tail strike" while landing at the Calicut (Kozhikode) airport on July 2 last year, an official said. A little over a year later, on Friday evening, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot "runway 10" at the Calicut airport in heavy rain and went down 35 feet into a gorge before breaking into two pieces, killing at least 18 people. "After the July 2 incident last year, the DGCA inspected the airport on July 4 and July 5 and found various critical safety lapses," said a senior DGCA official. On July 11, Kozhikode airport director K Srinivasa Rao was issued a show-cause notice, stated another DGCA official. Asked if any action was taken against Rao after the notice, he said, "We had raised certain issues, which were duly complied with. The concerned officer (Rao) was reprimanded." The show-cause notice, which PTI accessed, said: "cracks are observed at runway 28 TDZ (touchdown zone) and along runway C/L (center/left) marking at runway 10 TDZ". The touchdown zone (TDZ) is the part where the aircraft first contacts the surface while landing. The touchdown zone is ahead of the threshold area of the runway. The notice also said "excessive rubber deposit" was observed in the area from runway C/L marking to three metres on both the sides of touchdown zone of runway 28. Similar excessive rubber deposits were found by the DGCA along runway C/L marking of touchdown zone of runway 10, according to the notice. "Water stagnation of about 1.5-metre length was observed on the area between runway edge and intermediate turn pad on runway 28," it said. Besides, the DGCA found several cracks in aircraft stand number 5. It also observed that a "portion of Apron surface" of about 111 metres was damaged, it said. Apron is the area of the airport where aircraft are parked, refuelled and where passengers board. "A steep downward slope of approximately five feet depth is observed immediately after the apron behind aircraft number 1, which needs to be levelled and graded," the notice said. The DGCA observed a shortage of reserve stock of 6,630 litres of Aqueous Film Forming Foam concentrate (AFFF) and 140 kg of "DCP complementary agent" - both are used to put out fires - at the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) station of the airport. Air India Express, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, said on Saturday that three relief flights had been arranged to Kozhikode in Kerala to assist passengers and their family members affected by the plane crash a day ago. Officials said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will go to Kozhikode on Saturday. Officials of the AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau), the DGCA and the flight safety department of the airline have reached the accident site to investigate the accident, said the airline on Saturday morning. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dgca-had-issued-notice-to-kozhikode-airport-in-july-2019-over-critical-safety-lapses-871002.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||NGT directs UPPCB to recover Rs 1.90 crore from industrial unit for polluting Ramganga river||The National Green Tribunal has directed the UP Pollution Control Board to recover Rs 1.90 crore from an industrial unit for polluting the Ramganga river in Amroha after noting serious violation of environmental norms. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted a report filed by a committee that the unit was granted permission for groundwater extraction of 155 KLD for domestic and drinking purpose only. The green panel also noted that the industrial unit - C L Gupta Export Ltd- lacked treatment facility for effluents. The environmental compensation of Rs 1.90 crore was finalised after revision and recalculation by a joint committee comprising officials from UPPCB and Central Pollution Control Board. The committee had earlier computed the amount at Rs 2.49 crore. The tribunal said that there are serious continuing violations of environmental norms by the industry without corresponding stringent action. "The unit appears to have played fraud in obtaining NOC for groundwater extraction for industrial purpose by falsely representing that purpose of extraction was residential.  "Action needs to be taken in this regard as per the law of the land. Apart from this aspect, compliance with environmental norms needs to be ensured by the industrial unit which needs to be monitored and cross-checked and a further report furnished by the joint Committee through the CPCB," the bench said. The tribunal directed that status of compliance is presented on November 30. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Adil Ansari seeking action against the illegal discharge of hazardous waste into Ramganga river, a tributary of Ganga, and illegal extraction of groundwater by C L Gupta Export Ltd in Amroha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-uppcb-to-recover-rs-190-crore-from-industrial-unit-for-polluting-ramganga-river-871014.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Student gets bail on condition of social media sabbatical||The Madhya Pradesh High Court's Gwalior bench granted bail to an 18-year-old student with a condition that he will have to take a two-month sabbatical from social media for "digital detoxification". A single bench of Justice Anand Pathak directed Harendra Tyagi, a high school pass out, to submit a monthly report about his "digital detoxification" at the police station concerned. The court on Tuesday also ordered him to complete his studies for the Pre-Agriculture Test (PAT). The applicant's counsel Sushant Tiwari told PTI that Tyagi was arrested after he had ventured out of his home during the coronavirus-induced lockdown to buy some tobacco and got into a fight with the shopkeeper in Bhind district. The accused, who has been in custody since June 24, has been charged with voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation among other sections of the Indian Penal Code. The court directed that the accused will have to exit all social media groups and he should not be present on any social media platform for two months for "digital detoxification". "Every month the applicant will have to submit a report about his digital detoxification at the concerned police station and any default shall disentitle him from the benefit of bail," the order read. Apart from this, the accused was directed to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 along with one solvent surety of like amount for his release on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-student-gets-bail-on-condition-of-social-media-sabbatical-871019.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||New Jammu & Kashmir Governor stresses on zero tolerance for corruption, promotion of youth-centric policies||Spelling out the contours of his model of governance, newly appointed Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha, has stressed on zero tolerance for corruption in the union territory and called for the promotion of youth-centric programmes, an official said here on Saturday. The Lt Governor chaired a high-level meeting with the administrative secretaries of the UT at the Civil Secretariat here late on Friday after he took oath of office earlier in the day, the official spokesperson said. He said Sinha stressed on zero tolerance for corruption, promotion of youth-centric programmes and policies, reaching out to the masses, strengthening of connectivity in rural areas, robust healthcare system, modernisation of capital cities of Jammu and Srinagar, early completion of languishing projects, redressal of public grievances and improving public service delivery system. Poverty alleviation and upliftment of all the sections of the society through livelihood programmes is the prime agenda of the present government towards achieving the ultimate goal of equitable development, Sinha said. The Lt Governor also called for restoration of traditional and old crafts which have huge market demand. He passed the directions for the revival of old abandoned projects to give development its new dimension, the spokesperson said. On tourism promotion, he said, Sinha asked the officers to take comprehensive measures to revive the lakes and other tourist hotspots to add to the tourism avenues of the region. The Lt Governor observed that the people of J&K have high hopes from the government and called for taking all requisite measures on various fronts for the public welfare of the people to meet the aspirations of the people. Sinha asked all the officers to direct actions and energies towards fulfilling the ultimate objective of development envisaged by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the slogan 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas aur Sabka Vishwas'. The Lt Governor said the UT’s youngsters are one of the priorities and asked the concerned officers to create best sports infrastructure, besides coming out with youth-centric programmes to engage them in productive activities. Sinha exhorted the concerned officers to make health care system of J&K the best in the country. He further stressed on improving health services delivery to provide quality and accessible healthcare services to the people of the UT. During the meeting, the Lt Governor reviewed the efforts of the UT administration for successful implementation of various schemes launched by the Centre and the UT government and assessed the status of execution of developmental projects across J&K, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-jammu-kashmir-governor-stresses-on-zero-tolerance-for-corruption-promotion-of-youth-centric-policies-871020.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||JK govt plans to build 600 km highway along border to explore picturesque tourist sites||A 600 km-long highway will be constructed along the border touching all picturesque tourist spots in the Kashmir Valley, each of which will be "another Gulmarg", Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam has said. The Rs 8,000 crore road project will connect Gulmarg with Kargil and Drass in Ladakh. "We are planning to construct a 600 km road which will touch tourist attractions like Keran, Gurej and Machhal. The road will connect all unexplored tourist spots and picturesque valleys and help open them for the tourists," Subrahmanyam told a group of visiting journalists. The chief secretary said there will be 12-13 major tunnels along the road and it will also facilitate connectivity to the forward locations. "Each of these tourist locations will be another Gulmarg," he said. While picturesque Keran and Machhal are located along the Line of Control in Kupwara district, Gurez is a valley surrounded by snow-capped mountains in Bandipora district. Kargil and Drass now fall under the Union Territory of Ladakh. Gulmarg, located about 50 km from Srinagar, is one of the best tourist attractions in the country with its snow-clad mountains, magnificent beauty and winter game facilities. The chief secretary said the Jammu and Kashmir administration has also intensified construction of rural roads. "Earlier, on an average 1,300 km rural road was built in a year but now we are planning to build 5,000 km rural road in a year," he said. Referring to the efforts being made for creation of employment opportunities, Subrahmanyam said the administration has plans to create 4-5 lakh jobs in the coming years in sectors like the services and Information Technology (IT). "We have many good doctors, engineers and a huge pool of English knowing people. The potential in Jammu and Kashmir is huge. We will have to just leverage them," he said. The chief secretary also said the Jammu and Kashmir administration is constructing two huge IT towers with 5 lakh sq feet area in Srinagar and Jammu each. After the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, a total of 2,273 infrastructure projects worth Rs 5,979 crore, which had been pending for over five to ten years, were sanctioned and 506 of them completed. Some of the works done so far include strengthening of the panchayat structure, completion of phase 1 of Jhelum flood mitigation project, creation of 10,000 jobs and opening up of 50 new degree colleges. Subrahmanyam said the coronavirus pandemic could not hit the agricultural and horticulture sectors much. Nearly 15 lakh families (total 75 lakh people) and about four lakh government employees (total 16 lakh dependents) are dependent on these sectors. However, the sectors badly hit by Covid-19 were tourism, transportation and other business establishments. "People of Jammu and Kashmir are more resilient when it comes to lockdowns, having witnessed many separatist-induced shutdowns in long years. I can say confidently that Covid-19's impact on Jammu and Kashmir economy will be the least among all states and UTs," he said. On the now delayed proposed Global Investment Summit, Subrahmanyam said the event may be held in the next financial year in view of Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-plans-to-build-600-km-highway-along-border-to-explore-picturesque-tourist-sites-871025.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Union minister Kailash Chaudhary tests Covid-19 positive||Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary has tested positive for coronavirus, he said in a tweet on Saturday. He is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Jodhpur, he said. "Following the test done last night after showing symptoms, the report for coronavirus has come out positive," Chaudhary tweeted. ''All friends who came in contact with me in the last few days should keep distance from their family members and get themselves tested," he said. "There is fever with little breathing problem. I am taking treatment under the supervision of doctors in the hospital," he said in the tweet. The Union minister, who was on a three-day visit to his parliamentary constituency Jaisalmer, had visited several places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-kailash-chaudhary-tests-covid-19-positive-871044.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: FIR lodged over anti-Modi recorded message||Police here have lodged an FIR over a recorded audio message asking Muslims in India to stop Prime Minister Narendra Modi from unfurling the national flag on the Independence Day over the recent groundbreaking of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, a senior official said on Saturday. The phone calls which appeared to have been originated from abroad were received by some journalists here, Police Commissioner Sujeet Pandey said. He said an FIR has been registered against unknown persons at the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow and strict action will be initiated against those found guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-fir-lodged-over-anti-modi-recorded-message-871086.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Pakyong in Sikkim another risky airport with tabletop runway||The gruesome plane crash at Kozikhode, in which at least 18 people were killed, has brought into focus the danger of operating flights at airports having tabletop runway like the one in Sikkim that came into existence two years back. Spread over 201 acres, Pakyong airport is located in Pakyong town about 31 km from Gangtok. Located at a height of 4646 ft, Pakyong airport is one of the five highest airports in India. The first greenfield airport constructed in the Northeast, Pakyong airport was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 24, 2018. Constructed by the Airport Authority of India at an estimated cost of Rs 605 crore, it is an "engineering marvel" for its soil reinforcement and slope stabilisation techniques keeping in view the altitude it was built at. It's the 100th operational airport in India, and the only airport in the himalayan state of Sikkim. Pakyang airport is among the select tabletop runways in India that include Mangalore in Karnataka, Kozikhode in Kerala, Lengpui in Mizoram besides Shimla and Kullu in Himachal Pradesh. A tabletop runway is located on top of a hill or a plateau with one or both the ends overlooking a gorge. The airport has a 1.75 km runway with a width of 30 metre. It has a 116-metre-long taxiway connecting it to an apron measuring 106 metre by 76 metre that can simultaneously accommodate two ATR-72 aircraft. The airport has 3,000 sq metre terminal building and has a capacity to handle 50 in-bound and as many out-bound passengers. The Sikkim police has been entrusted with the security of the Pakyong airport. Integrated structures comprising an ATC tower-cum-fire station, one terminal building for passengers, high-intensity runway lights, parking for over 50 vehicles are some of the features of the airport. The reinforcement wall of the project is 80-metre-high, one of the tallest in the world. Commercial flight operations started on October 4, 2018. However, commercial flight operations have been hampered by low visibility due to poor weather conditions, being originally planned and designed as a Visual flight rule (VFR) Airport. Due to these visibility issues along with agitation from the local villagers, strip area issues and inaction by local administration, the airport's only commercial passenger airline SpiceJet stopped flight operations to the airport from June 1, 2019. "A resumption of flight operations has not yet been finalised by SpiceJet," a senior official of the Sikkim Tourism department said while refusing to be quoted. The officer further said that technical aspects have also been hampering flight operations at the first and only airport with tabletop runway in the state. "Private airline authorities have been facing a number of issues, which means flight operations will be halted indefinitely," the officer added. The issues include a lack of Instrumental Landing System (ILS), radar and adequate runway area. Currently, the runway is only two-kilometres long and 80m wide as against the minimum mandated 150 metres. Presently, aircraft land and take off as per visual flight rules. If an ILS is installed, aircraft can land within a distance of 50m, say experts. Fluctuating weather is a major challenge because of which the flight operations were cancelled for nearly 20 days in a month. Due to repeated cancellations, private carrier SpiceJet has found it tough to continue operations, states the officer. The minimum visibility required to be five kilometres, sometimes drops to a mere 1,200m, sources in the airport said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakyong-in-sikkim-another-risky-airport-with-tabletop-runway-871104.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Jobless man kills three daughters, himself in MP village||A labourer who had lost his job after coronavirus-induced lockdown killed himself and his three daughters by jumping into a well in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district, the police said on Saturday. Rajesh Rajak (42) worked in Mumbai but had returned to his village Andhiyari, 40 km from here, after losing his job. He and his wife frequently fought over their financial situation, said a local police official. They reportedly had one such quarrel on Friday night, after which Rajesh tied his daughters Anushka (10), China (8) and Sandhya (5) to his waist with a rope and jumped into a well near his house, he said. After the incident came to light in the morning, the police were alerted by villagers and the four bodies were fished out. The couple has another two-and-half-year-old daughter. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Chambal range) Rajesh Hingankar said the case would be investigated in depth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jobless-man-kills-three-daughters-himself-in-mp-village-871108.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Six Rajasthan BSP MLAs move SC for transferring plea questioning their merger with Congress||Six Rajasthan MLAs, who were elected on BSP ticket and subsequently merged with Congress, have approached the Supreme Court seeking transfer to the top court a petition filed in the High Court for their disqualification for alleged defiance of their party whip and supporting the Congress. Lakhan Singh and five others have filed the petition for transferring the writ petition filed in the HC by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar, to the top court, as similar matters were pending before it. The petition settled by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, drawn by advocates Aditya Bhat, Rajesh Inamdar and Javedur Rehman and filed by Amit Pai contended that the provisions of the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution could not be attracted since the entire legislature party of the BSP has merged with the INC. Maintaining that the courts cannot examine questions of a purely political nature, the petitioners said there is no need for a political party outside the Legislature to merge with another political party. "The merger of two-thirds of the legislature party with another political party would suffice for not attracting disqualification, even if the parent political party does not merge with another political party," they said.  Speaker of Rajasthan Assembly, C P Joshi and Congress Party's chief Mahesh Joshi have already approached the top court against the High Court's order to consider a plea by rebel Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot challenging validity of the anti-defection law for stifling their fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. The six MLAs who merged with the ruling Congress party said the entire purport of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution was only to examine the evil of political defections, and the recognition to political parties is only limited to those in the legislative chamber, and no more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-rajasthan-bsp-mlas-move-sc-for-transferring-plea-questioning-their-merger-with-congress-871109.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||J&K politicians will be jailed again if they support violence: BJP leader||A senior BJP leader on Saturday warned that if Kashmiri politicians don’t mend their ways and continue to support violence after their release, ‘they would be arrested again.” J&K BJP general secretary (organization) Ashok Koul said his party feels that all political leaders taken into preventive custody after 5 August 2019 should be released conditionally. “They should be allowed to walk free once they assure of not fanning trouble on (revocation of) Article 370. (But) if they don’t mend their ways, then authorities should keep them in jails,” he told reporters in south Kashmir hill station of Pahalgam. Koul, who had gone to Pahalgam to boost the morale of BJP cadres, who have been shifted to the hill station due to security reasons in the recent days, said that he discussed the issue with the administration and urged them to provide adequate security to all political workers. Asked about the rise in resignations of BJP workers after militants killed a few panchayat members in the recent days, Koul said, “Our cadre organized four programs in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on August 5 which vindicates killings will not deter BJP workers from taking the mission of the party to its logical conclusion.” On holding of Assembly polls in J&K, the BJP leader said once the delimitation process is complete, elections will be held. “Election Commission has already started the process and soon concrete results will come out,” he said. He also urged the UT administration to take tough action against 500 employees allegedly involved in anti-national activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-politicians-will-be-jailed-again-if-they-support-violence-bjp-leader-871123.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||BJP govt in UP proved to be failure in dealing with Covid-19: Akhilesh Yadav||The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has proved to be a "failure" in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic and patients were neither getting medicines nor proper treatment, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday. The state has so far recorded 1,18,038 Covid-19 cases and 2,028 deaths due to the disease. At present, there are 46,177 active cases and 69,833 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Hitting out at the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, Yadav, in a press statement, claimed that it has proved "incapable and helpless" in dealing with the coronavirus. "As the situation is going out of control, a 'no test-no case' strategy has been adopted in the state." Alleging that BJP governments, both at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh, are making "mere claims", Yadav claimed that Yogi Adityanath's tenure as chief minister is being "spent in cutting the ribbons of the works done by the previous Samajwadi Party government". The former chief minister said officials, policemen, members of the judiciary, employees of banks, health and education sector are falling prey to coronavirus infection and this is a matter of grave concern. "The patients are neither getting medicines nor treatment in time. Because of administrative failure, the number of deaths can go high," Yadav said. Referring to CM Adityanath inaugurating a 400-bed hospital in Noida on Saturday, Yadav said its foundation was laid during his Samajwadi Party Government and the current chief minister has merely fulfilled the formality of cutting the ribbon. Yadav asked the state government to rise from its slumber and ensure that correct reports of Covid-19 tests are provided and that too promptly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-govt-in-up-proved-to-be-failure-in-dealing-with-covid-19-akhilesh-yadav-871140.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Metro services in Srinagar, Jammu likely by 2024: Jitendra Singh||The light transit metro train service in Srinagar and Jammu is expected to be ready by 2024, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said Saturday. Singh said the metro project for the two cities would cost around Rs 10,599 crore. The railway consultancy firm RITES Limited has submitted the final detailed project reports and the metro systems are expected to be completed by the end of 2024, he said, talking about the development initiatives being undertaken in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370. Once the projects are completed, Srinagar and Jammu will become the first two non-major cities in the country where the rapid transport network will be functional. Singh, the Union minister for the PMO, said the significance of the projects can be understood from the fact that the first train to reach Jammu and Kashmir had taken more than two decades after Independence and the first railway station came up in Jammu only in the 1970s. But the Modi government is moving quickly to introduce the metro train projects in a short span of time and it will be cost-effective and a sustainable public transport, he said. Singh, who hails from Jammu and Kashmir, said the light metro transit system is proposed to run 17 hours a day throughout the year in Jammu, whereas in Srinagar, it will run 17 hours daily during summers but 14 hours during winters. The minister said the metro rail lines will have only elevated corridors as the underground tunnels were not found feasible in Jammu and Kashmir. The metro train service in Jammu will have its first corridor from Bantalab to Bari Brahmana and in Srinagar, it will be from Indira Nagar to HMT station, he said. Singh said the elevated metro system will not only facilitate people but also have a positive impact on the economy and the quality of life. According to the DPRs, he said, the metro coaches will be modern, lightweight and made from stainless steel and aluminium, with an air-conditioning system. Singh also said it is a matter of pride that the highest railway bridge of the world is coming up on river Chenab in Reasi district and is likely to be completed next year. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be approached for the formal inauguration of this prestigious project. He said after some initial issues the work on railway line to connect the Kashmir valley is in full swing and it is expected that by 2022, Srinagar and other parts of the valley will be connected with the rest of India directly by trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/metro-services-in-srinagar-jammu-likely-by-2024-jitendra-singh-871147.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt to withdraw police security to Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa||The Punjab government on Saturday decided to withdraw the state police security given to Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, citing he virtually faced no threat. The decision has come days after Bajwa and another Congress Rajya Sabha MP, Shamsher Singh Dullo, sought a probe by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate into the alleged illegal liquor trade in the state following the hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 lives. The state Congress unit on Friday had written to its central high command recommending their expulsion for anti-party activities. Bajwa on the other hand demanded immediate removal of CM Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar “in the interest of the party” and said, “If the CM and state chief are not removed, the party will be obliterated in Punjab.” An official spokesperson here on Saturday said, “The Punjab government has decided to withdraw the state police security from Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and was, in any case, now getting the central security directly accorded to him by the Union Home Ministry.” The state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant since he had procured personal security directly from Home Minister Amit Shah, the spokesperson said. A mixed security component was, in any case, not considered good, particularly when the Rajya Sabha MP had by opting for central security showed that he had no faith in the state police, the official added. According to the spokesperson, contrary to claims made by Bajwa, the central security he had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership. In fact, the Union Home Ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing central security to any person, said the spokesperson. Bajwa, as a Rajya Sabha MP, may have simply approached the party's leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union Home Ministry, the spokesperson said. However, for some reason, the Home Ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa's threat perception with the state government in this case, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson further said that Bajwa has actually been getting enhanced security from Punjab Police all this time, way beyond what he was entitled to as a Rajya Sabha MP. This was because the state government decided not to withdraw the greater security he had at his disposal as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) earlier, the official added. Bajwa was given Z Category security by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 19 and as of date has 25 CISF personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides two escort drivers. Till March 23, he had 14 Punjab Police personnel protecting him but a few were withdrawn for coronavirus duties. Currently, Bajwa in his security cover has six Punjab Police personnel and an escort with driver, which are now being withdrawn, said the spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-to-withdraw-police-security-to-rajya-sabha-mp-partap-singh-bajwa-871158.html
08-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Auto driver assaulted for not chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Modi zindabad'||Two people were arrested for allegedly assaulting a 52-year-old auto-rickshaw driver after he refused to chant ''Modi zindabad'' and ''Jai Shri Ram'' in Rajasthan’s Sikar, police said Saturday. Gaffar Ahmed Kacchawa complained to police that the accused stole his wristwatch and money; broke his teeth and left him with a swollen eye and injuries on face after he refused to do so. According to the FIR, around 4 am on Friday, Gaffar was returning after dropping passengers at a nearby village when the two men in a car stopped him and asked for tobacco. However, they declined to take the tobacco he offered and allegedly asked him to chant “Modi zindabad” and “Jai Shri Ram”, police said. On his refusal, they thrashed him with a stick. “We arrested two people on Friday after the complaint was lodged. Preliminary investigation suggests that the accused misbehaved and thrashed the victim under the influence of alcohol," said Pushpendra Singh, SHO of the Sikar Sadar police station. The accused were identified as Shambhu Dayal Jat (35) and Rajendra Jat (30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-auto-driver-assaulted-for-not-chanting-jai-shri-ram-modi-zindabad-871174.html
08-08-2020||Opinion||Social isolation during the coronavirus pandemic may hit teens hard||The social costs of the Covid-19 pandemic might just turn out to be more significant for children and young adults than the disease itself.  Whenever I feel like complaining about the lockdowns or whining about stay-at-home orders, I imagine what it would be like for kids and teenagers right now. The initial excitement of schools closing has long passed. Now, both parents and children alike are wondering how best to keep themselves occupied. Also, how to keep their minds away from the fact that normal social interaction – which is essential for a number of reasons – seems like a thing of the past. When I was a schoolkid, I would be a little confused when people said they got bored over the vacation. It was two whole months of freedom away from the drudgery of schoolwork, with just your friends and cousins and your imagination for company. Why would anyone complain? I had to grow up to realise that individual differences play a major role in how we react to various situations. Perhaps the kids who hated the vacation didn’t really have much of a friends circle to play with; or perhaps they were the kinds for whom regular interaction with lots of peers at school was of utmost importance, and perhaps imaginative play within the four walls just didn’t cut it for them. Of course, my school vacations were really nothing like the situation that faces children and adolescents today. This is an enforced situation with no clear end in sight.  Effects of social isolation  Of course, not every social relationship comes with benefits. There are the rare cases where just being in a relationship can be stressful, which can in turn lead to psychological distress and symptoms like increased heart rates, causing the people involved to indulge in unhealthy behaviours. Adolescents particularly susceptible to social isolation effects  Given that studying the animal brain provides excellent room for experimental manipulation (can you imagine putting real adolescent humans through chronic stress in order to understand the brain better?), there have been a number of studies on the effects of stress on rat brains during adolescence. While it may not be possible to extrapolate directly from animal model studies, the significant commonalities in the biology of the various mammalian species gives them value. These animal studies not only suggest that isolation-induced stress causes changes in the adolescent brain, but that these changes last longer than those observed in adults. Structural changes have been observed in areas such as the hippocampus, which is involved in long-term memory storage, and the prefrontal cortex, which is important for goal-directed behavior.  In adult rats, most of the stress-induced changes in brain structure seem to be reversible – if given 10 days to recover from the stress, the branching patterns of the neurons return to pre-stress condition. Discouragingly, some studies have shown that it takes longer for rats in adolescence to recover to normal brain structure post stress, particularly that pertaining to isolation. It is critical, however, to keep in mind that the laboratory conditions that rats are subjected to are far more intense than anything that teens are subjected to with respect to the pandemic. These studies pertain to ‘stress’ that arises as a result of isolation, which is an extreme and rare reaction. Avenues for intervention Also, it is not all bad news. Normal adolescent development involves intensive pruning and regrowth of various brain regions – it is, in other words, a period of human development where brain plasticity is high. This might make the adolescent brain more adaptable and receptive to intervention. Parents of teenagers and pre-teens can take comfort from the fact that animal studies have shown that rats that had been through trauma shortly after birth or as children responded very well to enriched environments during puberty. Enrichment of the physical and social surroundings of a person can help stimulate their brain. Studies have found that when people learn complex tasks such as juggling or mirror reading, parts of the brain actually increase in size. At least a part of this increase could be due to the enhanced number of connections between neurons that are required for learning. Perhaps learning a new skill could help mitigate some of the isolation effects due to social distancing. The pandemic has also struck at a unique moment in history where large sections of the population have access to the internet, and other resources that help them stay connected. Peer relationships are essential for adolescent development, and social media and messaging/video apps have the potential to help teens stay connected to each other at such a difficult time. Sometimes, thinking beyond oneself can have potential benefits for mental health. Parents could encourage teens to consider volunteering their time (in safe, socially-distanced ways) to organisations or individuals in need of help. Staying cooped up at home can also be quite stressful. Given the low risk of Covid-19 transmission outdoors, teenagers could mask themselves up and go out for short walks, or spend time gardening, or in their balconies. I’m typing this story from my balcony, and I find that just sitting outside helps me concentrate better. Of course, all this aside, parents and teens would do well not to be too hard on each other or themselves at the moment. It might not be such a good idea to push teens to participate in something that they’re not comfortable with due to parental concerns of isolation (your child might not be feeling isolated in the least). Also, there are people that are very comfortable not interacting with other people day in and day out. For introverts, the pandemic and the related stay-at-home orders don’t really feel like much of a change from their regular lives. Adolescence is the time for people to move away from family structures and gravitate more towards peers. Evolutionarily, some amount of risk-taking behavior is essential if an animal is to move away from the pack. The pandemic has put a lot of families in an enforced situation of being together in confined spaces for long periods of time. While this might, at times, not feel like the perfect situation to be in for either side, it could be an opportunity for families to get closer and try and understand each other better. (Aditi Subramaniam is a neuroscientist turned writer who is fascinated by the workings of the brain and how we can ‘rewire’ it to our advantage. She enjoys writing about the neuroscience of everyday life, and its practical implications for parenting) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/social-isolation-during-the-coronavirus-pandemic-may-hit-teens-hard-870934.html
08-08-2020||Opinion||#ChallengeAccepted: Much more than meets the eye||Over the past few weeks, Instagram has been teeming with black and white images of women, both famous and unknown. These photographs are often accompanied by the #ChallengeAccepted hashtag and have benign captions about women supporting other women, female empowerment and promotion of unity and solidarity.  These portraits, however, can’t merely be categorised as glamorous photos or as images of women trying to win an instagram beauty pageant. They make up a movement, and belong to a strand of digital feminism, that has a lot more than what meets the eye at the first look. Myths and criticisms The exact origins of the current chain mail-style display of female empowerment remains a mystery and the trend has, therefore, garnered criticism ever since it took off.  But this is not the first time Instagram users have leveraged black and white selfies in support of a cause. Back in 2016, black and white photos with the hashtag #ChallengeAccepted were meant to spread the message of cancer awareness. Since then the trend has been tweaked, changed and used multiple times on social media.  The theories surrounding origin and meaning of the latest round of black and white photos ranges from it being a mere adaptation of the cancer awareness campaign to a pure ego boost and a celebration of American Republican Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who recently protested against misogynistic remarks made against her on the floor of Congress. Other theories allege that the current iteration of the trend began in Turkey to educate and raise awareness about femicide, or the killing of women based on their gender, which is an ongoing issue in the country. Nonetheless, according to Instagram the earliest post with the hashtag #ChallengeAccepted for the latest viral trend can be traced back to Brazilian journalist Ana Paula Padrão, who posted it on July 18.  Despite the lack of clarity around its cause, these black and white portraits have spread widely with nearly 8 million posts if we take the different versions of the #ChallengeAccepted hashtag together. Yet, critics believe that these posts are meaningless with no ground-breaking, or even mildly new, point being made and therefore, the challenge is a distracting act at a time when social justice causes are competing for oxygen.  Then there are others who begrudgingly agree that this is what women supporting women should really look like. It is henceforth important to raise the question – what is this challenge really about? Giving the challenge its due In my view, the #ChallengeAccepted trend is a digital manifestation of that aspect of the feminist movement that shows women as beautiful, strong and powerful. It offers a platform to celebrate women and their contributions to society. The intention is, therefore, noteworthy. As the movement continues to grow millions of indigenous women, black women, trans women, non-binary women and other LGBTQI+ women around the world have come out to take part in it. This clearly demonstrates that women belonging to diverse socio-economic and cultural backgrounds are willing to unite against repression. In fact, many women have begun using the trend to steer the discussion around trans women’s rights, lives of black women and other issues that affect women.  The campaign has also attempted to raise much-needed awareness about women being brutally murdered in Turkey and the Turkish government's efforts to withdraw the 'Istanbul Convention' – a legislation that sought to protect women from gender-based violence. With these diverse perceptions and aims, the movement is doing its best to spread positivity on social media, creating a safe space for women to talk about the challenges they face and promote women empowerment. The movement, therefore, might not be something new but it has definitely added value to women’s cause.  Moreover, given the Covid-19 context, where methods of mass protests are few, digital feminist movements like #ChallengeAccepted are extremely important in bringing greater awareness about how women are bearing a disproportionate burden during the pandemic.  The truth is that awareness campaigns like the #ChallengeAccepted can make a significant difference in lifting up the spirits, confidence and morale of women. Simply knowing that they are supported and that they are in this together can bring about a huge change in women’s self perceptions.   (Akanksha Khullar is a researcher at the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, Delhi. She tweets at @akankshakhullar)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/challengeaccepted-much-more-than-meets-the-eye-870938.html
08-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Love in the time of coronavirus||Almost everything that needs to be said about the coronavirus and its ramifications has already been said and propagated. Despite the overdose of information, no one is complaining; and everyone is trying to deal with a changing situation with some equanimity. Staying at home as a compulsion and doing mundane tasks with deliberation became a therapeutic exercise. Cleaning my cupboards was a revelation of sorts. I realized how many clothes I actually had…several brand new! Some that I had received as gifts made me think of the giver and smile again in gratitude. With everything sorted, it became easy to give away the clothes that I was certain I wouldn’t wear again. The entire process led to a cleansing of sorts and not just of the cupboard. The piles and piles of stuff that had not been shifted in a while unraveled little knick-knacks; some truly precious. It was time to love and be grateful for all the beautiful things I had, and all the beautiful things I had forgotten about in meeting the demands of the pace I had set for myself. Food took on a dimension that I had never considered before. Now, that eating out or ordering food was not advised, cooking and eating at home became a celebration. There were days when we had to make do with what we had at home which forced us to be creative. We relished what we ate and I loved the fact that I was excited about trying out recipes that I had long forgotten or hadn’t tried before because of the paucity of time. Now, we could also take a moment to appreciate the people who worked hard to ensure that we had food on our table. Nature again provided a balm to the troubled hearts and minds. Following the trajectory of a squirrel instead of checking the itinerary, looking at the spring blossoms instead of the time tables and examining the crispest shadows made sun instead of the dials of our watches brought in a sense of tranquility. It is said that the human spirit constantly seeks natural sanctuaries that are not yet tarnished by the hand of man. My love for nature was rekindled in the time of Corona. Nature seeks balance, and so should we humans. It is easy to forget our connection with ourselves, with fellow humans and nature itself due to the hectic life-style we follow. When life provides us with a pause; we must use it to unravel ourselves and what we truly love.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/love-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-870982.html
08-08-2020||Second Edit||Donald Trump’s H-1B visa ban queers pitch further||President Donald Trump’s executive decree preventing US federal agencies from contracting or subcontracting foreign workers is the latest and harshest in the series of steps he has taken in the past few months to tighten the country’s labour and immigration policies. The ban is for an indefinite period and is specifically aimed at the H-1B visa which, according to him, poses a serious threat to job security and opportunities of US citizens. Last month, the administration had suspended till the end of the year the issuance of H-1B visas and other types of work visas. H-1B, a non-immigrant visa, allows US companies to hire foreign professionals, mainly in IT but in other areas also, every year from countries like India and China. Indian technology workers corner the most H-1B visas granted every year. Most Indian IT and ITES companies have extensive business in the US, including US government contractors or subcontractors. Their operations had already been curtailed due to the bad Covid-19 situation in both countries. The new order has come as a further blow to many of them. It could also affect the economic relations between the two countries, especially at a time when a bilateral trade deal is being negotiated. Unexpected and arbitrary executive actions like the H-1B ban would be violative of the rules of the regime to be put in place by the trade deal. One aim of trade agreements between countries is to ensure that normal economic and commercial relations are not affected by political and other external factors. They are also intended to eliminate the room for unilateral actions and whimsical personal decisions by leaders. Though Trump’s action is not solely directed against Indian companies or individuals, India will have to factor in the damage such decisions can do to trade relations even within the framework of a bilateral deal.  The order will also hurt the US economy because it is well-known that there are not enough skilled personnel in the US who can take up the jobs being denied to foreign professionals. The US economy has been affected badly by Covid-19. When the economic situation is worsening and unemployment is ruling high, Trump’s unwise actions can only add to the crisis. He is increasingly resorting to anti-immigrant political posturing and emotive rhetoric of the ‘America First’ kind in the run-up to the presidential elections. This is in the hope that such policies and decisions will appeal to his core constituency and will expand the support base to others who have suffered due to the economic downturn. More of the same may be expected in the coming weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/donald-trump-s-h-1b-visa-ban-queers-pitch-further-870980.html
08-08-2020||South||Air India Express pilot Deepak Sathe dead after Kozhikode flight crashes||The Air India Express flight pilot, Captain Wing Commander D V Sathe, is amongst the 17 people who died in the Kozhikode flight crash on Friday. Air India Express flight from Dubai skidded off the runway and broke into two at the Kozhikode international airport at Karipur in Malappuram district on Friday. According to reports, Sathe was formerly an experimental Indian Air Force official before he joined Air India. He is believed to have won the Sword of Honour, 58th course.  The Vande Bharat flight was carrying 191 people.  Several people offered condolences to Sathe’s family and that of those who lost loved ones in the crash.  “Deeply distressed to hear about the tragic plane crash of Air India Express flight at Kozhikode, Kerala. Spoke to @KeralaGovernor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan and inquired about the situation. Thoughts and prayers with affected passengers, crew members and their families,” tweeted President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-pilot-deepak-sathe-dead-after-kozhikode-flight-crashes-870855.html
08-08-2020||South||Air India teams rush from Delhi, Mumbai to assist relief work in Kozhikode||Air India on Saturday rushed officials from Delhi and Mumbai to Kozhikode to provide support and assist families of the victims of the plane crash that left at least 17 passengers dead. A team of investigators from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, Aircraft Accident Investigation Board and officials of the Air India and Air India Express left for Kozhikode at 2:00 a.m. on Saturday. Air India Express Chief Executive Officer K Shyam Sundar was also onboard. A team of Angels of Air India who will coordinate and liaise with various agencies to provide support and assist families of those affected in this incident have been dispatched to Kozhikode from Mumbai. Air India Chairman-cum-Managing Director Rajiv Bansal and senior airline officials are also scheduled to reach Kozhikode later on Saturday. “Emergency Response team members as well as Special Assistance Team members (Angels of Air India) have been pressed into service from Cochin, Mumbai and Delhi to render all possible assistance to the passengers as well as to the family members,” an Air India Express statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-teams-rush-from-delhi-mumbai-to-assist-relief-work-in-kozhikode-870858.html
08-08-2020||South||Kozhikode plane crash: Pilot had aborted first attempt, reversed direction of landing in the second||With the visibility dropping to near zero in Friday evening’s heavy downpour, the pilot of the Air India Express flight had made an unsuccessful first attempt to land at the Calicut International Airport from the standard East to West direction. This was aborted at the last moment before the second attempt was made. Airport sources told DH that the second landing attempt was made from the reverse West to East direction (10 landing). But due to the poor visibility, the Boeing 737 aircraft touched down only towards the half-way mark of the 9,000ft runway. Survivors have recalled that the flight had landed at a very high speed. The Air Traffic Control (ATC) sources confirmed this and said the aircraft crossed even the 240m runway safety area before falling 30-35 m into the valley down. Although the aircraft split into two on impact, it did not catch fire. The toll could have been much higher otherwise, the sources said. The airport runway is equipped only with a Category II Instrument Landing System (ILS), affecting visibility. The heavy rainfall in the area only made it worse. Airport sources said the ILS lighting and antenna were all damaged in the landing. Six of the 12 antennas were hit by the speeding aircraft. Upgraded to an international airport in February 2006, the table-top runway was initially only 6,000ft long. Currently, the airport, located in Karipur in Malappuram district of Kerala, is the country’s 12th busiest in terms of passenger traffic. Before Friday’s incident, the airport had recorded four accidents. On August 4, 2017, a SpiceJet flight had skidded on landing and damaged the ILS beacons. The same year on April 25, an Air India flight suffered an engine failure during takeoff leading to a left tyre burst. On July 9, 2012, an Air India Express skidded on landing, again during heavy rain. However, there were no casualties. Another Air India flight from Jeddah had scraped its right wingtip on the runway landing on November 7, 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-plane-crash-pilot-had-aborted-first-attempt-reversed-direction-of-landing-in-the-second-870885.html
08-08-2020||South||Death toll from Air India Express flight accident rises to 18||The death toll from an Indian passenger aircraft accident has risen to 18, while 16 people have been severely injured, a senior government official said on Saturday. The Air India Express plane, which was repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the coronavirus pandemic, overshot the runway of the Calicut International Airport in heavy rain near the southern city of Kozhikode on Friday. This was India's worst passenger aircraft accident since 2010. The flight was carrying 190 passengers and crew. The plane's pilot and the co-pilot were killed in the accident, K Gopalakrishnan, chief of the Malappuram district in the southern state of Kerala, told Reuters. "All passengers have been admitted to various hospitals, and they are also being tested for Covid-19," Gopalakrishnan said, adding autopsy of the bodies would be carried out according to the Covid-19 protocol. The Boeing-737 the plane skidded off the table-top runway of Calicut, crashing nose-first into the ground. Such runways are located at an altitude and have steep drops at one or both ends. In 2010, another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the table-top runway at Mangalore, a city in the south, and slid down a hill, killing 158 people. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri last night told national broadcaster DD News that only an investigation would reveal the cause of the crash. Puri said authorities managed to rescue most of the passengers because the plane did not catch fire while descending the slope at the end of the runway. India, which shut down all air travel in late March to try to contain the novel coronavirus, has restarted limited international air travel. Air India Express AXB1344 was a government-operated repatriation flight for Indians previously unable to return home because of travel restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-from-air-india-express-flight-accident-rises-to-18-870895.html
08-08-2020||South||Kozhikode flight crash: Four cabin crew members safe, says airlines||Four cabin crew members of the Air India Express flight that crash-landed at the Karipur airport here are safe, the national transporter said on Saturday. "The four cabin crew members are confirmed safe," Air India Express said in a bulletin. Air India Express Employees Union said cabin crew suffered some injuries and are under treatment at the Kozhikode hospital. Eighteen people including two pilots were killed and scores injured when an AIE flight from Dubai with 190 onboard overshot the tabletop runway in Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-flight-crash-four-cabin-crew-members-safe-says-airlines-870941.html
08-08-2020||South||Kozhikode flight crash: Deceased passenger tests positive for Covid-19||Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel told the media that sample of the passengers were sent for testing and one, Sudheer Varyath (45), has returned positive for the disease. Health Minister K K Shailaja has asked all the people who were engaged in the rescue operations should report to the health authorities and go on self-quarantine as a precautionary measure and get themselves tested. The flight with 190 passengers and crew on board had overshot the runway here while landing on Friday night and fell into a valley about 35 feet below and broke into two portions. The condition of 16 passengers, admitted to various hospitals, is serious, Malappuram Collector K Gopalakrishnan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-flight-crash-deceased-passenger-tests-positive-for-covid-19-870943.html
08-08-2020||South||Possibility of tailwind, reasons for runway change and safety parameters of runway under probe in Kozhikode flight mishap||A day after the Air India Express flight mishap at Kozhikode international airport in Kerala, the questions doing the rounds are what made the pilot opt runway-10 though runway-28 was initially considered and whether the tabletop runway lacked adequate safety parameters. Aviation experts suggested that the prima facie reason for the aircraft overshooting the runway could be tailwind or crosswind. Team of DGCA and AIE already reached the spot. With the death of the captain and co-pilot in the mishap, the investigation would be focusing mainly on the voice recorders and other technical aspects. It is learnt that the ill-fated aircraft, IX 1344 with 190 onboard including crew, was initially planning to land on runway-28 of the airport. But later the pilot opted runway-10 which is toward the other direction. Pilots would be taking the decisions on the basis of inputs from ATC. Though the Karipur airport has an Instrument Landing System, it was of category-I for which pilot's visibility is very crucial toward a touchdown. Since it is a tabletop airport and rough weather prevailing in the region, the chances of tailwind was also high, said sources. There had been safety concerns about the Karipur airport over quite some time. In 2011 aviation safety consultant captain Mohan Ranganathan reportedly gave a report citing the safety issues, especially the buffer zones at the end of the runway. However, an AAI officer said that rectification steps were already done by last year by widening the Runway End Safety Area (RESA) from 90 metre to 240 metre. However, the length of the runway had to be reduced to 2,700 metre from 2,850. The AAI was also constantly pressing for increasing the runway length to 3,150 metres. But that was getting delayed due to land acquisition issues pending with the state government. An aviation expert, who didn't want to be quoted, said that Capt Deepak Sathe, who was commandeering the aircraft, was a well-experienced pilot and was also familiar with the terrains. Hence the chances of any error from his part was very unlikely. Hence a fair in-depth probe was required to find the exact cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/possibility-of-tailwind-reasons-for-runway-change-and-safety-parameters-of-runway-under-probe-in-kozhikode-flight-mishap-870944.html
08-08-2020||South||5 more bodies recovered from Munnar landslide spot; toll reaches 22||Five more bodies have been recovered from the landslide-hit Pettimudi near Munnar in Idukki in Kerala taking the death toll to 22. According to district authorities, 49 persons were still missing. The rescue operation by NDRF and Fire and Rescue Services that was stopped by Friday evening to poor light and bad weather resumed by Saturday morning. As many as 83 plantation workers and their families were residing in the cluster settlements of Kannan Devan Hills Plantation that were reduced to debris in the landslide during midnight of Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-more-bodies-recovered-from-munnar-landslide-spot-toll-reaches-22-870962.html
08-08-2020||South||Five more Covid-19 deaths reported in Puducherry, toll climbs to 80||The Covid-19 toll in Puducherry mounted to 80 with five more people, including two women, succumbing to the viral infection on Saturday. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that all these patients had co-morbidities and were in the age group ranging between 57 and 78 years. The union territory also recorded 268 new cases, highest so far, taking the tally to 5,087. While 228 of the new 268 cases were reported in Puducherry during the last 24 hours ending 10 am, 38 cases were from Karaikal and two from Yanam region, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh. The Director said the overall Covid-19 cases in Puducherry are 5,087 of whom1,953 are active cases (including 607 in-home isolation in Puducherry and Yanam region). Total patients cured and discharged are 3,054 while the total fatalities are 80. The 268 new cases were identified after examination of 924 samples showing positivity rate at 29 per cent while the rate of fatality is 1.57 per cent. The Director said 109 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. Of the total 45,954 samples tested so far 39,960 samples came out negative and results of the examination of remaining samples were awaited, the official said. Puducherry had a total of 1,118 active cases followed by 111 in Karaikal, 113 in Yanam and four in Mahe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-more-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-puducherry-toll-climbs-to-80-870963.html
08-08-2020||South||Why the tabletop Kozhikode runway amplified landing risk ||Negotiating a tabletop runway, laid over the levelled surface of a hill, is tricky even in the best of weather. But the heavy downpour that enveloped the entire Kozhikode International Airport on Friday evening made landing extremely tough. Typical of tabletop accidents, the flight overshot the runway and dropped.  Since the aircraft did not catch fire on impact after falling 35 m into the valley down below, the toll did not cross 19. But in the aviation world, tabletop runway spelled disaster after the 2010 Mangaluru airport accident that killed 158 passengers.  On May 22, 2010, the Boeing 737 Air India Express flight from Dubai had overshot the runway’s threshold touchdown area, failed to stop and rolled down the steep hillside. Besides the Kozhikode and Mangaluru airports, India has a third tabletop runway, attached to the Lengpui airport in Mizoram.  The bad weather amplified the challenges posed by the Kozhikode airport’s structure. As a commercial pilot with over 15,000 hours of flying explained to DH, flights landing on tabletop runways have to deal with valley winds (from both ends of the runway) and the tailwinds.  The valley wind rises upwards and pushes up an approaching aeroplane, forcing the touchdown to be longer than intended. “The aircraft ends up eating up the runway length with reduced braking. Unlike headwind from the front that helps slow down the aircraft, the tailwind pushes it from behind.”  Despite these challenges, the pilot has to keep the aeroplane’s nose down, maintaining a three-degree angle. This makes it even tougher to reduce speed. “So, the braking action, aircraft weight, approach path gradient, weather are all contributory factors,” the pilot said, preferring anonymity.  Landing accuracy is extremely critical on a tabletop runway. There is hardly any margin of error for the pilot. Besides, he also has to deal with ‘optical illusion,’ where the runway appears to continue despite the drop ahead.  But, operated by a veteran Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot, the flight had no issues on this front. Still, questions are now being raised why the flight was not diverted, and what conversation transpired between the pilots and the Air Traffic Control (ATC).  Aviation regulations dictate that flight diversion to a nearby airport is the only option after two failed landing attempts. Kozhikode ATC sources had told DH that the pilot had aborted the first attempt and had landed from the reverse direction. The Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA) is expected to probe deeper.  Located atop a plateau, the Kozhikode airport has had issues with its tabletop structure. On both ends of the runway, the landscape slopes into a gorge. Safety issues had forced many international airlines to halt their wide-bodied aircraft from flying in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-the-tabletop-kozhikode-runway-amplified-landing-risk-870966.html
08-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,256 fresh Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||The toll rose to 615 with 14 more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 7. Out of the 2,256 new cases, 464 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Warangal Urban 187, Rangareddy Warangal Urban 181 and Medchal- Malkajgiri 138. No cases were reported from Komarambheem Asifabad district. While the GHMC has been the hotbed of virus spread since the pandemic outbreak, some of the districts, including Warangal Urban, Karimnagar and Medchal Malkajigiri, have been witnessing a steady rise in caseload in recent weeks. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.79 percent, while it was 2.05 percent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the virus was 54,330, while 22,568 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 70.09 percent in the state, while it was 67.98 percent in the country. The number of individuals in-home and institutional isolation was 15,830. The bulletin said 23,322 samples were tested on August 7. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 5.90 lakh. The state government on Wednesday decided to conduct 40,000 Covid-19 tests daily. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2256-fresh-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-870968.html
08-08-2020||South||Kozhikode crash: Digital flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder recovered||The black box of the ill-fated Air India Express plane that crashed at Karipur International Airport in Kozhikode has been recovered and will be taken to Delhi for further investigation by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), said an official of aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday. The digital flight data recorder (DFDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) jointly make up the "black box" in an aircraft. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 onboard overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rain and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people. The DFDR keeps a record of data from plane's systems like airspeed, altitude and fuel flow. A good quality DFDR can store up to 25 hours of flight data. The CVR keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane's cockpit. A good quality CVR can store up to two hours of voice data. Once recovered after the aircraft crash, the black box gives ample flight data and voice recording to the investigators to find out what led to the accident. "The DFDR and CVR, which have been recovered from the plane, will help in finding the cause of this accident," the official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. These devices are with the AAIB and will be sent to Delhi for further investigation, according to the official. A tabletop runway is located on top of a hill or a plateau with one or both the ends overlooking a gorge. The Kozhikode airport in Kerala has a table-top runway and is operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). An AAI spokesperson said runway 28 of the airport was in use and in the first landing attempt, the pilot could not sight the runway and requested for runway 10. Citing information from the Air Traffic Controller (ATC), the spokesperson said the aircraft touched down near taxiway 'C', which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of runway 10. The total length of the runway is 2,700 metres. The spokesperson also said the reported visibility due to rains at the time of landing was 2,000 metres. Aviation consultancy firm CAPA said on Twitter the DGCA and the AAIB must conduct thorough probes into the Kozhikode tragedy, and follow through on actions to achieve a systemic overhaul of aviation safety in India, especially at airports with tabletop runways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-crash-digital-flight-data-recorder-cockpit-voice-recorder-recovered-870976.html
08-08-2020||South||Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri reaches Kozhikode to take stock of relief measures||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday that he had reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status and implementation of relief measures after the Air India Express accident a day ago. The Union minister said he would hold consultations "with senior civil aviation officials & professionals". "Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of the ill-fated aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) is conducting investigations," Puri tweeted. At 7:40 pm on Friday, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport in Kerala in rainy conditions and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two, killing at least 18 people. A DGCA official said the two devices - DFDR and CVR - were with the AAIB and would be sent to Delhi for further investigation. "Reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status & implementation of relief measures after the air accident last evening," Puri tweeted. "My heart goes out to the families & friends of the 18 people who lost their lives in the air accident involving @FlyWithIX Flight IX-1344 in Kozhikode last evening & offer my heartfelt condolences," the minister said. Reasons for the mishap are being investigated, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aviation-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-reaches-kozhikode-to-take-stock-of-relief-measures-870988.html
08-08-2020||South||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announces interim relief of Rs 10 lakh for victims of AIE flight crash||The Civil Aviation Ministry announced an initial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the dependents of the deceased in the Kozhikode AIE plane crash, while the Kerala government also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each. Minister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, who visited the mishap spot on Saturday, said that a detailed probe is already on and the pilot and co-pilot were highly experienced. He also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the injured and Rs. 50,000 each to those who suffered minor injuries. The other normal compensations would be decided in due course. Puri said that Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, aged 59, who commandeered the AIE flight, had a flying experience of 10,848 hours, while co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, aged 32, had a flying experience of 1,723 hours. "Deepak was one of the most distinguished and experienced pilots. He had a commanding experience of 6,662 hours and was commander of B-737 aircraft for 4,244 hours. He had also operated to Kozhikode international airport 27 times. He joined AIE in 2013 and prior to that he served with the IAF and HAL. He was a figher pilot and a recipient of prestigious sword of honour and a gold medalist," said Puri. Puri said that even as the flight slipped down to around 35 feet, a major disaster was averted due to timely rescue operations. Local people played an exemplary role and the fire brigade's timely action of cutting the plane body and rescuing the passengers minimised the casualties, he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said that the local people and all rescue and relief agencies did a well co-ordinated job. The state government would also meet the entire treatment expenses of the injured. Till Saturday afternoon, the total number of deaths was 18. While 149 were still in hospitals, 23 were discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/civil-aviation-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-announces-interim-relief-of-rs-10-lakh-for-victims-of-aie-flight-crash-871003.html
08-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu lockdown relaxations: CM K Palaniswami allows worship in small temples,churches, mosques||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that small temples with an annual income below Rs 10,000, mosques, dargah, churches and other religious places in the corporation areas will be opened for worship from August 10. Also, driving schools across the state shall function from August 10 adhering to the standard operating procedures (SOP) to be released by the government. Temples and other religious places of worship were closed for darshan since March 24, when the state government enforced a total lockdown. However, the government permitted all religious activities including daily puja in the temples by the priests. Apparently, with the coronavirus spread under control in Chennai and parts of Tamil Nadu, chief minister K Palaniswami announced relaxations in the lockdown restrictions. "Permission should be obtained from the commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation and district collectors, concerned, for allowing public worship," Palaniswami said in a statement here. The government had already issued SOP for opening places of worship, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-lockdown-relaxations-cm-k-palaniswami-allows-worship-in-small-templeschurches-mosques-871006.html
08-08-2020||South||Kozhikode flight crash: CISF personnel quarantined after passengers test Covid-19 positive||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has said it was the "first responder" to rescue passengers on Friday as it's Assistant Sub Inspector Ajit Singh was on runway patrol when the Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard overshot the tabletop runway, fell into a 35-foot valley and broke into two. At least 18 passengers, including the two pilots of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft, were killed in the incident. "We are identifying our personnel, who rescued the passengers who have tested positive for coronavirus," CISF Special Director General (Airports) M A Ganapathy told PTI. Another senior officer said the force has information that two passengers have tested positive for Covid-19. Around 50 CISF personnel, who were involved in the rescue operation, and their family members have been asked to quarantine themselves, he said. The force will also conduct Covid-19 tests of all those who were exposed, the officer said. The CISF provides a counter-terrorist cover to the Kozhikode airport. Another official said the rescuers of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and other airport officials have also been asked to go into self-quarantine in view of the Covid-19 positive report of some passengers. ASI Singh, who saw the crash first, had immediately alerted his control room, which later informed the airport authorities and rescue teams from the CISF, airport authority, fire and police were subsequently rushed to the spot. The CISF was inducted at this airport in 2001-2002 and has a strength of about 350 personnel, an officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-flight-crash-cisf-personnel-quarantined-after-passengers-test-covid-19-positive-871015.html
08-08-2020||South||When AI Express mentioned Kozhikode airport and runway as among 'most beautiful'||Four years ago, Air India Express mentioned Kozhikode international airport in a list of India's "most beautiful airports and runways". On Friday, the budget airline's Boeing 737 aircraft crashed at the same aerodrome killing at least 18 people. The tabletop runway at the airport, located in Kerala, poses challenges for pilots at the time of landing and there cannot be any margin for error. A tabletop runway is constructed on a hilly or an elevated terrain. In a blog post titled 'India's Most Beautiful Runways and Airports' dated August 26, 2016, the airline said the joys of flying are made even more spectacular when you are greeted by the scenic beauty of your dream destination. Listing out some of the "most beautiful airports and runways located in places that are even more picturesque", Air India Express mentioned about Kozhikode airport. Kozhikode is also known as Calicut. "Calicut International Airport, also known as Karipur Airport, is an international airport serving the cities of Kozhikode and Malappuram in Kerala, India. It is located in Karipur, about 25 km from Malappuram and 28 km from Kozhikode. "The airport is one of only three tabletop runways in the country... built on hilly terrain and can be challenging to pilots," the blog post on its website had said. Other airports mentioned in the blog included those at Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Leh and Shimla. About the Lengpui airport in Mizoram, the airline had said it is among the three aerodromes having a tabletop runway. "The 2,500-metre runway of the Lengpui airport is unique as it has many hilly streams running underneath. The airport is one among the three airports in India that has a table top runway, which creates an optical illusion. It is located at a distance of 32 kms from Aizawl at an altitude of 504 m from sea level," the blog said. On Friday, the Air India Express aircraft overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport amid rains and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces. The flight was operated as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. Air India Express is part of Air India group and operates a large number of flights from Kerala to the Gulf region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-ai-express-mentioned-kozhikode-airport-and-runway-as-among-most-beautiful-871024.html
08-08-2020||South||Ex-MP Nandi Yellaiah succumbs to Covid-19 in Telangana||Yellaiah(78) was admitted to Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences on July 29. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family of the departed leader, an official release said. Health Minister E Rajender, Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and other leaders also condoled the demise of former MP.  Yellaiah was elected six times to Lok sabha, five from Siddipet and once from Nagar Kurnool, and served twice as a member of Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-mp-nandi-yellaiah-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-telangana-871033.html
08-08-2020||South||AI Express plane touched down 1,000 metres from beginning of runway||The Air India Express plane, carrying 190 people from Dubai, on Friday touched down near a taxiway that is around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway at the Kozhikode airport before breaking up into two pieces, according to AAI. The pilot of the ill-fated flight -- IX-1344 -- could not sight the runway in the first landing attempt due to heavy rains. The Kozhikode airport in Kerala has a table-top runway and is operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Generally, table-top runways are constructed on a hilly or an elevated terrain. At least 18 people, including two pilots, have died in the crash. An AAI spokesperson said that runway 28 was in use and in the first landing attempt, the pilot could not sight the runway and requested for runway 10. Citing information from the Air Traffic Controller (ATC), the spokesperson said the aircraft touched down near taxiway 'C', which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of runway 10. The total length of the runway is 2,700 metres. The spokesperson also said that it was raining over the airfield and reported visibility at the time of landing was 2,000 metres. Rescue operations were completed around midnight and airport operations resumed at 3 am on Saturday morning. The Boeing 737-800 aircraft while landing overshot the runway and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ai-express-plane-touched-down-1000-metres-from-beginning-of-runway-871036.html
08-08-2020||South||Air India Express flight crash: CM Pinarayi Vijayan praises 'fast response' of locals and officials||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday praised the 'fast response' of the local people and officials in being the first to reach the aircraft crash site here to rescue passengers, braving inclement weather and Covid-19 fears, "which made all the difference." The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway at the airport here while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night, killing 18 people and injuring many others. Vijayan, who is at Kozhikode to visit the injured, said in a tweet that the fast response of the local people and the officials made all the difference. "Yesterday, the fast response of local people and officials made all the difference. They braved bad weather and Covid-19 fears to rescue their fellow beings. The long queues of people who wanted to donate blood were just one example," Vijayan said. Twitter and other social media platforms were flooded with images and videos of locals rushing to rescue the victims, arranging vehicles to transport the injured to hospitals and queueing up to donate blood even late at night. "We have seen this many times...when there is adversity, the people of Kerala come together to fight it. Humanity, the greater goodness that binds us all, is the bedrock of our society. Let's take a moment to congratulate the people of Malappuram and Kozhikode," Vijayan said. The Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan had said on Friday that 110 passengers were admitted to various hospitals in Kozhikode and the others, to hospitals in Malappuram. The flight carried 190 passengers, including 174 adults, 10 infants and six crew members||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-flight-crash-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-praises-fast-response-of-locals-and-officials-871037.html
08-08-2020||South||Air India Express plane crash: Deeply disheartened, says Tamil Nadu CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami and leaders of various political parties in the state expressed their heartfelt condolences to the families which lost their members in the Kozhikode plane crash. Palaniswami said he was "deeply disheartened" over the news of the flight crash at Kozhikode in Kerala. He also wished the injured a speedy recovery. "I am deeply disheartened to hear the news of the flight crash at Kozhikode. I pray to God to give enough strength to the families of victims and for the speedy recovery of the injured," Palaniswami said on Saturday. In a statement here, the chief minister said he was anguished over the news about the death of 18 persons, including the pilot, in the crash of Air India Express Calicut on Friday evening. The Air India Boeing 737, operating flight IX-1344 from Dubai to Calicut with 191 passengers and crew on board touched down at 7.40 pm in rain and adverse wind conditions on runway 10 of Calicut airport. The aircraft dropped into a gorge and the fuselage split into two. Expressing his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families, Palaniswami wished all those injured a speedy recovery. DMK president M K Stalin said he was shocked to hear about the Air India plane crash in Calicut that was bringing home Indians, who were stranded abroad due to Covid-19 pandemic. "I offer my sincere condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this tragedy and hope for a speedy recovery for the injured," he said in a tweet. Veteran actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Hassan said, "Condolences to the families who lost their members in the Kozhikode crash. Best wishes to those recovering in Hospitals. Kudos to the citizens of Calicut and the under-equipped staff of the airport. More strength to the already overworked medical professionals of Kerala." All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi founder R Sarath Kumar said he was deeply distressed to know the crash landing of Air India express in Kozhikode. "Our hearts go out to the families who have lost their dear ones and let us pray for the speedy recovery of all the injured," he said. Former union minister Pon Radhakrishnan, PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Dr Anbumani Ramadoss and DMDK founder Vijayakant too expressed their heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved families and wished the injured a speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-plane-crash-deeply-disheartened-says-tamil-nadu-cm-871039.html
08-08-2020||South||Flood like situation continues in several parts of Karnataka||Swollen rivers and flood like situation continue to threaten lives and property in several parts of Karnataka that have been ravaged by torrential rains over the last few days. Though there has been a respite from the downpour in some parts, rivers continue to flow above the danger mark, inundating low lying areas in several parts of Malnad, coastal and interior Karnataka. There are also reports of continued landslides in hilly areas of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru. In Dakshina Kannada, heavy rains have submerged several areas in Bantwala and Belthangady, among others, with the Netravati river overflowing and also water being released from nearby dams. Officials said incessant rains in Cauvery river catchment areas have led to increased inflow in the Krishna Raja Sagara dam in Mandya district. Water is being released from it and people living in low lying areas have been warned, they said. There is also a flood like situation in Najanagudu and nearby areas of Mysuru as the swollen Kapila river has inundated roads connecting Ooty in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with water being released from Kabini dam. There has been some respite from heavy rains in certain parts of Kodagu, which has been ravaged by floods and landslides. However several areas of the district continue to be in deluge with the Cauvery and Lakshmana Tirtha rivers overflowing due to rains in the hilly areas. There are also reports of landslides in some parts of the district. Meanwhile, continuing rains are hampering the search operation by NDRF and authorities to locate five people, including the priest at Talacauvery, the origin of the river Cauvery, who had gone missing due to massive landslides at Bramhagiri hills on Wednesday night. There are also reports of landslides at a few places in Charmadi ghat region of Chikkamagaluru and the road connecting to Dakshina Kannada has been closed temporarily. Though Belagavi district has had some respite from the heavy rains, flood like situation continues to persist as the Krishna river and its tributaries are swollen due to continued inflows because of rains in neighbouring Maharashtra. Some areas and roads in the district's Chikkodi and Nippani are inundated, the sources said. Inflow has also increased to the Tungabhadra dam in Hosapete of Ballari district due to rains in the catchment areas of Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru. Authorities have alerted people living in low lying areas about opening dam gates to release water anytime with rising inflow. There is a similar flood like situation in parts of Yadgir, Raichur and Bagalkote districts with water being released from various dams. The state government has released Rs 50 crore for emergency relief and has announced Rs 10,000 as immediate relief each to affected families. An amount of Rs five lakh has been announced for completely damaged houses, while in the case of partially damaged ones, relief will be distributed considering the extent of damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-like-situation-continues-in-several-parts-of-karnataka-871046.html
08-08-2020||South||Air India plane crash survivors and locals yet to overcome the shock||Thirty-four-year-old Renjith Panangad still shivers when he recollects the horrifying experience onboard AIE IX 1344 that crashed at Kozhikode international airport in Kerala on Friday evening. "I really thought that it was my end as the flight went haywire and nosedived. After the touchdown, the aircraft went haywire as if it was bulldozing. Passengers were screaming, unaware of what was happening and I almost lost senses when the flight fell into a valley," Renjith who is recovering  from the head injuries at Beach Hospital in Kozhikode told DH over phone. A native of Thayannur in Kasargod district, Renjith was among the 50 odd persons who were returning either on job loss or expiry of visa. He recollected that as the flight was landing, the crew only gave the usual message to fasten seat-belts. Renjith was sitting near the wings and he escaped with minor injuries on head. Even for the residents near the Karipur airport, which is around 25 kilometres from Kozhikode city, it was a shock of their lifetime. About 150 persons, who took part in the rescue operations, are now under quarantine as one of the deceased tested Covid-19 positive. Muhammed Rafi, ward member of Koduvally town near Karipur, said that as soon as the mishap occurred, he alerted many in the locality to come up for the rescue operations. But the airport gate near the crash site was closed. The security personnel was initially reluctant to open the gate as he had no instruction from higher-ups. But owing to public pressure, he opened the gates and allowed the volunteers to enter the premises. Even then the volunteers sought the permission of the airport officials there before they entered the aircraft for rescue and they immediately took many out of the aircraft, he said. "The area was then a containment zone. But no one cared for all these as the passengers were screaming from help," said Rafi. The rescue efforts of the local people had received much appreciation from Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri as well as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-plane-crash-survivors-and-locals-yet-to-overcome-the-shock-871050.html
08-08-2020||South||Kerala government asks TN government to release water from Mullaperiyar dam in a phased manner||The Kerala government Saturday asked the Tamil Nadu government to release water from Mullaperiyar through the tunnel to Vaigai Dam in a phased manner when the water level reaches 136 feet in view of the heavy rains received by the Idukki district. In a letter, Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta asked his Tamil Nadu counterpart to inform the state government24 hours prior to opening of the shutters. "The state is receiving heavy rains especially in the Idukki district. The water level in the catchment area of Mullaperiyar has been steadily rising. The water level, which was at 116.20 feet on August 3 is up to 131.25 feet by 2 pm on August 7," Mehta said in his letter. He also pointed out that the Met office has issued a red alert for Saturday and Sunday in the district indicating extreme heavy rainfall and currentlythe inflow to the dam is 13,257 cusecs of water and the outflow through the tunnel is 1,650 cusecs. The Kerala government also informed the neighbouring state that within the last 24 hours, Mullaperiyar Dam and Thekkady received 19.8 cm and 15.7 cm of rainfall respectively and the water level went up by seven feet during this period. In the letter sent to Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K Shanmughan, Mehtasaid as per information provided by the Executive Engineer of MI Division at Kattappana, the surplus shutters of Tamil Nadu-controlled Periyar dam was capable of releasing 1,22,000 cusecs of water. "We know the extent of damage when 23,000 cusecs of water were released in 2018. Hence, necessary steps should be taken to release water in a phased manner," he added. According to information provided by the Idukki district administration, the current water level at Mullaperiyar at 3 pm on August 8 was 134.50 feet. Meanwhile, Idukki district Collector H Dineshan told P T I, he had held a telephonic discussion with the Theni Collector who had assured him to inform Kerala prior to opening the shutters. "The Idukki district administration has made all arrangements to shift the people in case of any emergency. We need at least two hours to shift people. The water level at Mullaperiyar is likely to increase as the IMD has issued a red alert for today and tomorrow," Dineshan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-asks-tn-government-to-release-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam-in-a-phased-manner-871055.html
08-08-2020||South||Opposition playing politics even during floods: Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan accused opposition parties of playing politics even during floods and natural disasters and asked them to play a constructive role. He also defended the measures undertaken by the state government to manage the situation. "Instead of giving some constructive ideas to the government, is it right to play politics and waste time during these challenging times,?" Ashwath Narayan was quoted as saying by his office in a release, in response to Congress' criticism of the government's handling the flood situation. The Deputy Chief Minister said the opposition has these days criticised the government over the Covid-19 issue and now it was the floods. The opposition leaders need some issue to keep harping against the government, he said. "In a democratic setup, the opposition party must work constructively.They must lend a helping hand to the government and work responsibly in emergency situations like these. If there are lapses on the part of the government, let them highlight the same," he added. Leader of the Opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday had accused the state government of having failed to come to the rescue of the flood affected and raised questions about its very existence. Stating that the government had been efficiently handling the flood situation, which hit the state after the Covid-19 outbreak, Narayan said people living in places of danger are being shifted to safer places. As immediate relief, the government has announced Rs 10,000 relief to the families affected by rain and Rs five lakh compensation for completely damaged houses. The government would extend all help to rain-hit families on the lines of relief extended to those affected last year, he said,they would also will appeal to the Centre in this regard. "District in-charge ministers are taking care of the flood-hit regions in their respective districts. Even the district administrations are equally working hard in handling the situation. We are doing everything we can to help the affected families. Along with medical help, we have provided relief materials and the required resources in all the affected districts," Narayan added. Swollen rivers and flood like situation continue to threaten lives and property in several parts of Karnataka that have been ravaged by torrential rains for the last few days. The Deputy Chief Minister also warned doctors, paramedical staff and others necessary in the fight against Covid-19 with legal action if they remain absent from work. "...doctors and para-medical staff must diligently carry on the assigned duty. The government has already provided them with all the necessary safety equipment. In addition, they are also being given Covid-19 allowance and insurance cover. Legal action will be taken against those who fail to report to duty immediately," Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-playing-politics-even-during-floods-deputy-chief-minister-ashwath-narayan-871087.html
08-08-2020||South||Munnar landslide: Nine more bodies recovered; death toll reaches 26||Nine more bodies have been recovered from the landslide ravaged Pettimudi near Munnar in Idukki on Saturday, while around 40 are feared to be still trapped under the debris or washed away. The total death toll in the tragedy reached 26. The rescue operation by NDRF and Fire and Rescue Services that was stopped by Friday evening due to poor light and bad weather resumed by Saturday morning. Horrifying scene prevailed in the area as relatives of the missing people screamed around in search of their beloved ones. As it is nearly 48 hours since the incident happened, the chances of recovering missing persons alive from the debris is becoming bleak. Three of the bodies recovered on Saturday could not be identified till evening. Kerala Revenue Minster E Chandrasekharan, who visited the area on Saturday, said that search operation would be carried out until all the missing are recovered. It was by around 11.30 pm on Thursday that landslide had hit the Nayamakkad estate of Kannan Devan Hills and Plantations. Settlement clusters of plantation workers where 83 persons were staying were reduced to debris as the huge rocks came bulldozing. Five of the residents were reported to be not in the spot while the mishap occured. Meanwhile, heavy rains led to floods at many parts of the state. Red alert has been issued at Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts for Sunday also. A total of 11,446 persons of 3,530 families were shifted to relief camps across the state, of which major chunk is at Wayanad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that water level at most dams is increasing swiftly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/munnar-landslide-nine-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-reaches-26-871103.html
08-08-2020||South||Activist Rehana Fathima surrenders before police||Controversial activist Rehana Fathima surrendered before the police here on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court dismissed her anticipatory bail plea in cases against her for circulating a video in which she was semi-nude, allowing her minor children to paint on her body. Police said Fathima presented herself before the South Police station under the Kochi Commissionerate this afternoon. The activist will be produced before the magistrate court here after completing formalities of her arrest, they said. The allegation against Fathima, who made an attempt to enter the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala in 2018, is that she asked her children, a boy and girl aged 14 and 8 respectively to paint on her semi-nude body. The video was shot by her and uploaded on social media. After the video was found by the Cyber Dome of Kochi Police, a case was registered against the activist in June, for offences punishable under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Dismissing the anticipatory bail petition of Fathima, the Supreme Court on Friday had said the court is a little baffled at the kind of case that has come up before it. The top court further observed as to what kind of impression the children will get about the culture of this country through such videos. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said this kind of thing is unthinkable and would leave the society in a bad taste. She had moved the apex court after the Kerala High Court on July 24 dismissed her anticipatory bail plea, observing that it was not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner. Earlier, the woman was also booked by the police in Pathanamthitta district under the Information Technology Act and the Juvenile Justice Act on a complaint lodged by BJP OBC Morcha leader A V Arun Prakash. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights had also directed the police to register a case against the woman under various sections of the POCSO Act. After the Supreme Court allowed women in traditionally barred age groups of 10-50 into the Sabarimala temple in September 2018, Fathima made an attempt to enter the shrine, but had to retreat following protests by Hindu activists and devotees. Fathima was sacked from employment by the state-run BSNL in May this year for her intentional act of outraging the religious feelings of devotees through social media posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/activist-rehana-fathima-surrenders-before-police-871106.html
08-08-2020||South||Heavy rains in Karnataka and Kerala fill up dams in TN||The Stanley Reservoir in Tamil Nadu was filling up fast as over 1 lakh cusecs of water was being discharged from Krishna Raja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs in Karnataka due to heavy rains in catchment areas of River Cauvery. Since a huge amount of water is being released from the reservoirs in Cauvery, the Tamil Nadu government has asked people living on the banks of the river, which begins its journey from Talakaveri in Karnataka and merges into the ocean near Poompuhar, to be alert.  The inflow of water in Biligundlu, the entry point of River Cauvery in Tamil Nadu, stood at over 51,000 cusecs at 8 pm on Saturday. The water level at the Stanley Reservoir, the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in Cauvery Delta region, in Mettur stood at 72.520 feet as against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 120 feet. At 8 pm on Saturday, inflow at the Mettur dam was 51,000 cusecs, while the outflow was 1,000 cusecs and the water storage stood at 34.904 tmcft. The water level at the 86-year-old dam is expected to rise in the coming days due to huge discharge from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs. The Mettur dam had attained FRL more than once in the past two years due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. Water released from the dam is the only source for lakhs of farmers in the Delta region who cultivate paddy and other crops.   Besides, Bhavanisagar and Amaravathi reservoirs in Western Tamil Nadu are also brimming with water as rain pound catchment areas of the rivers in neighbouring Kerala. Even as reservoirs are getting filled up fast, people in Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts have been put to severe inconvenience due to heavy rains in several parts of the region. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast extremely heavy rains in isolated places over Nilgiris district and heavy to heavy rains in Coimbatore and Theni districts of Tamil Nadu. As heavy rains rocked Kerala, the Theni district administration has asked people living on the banks of River Periyar to be on high alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-in-karnataka-and-kerala-fill-up-dams-in-tn-871110.html
08-08-2020||South||Malappuram's 'violent district' tag gets a beating||Malappuram district in Kerala, which recently faced defaming remarks from a BJP leader alleging it as the most violent district, is now being praised widely for local people's active participation in rescue operations risking their lives during the AIE flight crash. Pictures of local people standing in long queues at hospitals even in the midnight to donate blood for the flight crash victims have gone viral on the social media. Even the district administration had to urge that people in containment areas need not turn up for blood donation. The district collector's statement that all baggage of passengers were recovered safely from the spot and kept in safe custody also highlighted that there was no looting of valuable from the mishap spot, which used to be common at many major accident spots. From Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to Kerala Chief Minister Pinrayi Vijayan, high regards were given to hundreds of people who rushed to the spot in a matter of minutes and initiated the rescue operations. Mohammed, a local native who took part in the rescue operations, said that he had just completed 14 days quarantine in connection with Covid-19 and now he was again going for another round of quarantine, like around 150 others who took part in the rescue, as two of the plane crash victims were Covid-19 positive. Though most of this region were containment zones, people were least bothered about it at that moment. BJP leader Maneka Gandhi stated in June that Malappuram district was India's most violent district. Her comment was with regard to the killing of a wild elephant using explosives. Though the incident took place in another district, she was misled by some reports that it was in Malappuram. It triggered strong criticism that Maneka was targeting Malappuram district as it was a Muslim dominated area and key parts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Wayanad constituency comes in Malappuram district. Meanwhile, a section of aviation experts feels that allowing local people for aircraft rescue was quite risky as the chances of explosions were high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malappurams-violent-district-tag-gets-a-beating-871132.html
08-08-2020||South||Nitin Sethi bags ACJ investigative Journalism award||Nitin Sethi of The Huffington Post India and Shiv Sahay Singh of The Hindu on Saturday bagged the prestigious Asian College of Journalism’s Award for Investigative Journalism and the K. P. Narayana Kumar Memorial Award for Social Impact Journalism, respectively. While Sethi won the award for his six-part series titled ‘Paisa Politics’ on electoral bonds, Singh’s story titled ‘Death by digital exclusion: On faculty, public distribution system in Jharkhand’ earned him the inaugural version of the social impact journalism award. The awards were presented at a ceremony conducted online due to the ongoing Covid19 pandemic. The final jury comprising Senthil Changalvarayan, Vidya Subrahmaniam and Jose Martin Tharakan chose the winners from ten shortlisted entries in each category. “Both awards comprise trophies and citations, while the Investigative Journalism Award winner receives INR 200,000/- in prize money and the Social Impact Award winner receives INR 100,000/-. The awards were presented to the winners by the Chief Guest Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of the World Health Organisation, at the Inauguration of the Class of 2021,” ACJ said in a statement. Efforts of two other journalists -- Jeff Joseph Paul Kadicheeni’s work ‘Kerala’s Contentious Quarries’ published in The Lede and Rohini Mohan’s work ‘Worse than a death sentence: Inside Assam’s sham trials that could strip millions of citizenship’ that was published in Scroll.in -- have been awarded special mentions by the jury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nitin-sethi-bags-acj-investigative-journalism-award-871164.html
08-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 5,883 new infections; 118 deaths||Inching towards the three lakh mark in Covid-19 tally, Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 5,883 fresh cases while 118 deaths saw the toll climbing to 4,808, the Health Department said. Tamil Nadu's tally mounted to 2,90,907 while that of the state capital to 1,08,124 with the addition of 986 cases, the second day in a row it logged less than 1,000, a bulletin issued by the department said. On Friday, the city recorded new cases in three digits (984) for the first time after a gap of nearly two months. This is the tenth straight day the state's daily cases, which peaked to its highest of 6,993 on July 27, stood below the 6,000 mark. Recoveries remained high with 5,043 people being discharged from various hospitals after successful treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 2,32,618. The bulletin said 67,553 specimens were tested as the aggregate till date rose to 31,55,619. Among the new infections, 17 were returnees from various domestic locations, bulletin said. As many as nine of the patients who succumbed to the virus were without comorbidities. A 52-year old woman from the city who died, did not have comorbidity. She had complained of breathing difficulty for a day and died due to cardiopulmonary arrest. She was admitted on August 7 at Southern Railway Headquarters hospital here with complaints of difficulty in breathing and died the same day, the bulletin said. A 35-year old man from neighbouring Thiruvallur with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for three days was admitted on August 5 and died on August 6 due to cardiopulmonary arrest/respiratory failure, the bulletin said. With comorbidity, a 29 year old woman who was Covid-19 positive with gestational diabetes was brought dead to a private hospital in the city. As many as 10 of those succumbed to the virus were below the age of 40 years, the bulletin said. Among the districts, Chennai recorded 986 new cases, while neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet collectively saw an increase of 1,100 fresh infections. Theni recorded 452 new infections while Virudhunagar and Tuticorin reported 246 and 245 respectively. Dharmapuri reported the least number of new cases with 21 people contracting the contagion taking the tally in the district to 851 so far. Perambalur has the least number of Covid-19 cases at 686 till date, the bulletin said. Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Tirunelveli also saw their daily Covid-19 cases go up by more than 100 new cases, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-5883-new-infections-118-deaths-871169.html
08-08-2020||State||'Additional NDRF, SDRF teams to be deployed in Kodagu'||Kodagu District In-charge Minister V Somanna on Friday called the Brahmagiri landslide as the most unfortunate incident. “Another NDRF team from Bengaluru will arrive in Kodagu soon, to carry out rescue operations.” The minister, who is in the district to review flood situation, said he was shocked by the landslide incident in Talacauvery. “Had Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Achar followed the advice of the district administration, the loss could have been avoided”. “There have been 30 minor landslides in the district,” Somanna said quoting DC’s information.  Somanna said around 20 families had already been shifted to relief centres. Residents on Ayyappa hills in Virajpet will soon be shifted to the nearby relief centres as the hill has developed cracks. Residents of Karadigodu will also be relocated, he added. The people will be tested for Covid-19 while accommodating them in the relief centres. Those who test positive for novel coronavirus will be admitted to the designated Covid hospital, he said. Stating that he has spoken to the chief minister and the revenue minister regarding the calamities in Kodagu, the Minister said that the CM had asked him to set people's welfare as the main priority. Meanwhile, Rs 15 crore has been released to provide basic facilities to flood-affected people, whose houses are under various stages of construction. Rs 200 crore has been released out of the Rs 500-crore flood relief package, Somanna said. “Water levels in reservoirs are being monitored constantly. All precautionary measures have been taken,” he added. Many electricity poles have been dismounted. CESC managing director has inspected the situation, he added. The NDRF and SDRF teams are prepared to face tough situations. The people of the district do not need to panic, the minister said. As Bhagamandala was totally inundated, V Somanna reached on the other side through a boat to inspect the situation in Talacauvery. The minister, who arrived at Kushalnagar on Thursday evening, will stay in the district for two days to inspect the flood-hit regions.  Madikeri MLA Appacchu Ranjan, MLC Sunil Subramani, Zilla Panchayat President B A Harish, Vice President Lokeshwari Gopal, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy and Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra were present. Additional rescue teams Mysuru division Fire and Emergency Service official C Gurulingaiah said that the people in the proximity of Triveni Sangama would be shifted to safer locations. There is a 60-member team in the district and an additional SDRF team comprising 20 members from Mangaluru and 23 from Bengaluru will reach Kodagu soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/additional-ndrf-sdrf-teams-to-be-deployed-in-kodagu-870831.html
08-08-2020||State||Flood in Kodagu: Several villages turn into islands||The trail of destruction following the rain and flood has continued in Kodagu district. Several places, including Kushalnagar, have been inundated in the district. In addition, several bridges are also submerged in floodwater, resulting in loss of connectivity to the villages. As a result, people are struggling for essential commodities. Sayi and Kuvempu Layouts in Kushalnagar have turned into a vast water bodies and the residents have vacated their houses.  People from four to five layouts in Kushalnagar have placed their beds, pillows, bedsheets, vessels and gas stove on the attic of the house before leaving for their relatives' house or to the relief centres to protect themselves from the flood. People even carried their pet dogs and cats along with them. Reptiles, including snakes, were found taking refuge in houses in various layouts in Kushalnagar after holes and burrows in the ground were filled with water. Chandru from Kushalnagar, one of the flood victims, said, "We have taken gold ornaments and a few clothes along with us while leaving the house fearing the flood. Goddess Cauvery is angry with us every year. My two-storied house is inundated in floodwater." All the promises of removing silt from the river to check the flooding of the area have not been fulfilled so far, he added. The work on removing silt from River Cauvery had commenced a few days before the onset of the monsoon. As it was not completed, the flood situation worsened. Villages of Karadigodu, Guhya, Hodavada, Nelyahudikeri and Bhethri are completely surrounded by floodwater. The rising water level in Rivers Lakshmanatheertha and Cauvery has submerged coffee plantations and paddy fields, while Bhagamandala, Cherangala and Napoklu have turned into islands. All the connectivity has been lost for the last four days in aforementioned places. The residents living on the banks of the river have left the domestic animals to the forest for grazing before leaving for relief centres. Several teams of volunteers have been engaged in rescue operations in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-in-kodagu-several-villages-turn-into-islands-870835.html
08-08-2020||State||MLA Shamanur tests positive for Covid-19||Davangere South MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa, (90) has tested positive for Covid-19, on Saturday. His son and former minister S S Mallikarjuna was also tested positive five days ago. Later, throat swab of the MLA was sent for laboratory for the test. Now, he is also tested positive. At present, the MLA is in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-shamanur-tests-positive-for-covid-19-871112.html
08-08-2020||State||Farmers take up a fight to 'retain' their land||K Manjunath, a farmer in Chapparadahalli village in Kottur taluk of Ballari district, grows over a dozen crops on his one-acre land. But over three acres of land adjacent to his farm lies barren. "This land was bought by an outsider from my parents 12 years ago. This seems to be just an investment for him. But for us, it is a lost opportunity to grow food and generate livelihoods," he says.  Over 50 acres of land in Chapparadahalli has been left uncultivated for reasons like this. On the other hand, more than 50 farmers, landless and those with small landholdings, grow food in around 200 acres of leased land. The landless there feel that the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020 has snatched away from their hopes of owning land.    They fear buying land will be impossible for them as land will become the property of those who have money, not of the ones who can make a livelihood and grow food for the community.  This is one of the many concerns that farmers across Karnataka raised as they began a campaign on August 8 opposing the amendment. The civil society campaign is using postcards, banners and wall writings to make their statement - "Nammoora Bhoomi Namagirali, Anyarigalla" (Let the land remain with the farming community, not outsiders).  "Scrapping of clauses like 79 (a), (b), (c) of the Act will strip small farmers and rural landless from an opportunity to own land. That farmer will never be able to buy land once it is sold is known from previous instances," says activist and grassroots worker V Gayathri, convenor of the campaign. She feels that the government should have supported farmer families with special packages when reverse migration is happening. Instead, now farmers who are in distress due to the pandemic will fall prey to this government's move and end up with no land, no money and not even any livelihood.   Farmer leader Kurubur Shanthakumar says, "Over 20 lakh hectares of fertile land near major cities in the state remains unutilised after being bought for various purposes such as real estate. Land is not an investment, it is a livelihood for crores of people. We welcome those who are passionate about farming through a suitable amendment, but will not allow our source of living to turn into a landbank," he said.  The campaign plans fight for the cause at various levels till the ordinance is withdrawn and the government caters to the needs of farmers and the landless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-take-up-a-fight-to-retain-their-land-871134.html
08-08-2020||State||VTU appoints campus counsellor||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, has finally appointed a counsellor on its campus for the benefit of students and staff.  This was a long-pending demand from the students. On August 7, the university made an announcement appointing a counsellor who will be available on the campus three days and the students and staff can consult if they are undergoing any problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vtu-appoints-campus-counsellor-871149.html
08-08-2020||State||Two drown in roadside pool as tipper overturns||Two men drowned in a roadside pool after the vehicle overturned near Ninjoor on Friday night.  Tipper driver Arun Kumar (40), a resident of Kukkundoor Ganitha Nagar, and a 20-year-old cleaner drowned in the pool, according to Karkala rural police. The tipper, owned by Sudhakar from Baioor Jarkala, was transporting a load of mud when the accident occurred. Arun Kumar was earlier working as a bus driver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-drown-in-roadside-pool-as-tipper-overturns-871181.html
08-08-2020||State||Closed school is reopened with TP member's effort||Owing to the efforts of Sullia Taluk Panchayat member Ashok Nekraje, a government higher primary school at Devarahalli near Subrahmanya was reopened with the admission of six children. The school was closed a few years ago, owing to a trickle in admissions of students. This year, with the efforts of taluk panchyat member, the admission process was started with renewed vigour to reopen the closed school. “Some more students in the vicinity will be admitted to the school”, Nekrajesaid. This year, six children were admitted to class 1 and 2. The  Government Higher Primary School was started at Devarahalli in 1963.  Nekraje, along with the villagers, had appealed to the BEO to reopen the school, after passing a resolution in the Taluk Panchayat. School to be reopened Accordingly, the authorities decided to reopen the school for admitting the students. Teacher Amrita is deputed to the school. Nekraje had convened a meeting of the parents to appeal to them to make use of the school. He also gave the students free writing materials, pens among others by Nekraje.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/closed-school-is-reopened-with-tp-members-effort-871183.html
08-08-2020||State||Independence Day celebration to be low-key affair, says DC||No cultural programmes will be organised during the Independence Day celebrations following the Covid-19 pandemic, informed Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. The deputy commissioner, presiding over a meeting, said that the district-level Independence Day celebrations will be organised at the Nehru Maidan. People will not be permitted to attend the event in large numbers. People can express their patriotic fervour by remaining indoor. The district-level celebrations will be telecast live via social media. Arrangements will be made to screen the celebrations on a digital screen at one of the main junctions in Mangaluru. The deputy commissioner said that civic workers, Asha workers, sanitation workers, police personnel and doctors who toiled day in and out during Covid-19 will be felicitated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/independence-day-celebration-to-be-low-key-affair-says-dc-871191.html
08-08-2020||State||Mechanic-turned-farmer makes most of job scheme||Shashidhar Shetty has taken up work on his farmland making use of the benefit of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). With the aid from MGNREGS, he has dug up pits to plant areca nut saplings in his land. “I only dug the pits for planting areca nut under the scheme. I was fully engaged during the lockdown,” says Shetty with a smile. Two years ago, this resourceful farmer was working as an auto mechanic at an oil firm in Muscat. After completing PU, he studied ITI and later availed an apprenticeship at the KIOCL and was employed with the oil firm in Gulf country. However, passion for farming and love for motherland brought him back to his native. He came back leaving behind a well-paid job. But he was not alone. His wife Sandhya Shetty, who was a computer science teacher, also left her job to support her husband in farming. Installed solar panels Initially, he started by rearing two cows and cultivating vegetables on two-acre land at Kairangala in Balepuni Gram Panchayat jurisdiction. With the guidance from the Jana Shikshana Trust, he has installed solar panels. Currently, he rears 11 cows and cultivates vegetables and black pepper. This lockdown has failed to deter his spirit. He is trying to make the most from the MGNREGS and hopes to make a profit from areca nut in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mechanic-turned-farmer-makes-most-of-job-scheme-871192.html
08-08-2020||State||Rs 7 lakh compensation for Anandatheertha’s family||District in-charge Minister V Somanna said that the body of Anandatheertha who lost his life in Brahmagiri landslide will be handed over to his family members. Meanwhile, a compensation of Rs seven lakh will be provided to the family, he said. Speaking to media persons, he said that 247 families have been affected by the floods in Kodagu this year, so far. The pending third instalment of the assistance towards the construction of houses for the flood victims of last year will be released soon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-7-lakh-compensation-for-anandatheertha-s-family-871194.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Health dept acts as patients skip follow up tests||A follow up RTPCR test is imperative for negative antigen tests as they can show false negatives 50% of the time. That is, the test’s sensitivity is only 50%. The health department, on August 5, issued a circular to all districts asking them to collect two sets of swabs while administering antigen tests - one nasal swab for antigen test and another set of nasal and throat swabs for a follow up RTPCR test. If the antigen test is negative, the swab collection centre is required to send the set of samples collected for RTPCR testing to the testing lab mapped to the collection centre. If the antigen test is positive then the centre is required to discard the swabs.   The decision was taken as the department found abysmally low rates of follow up for symptomatic antigen-negative patients. Data accessed by DH for tests conducted in the past six-and-a-half weeks from June 25 to August 5 from the ICMR portal shows that Vijayapura has a shocking 1% follow up rate of symptomatic negatives tested with antigen tests.  This means that of 817 symptomatic antigen negatives, the district did RTPCR tests for just 10 patients. Ramanagara had 4% follow up rate, Hassan 7%, Chitradurga had 8%, Belagavi 9%, Dharwad 11%, Mandya 16%, Bengaluru Urban 21% and Kolar 22%. Not testing symptomatic antigen negatives who may test positive on RTPCR may lead to these people infecting others. Bidar District Health Officer Dr VG Reddy said though there are 57 swab collection centres, there is only one Covid-19 testing facility in Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences that can test only 600 samples a day if five samples are pooled at a time. The district has still managed 70% follow up. “We need another 30 lab technicians and data entry operators,” he said.  Incidentally, the follow up positivity rate in each of these districts was quite high which means if not for a follow up RTPCR test, these Covid patients would not have had a timely diagnosis, treatment and contact tracing. In Vijayapura, it was 20%, Ramanagara 31%, Hassan 33%, Chitradurga 4%, Belagavi 60%, Dharwad 50%, Mandya 3%, Bengaluru Urban 26%, and Kolar 13%. The test results of an antigen test take only half an hour or more. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey defended the districts saying, “We have done follow up for 40% to 45% cases on an average across the state. They have done the follow up test but due to software issue, a new sample referral form was generated and couldn’t get linked in thesoftware.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-health-dept-acts-as-patients-skip-follow-up-tests-870818.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka issues revised guidelines for international travellers||The Health Department on Friday revised its guidelines for international returnees and mandated a copy of the self-declaration form to be submitted on arrival.  Travellers coming to Karnataka from abroad are currently required to submit a self-declaration form on the state government’s Yatri Karnataka portal 72 hours before the flight date. All passengers arriving at the airport or seaport will be screened for Covid-19 symptoms. The respective airlines will obtain a copy of the self-declaration form from each passenger. Thermal screening, pulse oximeter reading, downloading and installing Arogya Setu App, Quarantine Watch App and Apthamitra App on passengers’ mobile phones are mandatory. According to the revised guidelines, deboarding is to be conducted keeping two-meter physical distance between each person.  All passengers will be sent to home quarantine for 14 days. If that is not possible, they will be allowed institutional quarantine. For passengers travelling for less than 72 hours, there is no rule for quarantine. However, such passengers must provide a self-declaration form, a confirmed return ticket, documents pertaining to their visit, a valid visa and details about their place of stay. Passengers travelling for more than 48 hours but less than seven days have to get a Covid-19 test done and only after getting a negative report can they complete their engagements and return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-issues-revised-guidelines-for-international-travellers-870854.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Four Karnataka districts under Centre scanner for low Covid-19 tests||As India added more than 1.2 lakh, Covid-19 patients, in two days, Centre reached out to worst-hit districts, including Bengaluru Urban, Belgavi, Thiruvananthapuram, with advice to step up testing, follow clinical treatment protocols and reduce mortality. Over Friday and Saturday, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan interacted with officials of 29 districts reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases, trying to figure out what was a miss in the strategies to manage the pandemic. Bhushan found that 16 districts across four states, including Bengaluru Urban, Belgavi, Kalaburgi and Udupi were reporting high numbers of cases, conducting low tests per million population and had a high confirmation percentage. Besides Karnataka, the other states that joined the review on Friday were Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.  According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 21,13,137 confirmed cases of Covid-19 of which 14.48 lakh had recovered and discharged from healthcare facilities, while 42,852 persons had succumbed to the disease by 8:30 p.m. on Saturday. On Saturday, Bhushan held virtual meetings with representatives from 13 districts across eight states including Alapuzha and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, Kamrup Metropolitan district in Assam and Delhi which accounted for 14% of the total Covid-19 deaths across the country. “The states were advised to address the issues of low lab utilisation i.e. less than 100 tests per day for RT-PCR and 10 for others; low tests per million population; decrease in absolute tests from last week; delay in test results; and high confirmation percentage among the health care workers,” a health ministry said. It said the states were also advised to ensure timely referral and hospitalisation in view of reports from some districts of patients dying within 48 hours of admission. “Another major area highlighted was that of preventable deaths by strict surveillance among high-risk populations like people with co-morbidities, pregnant women, the elderly and children,” the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-karnataka-districts-under-centre-scanner-for-low-covid-19-tests-871128.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rain woes continue as death toll touches 12 in Karnataka||A ‘red alert’ has been issued for five districts - Shivamogga, Kodagu, Chikmagalur, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada - where thunderstorms are forecast, even as the death toll due to heavy rainfall and flooding touched 12 as on Saturday evening.  Four new deaths have been reported and this included Anandateertha, the administrator of the Talacauvery and Bhagamandala temples in Kodagu, who was missing.  The weatherman has warned of 60 kmph winds and waves as high as 4.6 metres in coastal districts.  A ‘yellow alert’ has been issued for Hassan, Chamarajnagar, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Mysuru and Ramanagara districts.  A ‘red alert’ warning is issued when the forecast is for ‘extremely heavy rainfall’ of over 204.5 mm, whereas a ‘yellow alert’ refers to ‘very heavy rainfall’ of 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm. So far, 12 districts have been affected.  On Saturday, the intensity of rains subsided in the north-interior parts of the state, while the downpour was intermittent but unrelenting in other parts.  According to the situation report by the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, 12 persons have died since August 1 due to heavy rainfall or flooding. There are 70 active relief camps that house more than 1,200 people. While 276 homes have suffered complete damage, some 1,900 are partially affected. Agricultural and horticultural crop losses have occurred on 1.28 lakh acres of land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rain-woes-continue-as-death-toll-touches-12-in-karnataka-871141.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP gets one year to buck up in weak areas||BJP national president JP Nadda on Saturday set a one-year deadline for the state unit to strengthen the party in areas where it is organisationally-weak, including the Old Mysuru region.  “In areas where we are organisationally-weak, we must have a year-long programme to strengthen the party. We should see to it that the party becomes stronger in such areas in a year’s time. This must start immediately,” Nadda told BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel during a virtual meeting of the state unit’s newly-appointed office bearers.  “Karnataka has a strong organizational background, but there are weak patches,” Nadda said, citing the Old Mysuru region as an example. The BJP has been eyeing the Old Mysuru belt, where the JD(S) and Congress are the main players.  “Likewise, even in areas where we are strong, there are weak spots that must be demarcated,” Nadda said. He asked Kateel to assign responsibilities to each office-bearer. “Ministers should also be involved in this.” Nadda directed the state unit to develop “a strong IT cell” that can disseminate information down to the ground level. “Every week, we must give material to the IT cell on achievements at the national and state levels. This should lead to discourses at the ground level. As political workers, we should be able to discuss all issues,” Nadda said, adding that new WhatsApp groups should be created in every booth.  Extolling the National Education Policy (NEP), Nadda asked the BJP government in the state to ensure its implementation. “I request the education ministers to take it up and implement the NEP, form a task force and also involve party workers,” he said. “The NEP brings localisation of languages; primary and secondary education will be done in regional languages. Till now, India was learning. Going forward, Bharat will learn,” he said.  The state unit was also asked to focus on promoting Vanbandhu, Farmers Producers’ Organisations under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package and the Poshan Abhiyan. “All party workers must undergo a one-week virtual training camp that will be held at the booths and Shakti Kendras,” Nadda said.  On the occasion, the state BJP passed a resolution hailing the foundation stone laying for the Ram temple and the announcement of the NEP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-gets-one-year-to-buck-up-in-weak-areas-871143.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PM Narendra Modi to review Karnataka flood situation on Aug 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will review the flood situation in Karnataka and five other states on August 10. The Prime Minister’s Office has invited the chief ministers of Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam to provide an update on the situation in these states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-narendra-modi-to-review-karnataka-flood-situation-on-aug-10-871146.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||UG, PG attendance shortage norm to be relaxed||The final year undergraduate and postgraduate students appearing for examinations in September will get relaxation from a shortage of attendance. Considering the loss of academic days and classes conducted through online mode, all universities have given exemption from attendance shortage with the condition that students must attend 15 days of physical classes which are planned to be conducted before the examinations. "The Supreme Court has instructed us not to be particular about attendance and we have instructed all state-run universities to follow the same," said an official from state higher education department. However, some universities have taken a decision to make it mandatory for students to attend 15 days of physical classes to be conducted before the exams. "Relaxation of attendance should not be taken for granted. We are issuing a circular about the compulsory attendance for 15 days of physical classes," the vice-chancellor of a state-run university said. Students testing positive for Covid-19, becoming primary contacts or under home isolation or quarantine will be excluded from the mandatory attendance for 15 days. Speaking to DH Prof K R Venugopal, the vice-chancellor of Bangalore University said, "We require 52 days to complete the examinations as we should conduct the exams for students from all 700 colleges. This year we can't insist on attendance as there is no question of compulsory attendance." It was decided to track the attendance, when universities/colleges switched to online classes in the beginning. Network issues and complaints from students forced the institutions to drop the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ug-pg-attendance-shortage-norm-to-be-relaxed-871148.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single-day spike of 7,178 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike of over 7,000 cases and 93 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1,72,102 and the toll past the 3,000 mark, the Health department said. The day also saw 5,006 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 7,178 fresh cases reported today, 2,665 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The previous single day high was recorded on August 6 with 6,805 cases. As of August 8 evening, cumulatively 1,72,102 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 3,091 deaths and 89,238 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 79,765 active cases, 79,082 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 683 are in ICU. As many as 18 of the 93 deaths reported on Saturday are from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (10), Ballari (9), Kalaburagi (7), Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan (6), Udupi (5), Chamarajanagara (3), Raichur, Yadgir, Tuamakuru, Davangere, Haveri, Ramanagara, Chikkamagaluru and Bidar (2), and Belagavi, Koppal, Vijayapura, Mandya, Gadag, Shivamogga and Kodagu (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounts for 2,665, followed by Ballari (607), Udupi (313), Belagavi (302), Raichur (295), Kalaburagi and Dharwad (261), Yadgir (200), Dakshina Kannada (194) and Tumakuru (177). Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 72,237 infections, followed by Ballari (9,991) and Kalaburagi (7,147). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with total 37,292, followed by Ballari (5,106) and Kalaburagi (4,521). A total of 16,68,511 samples were tested so far, out of which 43,883 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples tested today 22,310 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-7178-new-covid-19-cases-871156.html
08-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks govt to complete verification of Kanva co-op society||The Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to complete verification and immediate order of attachment of properties of Sri Kanva Souharda Credit Cooperative Society Limited. A division bench was unhappy with the government for the delay in notifying attachment orders of the properties under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka, issued a direction to the government and the competent authority to submit a detailed report on the action taken. The bench also directed the police to submit the investigation report in a sealed envelope. During the hearing, the bench was informed that two lists about 172 properties of the society with an estimated value of Rs 250 crore were furnished by the special officer in June. The action had to be initiated subsequently under the provisions of the KPID Act. "Till today, the state government has not found time to notify the said order of attachment by the provisions of the Act by publication in the official gazette and two newspapers and also affixing the copy of the order at the place of the properties. We fail to understand why this simple action could not be taken by the state government in the interest of depositors,’’ the bench said.  It directed the newly appointed competent authority to exercise all the powers under the KPID Act. KS Ramesh and three others had filed the PIL. The petitioners contended that the society had collected a sum of Rs 642.3 crore from the public by way of deposits as on March 31, 2019. The companies and entities related to the society have obtained loans up to Rs 416 crore, and society has not taken any steps to recover the money, they contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-govt-to-complete-verification-of-kanva-co-op-society-871166.html
08-08-2020||West||Panchganga river continues to flow above danger mark in Maharashtra||The water level of the flooded Panchganga river in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra reduced to some extent on Saturday, but it is still above the danger mark, an official said. Water level of the river at Rajaram weir (barrage), located on the outskirts of Kolhapur city, was recorded at 44.6 feet, receding by four inches since Friday evening, the official of the local disaster management cell said. The danger mark of the river at the weir is at 43 feet, he said. On Friday, the level of the river rose after water was discharged from Radhanagari dam in the district following heavy showers in the catchment area. Considering the rainfall in the catchment areas and Radhanagari dam almost reaching its capacity, water is currently being released at 7,112 cusecs, the official said. The district administration had on Friday said that over 5,000 people from 23 flood-prone villages had been evacuated. Last year, unprecedented rainfall had wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, claiming over 60 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/panchganga-river-continues-to-flow-above-danger-mark-in-maharashtra-870937.html
08-08-2020||West||Central Railways may run special trains for Ganesh Chaturthi||The Central Railway is likely to announce special trains for the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival after having consulted the Maharashtra government about the same, an official said on Saturday. The Central Railway had written to the state government seeking its views on running special trains to the Konkan region through Central, Western and Konkan railways, the official said. Director of the state Disaster Management Unit Abhay Yawalkar informed the principal chief operations manager of the Central Railway that special trains may be scheduled for the 10-day festival, which begins on August 22. The number of trains and frequency can be determined based on the demand, he said, adding that a valid confirmed ticket can also serve as an e-pass. Yawalkar also asked the Railways to ensure that all Covid-19 norms framed by the state and Central governments, including social distancing and sanitisation, are followed in trains and at railway stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-railways-may-run-special-trains-for-ganesh-chaturthi-870983.html
08-08-2020||West||Mumbai police investigating Sushant Singh Rajput's case professionally, but will go by what Supreme Court says: Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government will go by the decision of the Supreme Court vis-à-vis the investigations of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput but would oppose a CBI probe on grounds of jurisdiction. “The Mumbai police is investigating the case very professionally….we will abide by what the Supreme Court says,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Over the week, Mumbai Police investigators met officials of the Law and Judiciary department. Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh had briefed Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.  “The Mumbai police is investigating the matter very professionally,” Deshmukh told reporters in Nagpur. “The Supreme Court’s hearing is scheduled on 11 August, we will go by what the Supreme Court says,” the senior NCP leader said. The CBI has registered an FIR based on the one that was registered in the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna based on the complaint filed by Krishna Kishore Singh, the father of Sushant Singh Rajput.  Earlier, the Mumbai Police has refused to cooperate with the Patna Police station that camped in the financial capital for 11 days.  IPS officer Vinay Tiwari was quarantined by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation for 5 days at SRPF guesthouse in Goregaon. “I was not quarantined but the investigation was,” he said before flying back to his home state. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra had earlier refused to hand over the probe to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-investigating-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-professionally-but-will-go-by-what-supreme-court-says-anil-deshmukh-871023.html
08-08-2020||West||Captain Deepak Sathe survived air crash in 1990s, but returned to flying||Captain Deepak Sathe, pilot of the Air India Express flight who died along with 17 others after the plane crashed at Kerala's Kozhikode airport, had survived an air crash in the early 1990s when he was in the Air Force and was hospitalised for six months, his cousin said. Sathe had suffered multiple injuries on his skull in that incident, but due to his strong will power and passion he cleared the test and started flying again, he said. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway in Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions. Captain Sathe, 58, who was the pilot-in-command and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died in the incident. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force's flight testing establishment. His cousin, Nilesh Sathe, who is Advisor Finance at the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said in a Facebook post, "It's hard to believe that Deepak Sathe, my friend more than my cousin, is no more. He was pilot of Air India Express carrying passengers from Dubai in 'Vande Bharat Mission', which skidded off the runway at Kozhikode International Airport yesterday night." "Deepak was an experienced aerial operator with 36 years of flying experience. A passout of NDA, topper in the 58th course and an awardee of 'Sword of Honour', Deepak served Indian Air Force for 21 years before joining as a Commercial Pilot with Air India in 2005. He called me just a week before and was jovial, as always." "When I asked him about the 'Vande Bharat' Mission, he was proud of bringing back our countrymen from Arab countries. I asked him, 'Deepak, do you carry empty Aircraft since those countries are not allowing entry of passengers?' He had replied, 'Oh, No. We carry fruits, vegetables, medicines etc to these countries and never the aircraft flies to these countries empty.' That was my last conversation with him. "He survived in air crash in early nineties when he was in the Air Force. He was hospitalised for 6 months for multiple skull injuries and nobody thought that he would fly again. But his strong will power and love for flying made him clear the test again. It was a miracle," Sathe said. According to him, Captain Sathe is survived by his wife and two sons, both passouts of IIT Bombay. Captain Sathe was a son of Brigadier Vasant Sathe who stays in Nagpur along with his wife. His brother, Captain Vikas, was also an Armyman, who laid his life while serving in Jammu region, his cousin said. Meanwhile, a neighbour of Capt Sathe remembered him as a jovial and friendly man. Sathe lived in Nahar Amrit Shakti housing complex in Chandivali in Mumbai with his wife Sushma for nearly 15 years. "Everyone in the housing society knew Sathe sir and his wife. When he wasn't flying, the couple would go on morning and evening walks," said neighbour Pankaj Nagpal. Sathe sir had a jovial, friendly personality and he exuded positivity, he said. "Sathe sir had one or two flights every week. When we heard about the plane crash, we knew it was him," Nagpal said. Sathe's wife and their elder son, who lives in Bengaluru, have already reached Kerala, Nagpal said, adding that the mortal remains of the deceased pilot may be brought back to the city for the last rites. Meanwhile, Air India sources said the airline was making arrangements to bring Sathe's younger son, who is based in the US, back to the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/captain-deepak-sathe-survived-air-crash-in-1990s-but-returned-to-flying-871026.html
08-08-2020||West||Proud that he saved lives, say Capt Deepak Sathe’s parents||The parents of Captain Deepak Sathe are proud that their son saved most of the passengers' lives before laying down his own life. Capt Sathe’s parents - Col (Retd) Vasant Sathe and Neela - stay in Nagpur, the winter capital of Maharashtra. His brother, Captain Vikas Sathe, an Indian Army officer, lost his life while serving in Jammu & Kashmir. “We have lost our sons ….I served the armed forces, both my sons followed,” said Col Sathe with his voice choking in emotion. “But we are proud that he saved so many lives before sacrificing himself,” he said. “Both our sons laid down their lives…whatever they have done is God’s wish,” said mother Neela. “He (Capt Sathe) was brilliant…always a topper in everything…whether it was flying, riding swimming,” she said. “He got the Sword of Honour and eight other awards at IAF Academy in Dundigal,” she said. “He was excellent in every aspect and never showed off, despite being an outstanding officer,” said Neela. While Capt Sathe stayed in Mumbai’s Chandivli area, his parents stay in Nagpur. Capt Sathe’s cousin Nilesh Sathe said: “Deepak was an experienced aerial operator with 36 years of flying experience.” Nilesh Sathe, who is Advisor-Finance in NHAI, said: “What we learnt that landing gears didn't work.  He made three rounds of airport to empty the fuel which saved plane from catching fire. That’s why there was no smoke seen coming from the crashed aircraft.  He turned off the engine right before the crash. He belly landed after the 3rd iteration. The right wing was ruptured. The pilot martyred but saved life of 180 co-passengers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/proud-that-he-saved-lives-say-capt-deepak-sathe-s-parents-871034.html
08-08-2020||West||Palghar lynching: CID files charge sheet against two minors||The Maharashtra CID, which is probing the Palghar mob lynching case, has filed a charge sheet against two minor accused in a court at Bhiwandi in Thane district. The charge sheet was filed on Friday at the juvenile court, an official said on Saturday. Last month, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) had filed two chargesheets, one running into 4,955 pages and another of 5,921 pages, in a court in Dahanu taluka in Palghar district. In all, 154 people have been arrested and 11 juveniles detained in connection with the incident, police have said. "The charge sheet against two minor accused was filed at the Bhiwandi juvenile court on Friday," a top official of the state CID said. However, nine other juvenile accused have not been named in that charge sheet, another official said. Two monks and their driver were lynched by a mob at Gadchinchale village in Palghar on April 16 when they were travelling in a car to Surat (Gujarat) to attend a funeral amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The brutal mob attack took place amid rumours that child-lifters were roaming in the area during the lockdown. The case was later handed over to the CID for a probe. The victims were identified by the police as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30). The accused in the case were charged with murder, armed rioting and using criminal force to prevent a public servant from doing his duty, among other offences. Besides sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the accused were charged under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act (since lockdown was in force during the incident), the Maharashtra Police Act and the Maharashtra Damage to Public Property (Prevention) Act, the release said. After the incident caused an uproar, the state government suspended Kasa police station in-charge Anandrao Kale, under whose jurisdiction the crime took place, and some other policemen, including sub-inspectors. Besides, over 35 police constables and personnel of other ranks were transferred in the wake of the mob attack. The government had also sent the then Palghar district police chief, Gaurav Singh, on forced leave. In all, three FIRs related to murder, armed rioting and other charges were registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-cid-files-charge-sheet-against-two-minors-871042.html
08-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: One dead, 11 injured in cylinder explosion in Ulhasnagar||The 35-year-old owner of an eatery died and 11 others were injured when a gas cylinder exploded, resulting in a fire in Ulhasnagar town of Maharashtra's Thane district on Saturday, police said. The incident took place in the afternoon hours when the LPG cylinder at the eatery exploded killing Pappu Gupta on the spot and injuring 11 others in the premises, an official said. Persons who sustained burn wounds were rushed to a local hospital, where three of them are in a critical condition, he said. Personnel from the fire brigade and disaster control cell rushed to the scene to douse the flames, the official said, adding that the police are probing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-one-dead-11-injured-in-cylinder-explosion-in-ulhasnagar-871057.html
08-08-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty and family's continued criminal action caused Sushant's death, actor's father claims before SC||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput's father K K Singh, who accused Rhea Chakraborty, his son's live-in partner of cheating and swindling off money, claimed before the Supreme Court it was "continued criminal actions" by her and her family which caused death of his only son.  He also alleged that the Mumbai police tried to hinder the investigation in the matter from the very beginning on the death of Rajput on June 14.  Responding to Rhea's plea for transfer of probe from Patna to Mumbai, he said the issue has become academic after handing over the case to the CBI at the instance of the Bihar government. He submitted that any case can be transferred only at the post-cognisance stage and not during the investigation. The top court, which had earlier sought a response from Bihar government and complainant Singh on Rhea's transfer petition is likely to take up the matter next week.  In his detailed reply, Singh said, "The plea by Rhea undermined the feelings of a father who lives in Patna and who has sufficient proof and belief that it is due to her and her family's continued criminal actions for over a period of 1 year that has caused the death of his only son." He also alleged that attempt was made by the Maharashtra government to tarnish his image, by calling the case a political issue, which was the most unfortunate incident.  "It highlights the mindset and the attempt to scuttle the entire case," he said, adding that it was noteworthy that no case has been registered by them and they did not allow the Patna Police to investigate the present case by quarantining their senior officer.  The deceased was an Indian actor, who worked in super-hit movies such as Kai Po Che, M S Dhoni: Untold Story (2016), Kedarnath (2018) and many other movies. He claimed he had on February 19 and 25, 2020, informed the Mumbai police about his apprehension regarding the threat to the life of his son, however, no action was taken by the police. He said recording of statement of witnesses by the Mumbai police was "an eye-wash in the name of the enquiry" as they did not lodge an FIR.  With regard to Rhea's claim of him using his influence in Patna, Singh said had it was so, she would have been arrested by now, who, he believe, abetted the suicide of his young son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-and-familys-continued-criminal-action-caused-sushants-death-actors-father-claims-before-sc-871058.html
08-08-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest jump in Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 5 lakh-mark||Maharashtra, on Saturday, recorded the highest jump of 12,822 cases taking the total number of infections in the state beyond 5 lakh.  As on date, the progressive total is 5,03,084. The total deaths in the last 24 hours were 275 taking the total to 17,367. As many as 11,081 patients discharged taking the total to 3,38,262 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery until date. The recovery rate in the state is 67.26 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state: 3.45 per cent. Out of 26,47,020 laboratory samples, 5,03,084 have been tested positive (19%) for Covid-19 till Saturday. Currently, 9,89,612 people are in-home quarantine and 35,625 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-5-lakh-mark-871127.html
08-08-2020||West||Six Rajasthan BJP MLAs land in Gujarat fearing poaching||Fearing poaching by the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government, six BJP legislatures from neighbouring Rajasthan landed at Porbandar airport here on Saturday evening and headed for a resort in Gir-Somnath district where they will be joined by at least six other party colleagues. BJP sources said that about a dozen such legislatures will be camping at the resort and will be escorted back at the time of floor test next week. The six BJP MLAs landed at the airport at around 5:30 who were received by Porbandar MLA Babubhai Bokhiria. Local sources said that the MLAs were headed to "Sagar Darshan" guest house in Gir-Somnath district where they are going to stay for next few days along with six to eight other party MLAs who are reaching by road from different parts of Rajasthan. After landing at the airport, MLA Nirmal Kumavat told reporters, "For the past one month political developments are taking place. There are internal clashes in Congress party. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot doesn't have a majority and, therefore, he is trying to pressurise 72 BJP MLAs to support him. They are being harassed mentally and framed by SOG (special operation group) in false cases. In view of these developments, we are going to Somnath to get some mental relief. Some other party colleagues are also coming here to escape such pressure tactics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-rajasthan-bjp-mlas-land-in-gujarat-fearing-poaching-871133.html
08-08-2020||West||Last video of Sushant Singh Rajput's ex-manager Disha Salian surfaces online||In a new twist, the last video of Disha Salian, ex-manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has surfaced online – in which she is seen merrily dancing with a group including her boyfriend and actor Rohan Rai. On June 8-9 midnight, Disha (28), died after falling from the 14th floor of the Galaxy Regent building at Malad in the northern suburbs of Mumbai. Disha, a resident of Dadar, had gone to party at the house of Rohan Rai, a TV actor. The Malvani police station has registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the case. Disha can be seen along with a few others in the video and looking happy. They are dancing to 'Mission Kashmir' song 'Rind Posh Maal' featuring Hrithik Roshan. Disha’s death has been linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, and several people have demanded that both the cases be clubbed. Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane has claimed that Disha was raped and murdered  - days before Sushant Singh Rajput was killed. Disha’s parents Satish and Vasanti Salian had ruled out any foul play. “All theories and stories are fake and just rumours. I lost my only child but now all these media people, social media people will murder us. Therefore, I request to stop all this. I request the Supreme Court to stop all this, we are badly suffering because of this. Now we don't have any strength to listen to all these fake news against our daughter,” they told a TV channel. Actor Sooraj Pancholi, who was linked to the death of Disha Salian, had categorically said that he never knew Disha. ED grills Showik again Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik was grilled on the second day by the Enforcement Directorate on Saturday. Rhea and Showik, who were partners in Sushant Singh Rajput’s company, were grilled on Friday for over eight hours. Rhea is likely to be called again by the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/last-video-of-sushant-singh-rajputs-ex-manager-disha-salian-surfaces-online-871144.html
