09-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||52 areas identified as flood-affected in Kodagu||As many as 52 places in Kodagu have been identified as flood-affected areas. The taluk-wise break of the areas is as follows: Madikeri taluk – Bhagamandala, Ayyangeri, Thavooru, Thannimani, Sannapulikotu, Bethi, Emmemadu, Kolakeri, Napoklu, Bettageri, Doddapulikotu, Aikola, Hodduru, Hodavada, Kumbaladalu, Kiggali, S Kattemadu and Parambu Paisari. Virajpet taluk – Karadigodu, Guhya, Kondangeri, Hacchinadu, Nalkeri, Haisodluru, Balyamanduru, Birunani, Teralu, Aruvattoklu, Nidugumba, Haturu, Maitadi and Balele. Somwarpet taluk – Kuvempu Layout, Thammannashetty Layout, Basavanahalli, Madapattana, Baichanahalli, Kudluru, Bettadakadu, Baradi, Kumbaragundi, Sai Layout, Basappa Layout, Tyagaraja Road, Vivekananda Layout, Rasool Layout, Indira Layout, Dandinapete, Ayyappaswamy Temple road, Biddappa Layout, Nizamuddin Layout and Tavarekere. As many as 561 people were rescued and shifted to safer locations while 566 people have been accommodated in 9 relief centres. Fourteen landslides were reported in the district and 8 roads have been closed for the movement of people and vehicles. Reservoir level Water storage level in Harangi reservoir stood at 2,854.05 ft as on Saturday morning. The full reservoir level of the dam is 2,859 ft. The inflow is 13,592 cusecs and the outflow is 14,033 cusecs. No drinking water Clean drinking water has become inaccessible as water supply pipes have been destroyed due to the damage caused to the roads. Water in the nearby wells and streams is not fit for drinking. Even though there is a lot of water everywhere there is not a drop to drink. Body found The body of Anandatheertha Swamy (86), elder brother of Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Achar, was found during the joint rescue operation by NDRF and SDRF at the place of a landslide on Brahmagiri Hills in Talacauvery on Saturday. Other people still remain untraceable. Debris on Bhagamandala-Talacauvery Road was cleared as the earthmover could reach the place. The work on clearing the debris will continue on Sunday as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/52-areas-identified-as-flood-affected-in-kodagu-871196.html
09-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Permanent project to prevent floods in Kodagu in future’||Minister for Housing and Kodagu District in-charge Minister V Somanna assured of implementing a permanent scheme in order to prevent floods in Kodagu in future. He said an expert committee will be formed towards the same. Visiting the flood-hit regions of Satya Sai and Kuvempu Layouts in Kushalnagar on Saturday, the district in-charge minister spoke to the residents in the locality. On the occasion, he stated that measures will taken to remove silt in River Cauvery, in its course starting from Talacauvery to Shirangala village. Visiting the Koppa bridge later, Somanna stated that floods have been reoccurring in Kodagu and felt for a need to prevent the same in future, by carrying preventive measures. Stating that he has taken stock of the situation in Bhagamandala, Talacauvery, Virajpet and other flood-hit regions in Kodagu, he said the district administration has taken all necessary measures to face the flood situation in the district. “People who have built houses on the banks of River Cauvery have been facing difficulties. They were unaware of the possible disasters earlier.” The minister further said that necessary relief funds will be accumulated with the help of the Central government. The state government too will release funds. A report on the flood-related situation in Kodagu will be submitted to the government. Rescue operations Rescue operations to track the five missing persons belonging to the Talacauvery chief priest’s family on Brahmagiri Hills will be resumed once the floods recede. MP Prathap Simha, MLA Appacchu Ranjan, Tahsildar Govindraj and DySP Shailendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/permanent-project-to-prevent-floods-in-kodagu-in-future-871197.html
09-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Ex-minister Ramakrishna passes away||Congress leader and former minister G Ramakrishna died of age-related illness here on Sunday. He was medical education minister in the Veerappa Moily cabinet. He was MLA from Gulbarga Rural Assembly Constituency in the previous term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-ex-minister-ramakrishna-passes-away-871433.html
09-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Co-op society in Hassan draws PM Modi's attention||The Sunday was a day to remember for Basavegowda, the secretary of Ugane Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society, for getting an opportunity to interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  During the virtual interaction organised by NABARD, Modi inquired Gowda about the functioning of cooperative society, its achievements and issues pertaining to agriculture in the district.  With the help of a translator, Basavegowda explained to the PM, that the society, which was started 44 years ago, has 2,300 members from 29 villages and its annual transaction of around Rs 50 crore. Gowda explained that the society was formed to help the farmers as they were facing a shortage of sowing seeds, pesticides and farming equipment. The society not only provides farming equipment but also provides a loan to the farmers, with low interest. When the PM wanted to know about the societies' new scheme for the farmers and its benefit to the ryots,  Basavegowda said there was a plan to construct a godown at a cost of Rs 40 lakh for storing around 1,200 metric tonnes of food grains. A proposal has been submitted to NABARD, seeking Rs 32 lakh loan, he said. It would benefit around 3,000 local farmers. The farm produce can be stored in the godown till they get a good price, he explained. Modi expressed that it would be a great success to the Atmanirbar yojana if every village in the state followed Hassan model for the benefit of the farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/co-op-society-in-hassan-draws-pm-modis-attention-871476.html
09-08-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Floods likely to be eased by noon||The flood-like situation on the bank of the Kapila river will be eased by noon as the outflow from Kabini Dam having declined to 30,000 cusecs from 70,000.  The river is getting nearly 35,000 cusec water from Kabini and Nugu dam. According to the Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, the outflow from Kabini will be maintained within 30,000 cusecs as the inflow has declined. It has to be noted that Kapila river was overflowing as a large quantum, nearly 80,000 cusec, was left into the river from Kabini and Nugu dams. However, the inflow to the dam saw a decline from Saturday evening and thus the outflow was reduced to 60,000 cusec last evening and to 30,000 cusec on Sunday morning. As the river was overflowing, Mysuru Ooty road was blocked at Nanjangud and several bridges were closed. All the submerged bridges will be cleared by evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-floods-likely-to-be-eased-by-noon-871270.html
09-08-2020||National||CBI acted in indecent haste, Bihar police had no jurisdiction to lodge FIR in Sushant Singh Rajput's case, Mumbai police tells SC||The Mumbai police on Saturday told the Supreme Court that the CBI ought not to have lodged an FIR in the case of death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput at the recommendation of the Bihar government as the cause of action has arisen solely and completely within its jurisdiction. "The indecent haste with which the CBI has acted speaks for itself, regarding bona fides of all those involved in the matter," an affidavit filed by Bandra police Inspector stated. It claimed that not a single legally permissible and sustainable ground existed either for registration of the FIR by the Bihar police on July 25 on a complaint by Rajput's father KK Singh and transfer of it to the CBI.  Maintaining that such transfers can't be at whims and fancies, the response by Mumbai police contended the recommendation by the Bihar government to transfer the probe to CBI "bristles with mala fide and is void ab initio".  The registration of the FIR initially by the Bihar police was politically motivated and due to extraneous reasons...An investigation by two state police in one incident would lead to a chaotic situation, it claimed. The Mumbai police also maintained that it is only the state of Maharashtra, which is competent to give recommendation for CBI probe. The response was filed to a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty in the top court to transfer the Patna police FIR to Bandra police station in Mumbai. "Even if it is assumed the CBI is entitled to register the case, it should have lodged a Zero FIR and transfer it to Bandra police station," it said. It also contended the Mumbai police have conducted "fair, proper, professional and impartial investigation" by recording the statement of 56 people after lodging an accidental death report. The affidavit further claimed that the action by the Bihar police in the case was totally malafide and violated the principles of federalism enshrined in the Constitution. The Mumbai police further said the deceased actor's father KK Singh did not request it for registration of an FIR at any point of time. Statement recorded by him and other relatives demonstrated that none of them had any suspicion about the suicide committed by the actor and against anybody, it said. Singh cannot and ought not to have approached the Bihar police for registration of the FIR for an entire incident that occurred in Mumbai. Such a practice ought to be deprecated as anybody would approach the state police of his choice and register FIR at the police station of his choice and this will lead to disastrous consequences, it said. The Bihar police ought to have transferred the FIR to Bandra police station on their volition as they had no jurisdiction to lodge the case as offences were committed in Mumbai. It denied the suggestion that quarantine of IPS officer Vinay Tiwari was aimed at obstructing the investigation by the Bihar police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-acted-in-indecent-haste-bihar-police-had-no-jurisdiction-to-lodge-fir-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-mumbai-police-tells-sc-871202.html
09-08-2020||National||Indian, Chinese army officials discuss DBO, Depsang Y disengagement||The local commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a meeting on Saturday to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations at Daulat Beg Oldie and Depsang Y junction areas in eastern Ladakh. Maj Gen Abhijit Bapat of the Indian Army met the Chinese PLA’s Senior Colonel Haan Rui on the LAC and discussed ways to end the stalemate in the process of disengagement or pulling back troops from the face-off scenes – particularly focusing on the Daulat Beg Oldie and Depsang Y junction, sources in New Delhi said. The meeting between Maj Gen Bapat and Sr Col Haan followed the talks between senior military commanders of the two nations – Lt Gen Harinder Singh of Indian Army and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA – on August 2. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops to resolve the more-than-90-day-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The “disengagement process”, however, remained stalled for the past three weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.   Maj Gen Bapat is learnt to have asked Sr Col Haan to withdraw troops from the Depsang Y Junction, where the Chinese PLA had effectively transgressed almost 18 kilometres into the territory of India – in an apparent bid to alter the status quo along the LAC in the area and to deploy its soldiers closer not only to the key Daulat Beg Oldie military base of India but also to a new strategic road linking the base with Leh via Darbuk and Shyok villages. The Depsang Y Junction had also witnessed a three-week-long stand-off in 2013 following transgression by the Chinese PLA and the Indian Army’s additional deployment in response to it. The Indian Army did not make public the outcome of the meeting, which started at 11 a.m. and continued till the evening.   Maj Gen Bapat sent a report to Lt Gen Singh on his meeting with the Chinese PLA’s senior colonel. It was later forwarded to the Indian Army headquarters in the national capital. It would be reviewed by a government panel comprising top bureaucrats, diplomats and military and intelligence officials early next week, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-army-officials-discuss-dbo-depsang-y-disengagement-871206.html
09-08-2020||National||Kerala plane tragedy: Did excess tailwind lead to crash?||Indicating that “poor judgement” by the pilots led to Friday’s Air India Express crash, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) Chief Arun Kumar on Saturday said the Kozhikode International Airport runway was long enough for a safe landing. The flight had landed at the 3,000-ft mark on the nearly 9,000-ft runway. It was also likely that the pilots switched off the engine to slow down the aircraft, Kumar told a private television channel, based on preliminary information from the crash site. An aviation safety consultant also hinted at a probable pilot error. He told DH that a decision to land the aircraft despite the tailwind exceeding the speed limit could have triggered the crash. The tailwind, which pushes it from behind, was in the range of 12 knots (22.22 kmph), exceeding the 10-knot limit. Although both the pilots are now dead, the statements of two crew members (seated in the front) recovering at a Kozhikode hospital could be crucial. The digital flight data recorder (DFDR) and cockpit voice recorder (CVR) recovered from the crash site, were being brought to Delhi for examination. The DGCA chief said the 18-minute exchange between the two pilots and the air traffic control (ATC), recorded between 7.28 pm and 7.41 pm would also be critical. The flight had hard-landed at 7.41 pm. The pilots had aborted the first landing attempt from the east-west direction (Runway 28), and sought permission from the ATC for a second attempt in the reverse direction (Runway 10). It was not immediately clear whether the ATC had communicated the tailwind reading to the pilot. But if the ATC had indeed communicated that the tailwind was 12 knots, why did the pilot go ahead with the second landing? A consultant said this could be attributed to a condition called ‘Press-on-itis’ in aviation terms, implying a decision to continue a planned destination even when significantly less risky alternatives exist. Technically, the consultant said, the pilot should not have made another attempt. “But Press-on-itis could set in when he is tired.” Visibility had dropped to near-zero due to the heavy downpour in the area, and attempting a landing on the tabletop runway carried high risks. The margin of error was extremely small, as the runway was less than 9,000 ft long and the landscape sloped to a valley 35 m below. DGCA has confirmed that the Boeing 737 aircraft from Dubai had landed on Runway 10, overshot the runway and the safety area. Breaking the barrier, the aircraft crashed into the valley, breaking into two parts. In June 2011, aviation safety consultant, Capt Mohan Ranganathan had submitted a report to the Civil Aviation Secretary highlighting the lack of adequate buffer zones at the end of the runway of Kozhikode airport. An Airports Authority of India (AAI) official informed that rectification steps were already completedby 2019. Preferring anonymity, an aviation expert said the pilot, Capt Deepak Sathe, was well experienced and familiar with the terrain. Thus, the chance of pilot error was very unlikely. Only a fair, in-depth probe could ascertain the exact cause, he felt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-plane-tragedy-did-excess-tailwind-lead-to-crash-871209.html
09-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Ayodhya's time capsule: What lies for the future||Uncertainty looms over status of Ram Janmabhoomi time capsule Contradictory reports of a time capsule being placed 2,000 feet deep into the ground at the site of the temple have been given by members of the temple trust. It was previously reported that the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust would put a time capsule or a “Kaal Patra”, 2,000 feet into the ground, within the foundation of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-ayodhyas-time-capsule-what-lies-for-the-future-871227.html
09-08-2020||National||DH Toon | What will Ram Temple symbolise for you?||The temple has been on many minds since the Bhoomipujan of August 5. The-mosque-that-once-was has also been in our thoughts. The building of a grand temple to Rama on the same spot where the Babri Masjid once stood is something so many of us are finding hard to wrap our heads around. What does the temple stand for now? What does it symbolise?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-will-ram-temple-symbolise-for-you-871228.html
09-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 9||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 22 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  22,10,849 as of August 9 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  44,383   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-9-871230.html
09-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Two deaths and a lot of politics||When Disha Salian, a manager at the talent management firm that represented Sushant Singh Rajput, fell from a high-rise building in Malad on the intervening night of 8-9 June, the news largely went unnoticed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-two-deaths-and-a-lot-of-politics-871232.html
09-08-2020||National||10 killed as fire breaks out at hotel used as Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh||As many as 10 patients died because of a massive fire in a Vijayawada hotel functioning as a Covid-19 care centre since July. The incident occurred in the wee hours of Sunday in the Swarna Palace hotel on the Eluru Road where 31 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment, with about 12 medical, and supportive staff. The centre was being operated by the city-based Ramesh Hospitals. Antigen tests conducted on the 10 bodies reportedly showed only two of them as Covid-19 positive. Some of the patients, according to their grieving relatives, were to be discharged on Sunday. Most of the patients who lodged in the hotel are said to be with mild symptoms. According to the Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu, the fire broke out at about 5 am from the reception’s computer area, “probably due to short circuit.” “Two employees have jumped off from the first floor,” the commissioner said. However, no casualties of the employees were reported. Fire tenders rushed to the spot immediately and evacuated those trapped inside through ladders and brought the fire under control. The rescued patients were shifted to nearby hospitals. One of the seven bodies taken out was badly charred, fire officials said. Suffocation due to smoke is the reason for most of the deaths. In a similar incident on Thursday, a fire in a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad killed eight patients. Hotel and hospital booked   Police have registered a case against the hotel and the hospital management based on the complaint of the local tehsildar P Jayasri. In her complaint, the official has contended that the hotel and the hospital management had opened the Covid-19 facility despite having knowledge of the electrical defects in the building and its hazards. “They avoided repairs as rectification involves huge expenditure,” the Vijayawada central tehsildar said adding that the two groups “are responsible for the death of 10 persons.” The case was booked under IPC sections 304 (negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) and 308 (acting with knowledge and under circumstances where a death causing act would a culpable homicide not amounting to murder). AP’s health minister AKK Srinivas and earlier DGP Gautam Sawang inspected the mishap site. The minister announced committees to probe the incident’s cause and examine the permissions granted for the hotel to operate as a Covid-19 centre. These committees have to submit their reports within two days.    “The private hospital’s negligence is seen as the cause, preliminarily. We will act tough on whoever is responsible,” the minster stated. All the victims are from Vijayawada and other areas of the Krishna district which has till Saturday reported 9,853 positive cases and 208 deaths. Andhra Pradesh has recorded 2.17 lakh Covid-19 cases till Saturday, with 1939 deaths. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the situation and announced Rs 50 lakh compensation for each of the deceased families. Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquired about the Vijayawada mishap with the CM, officials said. “Anguished by the fire at a Covid-19 centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM Reddy and assured all possible support,” Modi tweeted.   Opposition leader and former CM Chandrababu Naidu also expressed his anguish||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-used-as-covid-19-facility-in-andhra-pradesh-871237.html
09-08-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announces import embargo on 101 items to spur Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative||The Defence Ministry on Sunday came out with a list of 101 military items that would not be imported anymore, realising a proposal announced by the BJP-led central government three months ago. To be implemented over the next four years, the negative list of imports is likely to spawn indigenous production of military hardware in tune with the Narendra Modi government’s pet scheme of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).  Much, however, would depend on the extent of participation by the Indian private sector in manufacturing such products because in its present format the list of 101 embargoed items is a veritable inventory of the items already developed by defence public sector undertakings and ordnance factories and used by the armed forces. The move was first announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May as a part of the measures being undertaken by the Modi government to come out of the economic crisis precipitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Between April 2015 and August 2020, the three services imported military equipment and components worth Rs 3.5 lakh crores. “With the latest embargo on import of 101 items, it is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs four lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next five to seven years,” the ministry said in a statement.Of these, items worth Rs 1,30,000 crore each are anticipated for the army and the air force while items worth almost Rs 1,40,000 crore are anticipated by the navy over the same period. Neither the statement nor the list, however, clarifies how many of the items currently being imported by the military are on the embargoed list.  The embargo on imports is planned to be progressively implemented between 2020 to 2024. Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the Armed Forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenisation. For instance, the list carried two satellites for the armed forces GSAT-7C and GSAT-7R that are on the embargoed list from December 2023. The fact, however, is that for decades Indian satellites are always made at home as there is no question of importing a satellite. Since the list contains products already manufactured by the Indian defence PSU, ordnance factories or private companies, it contains several artillery guns manufactured by the private and public sector over the last seven-eight years. In addition, the list contains LCA Tejas (manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd), the second assembly line of six diesel electric submarines (a Made in India project as per the Modi government’s own announcements) and several types of radars (manufactured by Bharat Electronics Limited).    “The Defence Minister promised a ‘bang’ on a Sunday morning and ended with a ‘whimper.’ The only importer of defence equipment is the Defence Ministry. Any import embargo is really an embargo on oneself. What the Defence Minister said in his historic Sunday announcement deserved only an Office Order from the Minister to his Secretaries!” said Congress leader P Chidambaram. The defence ministry has bifurcated the capital procurement budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. A separate budget head has been created with an outlay of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement this year. India’s capital budget for defence acquisition stands at Rs 1.13 lakh crore in the current fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-announces-import-embargo-on-101-items-to-spur-atmanirbhar-bharat-initiative-871264.html
09-08-2020||National||India records new high of 64,399 Covid-19 cases, 861 deaths||The number of recoveries surged to 14,80,884 with record 53,879 more people recuperating in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The case fatality rate has dropped 2.01 percent, according to ministry data. There are 6,28,747 active cases of the coronavirus disease, comprising 29.20 percent of the total caseload in the country. The total coronavirus cases have mounted to 21,53,010, it said. This is the third consecutive day that the Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 60,000. India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on Friday. As many as 7,19,364 samples were tested on Saturday, the highest in a day so far. A total of 2,41,06,535 samples have been tested so far, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research. "India is performing around 500 tests for detection of Covid-19 per minute and the per-day testing capacity has increased over five lakhs," scientist and ICMR media coordinator Lokesh Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-new-high-of-64399-covid-19-cases-861-deaths-871268.html
09-08-2020||National||DH Deciphers | What's a tabletop runway? Why is it considered risky?||The tabletop structure of the runway at the Kozhikode airport has been cited as one of the reasons for the fatal crash of the Air India Express plane on the night of August 7. Besides Kozhikode, only two other Indian airports with scheduled flights have such a runway: Mangaluru and Lengpui (Manipur). It's difficult to land aircraft on tabletop runways even during perfect weather conditions. Why are such runways considered risky?   What's a tabletop runway?  A tabletop runway is essentially a runway built on the levelled surface of a hill. The Kozhikode airport runway is located on hilly terrain and is surrounded by deep gorges on both ends. While there is a runway safety area in case an aircraft overshoots (goes beyond) the runway, it's just 240 metres long. An aircraft landing at high speeds can overshoot even this area and finish up in the gorge, leading to a crash. Pilot error or mechanical failures could trigger such accidents. This is what exactly happened in Kozhikode.  Why did Kozhikode opt for a tabletop runway?  The airport was constructed in a hilly region of the neighbouring Malappuram district because the state government faced a severe shortage of space elsewhere. This had also come in the way of extending the runway length. But when safety issues forced wide-bodied international flights to bypass the airport, the runway was upgraded. This was later approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Aviation experts had also drawn attention to the lack of a ground arrestor bed, mandated for tabletop airports. A ground arrestor bed is nothing but a soft bed of engineered materials at the end of the runway to reduce the speed of an aircraft in case it overshoots the runway.  Is weather a factor while landing at tabletop runways?  Since there is a very low margin of error while landing on such runways, pilots have to deal with valley winds rising from both ends of the runway, tailwinds that push the aircraft from behind and headwinds that blow against the aircraft from the front. Visibility of the runway also plays a big role.  What role did weather play in the crash?  According to airport authorities, the pilot had to abort the first landing attempt due to very poor visibility caused by heavy rainfall in the area. In the second attempt, the aircraft wheels skidded and veered off the runway. The pilot could not control it.  How critical is speed control on the runway?  Since the length of a tabletop runway is generally shorter, it is extremely critical that the aircraft brakes the speed quickly. The Kozhikode runway length had been upgraded, but since the flight hard-landed near the middle of the runway, the distance to reduce the speed was far less. The headwinds were low, too.  What's is the optical illusion? How does it affect the pilot?  Once the pilot lands on a tabletop runway, he has to be aware of the optical illusion effect. The runway will appear to him as continuous in front, although it drops off into the valley ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-whats-a-tabletop-runway-why-is-it-considered-risky-871269.html
09-08-2020||National||13 districts with high Covid-19 mortality told to address low testing, ensure timely hospitalisation||Thirteen districts in eight states and Union Territories reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national average were advised by the Centre on Saturday to address the issues of low testing and delay in test results, and ensure timely hospitalisation. In view of reports from some areas that patients were dying within 48 hours of being admitted to health facilities, the Union health ministry asked them to ensure timely referral and hospitalisation of people afflicted with Covid-19. In a high-level virtual meeting chaired by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the eight states were directed to ensure availability of ambulances and maintain zero tolerance for their refusal, the ministry said. As part of the Centre's effort to review and handhold states and Union Territories for collaborative management of Covid-19, two high-level meetings were chaired by Bhushan -- on August 7 and 8 -- to engage with those reporting high number of cases and fatality rates higher than the national average in order to advise and support them on efforts to prevent and reduce fatality, it said. On Friday, the Union health secretary held a virtual meeting with 16 other districts in four states -- Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka -- reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national and states' average. Saturday’s meeting focused on 13 districts in eight states and UTs. These are Kamrup Metro in Assam, Patna in Bihar, Ranchi in Jharkhand, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Ganjam in Odisha, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; North 24 Paraganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah in West Bengal, and Delhi. "These districts account for nearly nine per cent of India's active cases and about 14 per cent of Covid-19 deaths. They also report low tests per million and high confirmation percentage. "A surge has been observed in daily new cases in four districts --Kamrup Metro in Assam; Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; and Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha in Kerala," the health ministry said. Principal secretaries (health) and managing direcrtors (NHM) from the eight states along with district surveillance officers, district collectors, commissioners of the municipal corporation, Chief Medical Officers, and Medical Superintendent of Medical Colleges participated in the virtual meeting. Several issues critical to reducing case fatality rate were discussed at the meeting. The states and Union Territories were advised to address the issues of low laboratory utilisation, that is less than 100 tests per day for RT-PCR and 10 for others, low tests per million population, decrease in absolute tests from last week, delay in test results, and high confirmation percentage among the health care workers, the health ministry said. The need to ensure monitoring asymptomatic cases under home isolation with special focus on physical visits, phone consultation on a daily basis was underscored. They were asked to ensure timely assessment and make advance preparedness for infrastructure like ICU beds, oxygen supply and others based on the prevailing caseload and estimated growth rate, the ministry said. It was reiterated that AIIMS, New Delhi, is holding virtual sessions on Tuesdays and Fridays every week where a specialist team of doctors provides guidance on effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in the ICUs of different state hospitals through tele/video consultation, to reduce the case fatality rate. The state authorities were advised to ensure that State Centers of Excellence other hospitals participate in these video consultations regularly to improve clinical practices. "They were advised to follow all ministry protocols for effective management of containment and buffer zones along with seamless patient and clinical management of patients with special focus on critical cases. "Another major area highlighted in the meeting was that of preventable deaths by strict surveillance among high-risk population like people with co-morbidities, pregnant women, the elderly and children," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-districts-with-high-covid-19-mortality-told-to-address-low-testing-ensure-timely-hospitalisation-871277.html
09-08-2020||National||PM Modi launches financing facility worth Rs 1 lakh crore under Agri-Infra Fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) by disburing Rs 1,000 crore to 2,280 farmers’ societies with a message to ramp up storage and processing facilities for farm produce. The Prime Minister launched the AIF formally at a virtual conference that was attended by farmers from across the country and interacted with primary agriculture credit societies from Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh who were among the initial beneficiaries of the scheme. Modi also released Rs 17,000 crore to about 8.5 crore farmers as the sixth installment under the PM-KISAN scheme. “The (AIF) scheme will support farmers, PACS, FPOs (farmer producer organisations), agri-entrepreneurs, etc. in building community farming assets and post-harvest agriculture infrastructure. These assets will enable farmers to get greater value for their produce as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reduce wastage, and increase processing and value addition,” the Prime Minister said. Modi also reiterated that India had a huge opportunity to invest in post-harvest management solutions like warehousing, cold chain, and food processing, and build a global presence in areas such as organic and fortified food. The AIF is a medium-long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and credit guarantee. The duration of the scheme shall be from 2020 fiscal to 2029. Under the scheme, Rs 1 lakh crore will be provided by banks and financial institutions as loans with interest subvention of 3 per cent per annum and credit guarantee coverage for loans up to Rs 2 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-financing-facility-worth-rs-1-lakh-crore-under-agri-infra-fund-871278.html
09-08-2020||National||Amid reports of Amit Shah testing negative for Covid-19, MHA says no tests done||No fresh Covid-19 test has been done so far on Home Minister Amit Shah since his admission in hospital last week, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Sunday amid reports that he has tested negative for the virus. However, on Sunday, reports emerged from a section of media that he tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday and is likely to be discharged on Monday. Some media outlets based their reportage on former Delhi BJP Chief Manoj Tiwari who tweeted "best wishes" to Shah for his recovery. Tiwari later deleted the tweet. However, a senior MHA official said no test was done so far to ascertain whether Shah has recovered. State-owned All India Radio (AIR) also tweeted that Shah turned negative even after clarification from the MHA. BJP also said nothing other than the official health bulletin released either by the hospital, MHA or his own Twitter feed should be referred to||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-reports-of-amit-shah-testing-negative-for-covid-19-mha-says-no-tests-done-871296.html
09-08-2020||National||'There is more of SAIL in lives of 2 UPSC qualifiers'||'There's a little bit of SAIL in everybody's life' - the popular tagline of the domestic steel giant could not be more true in case of Sanjita Mohapatra and Simi Karan, who have made it to the 2019 Civil Service Examination qualifiers' list. For Mohapatra and Karan, it was domestic steel giant SAIL that gave them steely resolve to crack one of the toughest examinations - Indian Civil Services - with flying colours, according to them. Both Mohapatra, 29, and 22-year-old Karan say there is not a bit of SAIL but more of it in their lives and the steel PSU stood by their side in times of need. The results for 2019 civil services examination were announced on Tuesday this week by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in which Mohapatra, who hails from Rourkela in Odisha, bagged 10th rank, while Karan from Bhilai, secured 31st position. Mohapatra is a former employee of SAIL while Karan's father works at Bhilai Steel Plant. Speaking to PTI over phone, the qualifiers said their emotions are attached to the company and narrated the role that SAIL has played in their lives. Both expressed their desire to serve the country's largest steelmaker in future. The two have also received appreciation from Union Minister of Steel Dharmendra Pradhan who said it is a proud moment for everyone who is associated with the steel sector. "I wish each one of them immense success in taking development to the grassroots and in building a better and stronger India," he said. SAIL Chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary, said, “SAIL family is a storehouse of talent and the entire SAIL collective is very enthused with the success achieved by Mohapatra and Karan. "SAIL family has been providing a platform for decades for nurturing talent in the arenas of education, sports, arts and culture, public administration etc. We not only make steel but also foster valuable human resources for building the nation." Mohapatra, who has studied from Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Rourkela, said financial stability came into her life when she got an opportunity to work at SAIL Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP). It was her first job. She was 22 when she cracked a SAIL examination to become a junior manager in 2013 at the company after completing her engineering from College of Engineering and Technology (CET), Bhubaneswar. "I must say we were not financially strong. Managing finances remained an issue for us. It was when I joined SAIL, my problems started reducing." "My father once did everything possible to educate me and my elder sister. My father and mother are living happily now in Rourkela. At SAIL, I got extreme support from my colleagues. SAIL is like a family for me," an emotional Mohapatra said from Mumbai, where she lives with her husband who is a manager at the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). SAIL provided me a "financial backbone", she said, adding that she would not hesitate serving the organisation if she gets a chance in future. At SAIL RSP, she worked as an Assistant Manager at the New Plate Mill (NPM). Mohapatra said her work included field maintenance in which she was supposed to work in shifts and take work from people who were double of her age. She resigned from the company in 2018 to pursue the civil services examination. "In my new role as a civil servant, I will be utilising my professional skills which I got to learn while working at RSP," she said. Karan, who completed her schooling from DPS Bhilai, said she has a lot of childhood memories attached to the Bhilai steel township. She was speaking from Bhilai. Karan said these days she is utilising time by motivating students of the township to go for civil services examination and addressing their queries with respect to preparation etc. "My entire childhood has been spent in Bhilai township. I did schooling from here. I used to play games at the grounds in the township. I and my younger sister learnt swimming at the Bhilai Club. I have most of my childhood friends living here whose parents also work at BSP," she said. Karan, who cleared the exam in her first attempt, completed her electrical engineering from IIT-Bombay in 2019. Speaking further on her association with SAIL, she said her father is a general manager in the finance department at BSP. She said in 2017, SAIL also provided her with an internship opportunity at SAIL BSP and it was during this time that she thought of giving civil services examination. Karan said while interning at BSP, a SAIL official motivated her to go for the examination. Karan also expressed her desire to serve SAIL in future. "Yes, of course! SAIL is like a family for me. I got schooling here, my father works here, I made friends here, spent childhood here," Karan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-is-more-of-sail-in-lives-of-2-upsc-qualifiers-871299.html
09-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi releases Rs 17,000 crore to 8.5 crore farmers under PM-KISAN scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday transferred Rs 17,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme. He said the scheme has been successful in its objective to provide financial support to farmers without any involvement of middlemen. The Centre provides Rs 6,000 per year in three equal installments under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme that was launched in December 2018. The prime minister "released the 6th installment under the PM-KISAN scheme of Rs 17,000 crore to nearly 8.5 crore farmers. The cash benefit was transferred directly to their Aadhaar verified bank accounts with the press of a button", an official statement said. The amount was transferred to farmers at a function organised through video conference to launch a financial facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. "No middlemen, no commission. The amount was transferred directly to farmers," Modi said. The scheme has been successful in its objective to provide direct help to farmers and when needed, he added. Modi said the government has transferred Rs 75,000 crore to farmers under this scheme in the last one-and-a-half years, of which Rs 22,000 crore was remitted during the lockdown period. The PM-KISAN scheme was launched to provide income support by way of a cash benefit to all landholding farmers (subject to certain exclusion criteria) to enable them to fulfill their agricultural requirements and support their families. With this transfer, the scheme has provided over Rs 90,000 crore in the hands of more than 10 crore farmers since its launch on December 2018, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-releases-rs-17000-crore-to-85-crore-farmers-under-pm-kisan-scheme-871323.html
09-08-2020||National||Death toll in Kerala landslide reaches 43||Death toll in the Pettimudi landslide near Munnar reached 43 as 17 more bodies were recovered on Sunday, while around 35 are still missing. Two specially trained sniffer dogs of Kerala police, including one of Belgian Malinois breed, was also used for tracking bodies inside the debris. A Fire and Rescue Service personnel involved in the rescue was tested Covid-19 positive. Hence, a team of rescue workers were advised to go into quarantine. Meanwhile, many parts of Kerala were flooded as rivers breached the banks. A youth drowned after his car was washed away at Kottayam district. Red alert has been issued at seven districts and orange alert in six districts. Kuttanad in Alappuzha, Tiruvalla and Aranmula in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam were flooded as water level of Pamba and Meenachal rivers rose.  At Kuttanad, many houses are almost under water. Massive destruction to agriculture was also caused. Minor landslides and landslips were reported from parts of Kasargod and Wayanad. But no major casualties were reported. A high alert was issued at Rani area of Pathanamthitta as Pamba dam was opened. Around 20 boats were kept ready at Ranni for shifting people. At Aranamula in Pathanmathitta, scores of units involved in the making of traditional Aranmula mirror making, already shifted raw materials as they suffered massive damages in 2018. Anticipating flood, many people already shifted to safer locations. Thousands of families were shifted to relief camps by rescue workers across the state.  Water level of all dams is also rising and is being monitored regularly. Kerala also sought Tamil Nadu's permission to take excess water from Mullaperiyar dam to Vaigai dam through tunnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-in-kerala-landslide-reaches-43-871332.html
09-08-2020||National||Captain Deepak Sathe was academically bright, keen on sports: Classmates||Captain Deepak Sathe, who was the pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala, was academically bright and also took keen interest in sports, remembered his classmates here. He was focussed on his career and determined to join the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA), located at Khadakwasla near Pune in Maharashtra, some of his classmates from the Class 11 batch of St Vincent School here told PTI. Sathe, 58, died along with 17 others after the plane crashed at Kerala's Kozhikode airport on Friday. He had joined St Vincent School in Class 11 in 1977, said Brigadier Kevin Mendonca (retd), who was Sathe's classmate. "Since his father was in the armed forces, he had already made up his mind to join the NDA. Those days, the qualification for joining the NDA was Class 11, and he appeared for the exam and cleared it," he said. While Sathe joined the NDA after Class 11, Mendonca waited till Class 12, and later he and a couple of his other classmates joined the tri-services academy of the armed forces, he said. "Sathe was enthusiastic, jovial, focused and determined. In NDA also, he was very good at academics and sports. The NDA's journal had mentioned him as the captain of golf and squash team," he added. Mendonca said after passing out from the NDA, Sathe joined the Indian Air Force and he joined the Army. While Sathe took early retirement from the Indian Air Force to become a commercial pilot, Mendonca retired from the Army in 2017. "We then lost touch with each other. A few months back, he somehow got my number and called me and we agreed to meet in Pune after the lockdown," he said. Sanjeev Jawale, another classmate from the St Vincent batch, described Sathe as an intelligent person, who went along well with his friends. "We were in tough in the initial days, but for the last 14 years, I was not in touch with him," said Jawale, who is a marketing consultant. He said they are planning to hold condolence meet after the lockdown. "We have requested all our classmates to send messages and their memories of Sathe. We will record all the messages and send them to his family," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/captain-deepak-sathe-was-academically-bright-keen-on-sports-classmates-871333.html
09-08-2020||National||National Commission for Women received 2,914 complaints in July, highest since November 2018||The NCW received 2,914 complaints of crimes committed against women in July this year, the highest since November 2018 when the #MeToo movement was at its peak in the country. According to data by the National Commission for Women, 660 complaints of domestic violence were received in July alone. Of the 2,914 complaints, 774 were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. The number of complaints received in July has been highest since November 2018 - a period when the #MeToo movement was at its peak in the country. In November 2018, the commission had received 3,339 complaints. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma attributed the rise in complaints to the increased activity of the commission on social media platforms. "The complaints have increased because we are very active on social media now and we are registering cases from Twitter and other social media platforms too. We have a WhatsApp number for reporting cases which was not in place earlier," she said. Among states, Uttar Pradesh recorded more than half of the total complaints at 1,461 followed by Delhi at 338. The second-highest number of complaints were received under the protection of women against domestic violence category at 660, the data showed. There were 493 complaints of harassment of married women and dowry harassment, the data showed. According to the data, 146 complaints of police apathy towards women and 110 complaints of cybercrime were received by the commission. As many as 148 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 50 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in July this year, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they wanted. "The NCW is working for the well-being of women so they can reach us any time, any day," she added. In June, 2,043 complaints were received by the commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-commission-for-women-received-2914-complaints-in-july-highest-since-november-2018-871335.html
09-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi releases Rs 17k crore for farmers||Today's From The Newsroom podcast talks about the following news events of the day: Prime Minister Narendra Modi transfers Rs 17,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme; investigators begin examining the black box of Kerala crash plane; The Defence Ministry comes out with a list of 101 military items that would not be imported anymore.  Here are the top news of today, Sunday: August 9, 2020: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday transferred Rs 17,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme. He said the scheme has been successful in its objective to provide financial support to farmers without any involvement of middlemen. The Centre provides Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme that was launched in December 2018. The prime minister "released the 6th instalment under the PM-KISAN scheme of Rs 17,000 crore to nearly 8.5 crore farmers. The cash benefit was transferred directly to their Aadhaar verified bank accounts with the press of a button", an official statement said. The amount was transferred to farmers at a function organised through video conference to launch a financial facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. "No middlemen, no commission. The amount was transferred directly to farmers," Modi said. The scheme has been successful in its objective to provide direct help to farmers and when needed, he added. Investigators on Sunday began examining the black box of a Boeing-737 that overshot a runway on its second attempt, killing 18 people in the country's worst aviation accident in a decade. The Air India Express plane, which was repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the coronavirus pandemic, overshot the runway of the Calicut International Airport in heavy rain near the southern city of Kozhikode on Friday. The aircraft fell into a valley and broke in half. In an interview with ANI on Sunday, Anil Kumar, head of India's Directorate General of Civil Aviation, said the country would open the recovered transcripts to international investigators, as well as manufacturer Boeing. "Only after conducting a thorough and unbiased probe, can we tell what exactly happened," Kumar said. The 2,700-metre runway at the airport is known as a "table-top", an aviation term for runways with steep drops at one or both ends. They leave little room for error should a pilot overshoot the runway, either through human error or mechanical failure. The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday tightened its grip around actress and model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case filed by the agency against them surrounding late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's assets. Showik was seen exiting the ED office on Sunday morning after appearing before the central agency on Saturday at around noon, after over 18 hours of grilling. Rajput’s family has accused his girlfriend Rhea and her family of swindling the actor's money totalling over Rs 15 crore.  On Friday, Rhea and Showik, and the late actor and model’s ex-business manager Shruti Modi appeared before the ED where they were grilled for nearly eight hours. The ED had also questioned Rhea's father Indrajit Chakraborty and her chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah on the same day. Local investors have made Rs 900 crore investment in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of special status of erstwhile state last August while there has been no investment from outsiders in the Union Territory in one year. Official figures reveal that local investors have shown interest in the industrial sector in Kashmir which has seen lockdown and uncertainty since August 2019 and made Rs 900 crore investment, while outside investments are nil. “Despite lockdown and uncertain situation since last August, it is an encouraging sign that local investors have invested Rs 900 crore in the industrial sector. However, outsider investors are reluctant to take any risk at the moment due to which no investment has been made so far,” a senior official of J&K Industries department, told DH. He said so-far there is only hype in the media about outsiders investing in Kashmir. “But the reality is there has been no investment in the last one year and things look gloomy for coming months also,” the official added. Though the much-hyped Global Investors Summit, which was scheduled to be held in May, had generated Expression of Interests (EOIs) of Rs 23000 crore from around 66 outside companies, it was put on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic.  Earlier, in October last year, the summit was postponed due to the security situation in Kashmir that time. The Defence Ministry on Sunday came out with a list of 101 military items that would not be imported anymore, realising a proposal announced by the BJP-led central government three months ago. To be implemented over the next four years, the negative list of imports is likely to spawn indigenous production of military hardware in tune with the Narendra Modi government’s pet scheme of Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). Much, however, would depend on the extent of participation by the Indian private sector in manufacturing such products because in its present format the list of 101 embargoed items is a veritable inventory of the items already developed by defence public sector undertakings and ordnance factories and used by the armed forces. The move was first announced by the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May as a part of the measures being undertaken by the Modi government to come out of the economic crisis precipitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Between April 2015 and August 2020, the three services imported military equipment and components worth Rs 3.5 lakh crores. “With the latest embargo on import of 101 items, it is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs four lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next five to seven years,” the ministry said in a statement. Of these, items worth Rs 1,30,000 crore each are anticipated for the army and the air force while items worth almost Rs 1,40,000 crore are anticipated by the navy over the same period. Neither the statement nor the list, however, clarifies how many of the items currently being imported by the military are on the embargoed list. For instance the list carried two satellites for the armed forces GSAT-7C and GSAT-7R that are on the embargoed list from December 2023. The fact, however, is that for decades Indian satellites are always made at home as there is no question of importing a satellite. Since the list contains products already manufactured by the Indian defence PSU, ordnance factories or private companies, it contains several artillery guns manufactured by the private and public sector over the last seven-eight years. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, saying the "import embargo" on defence equipment announced by him was "high sounding jargon" as their only importer was the Defence Ministry. The defence minister promised a "bang" on a Sunday morning and ended with a "whimper", Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. "The only importer of defence equipment is the Defence Ministry. Any import embargo is really an embargo on oneself," the former home minister said. What the defence minister said in his "historic Sunday announcement" deserved only an office order from the minister to his secretaries, Chidambaram said. "Import embargo is high sounding jargon. What it means is we will try to make the same equipment (that we import today) in 2 to 4 years and stop imports thereafter!" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modi-releases-rs-17k-crore-for-farmers-871376.html
09-08-2020||National||Record 7 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a day; recovery rate rises to 68.78%: Health Ministry||Scaling up testing capacity, over seven lakh samples have been examined for Covid-19 in a day taking the cumulative tests conducted so far to 2,41,06,535, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The number of recoveries too has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent, it said. The ministry said the number of single-day tests has been growing exponentially and India has been testing over six lakh samples daily for several days. "A record 7,19,364 samples have been tested on Saturday, the highest in a day so far. India is conducting around 500 tests for detection of Covid-19 per minute and the per-day testing capacity has increased over five lakhs," Scientist and media coordinator at ICMR, Dr Lokesh Sharma said. Such elevated level of testing will also lead to high number of daily positive cases, the health ministry said, adding states have been advised to firmly focus on comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation and effective treatment, following the Centre-led strategy of 'test, track and treat'. The number of recoveries has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent, the ministry said. Recoveries are over twice the number of active cases (6,28,747) of coronavirus infection at present. "The number of recovered cases has touched another high of 2.36 times the active cases. All patients are all under medical attention either in home isolation or in hospitals," the ministry said. From 7.69 per cent on April 5, the recovery rate improved to 26.59 per cent on May 3, 48.37 per cent on June 7 and to 68.78 per cent as on date, it said. "The widening gap between recovered and active cases, indicative of the higher number of recoveries as compared to those either in hospitals or in home isolation, is 8,52,137 at present," the ministry said. It said the high number of recoveries is a result of focused implementation of various actions taken by the Centre, state and Union Territories towards ramping up hospital and clinical management infrastructure for providing quality clinical care based on the standard of care, as advised by the Union government in its Clinical Treatment Protocol.  "Due to these efforts, the case fatality rate has further slumped, touching an improved rate of 2.01 per cent today," the ministry said. With a record single-day increase of 64,399 cases, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 21.53 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 43,379 with 861 new fatalities being reported in a day, the health ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-7-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-a-day-recovery-rate-rises-to-6878-health-ministry-871381.html
09-08-2020||National||Andaman and Nicobar will play important role in govt's self-reliant India programme: PM Narendra Modi||A day before inaugurating a submarine optical fibre cable facility for Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Sunday that it will ensure that the region faced no problem in getting virtually connected to the outside world as he highlighted his government's various development initiatives for the union territory. Speaking at an interaction with BJP workers from the distant region, he noted that the islands are “strategically” located and can become a key centre for global sea trade, stressing that the central government is working to make it a blue economy hub and also an important place for maritime startups. Modi said 12 islands of Andaman and Nicobar have been selected for high-impact projects, with an emphasis on boosting trade of sea-based, organic and coconut-based products of the region. The region will play an important role in his government's self-reliant India project and the growth of new India, the prime minister said, while referring to the ongoing work to expand Port Blair airport and boost air connectivity. Over 300 km of the national highway in the region is expected to be completed in record time, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andaman-and-nicobar-will-play-important-role-in-govts-self-reliant-india-programme-pm-narendra-modi-871383.html
09-08-2020||National||Call from Ireland to Delhi saves man's life in Mumbai||It all started at 7:51 pm on Saturday when Anyesh Roy, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) in Delhi Police received a call from a Facebook official in Ireland, who identified suicidal activity on the social media account of a person with a Delhi mobile number. The Facebook official told Roy that she would be sending the details on his official email about the account in the name of a woman along with the phone number. Roy decided against calling the woman directly fearing a panic response, immediately located her address in east Delhi's Mandawali as well as the location of the phone. Both matched and then the address was shared with Deputy Commissioner of Police (East Delhi) Jasmeet Singh, who immediately sent local police staff to her residence. Within minutes, a senior police official said, the police team was at the doorsteps of the woman, whom they found fine though an intercontinental call has already created much panic within the force. The woman told police that the phone number was hers while the account in her name was being used by her husband. Asked about her husband, she told the police personnel that he had left for Mumbai after a fight with her and was working as a cook in a small hotel. Adding to the tension, she could not provide the police team with an address but gave his mobile number. Singh then passed on this information to Roy, who tried to contact the man but his phone was not reachable. Immediately, Roy got in touch with his counterparts in Mumbai Police Bal Singh Rajput and Dr Rashmi Karandikar. Karandikar immediately scanned for details and kept calling Rajesh, whose phone was still switched off. Time was running out but luckily, Rajesh switched on his phone for a brief time when Karandikar managed to connect to him. "Rajesh was in a lot of psychological distress and she counselled him. Simultaneously, Mumbai Police sent local police of Bhayandar area, a suburb of Mumbai. Local police immediately located the place where he was staying. At the end of this intercontinental exercise involving multiple jurisdictions and some quick action on the part of officials involved, there was a man on the edge of the abyss, whose life was saved," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-from-ireland-to-delhi-saves-mans-life-in-mumbai-871384.html
09-08-2020||National||PM to present new outline for a self-reliant India on August 15: Rajnath Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The defence minister said various departments and ministries of the government are working seriously to implement Modi's initiative for a self-reliant India and that it is an attempt to give a fresh dimension to Mahatma Gandhi's push for 'Swadeshi'. Singh was speaking at an online event organised to pay tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Udham Singh. Talking about the 'Atmanirbhar' initiative, the defence minister said that the coronavirus pandemic has shown that a country may not be able to effectively protect its sovereignty if it is not self-reliant. "Our government will not allow any harm to India's self respect and sovereignty at any cost," he said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present before the nation a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the Independence Day," Singh said. Referring to the defence ministry's decision to ban import of 101 military weapons and platforms, Singh said major and tough decisions are being taken to promote self-reliance in defence production. He said big weapons systems will now be produced in India and the country will look for their export to make it a hub for defence manufacturing. In a major push to promote the domestic defence industry, Singh on Sunday morning announced restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms including light combat helicopters, transport aircraft, conventional submarines and cruise missiles by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-present-new-outline-for-a-self-reliant-india-on-august-15-rajnath-singh-871391.html
09-08-2020||National||Congress tries to counter BJP's emotive pitch with debate on economy, China||Battered by internal divisions and leadership confusion on one hand and stumped by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that steered the public discourse towards emotive issues of Ram temple, Kashmir and triple talaq, on the other hand, the Congress party is trying hard to steer back the political narrative towards basic issues—jobs, health and economy. Knowing well that opposing the BJP's stand on the emotive issues of temples and religion could turn public against it, the Congress has treaded cautiously on contentious issues at the cost of inviting some criticism from leaders within and allies. Having burnt its fingers in 2014 over perceived minority tilt of the party (pointed out by A K Antony Committee report), the party has now chosen to keep its attack on the government on Modi's development model (Gujarat model in particular), governance model at Centre (Covid-19 management), economy, unemployment) and picking holes in BJP’s national security claims instead of scratching on the BJP’s core issues. A look at the Twitter timeline of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi makes this obvious. On Saturday, Rahul took up the issue of a defence document, which confirmed Chinese incursion, disappearing from defence ministry website, and took a jibe at Modi government calling it “no chance but an anti-democracy experiment (ye sanyog nahin, Modi Sarkar ka loktantra Virodhi prayog hai).  He linked it with the "stolen" documents of Rafale, the escape of Vijay Mallya, Neerav Modi and Mehul Choksi. He raised concerns over the plight of agitating six lakh Asha workers. "The government is deaf, dumb, blind to their problems”. "RBI reveals the real 'Mood of the Nation. People's confidence is at an all-time low. Fear and insecurity are at an all-time high. Expect more bad news on the economy and jobs front,” he said in another tweet. He has kept up attacks on Covid-19 front, saying the government is missing when the number of cases has crossed 20 lakhs. While the BJP rubbed salt on Congress' wound by bringing Shah Bano case back to discourse while celebrating Triple Talaq Act, Rahul tried to push the ball to BJP's court with comments on China and economy.  On China and economy, he has kept attacking the government even this week when BJP was celebrating the first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370 and passage of triple talaq bill reminding Congress of Shah Bano. In his interaction with party workers in poll-bound Bihar, Rahul Gandhi spoke about the need to campaign around education, health and employment and asked party activists to tell people how the government ignored his warnings on coronavirus and how it failed on China front. He also underlined that there is a need to join hands together in Bihar, to consolidate the Opposition, something which Goa Congress leader Digambar Kamat also batted for in his state asking the like-minded parties such as Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) along with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)  should to come together to fight the 2022 state Assembly elections in the state against the BJP. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai says the hope for the Congress is only when the narrative shifts back to basic issues of ‘roti kapda or makan’ or broadly to economy and employment. "And all the more important when it puts its house in order first." Also, the Congress has to consider alternative politics to be considered an option in future and chasing the BJP on the latter’s plank won’t work for it, he said alluding to the soft Hindutva plank peddled by a dominant section in Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-tries-to-counter-bjps-emotive-pitch-with-debate-on-economy-china-871412.html
09-08-2020||National||Claims on Disha Salian's body found naked false: DCP||The Mumbai Police on Sunday vehemently denied media reports that the body of Disha Salian, the ex-manager of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found naked. On Sunday, some TV  channels reported that the body of Disha Salian was found “naked” when it came for post-mortem.“This is to clarify that the reports of Disha Salian’s body being found naked is false,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone XI) Vishal Thakur. He said that after the incident, police had immediately rushed to the spot and also did a ‘panchnama’ of the body in the presence of her parents there. On 8-9 June midnight, Disha (28), died after falling from the 14th floor of the Galaxy Regent building at Malad in the northern suburbs of Mumbai. Disha, a resident of Dadar, had gone to party at the house of Rohan Rai, a TV actor. The Malvani police station has registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the case. Disha's death has been linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput – and several people have demanded that both the cases be clubbed. Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane has claimed that Disha was raped and murdered  - days before Sushant Singh Rajput was killed. Actor Sooraj Pancholi, who was linked to the death of Disha Salian, had categorically said that he never knew Disha – and an actor is writing “blind posts” on Facebook which are going viral on social media. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said  some politicians were attempting to link the two separate incidents for their political gains.“ A BJP leader has alleged that Disha Salian was raped and murdered by throwing her body down building… This is most insensitive towards her grieving family members,” Raut said. Disha’s parents Satish and Vasanti Salian had ruled out any foul play. “All theories and stories are fake and just rumours. I lost my only child but now all these media people social media people will murder us. Therefore I request to stop all this. I request the Supreme Court to stop all this, we are badly suffering because of this. Now we don't have any strength to listen to all these fake news against our daughter,” they told a TV channel last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/claims-on-disha-salians-body-found-naked-false-dcp-871414.html
09-08-2020||National||State can't mechanically reject pleas for premature release of convicts: SC||The Supreme Court has held that a state government cannot mechanically reject a plea for premature release of a convict, merely on the apprehension that he may commit the offence again. It said antecedents of the convict, his conduct in prison and the likelihood of him abstaining from crime were the critical factors for taking such a decision. A bench of Justices Rohinton F Nariman and Navin Sinha set aside the Uttar Pradesh government's order rejecting premature release of two persons, even after 29 years of prison in the case of killings of 11 persons, along with 22 co-accused. Following an order passed by the top court on October 30, 2017, the state government examined the case of convicts Shore Ali and Bhura.  The order, passed on January 22, 2018 by the Joint Secretary, UP government stated that “premature release of this kind of prisoner would send a negative message against the justice system in the society”.  It was also mentioned that the Senior Superintendent of Police and the District Magistrate have confirmed that the prisoner is not incapacitated from committing crime. However, referring to the provision of the United Provinces Prisoners Release on Probation Act, 1938, the top court said the conduct of the convicts in prison had not been referred to at all.  The Senior Superintendent of Police and the District Magistrate confirming that the prisoner is not “incapacitated” from committing the crime is not tantamount to stating that he is likely to abstain from crime and lead a peaceable life if released from prison, the court added. The court set free the petitioners and allowed the state government to impose such conditions as mentioned in the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-cant-mechanically-reject-pleas-for-premature-release-of-convicts-sc-871416.html
09-08-2020||National||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal fast-tracks merger of railway services||With the government setting November as the deadline for complete merger of various railway services into one common Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has been holding a meeting with associations of different services to fast-track the process. The Minister has been meeting office-bearers of various cadres to address their concerns and convince them about the urgent need to merge the services to improve the efficiency of the national transporter. With some of the services associations opposing the merger proposal, the Minister was trying to clear their doubts on their future role in the Indian Railways including promotion opportunities once merger completes, sources in railways said. In his meeting with representatives of associations,  the Minister was learnt to have conveyed that the government was planning a uniform promotion for all services till higher administrative grade (HAG) based on best performing service in the grade for Senior Administrative Grade (SAG). In future recruitment of IRMS would be through UPSC civil service exam while posts requiring technical expertise like those in the Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO) will be filled up by a different process, the minister informed the associations. The Minister also assured that performance is also one of the key criteria for promotion in future in the national transporter. In December 2019, the Union Cabinet approved the restructuring of the national carrier by trimming the Railway Board’s strength to --half -- from eight to four -- and unifying its eight railway services into single central service IRMS. The Ministry hired consultancy firm McKinsey & Company to finalise the merger modalities. The eight services will be merged include the Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS), Indian Railway Accounts Service (IRAS), and Indian Railway Personnel Service (IRPS) ( all are national transporter's civil services). The remaining five are technical or engineering services. However civil services officers opposed to the merger with the technical services. The technical services officers have recruited on the basis of the Indian Engineering Services (IES) exam, conducted by the UPSC. At present, civil services officers get promotions faster than those belonging to the engineering services. Once the merger completes, uniform promotion policy will be introduced by stopping differential promotions system. Earlier civil services officers associations also submitted a joint memorandum to the government opposing the merger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-minister-piyush-goyal-fast-tracks-merger-of-railway-services-871422.html
09-08-2020||National||Kerala plane crash: Capt Deepak Sathe’s body brought to Mumbai||The mortal remains of Capt Deepak Sathe, who was commandeering the ill-fated Dubai-Kozhikode Air India Express flight, has been brought to Mumbai on Sunday. Captain Sathe’s remains were flown to Mumbai from Cochin International Airport in Kerala to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The 58-year-old Capt Sathe, who died during the crashlanding on Friday, was a resident of Chandivli-Powai area of Mumbai. His wife, Sushma, flew to Kozhikode on Saturday while younger son Dhananjay joined from Bengaluru. Their elder son, Shantanu, who works in Seattle, is arriving in Mumbai. The body was kept in the airport, where his colleagues and members of aviation fraternity paid tributes to him. The funeral is expected on Tuesday. His body would be kept at the Cooper Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-plane-crash-capt-deepak-sathe-s-body-brought-to-mumbai-871428.html
09-08-2020||National||Lawyers start 'India against Hatred' movement||On the occasion of August Kranti Diwas, a group of lawyers on Sunday started 'India against Hatred', an apolitical organisation and people’s movement against the perpetration of hatred in the country. Advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Supreme Court of India, along with Shashwat Anand, Allahabad High Court, Avinash Gokhale, Bombay High Court, started the movement with associations of other lawyers with secular mindset across the country. "India’s freedom struggle has seen eminent lawyers and this movement has also been started with associations of lawyers. The movement will be lead by Nilesh Navalakha, renowned filmmaker and social activist," a press release stated. Hatred being disseminated through various public forums posed the risk of irreparably damaging the unity and integrity of India. Hence, this people’s movement against perpetration of hatred in country was launched on August 9, it added. For the last few years, many hate campaigns have been run on social media against great personalities, historical figures, historians, intellectuals, including writers, filmmakers, communities and people in general, leaving the socio-cultural fabric of the country in tatters, said Navlakha. Media, in general, and social media have become breeding grounds for propagating gross hatred, fissiparous and schismatic tendencies, he added. “The provisions of IPC and IT Laws are either not being implemented, or are selectively implemented. Laws such the National Security Act, Sedition, UAPA, etc are invoked against individuals, particularly the youth and students and they are put in jail without bail or trial for months and years," the lawyers said. Religious and spiritual leader, His Holiness Dalai Lama, social crusaders such as retired Supreme Court judge Justice PB Sawant, former IPS officer J F Rebeiro and Gandhian Anna Hazare will guide the movement, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-start-india-against-hatred-movement-871429.html
09-08-2020||National||India dismisses controversy after Jaishankar's 'Buddha Indian' remark irks Nepal||Nepal on Sunday lodged a protest over a recent remark made by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar describing Gautam Buddha as one of the greatest Indians. “It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidence that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal,” a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country’s government said in a statement issued in Kathmandu.   India, however, moved fast to douse the controversy with the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi stating that the fact that Gautam Buddha had been born in Lumbini in Nepal had been beyond doubt. Jaishankar on Saturday said that Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi were the two “greatest Indians”, who were remembered by people around the world. He made the remark while participating in a webinar held by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The comment by the External Affairs Minister triggered protests from Nepal. The spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepalese Government pointed out that Lumbini, the birthplace of Gautam Buddha in Nepal, was a UNESCO World Heritage Site. He also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech during a visit to Kathmandu in 2014, when he had said that Nepal was the country where the "apostle of peace in the world, Buddha," was born. "The External Affairs Minister’s remarks yesterday at the CII event referred to our shared Buddhist heritage. There is no doubt that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, which is in Nepal,” Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said in New Delhi. “It is true that Buddhism spread from Nepal to other parts of the world in the subsequent period. The matter remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate. The entire international community is aware of this.” Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli recently triggered a controversy over the birthplace of Lord Ram too. He claimed at least twice that the birthplace of Lord Ram was not Ayodhya in India, but Ayodhyapuri in Nepal. New Delhi’s relations with Kathmandu had strained after the Oli Government published a new map, claiming 400 sq km of Indian territory as part of Nepal. New Delhi suspects Beijing nudged Kathmandu to ratchet up India-Nepal territorial dispute at a time when the Indian Army is engaged in a stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the disputed boundary between the two nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dismisses-controversy-after-jaishankars-buddha-indian-remark-irks-nepal-871435.html
09-08-2020||National||India hopes stand-off with China will end soon, not overshadow BRICS, SCO summits in Russia||India has conveyed to Russia that it expects an early end to its military stand-off with China for a greater success of the forthcoming BRICS and SCO summits, which President Vladimir Putin will host a couple of months later with both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping likely to attend.  With Moscow quietly holding back-channel talks with both India and China to help the two neighbours resolve the continuing stand-off along the disputed boundary between them, New Delhi has conveyed to the Russian Government that an “early and complete” withdrawal of the front-line troops by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from the face-off scenes in eastern Ladakh would help set the stage for a greater success of the BRICS and the SCO summits.  A source in New Delhi told the DH that while India would surely take part in both the BRICS and the SCO summits, it would expect that the stand-off between its army and the Chinese PLA would end soon without casting a shadow over the forthcoming multilateral conclaves to be hosted by Russia.  The annual summits of the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) and the SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) this year were initially scheduled to be held at St. Petersburg in Russia in July. The Russian Government, however, postponed both the summits in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moscow is currently planning to hold the summits in October. Though Putin is keen to host Modi, Xi and other BRICS and SCO leaders in St. Petersburg, the summits may also be held through video conference if the pandemic does not abate by then. New Delhi of late had discussions with Moscow about preparations for the forthcoming summits as well as about the continuing stand-off along the India-China LAC. Foreign Secretary, Harsh V Shringla, on August 4 had talks with Russian Deputy Foreign Minister, Igor Morgulov, over the phone. A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi later said that they had discussed the BRICS and SCO summits and exchanged views on “various regional and international issues of mutual interests”. He, however, did not provide details of the discussion between Shringla and Morgulov.  Moscow is currently planning to hold the summits in October. Though Putin is keen to host Modi, Xi and other BRICS and SCO leaders in St. Petersburg, the summits may also be held through video conferences, if the pandemic does not abate by then.  New Delhi of late had discussions with Moscow about preparations for the forthcoming summits, as well as about the continuing stand-off along the India-China LAC.  Foreign Secretary, Harsh V Shringla, on August 4 had talks with Russian Deputy Foreign Minister, Igor Morgulov, over the phone. A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi later said that they had discussed the BRICS and the SCO summits and exchanged views on “various regional and international issues of mutual interests”. He, however, did not provide details of the discussion between Shringla and Morgulov.  Shringla on August 5 also had talks with Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, Nikolay Kudashev.    New Delhi drove home the point during its recent engagements with Moscow that since India and China were members of both the BRICS and the SCO, the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two might overshadow the summits. While the stand-off is a bilateral issue for India and China to resolve between themselves, an “early and complete” withdrawal of the troops from the face-off scenes and de-escalation of tension between the two BRICS and SCO members would surely help make the ambience more cordial and the summits more effective and productive, another source in New Delhi said.     Russia has been publicly maintaining that India and China should resolve the stand-off through bilateral talks. It, however, has been quietly in touch with both the nations and has been trying to defuse tension between them.  China’s aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo along its disputed boundary with India triggered the stand-off in early May. The two sides early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops from the face-off scenes. It, however, remained stalled for the past three weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.    External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar may visit Moscow next month for a meeting of the BRICS Foreign Ministers. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is also likely to attend the meet, which would be hosted by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.  Jaishankar did join Lavrov and Wang for a Russia-India-China (RIC) video conference on June 23 – just a few days after the violent face-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley resulted in casualties on both sides and escalated tension between the two nations.  Soon after the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley, Moscow had got in touch with both New Delhi and Beijing to make sure that the tension between India and China does not cast a shadow on the pre-scheduled video conference among the RIC Foreign Ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hopes-stand-off-with-china-will-end-soon-not-overshadow-brics-sco-summits-in-russia-871442.html
09-08-2020||National||Kanpur man returns home two days after being 'buried'||Much to the surprise of his family, a Kanpur man returned home after being presumed dead.  A resident of Om Purwa in Chakeri, Ahmad Hassan returned home two days after his funeral was conducted, reported BusinessWorld. Hassan left his home on August 2 after an argument with his wife and had been missing since then. It was then that his kith and kin decided to file a report at the nearby police station.  The family even buried a body on August 5, after identifying it as Hassan’s.  But much to everyone's surprise, two days later, Hassan came back home.  The challenge that lies ahead of the police is to identify who the man that Hassan’s family buried is.  “We don't think that there is a need to take (action) against the family as they did it in confusion,” said SSP Preetinder Singh regarding whether Hassan’s family would face repercussions for misidentifying the body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-man-returns-home-two-days-after-being-buried-871452.html
09-08-2020||National||5 Indian cities have more than one lakh Covid-19 cases||Five Indian cities have more than one lakh Covid-19 cases each but displaying more of a declining trend while Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh emerging as the new hotspot reporting excess of 1,000 cases every day. Of the five cities with one-lakh-plus cases, three are in Maharashtra which crossed the five-lakh infections mark on Saturday, while the other two cities being Delhi and Chennai. India has recorded more than 60,000 cases for three consecutive days Thursday (62,538), Friday (61,537) and Saturday (64,399), after clocking 50,000 or more cases for eight days in a row. On Sunday, India’s total Covid-19 count was 22,11,388, an increase of 59,265 at 9:00 p.m. Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool and East Godavari districts were reporting in excess of 1,000 cases daily, with a rise in Covid-19 patients witnessed from mid-July. As of Friday, East Godavari district had 28,850 Covid-19 patients, while Kurnool had 24,679. Andaman and Nicobar islands too have witnessed a surge in cases in August after reporting less than 20 new cases throughout July, barring a spike towards the end of the month. The union territory had 1,351 cases on Saturday of which 500 had been cured and discharged from health care facilities. On the positive side, India has scaled up testing capabilities and tested more than seven lakh samples on Saturday. The Indian Council of Medical Research, through its network of more than 1,300 laboratories, had tested 7,19,364 samples on Saturday, taking the cumulative samples tested    Saturday also saw the highest number of recoveries – 53,879 – in a single day taking the total recoveries to more than 14.80 lakh. The total recoveries are more than double the active cases that are under medical supervision either at healthcare facilities or home isolation. From 7.69% on April 5, the recovery rate had improved to 26.59% on May 3, 48.37% on June 7 and 68.78% on August 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-indian-cities-have-more-than-one-lakh-covid-19-cases-871453.html
09-08-2020||National||Jal Shakti Ministry's move will delay Kalasa-Banduri project: Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday welcomed the Union Jal Shakti Ministry's decision to appoint a central agency to examine the issue of salinity of the Mahadayi river, saying the move would delay work at Karnataka's Kalasa-Banduri project "Salinity is one of the core issues raised by Goa before Mahadayi Tribunal and the Supreme court. The central Government's decision to appoint National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, to study the salinity issue with respect to Mhadei, is a welcome move," Sawant tweeted late on Sunday.  "This study will help us in our case. Till then, Karnataka's project will not be cleared," Sawant also said.  On July 29, in a letter to the Goa Chief Minister Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had said that the Roorkee-based agency had been appointed to examine the salinity issue, a fear raised by the state government in its case against the Kalasa-Banduri project across the Mahadayi (also called Mhadei in Goa).  Shekhawat had also said that Karnataka's detailed plans regarding the water diversion project were being processed by his Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministrys-move-will-delay-kalasa-banduri-project-goa-cm-871454.html
09-08-2020||National||SC to consider plea to suspend membership of six Rajasthan BSP MLAs, who merged with Congress||The Supreme Court is to consider on Monday a plea to suspend the membership of six Rajasthan Assembly MLAs who got elected on BSP ticket and subsequently merged themselves with the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari would take up the petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar to stay the order of September 18, 2019, passed by Speaker C P Joshi allowing their merger. He also sought a direction to restrain MLAs-- Lakhan Singh, Rajender Singh Guda, Deepchand Kishangadbas, Joginder Singh Avana, Sandeep Kumar and Vajib Ali -- from voting in Assembly session beginning August 14. The six MLAs, for their part, have also moved the top court for transferring a plea by Dilawar from the High Court to the top court, as similar matters were pending here. Petitioner Dilawar challenged the validity of the High Court's order of August 6, 2020. He claimed that HC had failed to appreciate that the Speaker straight away "illegally" accepted the request of six MLAs and allowed the so-called merger of their party, i.e. BSP, into the Congress, recognised it and ordered that now onwards these six MLAs will be treated as MLAs belonging to Indian National Congress. "BSP which is a recognised national party has never merged with any at any given point of time. BSP is functioning even as a national party and its members who are elected either to the Parliament or various State Legislative Assemblies are functioning as members in their respective Houses belonging to the BSP," he pointed out.  There has been no act “overt or covert” which can even remotely suggest that BSP has merged with any other political party, he added. The petitioner further contended that the Speaker had wrongly recorded that two-third of the legislators of any political party can merge their party into any other political party. "This is a total misreading of the provisions of law. As per para four of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, the condition of two-third MLAs accepting merger is a second condition, not the first. The first is that the original political party of the legislatures who are claiming merger should have merged with another political party," he pointed out. Moreover, the Speaker had no jurisdiction to record a finding of a so-called merger, without giving notice to the Bahujan Samaj Party and without holding an enquiry as to whether the BSP has actually merged in the Congress or not, he contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-to-suspend-membership-of-six-rajasthan-bsp-mlas-who-merged-with-congress-871458.html
09-08-2020||National||Govt must drag China to international dispute resolution fora over artificial lake in Tibet: Cong||The Congress on Sunday said if the need arises the government should drag China to international dispute resolution fora over the formation of a "very dangerous" artificial lake in Tibet which poses a risk to Arunachal Pradesh. The opposition party hit out at the government over its response on strategic issues, saying all its talk of nationalism, "56-inch chest" and "red-eye", when it comes to specifics, sounds like "empty slogans and hollow claims". Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi cited the danger from the lake on the Yarlung Tsangpo river in Tibet, the "high number of Chinese troops" in Depsang area in Ladakh and Nepal's move to claim certain Indian territories, and said the government should come clean on such serious issues and resolve them.  "There is a very dangerous artificial lake which has come into existence in the area above of Arunachal Pradesh, in Tibet, on the Yarlung Tsangpo river," he said, adding it would not be an exaggeration to call it a potential "water bomb". "The slightest crack, fisher or deliberate sabotage would inundate and flood to the great misery of Arunachal and the entire Siang basin," Singhvi said. According to officials, an alert has been sounded all along the Siang river basin in Arunachal Pradesh after the Union Home Ministry in a report informed about the formation of the artificial lake in Tibet. However, Singhvi said the government needs to do much more on the international diplomatic level. "If necessary, needs to drag China into international dispute resolution fora. "You cannot do things in the upstream part, which will endanger the downstream entities, this is a basic principle of international law, but, nothing is spoken, shared or disclosed by this government," he claimed. On Depsang area, he said that while military and diplomatic talks are being held, "the ground reality is that a minimum of 12,000 and more accurately 17,000, it is believed, Chinese troops, additional and fresh, remain there." "There is no pullback. They are apparently of the fourth motorised infantry division of China. Again, what are you (government) doing.... No answer, silence, no conversation, no dialogue, complete trust deficit," he alleged. Singhvi said the third example was of Nepal which clearly under the malafide influence of China, at its wrongful bidding, had claimed areas like Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura and in drawing them into its own map. There is a "huge failure" of diplomacy, communication and trust deficit, he said, attacking the Modi government. "As Indians, as a responsible party, we don’t care except that we care for India. In which manner you can negotiate, talk, scare, pressurise or otherwise solve is something, which you have to work out, but, solve you must, otherwise, these are very serious impending and potentially disastrous national security issues," Singhvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-drag-china-to-international-dispute-resolution-fora-over-artificial-lake-in-tibet-cong-871470.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Rajput death case: Two deaths and a lot of politics||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Two deaths and a lot of politics When Disha Salian, a manager at the talent management firm that represented Sushant Singh Rajput, fell from a high-rise building in Malad on the intervening night of 8-9 June, the news largely went unnoticed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-rajput-death-case-two-deaths-and-a-lot-of-politics-871229.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Minister must explain what caused Kerala plane crash, responsibility should be fixed, says Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday demanded that Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri explain to the country the reasons for the Dubai-Kozhikode plane crash, and said anyone found responsible for the accident should be punished. An Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday and went down a slope before breaking into two. Choudhury, in a video message from New Delhi, said the department should form a high-powered committee to probe the plane crash, which claimed at least 18 lives. "The committee must find out what led to the tragedy and punishment should be meted out to anyone found responsible... The minister should explain to the people of India what caused the accident and responsibility should be fixed," Choudhury said. Asserting that the two pilots "did their best to save precious lives", the senior Congress leader said, "I wonder what maintenance engineers and inspectors were up to... "The pilot (Deepak V Sathe) was such a highly qualified personnel having decades of experience but he couldn't save himself. His co-pilot (Akhilesh Kumar) also died in the accident. They had to crash land the plane, and pay with their lives to save many others." Puri said on Saturday that an inquiry has been ordered under the Aircraft Act in the Kozhikode accident and findings of the investigation will be made public. He also visited the site of the accident to take stock of the relief measures. Special repatriation flights, however, were being operated by Air India and Air India Express under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also flown under this mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/minister-must-explain-what-caused-kerala-plane-crash-responsibility-should-be-fixed-says-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-871254.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh promised a ‘bang’, ended with a ‘whimper’: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, saying the "import embargo" on defence equipment announced by him was "high sounding jargon" as their only importer was the Defence Ministry. The defence minister promised a "bang" on a Sunday morning and ended with a "whimper", Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. "The only importer of defence equipment is the Defence Ministry. Any import embargo is really an embargo on oneself," the former home minister said. What the defence minister said in his "historic Sunday announcement" deserved only an office order from the minister to his secretaries, Chidambaram said. "Import embargo is high sounding jargon. What it means is we will try to make the same equipment (that we import today) in two to four years and stop imports thereafter!" he said. In a major reform initiative to boost the domestic defence industry, the defence minister announced restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms including artillery guns, assault rifles and transport aircraft. "The Ministry of Defence is now ready for a big push to #AtmanirbharBharat initiative," Singh said on Twitter while making the announcement. He said the ministry has prepared a list of 101 items for which the embargo on imports is planned to be progressively implemented between 2020 and 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-promised-a-bang-ended-with-a-whimper-p-chidambaram-871300.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Assembly to meet amid Covid-19 pandemic, MLAs to sit one seat apart||As per norms, the House must be convened once in six months. A few days ago at an all-party meeting, the speaker had sought the support of all political parties to ensure compliance of Covid-19 protocol during the upcoming session. "We have to ensure that during the session, scheduled to be held soon because of Constitutional obligations, Covid-19 protocol was strictly followed," he had said. Elaborating about the seating plan of the assembly, Dikshit on Sunday said the members will be seated leaving a seat between them vacant. Some of them will be seated in the lobby and the visitors' gallery, he said. "The MLAs will be thermally scanned before they enter the House. I am sure that members will come here wearing a mask. If they do not come wearing a mask, we will give them one," he said. Dikshit said the air conditioner of the legislature building will work as per the standards set by the central government. "Governor Anandiben Patel has summoned the session of 17th Vidhan Sabha at 11 am on August 20. This will be the second session of the year," UP Vidhan Sabha's Principal Secretary Pradeep Dubey had recently said. At present, there are 306 BJP MLAs in the UP Legislative Assembly, followed by 48 from the Samajwadi Party. The BSP has 18 MLAs, while Apna Dal (Sonelal), an ally of the BJP has nine MLAs. The Congress has seven MLAs in the House, while the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party has four MLAs. There are three independent MLAs in the House. Rashtriya Lok Dal and Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Apna Dal has one MLA each in the UP Assembly. In the UP Legislative Assembly, there are 403 elected members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-assembly-to-meet-amid-covid-19-pandemic-mlas-to-sit-one-seat-apart-871321.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Congress must find full-term president to arrest perception of being 'rudderless': Shashi Tharoor||The Congress must expedite the process of finding a full-term president to arrest the growing public perception that the party is "adrift and rudderless", senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Sunday. Tharoor also said that he certainly thinks Rahul Gandhi has the "mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party", but if he does not wish to do so then the party must "take action" to elect a new chief. His comments assume significance as they come just ahead of Sonia Gandhi completing one year as interim chief on August 10, with the party yet to find her successor. "I certainly believe we should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia Ji's appointment as interim president last year, but I do believe it’s unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely," Tharoor told PTI in an interview. "We also need to arrest the growing public perception, fuelled by a dismissive media, that the Congress is adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition," the former Union minister said. That is precisely what the Congress needs to urgently address by expediting the process of finding a full-term president, through a participatory and democratic process that will offer the winning candidate a legitimate mandate and the credibility that will be indispensable in ushering in much needed organisational and structural revival of the party, Tharoor said. Asked about growing voices in the Congress that Rahul Gandhi must come back as party chief and if it was the best possible scenario that he returns, Tharoor said, "Of course, if Rahul Gandhi is ready to resume the leadership, all he has to do is to withdraw his resignation. He was elected to serve till December 2022 and can just pick up the reins again." "But if he does not, we have to take action. My own personal view, which as you know I have been advocating for some time now, is that elections to the CWC (Congress Working Committee) and for the post of president would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party," Tharoor said. A participatory democratic process would significantly add to the incoming leader's credibility and legitimacy which, in turn, would be vital assets as they set about the significant organisational challenges associated with re-energising the rank and file of the party, the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Tharoor asserted that his larger argument was not about any individual but about advocating a process or a system through which the Congress can address existing leadership issues and then embark immediately on the process of revitalising and energising the party nationally. Rahul Gandhi has also displayed tremendous foresight and vision, been a constructive voice that has offered critical inputs and has shown an impressive capability to really understand the aspirations of the people of this country during these challenging times, Tharoor said. "I hope he will continue doing that, whether as president or in any other capacity of his choosing," he said. A reluctant Sonia Gandhi had taken over as interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party's debacle in the Lok Sabha election. Asked about the Congress coming under attack from various quarters over what was seen by many as a subtle shift in its position on the Ram temple issue and allegations that it was being "BJP-lite", Tharoor said he does not believe that the party has compromised on its secularism. The Congress has traditionally furthered a brand of secularism that recognises India's pluralism. In other words, it acknowledges a profusion of religions and beliefs, where all are equally respected and can peacefully co-exist, Tharoor said. Asked about questions being raised over many Congress leaders making remarks on the Ram temple issue which are at variance with the party's secular stance, Tharoor said those who look at the Congress as ‘BJP-lite’ or ‘Hindutva-lite’ do not take Congress' own assurances at face value – "that it remains a party for all, the safest refuge for the minorities, the weak and the marginalised, and fundamentally committed to secularism". "But the truth is that Congress is the only major party to say all of this and mean it. The BJP does not even bother to pretend that it has the interests of any of these sections at heart," he claimed. "Our critics see the Congress party's distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva as specious. They reject its leaders' arguments that the Hinduism respected by Congress leaders is inclusive and non-judgemental, whereas Hindutva is a political doctrine based on exclusion," Tharoor said. The critics are quick to conclude that what the Congress offers is merely a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging, he said. Asserting that nothing could be farther from the truth, Tharoor said Rahul Gandhi has himself made it explicitly clear that, for all his willingness to avow his personal Hinduism, he does not support any form of Hindutva, "neither soft nor hard".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-must-find-full-term-president-to-arrest-perception-of-being-rudderless-shashi-tharoor-871330.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav's 'Parashuram' to counter BJP's 'Ram'?||In a bid to counter the BJP's Hindutva plank and also to woo the influential Brahmin community in Uttar Pradesh, the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) has decided to embrace 'Parashuram', one the most important Brahmin icons. SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav has announced that his party will install a 108-foot-high statue of 'Bhagwan Parashuram' in the capital city of Lucknow. According to the SP sources here, the party has been trying to identify land along the Lucknow-Agra Expressway or the road leading to Ayodhya for the purpose of installing the statue. Sources said that former UP minister and Brahmin leader Abhishek Mishra had been entrusted with the responsibility of identifying the land. ''We expect the spot to be finalised in the next few weeks....the statue will be ready well before the next assembly polls in the state due in 2022,'' said a senior SP leader here while speaking to DH. The statue, however, would be installed by a little-known outfit named 'Parashuram Chetna Peeth'. The outfit was backed by the SP, sources said. The SP's decision to install the statue of one of the icons of the Brahmin community triggered sharp reactions from the rival opposition parties and also the BJP. BSP supremo Mayawati slammed Akhilesh for what she termed ''caste politics'' and declared that her party would build hospitals and dharmshalas and also construct a statue of Parashuram if voted to power in 2022. BJP Brahmin leaders also attacked Akhilesh and said that the latter never gave due respect to the community when the SP was in power in the state. The Congress was also trying to woo the Brahmins by taking up the issue of their alleged 'persecution' in the current dispensation. Interestingly, Parashuram was also, like Lord Rama, a reincarnation of Lord Vishnu but was a Brahmin while Rama was a Kshatriya. According to Hindu mythology, Parashuram, a disciple of Lord Shiva, had killed many Kshatriya warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadavs-parashuram-to-counter-bjps-ram-871355.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena accuses Centre of politicising Sushant Singh Rajput's death||In a strong statement, the Shiv Sena accused the Centre of firing from the shoulders of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) vis-à-vis death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to target the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. Besides, the Shiv Sena alleged that Sushant did not have good relation with his Patna-based father Krishna Kishore Singh. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide Sanjay Raut on Sunday while speaking to the media and his weekly column ‘RokhThok’ in Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, spoke out on the issue in detail. “It is a conspiracy against Maharashtra,” said Raut, the executive editor of Saamana and party’s Rajya Sabha member. "If one wants to indulge in politicisation and pressure tactics, anything can happen in our country. It looks like the script of Sushant's case was already written," Raut said. “The Mumbai Police is investigating the Sushant Singh Rajput case and the Bihar government asks for a CBI probe and the Centre gives nod to it,” he said. Last week, the CBI had taken over the probe based on the FIR that Singh registered in the Rajiv Nagar police station against Rhea Chakraborty. He said the Mumbai Police is a “professional force” and is compared next to Scotland Yard. "It investigated the Sheena Bora murder case where some top names were involved and sent all to jail. The Mumbai Police probed the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack which resulted in the hanging of the accused Ajmal Kasab," he said. “One TV channel uses derogatory, defamatory and threatening language against the chief minister… This has distressed many, NCP president Sharad Pawar…..the chief minister is not an individual but an institute. What is the government doing?,” Raut said quoting the veteran politician. He said that state’s tourism minister Aditya Thackeray is being targetted deliberately by oppostion just because he enjoyed good relations with Bollywood personalities. Raut claimed that Bihar director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey giving an interview to a channel against Maharashtra was "violation of police discipline".   Pandey wanted to contest the Assembly elections from Buxar in 2009, but his plan was aborted after the BJP candidate from there threatened to contest against as an independent, Raut said. He said that Sushant did not have good relation with this father. “Mumbai was his (Sushant’s) home…find out how many times he has gone to meet his father,” he said, adding that he was upset by his father’s decision to remarry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-accuses-centre-of-politicising-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-871382.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Noteban, faulty implementation of GST, lockdown destroyed India's economic structure: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the Modi government's decision of demonetisation and its "faulty" implementation of GST and the lockdown have "destroyed" the economic structure of the country. His attack on the government came as the Congress' youth wing launched a "Rozgar do" campaign with the objective to raise the voice of the youth against alleged unemployment prevailing in the country. "When Narendra Modi became the prime minister, he promised the youth of the country that he will give jobs to two crore youth every year. He sold a dream, but the reality is that 14 crore people have become unemployed due to the policies of Narendra Modi," Gandhi alleged, without elaborating. "Why did this happen? Because of wrong policies. Demonetisation, faulty implementation of GST and then lockdown -- these three steps have destroyed the economic structure of the country and the truth now is that India cannot give employment to its youth," the former Congress chief said in a video message he tweeted. Therefore, the Indian Youth Congress has hit the streets, he said, expressing happiness that the IYC will raise these issues in all towns and streets. "Please join the 'Rozgar Do' programme and along with Youth Congress, get jobs for the youth of this nation," Gandhi said. He also congratulated the Youth Congress on the occasion of its foundation day and urged them to keep fighting for the youth of the country. Expressing solidarity with the campaign, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said "youth power" is India's strength. "As opposed to the BJP government's job-destroying policies, there is a need to create more and more employment opportunities for the youth of India," she said on Twitter. "Rozgar Do is the demand of young India. Employment is the need of young India," she said. Under the “Rozgar Do” campaign, the voices of the unemployed youth will be amplified all over the country, the IYC said. "Anti-youth policies of the central government will be highlighted among the youth of the country through social media and other mediums," it said in a statement. Several Congress leaders posted videos on social media voicing concerns over alleged rising unemployment in the country. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the demand of every youth of this country is "Rozgar Do" (give employment). "We all demand, it is our right that the youth of the country should get employment on the basis of qualifications and get ahead in the progress of the country," he said. Several Congress leaders like Digvijaya Singh, Depender Hooda, Gaurav Gogoi, Rajeev Satav, Gaurav Vallabh and Ragini Nayak called for employment opportunities for the youth on social media as pet of the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/noteban-faulty-implementation-of-gst-lockdown-destroyed-indias-economic-structure-rahul-gandhi-871407.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Congress must find full-term president to arrest perception of being 'rudderless': Shashi Tharoor||The Congress must expedite the process of finding a full-term president to arrest the growing public perception that the party is "adrift and rudderless", senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Sunday. Tharoor also said that he certainly thinks Rahul Gandhi has the "mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party", but if he does not wish to do so then the party must "take action" to elect a new chief. His comments assume significance as they come just ahead of Sonia Gandhi completing one year as interim chief on August 10, with the party yet to find her successor. "I certainly believe we should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia ji's appointment as interim president last year, but I do believe it's unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely," Tharoor told PTI in an interview. "We also need to arrest the growing public perception, fuelled by a dismissive media, that the Congress is adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition," the former Union minister said. That is precisely what the Congress needs to urgently address by expediting the process of finding a full-term president, through a participatory and democratic process that will offer the winning candidate a legitimate mandate and the credibility that will be indispensable in ushering in much needed organisational and structural revival of the party, Tharoor said. Asked about growing voices in the Congress that Rahul Gandhi must come back as party chief and if it was the best possible scenerio that he returns, Tharoor said, "Of course, if Rahul Gandhi is ready to resume the leadership, all he has to do is to withdraw his resignation. He was elected to serve till December 2022 and can just pick up the reins again." "But if he does not, we have to take action. My own personal view, which as you know I have been advocating for some time now, is that elections to the CWC (Congress Working Committee) and for the post of president would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party," Tharoor said. A participatory democratic process would significantly add to the incoming leader's credibility and legitimacy which, in turn, would be vital assets as they set about the significant organisational challenges associated with re-energising the rank and file of the party, the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Tharoor asserted that his larger argument was not about any individual but about advocating a process or a system through which the Congress can address existing leadership issues and then embark immediately on the process of revitalising and energising the party nationally. "Through his activities during this lockdown, whether it has been on the issue of the Covid-19 virus or Chinese transgressions, Rahul Gandhi has without a question and almost single-handedly done a remarkable job in holding the present government accountable for its actions and failures," he said. Rahul Gandhi has also displayed tremendous foresight and vision, been a constructive voice that has offered critical inputs and has shown an impressive capability to really understand the aspirations of the people of this country during these challenging times, Tharoor said. "I hope he will continue doing that, whether as president or in any other capacity of his choosing," he said. Asked about Tharoor's remarks, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said he had not seen the statement, but there is a laid down procedure in the Congress Constitution for elections. "Sonia Gandhi ji is the president, she will continue till such time a proper procedure is implemented and it will be implemented in the not too distant future," Singhvi said at an online briefing in response to a question on Sonia Gandhi's tenure as interim chief which ends on August 10. A reluctant Sonia Gandhi had taken over as interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party's debacle in the Lok Sabha election. Asked about the Congress coming under attack from various quarters over what was seen by many as a subtle shift in its position on the Ram temple issue and allegations that it was being "BJP-lite", Tharoor said he does not believe that the party has compromised on its secularism. The Congress has traditionally furthered a brand of secularism that recognises India's pluralism. In other words, it acknowledges a profusion of religions and beliefs, where all are equally respected and can peacefully co-exist, Tharoor said. Asked about questions being raised over many Congress leaders making remarks on the Ram temple issue which are at variance with the party's secular stance, Tharoor said those who look at the Congress as 'BJP-lite' or 'Hindutva-lite' do not take Congress' own assurances at face value "that it remains a party for all, the safest refuge for the minorities, the weak and the marginalised, and fundamentally committed to secularism". "But the truth is that Congress is the only major party to say all of this and mean it. The BJP does not even bother to pretend that it has the interests of any of these sections at heart," he claimed. "Our critics see the Congress party's distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva as specious. They reject its leaders' arguments that the Hinduism respected by Congress leaders is inclusive and non-judgemental, whereas Hindutva is a political doctrine based on exclusion," Tharoor said. The critics are quick to conclude that what the Congress offers is merely a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging, he said. Asserting that nothing could be farther from the truth, Tharoor said Rahul Gandhi has himself made it explicitly clear that, for all his willingness to avow his personal Hinduism, he does not support any form of Hindutva, "neither soft nor hard".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-must-find-full-term-president-to-arrest-perception-of-being-rudderless-shashi-tharoor-871408.html
09-08-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi to remain interim chief till 'proper procedure' for electing president is implemented: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said Sonia Gandhi will continue as interim president till such time a "proper procedure" is implemented in the "not too distant future" to elect a party chief. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi, during an online media briefing, said it was true that Sonia Gandhi's tenure as interim chief comes to an end on August 10, one year after she assumed the post, but it did not mean that the seat automatically falls vacant that day. "Sonia Gandhi is the president, she will continue till such time as a proper procedure is implemented and it will be implemented in the not too distant future," he told reporters. "Yes, her tenure comes to an end on August 10. But be rest assured that there is a process which goes through the CWC (Congress Working Committee). This will be followed in the near future and a result will emerge," he said.   The procedure is written in the Congress' constitution and the party is committed to follow it, Singhvi said, adding that it was being done and information will be shared on it soon. Asked about the prevailing confusion over whether Sonia Gandhi's term ends tomorrow or there is no deadline for when the term of an interim president ends, he said it is very clear that neither nature nor politics, nor political parties, permit or tolerate a vacuum. "Just like nature abhors a vacuum, political parties cannot function in a vacuum. It is true that the tenure is expiring tomorrow. There is a laid down procedure in the (party) constitution for elections. As you know it goes through the CWC etc.," Singhvi said. "Now, in the meanwhile, if anybody is suggesting that the Congress will become headless on the stroke of midnight on August 10 you have to only ask yourself, is it possible, is that a fair interpretation of any constitution that on August 10 suddenly the seat becomes vacant," he said. Sonia Gandhi had taken over as interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party's debacle in the Lok Sabha election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-to-remain-interim-chief-till-proper-procedure-for-electing-president-is-implemented-congress-871418.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army shelled mortars at forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Sunday morning, prompting retaliation by Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. The shelling in Mankote sector was going on when last reports were received, but there was no report of any casualty, the spokesperson said. "At about 6.45 am, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Mankote sector. Indian Army retaliates befittingly," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-kashmirs-poonch-871251.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out in Jammu & Kashmir's Kulgam district||An encounter broke out between militants and the security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district early on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Sighanpora area in the south Kashmir district following inputs about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, he said. The exchange of fire is going on and further details were awaited, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-kashmirs-kulgam-district-871256.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||BJP worker injured in militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir||Militants on Sunday shot at and injured a BJP worker in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. A police official said militants fired upon Abdul Hamid Najar, a resident of Mohiendpora area of Budgam in central Kashmir this morning, leaving him injured. He said Najar is a BJP worker. Najar was shifted to a hospital and further details on his condition were awaited, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-worker-injured-in-militant-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-871266.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan auto driver beaten for refusing to chant 'Jai Sri Ram', 'Modi Zindabad'||Two people were arrested for allegedly assaulting a 52-year-old auto-rickshaw driver after he refused to chant ''Modi zindabad'' and ''Jai Shri Ram'' in Rajasthan’s Sikar, police said Saturday. Gaffar Ahmed Kacchawa complained to police that the accused stole his wristwatch and money; broke his teeth and left him with a swollen eye and injuries on face after he refused to do so. According to the First Information Report (FIR), lodged at around 4 am on Friday, Mr Kacchawa was returning after dropping passengers at a nearby village when the two men in a car stopped him and asked him for tobacco. However, they declined to take the offered tobacco and allegedly asked him to chant “Modi Zindabad” and “Jai Shri Ram”. Kacchawa also added that he was kicked and his beard was pulled. The attackers have been arrested and the police, "We arrested two people on Friday after the complaint was lodged. Preliminary investigation suggests that the accused misbehaved and thrashed the victim under the influence of alcohol." (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-auto-driver-beaten-for-refusing-to-chant-jai-sri-ram-modi-zindabad-871275.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Kozhikode crash: Airlines staff gather at Delhi airport to pay tributes to deceased co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar||Around 200 pilots and ground staff of various airlines gathered at the airport and paid their respects when the mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died in the Kozhikode flight crash, reached Delhi in the early hours of Sunday, officials said. Pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, 58, and co-pilot Captain Akhilesh Kumar, 32, were the ones operating the Air India Express flight that crashed at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night. Both pilots, along with 16 other people onboard, have died in the accident. "Kumar's mortal remains was brought to Delhi airport from Kochi on an IndiGo flight 6E2135 at around 2 am on Sunday," an aviation industry official said. "Around 200 pilots and ground staff members of various airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air India and Air India Express gathered at the airport and paid their respects," the official said. Kumar's mortal remains were then taken by road to Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, where his family resides, another industry official said. The mortal remains of Sathe are likely to be taken to his family members in Mumbai on Sunday, according to the official. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway while landing in heavy rain, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two. A total of 149 people have been admitted to various hospitals. Twenty-three have been discharged, while three are critically injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday after his visit to the Kozhikode Medical College, where many of the affected passengers have been admitted. Puri had told reporters that Sathe, a former wing commander of the Air Force, was one of the most-experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Kozhikode airport. Kumar had a total flying experience of 1,723 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kozhikode-crash-airlines-staff-gather-at-delhi-airport-to-pay-tributes-to-deceased-co-pilot-akhilesh-kumar-871290.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Government plans to enact new law to protect land rights of J&K natives||A new law to protect the land rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir is on the anvil to allay the apprehensions of the natives after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, officials said. The new law is expected to be enacted in Parliament. "Land rights for the locals in Jammu and Kashmir are coming up. Work is on for enacting a new law that will allay all fears of the people of Jammu and Kashmir," an official privy to the development said. Once the legislation is passed by Parliament, the fear of losing rights over land will be over in Jammu and Kashmir, the official said. A bill to this effect will be introduced in Parliament as there is no legislature in the newly created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir because no election was held since the bifurcation of the erstwhile state. The fears of Jammu and Kashmir domicile people about the settlement of outsiders in the UT arose after the government abrogated Article 370 on August 5, 2019, which ended the exclusive rights of the locals over lands or immovable property and jobs. On the same day, the government also bifurcated Jammu and Kashmir into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. In April, the Union Home Ministry had reversed its order on new domicile rules for Jammu and Kashmir within a week after the amendment triggered protests in the Valley. Under the revised order, only domicile residents of the union territory will be eligible to apply for recruitment there. The fresh order, issued on April 3, made government jobs in the Jammu and Kashmir administration out of bounds for non-residents. Earlier, in the order issued on March 31, the home ministry had reserved jobs for domicile residents only in Group D and non-entry gazetted government posts. This meant that people from any part of the country could apply for jobs in the higher categories. Under the new definition of domicile for Jammu and Kashmir, a person residing there for at least 15 years will be eligible to be a permanent resident of the union territory. The government notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for 10 years and also to their children. Before August 5, 2019, the Jammu and Kashmir assembly was constitutionally empowered to define a resident of the erstwhile state. These defined residents alone were eligible to apply for jobs or own immovable property. However, the home ministry amended a 2010 legislation – the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment Act) – on March 31 by substituting the term "permanent residents" with "domiciles of Jammu and Kashmir".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-plans-to-enact-new-law-to-protect-land-rights-of-jk-natives-871310.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Listen to people's voice to save democracy: Ashok Gehlot to MLAs||Ahead of the Rajasthan Assembly session, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday appealed to all MLAs to listen to the voice of people to save democracy and stand with the truth in the interest of people of the state.  The assembly session in the state, which has been witnessing politicial turmoil after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and legislators loyal to him, will start on August 14. Gehlot is likely to seek a trust vote during the session In a letter to all MLAs, Gehlot sought their cooperation in fulfilling the promises of development and prosperity of the state.  "It is my appeal that you should listen to the voice of people in order to avoid wrong tradition, to maintain people's trust in us and to save democracy," Gehlot said in the letter.  Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the Congress after he and some MLAs loyal to him rebelled against Gehlot. Many believe that Gehlot still has an edge in the numbers game and is confident of a majority. "You may be a legislator from any political party, you should ensure and take a decision after understanding voter's feeling that how a people's elected government continues to work strongly for state's welfare,", he said, emphasising that efforts to destabilise government are not succesful. The chief minister expressed faith that legislators will act in the larger interest of people of the state and will cooperate in fulfilling the promises of development and prosperity. Ahead of the session, half a dozen BJP MLAs from Rajasthan have shifted to Porbandar in Gujarat. BJP MLA Nirmal Kumawat had alleged that the Congress government in Rajasthan was "harassing" opposition MLAs, and said they were on a pilgrimage to Somnath to seek mental peace. Congress MLAs are currently holed up in a Jaisalmer hotel as the party has accused the BJP of horse-trading following the revolt by Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/listen-to-peoples-voice-to-save-democracy-ashok-gehlot-to-mlas-871312.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Locals invest Rs 900 cr in Jammu and Kashmir, outsiders zero since abrogation of Article 370||Local investors have made Rs 900 crore investment in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of special status of erstwhile state last August while there has been no investment from outsiders in the Union Territory in one year. Official figures reveal that local investors have shown interest in the industrial sector in Kashmir which has seen lockdown and uncertainty since August 2019 and made Rs 900 crore investment, while outside investments are nil. “Despite lockdown and uncertain situation since last August, it is an encouraging sign that local investors have invested Rs 900 crore in the industrial sector. However, outsider investors are reluctant to take any risk at the moment due to which no investment has been made so far,” a senior official of J&K Industries department, told DH. He said so-far there is only hype in the media about outsiders investing in Kashmir. “But the reality is there has been no investment in the last one year and things look gloomy for coming months also,” the official added. Though the much-hyped Global Investors Summit, which was scheduled to be held in May, had generated Expression of Interests (EOIs) of Rs 23000 crore from around 66 outside companies, it was put on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic.  Earlier, in October last year, the summit was postponed due to the security situation in Kashmir that time. The BJP government at the Center had justified the revocation of Article 370 saying it had acted as an impediment to the development of Jammu and Kashmir. In his first speech after the abrogation of Article 370, on August 8 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken about the central government’s plans to end corruption, atrocities and violence in Jammu and Kashmir to make way for industries, private investments and employment. However, since then the economy of Kashmir, which has been virtually under lockdown, has incurred a loss of whopping Rs 40,000 crore, according to a report prepared by Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locals-invest-rs-900-cr-in-jammu-and-kashmir-outsiders-zero-since-abrogation-of-article-370-871313.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Jalesar's Hindu, Muslim artisans cast 2.1-tonne brass bell for Ram temple||Dau Dayal has been making bells of varied shapes and sizes for more than 30 years, but what he and his team has pulled off this time has surprised everyone in Uttar Pradesh's Jalesar town -- a bell weighing 2,100 kg for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Interestingly, the person who designed it is a Muslim craftsman -- Iqbal Mistri. "Our Muslim brothers have expertise in designing, grinding and polishing," Dayal says. Dayal and Mistri say this is the first time they have worked on a bell of this size. "When you work on a bell of this size, the difficulty levels increase manifold," Dayal, 50, a fourth-generation bell maker, says. "It's really hard to ensure you don't make a single mistake in the months-long process." "What excited us was that we were making it for the Ram temple, but fear of failure also remained at the back of our mind," he says. Success in such tasks is by no means guaranteed. The whole effort goes to waste even if there is a delay of five seconds in pouring the molten metal into the mould, according to Mistri. "What's unique about it is that it is just one piece, from top to bottom. It doesn't have multiple pieces welded together. This is what made the task much more difficult," the 56-year-old says, revelling in his achievement. The bell is not just brass but made of "ashtadhatu", a combination of eight metals -- gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury. "This piece, which is one of the largest bells in India, will be donated to the Ram temple," says Vikas Mittal, the chairman of Jalesar municipal council in Etah district and the owner of the workshop where the bell has been manufactured. The Mittals got the order to prepare a 2,100-kg bell from the Nirmohi Akhara -- a litigant in the Ayodhya title dispute -- immediately after the matter was decided last November, paving way for the construction of the temple. "We believe there is some divine reason that this work came to us. So, we decided why don't we donate it to the temple," says Aaditya Mittal, the chairman's brother, adding that it cost them Rs 21 lakh. From initial planning to design finalisation to manufacturing, the entire process took around four months. "A final touch is needed before it is on its way to Ayodhya," Shubham Mittal from the family says. The casting of a bell involves multiple, lengthy steps -- determining the shape and measurement painstakingly, cutting out wooden templates to make the mould, preparing metal, tuning, grinding, and fitting the clapper. A crane was used to pour the alloy into the mould. A team of around 25 workers, Hindus and Muslims both, worked for a month, eight hours a day, to make what could be "among the largest bells" in the country. Before this, Dayal had cast a 101-kg bell that is being used at the Kedarnath temple in Uttarakhand. "This is the largest and the heaviest bell we have worked on so far. We had also cast a 1,000-kg bell for Mahakaleshwar Temple in Ujjain," he says, as he prepared material to cast a regular six-inch bell used in temples and schools. The Mittals had also presented a 51-kg bell to Yogi Adityanath, when he came to Etah to address his first public meeting after becoming the chief minister, according to the family. Jalesar's brass craft has also earned it benefits under the Adityanath government's "one district-one product" scheme. It aims to encourage indigenous and specialised products and crafts in the state that are found nowhere else -- like the ancient and nutritious 'kala namak' rice, wheat-stalk craft, and chikankari and zari-zardozi work on clothes. There is something unique in Jalesar's soil which makes it ideal for brass work, Vikas Mittal says. "Squeeze some wet soil in your palm and your fingers will get engraved on it," says Mittal. "It's Jalesar's natural resource. It has a huge demand in Moradabad, which is famous for its brass handicrafts." The bells cast in this soil ring better. The sound of the bell, prepared for the Ram temple, can be heard up to 15 kilometres, he claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jalesars-hindu-muslim-artisans-cast-21-tonne-brass-bell-for-ram-temple-871318.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: ED grills Rhea Chakraborty's brother; calls actress again on Monday||The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday tightened its grip around actress and model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case filed by the agency against them surrounding late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's assets. Showik was seen exiting the ED office on Sunday morning after appearing before the central agency on Saturday at around noon, after over 18 hours of grilling. Rajput’s family has accused his girlfriend Rhea and her family of swindling the actor's money totalling over Rs 15 crore.  On Friday, Rhea and Showik, and the late actor and model’s ex-business manager Shruti Modi appeared before the ED where they were grilled for nearly eight hours. The ED had also questioned Rhea's father Indrajit Chakraborty and her chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah on the same day. The sister-brother duo along with their father Indrajit are likely to be questioned again on Monday at the ED’s Ballard Estate office in Mumbai.  According to reports, Rhea and Showik have been giving evasive replies. The statements of Rhea and Showik, who were Rajput's business partners in a company, are being  recorded under the PMLA case where they were asked about his personal businesses, income, investments and financial dealings. Also under the ED's scanner is a property located in the city's Khar area and another in Navi Mumbai, both linked to Rhea, for the source of purchase and ownership. The agency had earlier summoned Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani to appear before it on Saturday in connection with the money laundering case that stems from the complaint filed by the actor's father with the Bihar Police in connection with his death. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ed-grills-rhea-chakrabortys-brother-calls-actress-again-on-monday-871319.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Covid-19 tally reaches 51,924 with 596 new cases; death toll at 784||Rajasthan on Sunday recorded six more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 784, while the virus tally mounted to 51,924 with detection of 596 new cases, officials said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 13,847, they said. A total of 34,688 people in the state have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, a health department official said. Of the new fatalities, four were reported in Kota and two in Jaipur, the official said. Jaipur alone has reported 217 Covid-19 deaths so far, followed by 85 in Jodhpur, 57 in Bharatpur, 55 in Ajmer, 48 in Bikaner, 45 in Kota, 34 in Nagaur, 31 in Pali, 23 in Alwar and 19 in Dholpur. Among the fresh cases, 71 were reported in Jaipur, 57 in Sikar, 46 in Rajsamand, 43 in Ajmer, 42 in Barmer, 39 in Chittorgarh, 34 in Nagaur, 29 in Bikaner, 28 in Udaipur, 26 in Alwar, 25 in Sawai Madhopur, 23 each in Baran and Sriganganagar besides those recorded in other districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-covid-19-tally-reaches-51924-with-596-new-cases-death-toll-at-784-871322.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Patients from outside Delhi getting tested here, hence the rise in Covid-19 cases: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday attributed the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital to "patients from outside getting tested here". On Saturday, 1,404 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths were reported in Delhi, taking the tally of cases to 1,44,127. While 1,130 people recovered from the infection on Saturday, there are 10,668 active cases. The death toll rose to 4,098, Jain told reporters. The number of active cases on Saturday rose to 10,667, from 10,409 the previous day, according to the Delhi government's health bulletin. "There have been reports that coronavirus cases are increasing in the national capital. Many patients from outside Delhi are getting tested here, hence the rise in the number of cases. "There is otherwise a decline in cases here," Jain told reporters. The health minister also said hospital admissions have also increased due to the patients coming from outside Delhi. In June, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had overruled the AAP government's decision to reserve hospital beds in city-run and private hospitals only for residents of the national capital afflicted with the coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patients-from-outside-delhi-getting-tested-here-hence-the-rise-in-covid-19-cases-satyendar-jain-871342.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||One terrorist killed as Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in Jammu & Kashmir's Poonch||One terrorist was killed and two others were seriously injured as an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir was foiled, the Army said on Sunday. The infiltration bid was scuttled in Krishna Ghati sector on Friday when the alert troops noticed a group of terrorists attempting to sneak into this side from across the LoC and immediately engaged them, Jammu-based PRO (defence) Lt Col Devender Anand said. He said the gunfight resulted in on-the-spot killing of one terrorist and serious injuries to two others. "Subsequent search in the area showed that the dead body of the terrorist had been dragged away from the incident site. However, one AK 47 rifle, two AK 47 magazines and some eatables were recovered from the site," the spokesman said. He said Pakistan markings on the eatables and a few other items clearly indicated the complicity of Pakistan in sponsoring terror activities in J&K. "Security forces are maintaining a robust counter-infiltration grid along the LoC to foil any nefarious designs by Pakistan," Lt Col Anand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-terrorist-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmirs-poonch-871354.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari's 'aide' gunned down in encounter||An aide of don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari who was accused in the 2005 killing of BJP leader Krishnanand Rai was gunned down by the Uttar Pradesh Police's Special Task Force here on Sunday morning, officials said. Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey was shot dead in Sarojini Nagar area of the state capital, they said. "The encounter of the criminal carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head took place around 4.20 AM on Sunday in Sarojini Nagar police station area of Lucknow. He sustained injuries in the encounter, and later succumbed to his injuries during treatment," the STF said in a statement issued here. Pandey was allegedly involved in the killing of Rai, who was an MLA from Mohammadabad Assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh. The legislator was killed on November 29, 2005. "The cavalcade of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai was fired upon by criminals equipped with AK-47, and more than 400 rounds of bullets were fired. Seven people including Krishnanand Rai died. Pandey was involved in this incident," the STF said. Pandey was a sharpshooter of mafia dons Ansari and Munna Bajrangi, it said. Around 12 cases were registered against Pandey, who was out on bail, in different districts of Uttar Pradesh, it added. Police have recovered two pistols, ammunition and two mobile phones from the spot. The STF claimed Pandey was among the most reliable men of Ansari, who is the sitting BSP MLA from Mau assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh and managed contracts in the district. The STF said it received a tip-off that Pandey had been seen in Lucknow's Gudumba area, and was collecting weapons to commit a crime. "When the STF team reached Gudumba, it was learnt that the criminals are heading towards Kanpur Road," it said. Around 4.20 am, police tried to stop an SUV in which Pandey was travelling. He tried to flee and open fire at the police party, it added. "However, the SUV collided with a roadside tree. A person stepped out of the SUV and opened indiscriminate firing on the STF team," the statement said. "The STF fired in a controlled manner for self-defence to catch the criminal," it said. "After some time, when the firing stopped, the criminal was taken to Sarojini Nagar community health centre, where he succumbed to his injuries. Another criminal fled from the spot," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansaris-aide-gunned-down-in-encounter-871362.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||With 1300 fresh cases, Delhi's Covid-19 tally goes past 1.45 lakh-mark; death toll mounts 4,111||With 1,300 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, Delhi's Covid-19 tally rose to over 1.45 lakh while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 4,111, authorities said on Sunday. Thirteen fresh fatalities were recorded in the city in the last 24 hours, they added. A total of 5,702 RT-PCR and 18,085 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the said period, the authorities said. The total number of cases in the national capital stands at 1,45,427. As many as 1,30,587 patients have either recovered from the disease or migrated while there are 10,729 active cases, of which 5,462 are in home isolation, the authorities said. The number of containment zones stands at 472 in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-1300-fresh-cases-delhis-covid-19-tally-goes-past-145-lakh-mark-death-toll-mounts-4111-871365.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||6-year-old raped in Uttar Pradesh; battles for life||A six-year-old child was brutally raped after being abducted in Uttar Pradesh's Hapur district, about 450 kilometres from here. The victim, who suffered serious injuries in her private parts, was admitted to the Meerut Medical Hospital, where her condition was stated to be critical. The doctors said that her private parts were so badly mutilated that they could not perform surgery there and they had to create a separate path by inserting a tube in her abdomen for disposal of faecal matter. According to the police sources here, the girl, who was abducted by a motorcycle-borne youth on Thursday evening, was found lying unconscious in a  field on Friday. She was taken to the district hospital from where the doctors referred her to the medical college on Saturday. Sources said that the culprit lured the child on the pretext of giving her chocolate. The parents of the victim said that they had informed the police about her abduction but the cops registered a missing complaint and made no attempt to trace her.  The police said that five teams had been formed to nab the culprit. They have also released three sketches of the suspect based on inputs of different witnesses, who saw the suspect luring the 6-year-old on his bike.  The opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the BJP government saying that the women were not safe under the regime||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-year-old-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-battles-for-life-871367.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control and the recovery rate is improving. Speaking at the inauguration of a hospital in Ambedkar Nagar, he said in case the situation takes a turn for the worse, the government is fully prepared to deal with it. Delhi's Covid-19 case count stood at 1,44,127 on Saturday, according to government data. "The (Covid-19) situation is under control. All parameters are good, recovery rate is improving, positivity ratio and deaths have reduced," Kejriwal said. He said the inauguration of the hospital is a step towards strengthening the health infrastructure in the city. "We have gradually increased the number of Covid-19 beds," he added. "The hospital was conceived in 2013. It is a 600-bed hospital. We are inaugurating the first 200 beds which will be used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients," Kejriwal said at the launch event. "I pray to God that these 200 beds are not needed in the future... we never get to a situation where we have to use these beds. But even if the situation becomes bad again, we are fully prepared to deal with it," he said. Kejriwal said the rest of the beds and ICUs will become operational within a month-and-a-half. "This hospital was scheduled to begin operations after a few months, but it has been inaugurated today. I want to thank and congratulate engineers, doctors, and all the people for their efforts in making this 200-bed hospital available for the people of Delhi," he said. On July 25, Kejriwal had inaugurated a 450-bed hospital in Burari. The hospital will eventually have a total of 700 beds. There were 10,667 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi on Saturday, while the death toll stood at 4,098, the government data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-arvind-kejriwal-871368.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||12 Naxals surrender in Chhattisgarh, 5 of them carrying cash rewards||Twelve Naxals, five of them collectively carrying a reward of Rs 6 lakh on their heads, surrendered in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Sunday, police said. The cadres turned themselves in before police and the CRPF officials in Dantewada town saying that they were impressed by the rehabilitation campaign being run by the local police and disappointed with the hollow Maoist ideology, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. Dantewada MLA Devti Karma was also present on the occasion, he said. Of these ultras, Chanduram Sethiya, who was active as a member of platoon no. 26 of Maoists, was allegedly involved in three Naxal attacks, including in Bhusaras-Chingavarm in 2008, wherein 23 policemen and two civilians were killed, he said. Sethiya was carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, Pallava said. Four other surrendered ultras- Lakhmu Hemla, Sunil Tati, Manu Mandavi and Maituram Barsa- who were working in different capacities in separate areas of south Bastar, were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, he said. The remaining seven Naxals were active as lower-rung Maoist members, he said. From them, one Amit Kawasi was allegedly involved in the October 2018 Nilawaya attack, in which three policemen and a Doordarshan cameraman were killed in Dantewada, he said. "All 12 ultras said in their statement that they were disappointed with the hollow Maoist ideology, and were impressed by the 'Lon Varratu' (term coined in local Gondi dialect which means 'return to your village') campaign being run by the police in Dantewada," Pallava said. According to the officer, they will be provided facilities as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, he said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' initiative launched in June, the police have been putting up posters and banners in the native villages of Naxals, who carry cash rewards on their head. The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to join the mainstream, the police official said. "So far, 82 Naxals, including these 12, have surrendered under the drive," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-naxals-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-5-of-them-carrying-cash-rewards-871373.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||BJP ridden with factionalism: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday questioned the shifting of BJP MLAs to Gujarat, saying the opposition party was ridden with factionalism. His comments came in the wake of the BJP herding its 18 MLAs in the past two days to party-ruled Gujarat ahead of the Rajasthan assembly session beginning August 14. The BJP had claimed that their MLAs were being harassed by police and the administration at the behest of the Congress government in the state. Gehlot, on the other hand, defended the stay of Congress legislators at a Jaisalmer hotel, saying the party required to keep them together to thwart horse-trading. “But, what is worrying about the BJP? They are herding their legislators to three-four places. I see a big split in them," Gehlot told reporters in Jaisalmer. Lashing out at the opposition party, Gehlot said the “tradition they are setting up is dangerous to democracy”. He said while BJP is trying to topple his government, the government is making efforts to save lives amid the coronavirus crisis. Unfortunately, such people sitting in power are weakening democracy, which we saved for the past 70 years, Gehlot said. He added that their fight to save democracy will continue even after August 14 and the truth will prevail. "I can say this that the victory will be ours, truth will win,” he said, stressing that his “government will complete its five-year term”. Gehlot on Sunday also wrote to all Rajasthan MLAs, urging them to listen to the voice of people to save democracy and stand with the truth in the interest of people of the state. The assembly session in the state, which has been witnessing a political turmoil after the rebellion by Congress Sachin Pilot and 18 legislators loyal to him, will start on August 14. Gehlot is likely to seek a trust vote during the session. Replying to question on the Special Operations Group (SOG) notices given to MLAs in connection with alleged horse-trading, Gehlot said the investigation agencies wanted to talk to them but it was projected as a sedition case was registered against them. He also rejected allegations that phone numbers of MLAs were being tapped. “The information was spread to mislead people. Neither the government can tap phone numbers nor it should do,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-ridden-with-factionalism-ashok-gehlot-871377.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||3 Jammu and Kashmir villages connected to national electric grid after 75 years||Negotiating months of heavy snowing and the Covid-19 lockdown, the Kupwara district administration connected three villages located along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Keran area to the national electricity grid, ending a wait since Independence for power supply. The job was not easy, officials said, recalling the acute shortage of manpower for the work after restrictions were imposed following the abrogation of Article 370 and the imposition of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic It is an arduous five hours journey to Keran from here on a fair-weather road that meanders through apple and walnut orchards of the Kashmir Valley and the Pherkian Pass at 10,000 feet in the Shamasbari Ranges. Keran remains cut-off for nearly six months due to heavy snow which can reach heights of nine to 12 feet. For three hours of electricity, the Keran area, with a population of 14,000 in four panchayats, was till recently dependent on three old diesel generator (DG) sets, for which fuel was transported from the district headquarters. "Installed over a decade back, the three DG sets were prone to frequent breakdowns further disrupting the meagre power supply, more so in winters when conducting repairs are next to impossible," Deputy Commissioner, Kupwara, Anshul Garg, told PTI. In 2012, the area’s residents were hopeful that a solution to their power problems was found. The plan was to extend power lines to Keran and establish a grid station at a cost of Rs 6.5 crore. But hopes started to wither as no substantial progress was made on the project for nearly seven years, apart from the installation of some solar lighting systems that had limited efficiency even during the summers, some villagers in Keran said. Not being directly connected to the national power grid threw Keran into extreme backwardness with lack of industries and limited access to medical facilities and television. "All essential commodities, especially food items and essential drugs are stored in advance for an year in the area to cater to the winter requirements," Garg said as the area remains cut-off. The power line project gathered steam after Kupwara was selected as an 'Aspirational’ district by the NITI Aayog in 2018. It was among 112 districts of the country that were chosen for quick and effective transformation. The task of ensuring last mile coverage in the power sector was put on mission mode from April 2019 under the close supervision of the deputy commissioner. The Kupwara district administration swung into action deploying multi-disciplinary teams to ensure corridor clearance for the entire stretch of the electricity line, that passes through several villages, steep slopes and dense forests. The administration decided on a target-based approach. This comprised fortnightly review of work, resolving bottlenecks and regular field inspection by senior officers. These were besides liaising and taking feedback from Panchayati Raj Institutions especially Mohd Syed Joo, Chairman Block Development Council Keran to avoid further delays. The job was not easy as the administration was faced with acute manpower shortage after the abrogation of Article 370 followed by seven months of snow in winters and the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. Sticking to the timeline of July 31, the administration ensured inauguration of the Receiving Sub-station on July 18. The line was successfully charged providing grid electricity to people in three villages for the first time. The administration is working to cover the remaining three villages soon. "A small project for the district has triggered revolutionary changes in the lives of the common masses starting from switching on a television set as and when they want, to better healthcare, water supply, lift irrigation systems and impacting almost every walk of life now dependent on power supply. The people living on the zero line are very happy," Garg said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-jammu-and-kashmir-villages-connected-to-national-electric-grid-after-75-years-871378.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||11 members of Pakistani Hindu migrant family found dead in Jodhpur||Eleven members of a family of Pakistan Hindu migrants were found dead at a farm in Rajasthan's Jodhpur district on Sunday morning, police said. A member of the family, however, was found alive outside the hut they lived at Lodta village of the Dechu area, over 100 km away from Jodhpur city, an officer said. "But he claimed to have no idea about the incident, which believed to have happened in the night," said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Rahul Barhat. "We are yet to ascertain the cause and means of death. They appeared to have committed suicide by consuming some chemical in the night," Barhat said. He said there was a smell of some chemical in the hut, suggesting they consumed something. The family belonging to the Bhil community had come to India from Pakistan's Sindh province in 2015 on a long-term visa. They had been living at the Lodta village farm, which they had hired for farming, for the past six months. ”There was neither any injury mark on any of the bodies nor any evidences of any foul play,” the SP said. "But we have roped in a forensic team and a dog squad before arriving at any conclusion," he said. A preliminary investigation indicated that there was some dispute in the family over some issue. "Once we interrogate the survivor, we would be in a position to find out what had led to this incident," he said. According to a police officer, the victims lived under threat from the family of their daughter-in-law, the wife of Kewal Ram (35), the surviving member of the victim family. “She has been living with her family in Jodhpur for the past some time due to some dispute,” said the police officer, citing this as a possible trigger for their suicide. According to Kewal Ram (35), they had dinner between 9 pm and 10 pm on Saturday night and went to sleep. “I went to guard our crop against animals and slept there,” he said. In the morning, when he came back, he found all his family members dead. “I then called my nephew who rushed to the spot with some other persons and informed police," said Kewal Ram, expressing his ignorance about the incident. Those, who died have been identified as Budharam (75); his wife Antara Devi; son Ravi (31); daughters Jiya (25) and Suman (22); grandsons Mukdash (17) and Nain (12); Laxmi (40) and three minor sons of Kewal Ram. The bodies have been sent for autopsy in Jodhpur and a medical board has been constituted to find out the cause of their death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-members-of-pakistani-hindu-migrant-family-found-dead-in-jodhpur-871415.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Truckers body calls 3-day strike in Madhya Pradesh from August 10||A transporters organisation has given a call for three-day strike in Madhya Pradesh from Monday in support of their demand for exemption from the road tax and GST during April-September besides a cut in the value-added tax (VAT) on diesel. The All India Motor Transport Congress said that the Covid-19 outbreak has adversely affected the transport business. It has called the strike in the state from Monday to Wednesday. "Around seven lakh vehicles including trucks and small commercial vehicles will participate in this three-day lockdown," Vijay Kalra, vice-president (Western region) of the organisation, claimed on Sunday. Kalra said that due to lack of business amid Covid-19 outbreak, the state transporters are facing financial troubles and diesel prices have gone up significantly. "In these circumstances, we demanded that VAT on diesel be reduced, transporters should be exempted from road tax and GST during the two quarters of this financial year (April-June and July-September) and truck drivers should be covered under insurance for Covid-19 by the state government. Kalra also demanded that the check posts of the Transport Department should be shut immediately, alleging rampant corruption on such posts at the borders of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truckers-body-calls-3-day-strike-in-madhya-pradesh-from-august-10-871423.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||DU online exams: Differently-abled students accuse university of being 'discriminatory'||With the Delhi University (DU) all set to conduct online open-book exams for final-year students from Monday, differently-abled students said they will not be able to take the test and accused the university of being "exclusionary" and "discriminatory". The Delhi High Court has given its nod to the DU to conduct the exams. Amid opposition from teachers and students, the university will be conducting the exams from Monday. A teacher from the English department, who did not wish to be named, said almost 50 per cent students may not be able to take the exams. "Students who are in villages, where even electricity is a problem, may not be able to take the exams. We have written to the university multiple times, but there has been no resolution. Students have gone back to their villages and some do not even have study material and internet connectivity. It seems difficult that they will be able to take the exams starting from Monday," a teacher said. Another teacher, requesting anonymity, said students faced difficulties during the mock exams in uploading the answer sheets and the same problem may arise on Monday. The DU has said the students shall be given three hours for answering the questions. Additionally, they will be given an hour for scanning and uploading the answer sheets. Thus, the students will have a total of four hours to complete the examination, including for downloading the question papers, scanning and uploading or e-mailing the answer sheets. Students under the PWD (persons with disability) category will have a total of six hours for downloading the question paper, writing the answers and uploading the answer sheets. The high court had also directed the DU to provide writers to visually-impaired students at the common service centres (CSCs) for the online Open Book Examinations (OBE) for the final-year undergraduate courses, if they have opted for one. Differently-abled students alleged that the university has still not made scribes available to them. Deepak Gupta, a differently-abled student, said he will not be able to take the exams on Monday and alleged that the university has not made any arrangements for scribes. "We do not have scribes or notes, so how will we take the exams? There are many students like me, who will not be able to write their final exams. The DU is being exclusionary and discriminatory and even the high court has disappointed us. We have written several mails to the DU authorities, but there has been no redressal till now," he said. Gupta also alleged that the DU website is not differently abled-friendly and they cannot access the notifications uploaded on it through the TalkBack reader application. Another differently-abled student, who did not wish to be named, concurred with Gupta and said they have been left in the lurch with there being no clarity on how the university will conduct pen-and-paper exams. He also said he does not have a scribe or study material and expressed his inability to take the exams. The exams have been postponed several times. The Delhi University Teachers' Association has been demanding that the exams be scrapped and the students evaluated on the basis of previous performances and an internal assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-online-exams-differently-abled-students-accuse-university-of-being-discriminatory-871466.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot launches projects worth Rs 127.85 crore on World Tribal Day||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 41 projects worth Rs 127.85 crore, with a view to promote development in tribal areas of the state. Addressing people on 'World Tribal Day' via video conferencing from Jaisalmer, the chief minister said his government has taken every measure for the upliftment of the tribal community. He laid the foundation stones of 28 development works of Rs 98.76 crore and inaugurated 13 projects worth Rs 29.09 crore to develop the tribal areas. Gehlot also announced the opening of a 50-bed capacity hostel for tribal students in Jaisalmer, adding that hostels will also be opened in Barmer and Jodhpur. A coaching centre will be opened for tribal students in Jodhpur to prepare them for competitive examinations, he said. The chief minister also honoured talented students of the tribal community of Jaisalmer district who scored high marks in classes 10 and 12. Tribal Development Minister Arjun Singh Bamania said tie-ups have been made with best coaching centres to prepare tribal students for competitive examinations. He said 10 talented students from the community will be sent to Delhi to help them prepare for the civil services. Sports events will also be organised in tribal areas to spot talented players, the minister added. Gehlot also assured that there will be no shortfall in electricity, water, education, health and good roads in the entire state, especially the tribal areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-launches-projects-worth-rs-12785-crore-on-world-tribal-day-871468.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||One more Madhya Pradesh minister tests Covid-19 positive, fourth so far||Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang on Sunday said he has tested Covid-19 positive. He shared the information on his Twitter handle. Sarang is the fourth member of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's council of ministers to test positive. "My second Covid-19 test report came out positive today. I have been in home isolation since I had tested negative in my first report. I request all those who came in my contact to undergo Covid-19 test," he said in his tweet. Earlier, state Cooperatives Minister Arvind Bhadoriya, Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat and Minister of State (Independent charge) for Backward Class and Minority Welfare Ramkhelawan Patel had tested positive for the infection. Besides, the chief minister had also tested positive on July 25. After undergoing treatment for 11 days in hospital, Chouhan was discharged without any test on August 5 on the basis of doctors' advice as per the ICMR policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-madhya-pradesh-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-fourth-so-far-871469.html
09-08-2020||North and Central||MP CM to give plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said he would donate his blood plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Chouhan had tested positive for coronavirus on July 25 and remained hospitalised for 11 days before he was discharged on August 5. "I was tested positive for Covid-19 earlier and I am perfectly healthy now after treatment. Antibodies to fight coronavirus must have been developed in my body and so I will soon donate plasma for therapy," an official release quoted the chief minister as saying while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state via video conferencing. Since his release from the hospital, Chouhan has been under home quarantine. Convalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into an active coronavirus infected patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight back the infection. Chouhan was discharged from Chirayu Medical College and Hospital without a prior testing. The CM was discharged on the basis of doctors' advice as per the ICMR policy dated May 8, 2020, wherein patients can be discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset and no fever for three days, the hospital had said. The coronavirus tally in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 39,000-mark on Sunday with the addition of 868 cases, as per health officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cm-to-give-plasma-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-871473.html
09-08-2020||Opinion||Pompeo is pumping up the volume on Beijing. Is it the silly election season?||Mike Pompeo, the US Secretary of State has, of late, been making scathing attacks on China, revealing the undiplomatic side of US diplomacy. Needless to say, his words carry weight as they reflect the opinions of President Trump, who is desperately seeking to extend his White House tenancy by another four years. US elections are fought on issues that touch the lives of the average American – the economy, job losses, fuel prices, or this year, the mounting deaths due to Covid-19, now approaching 165,000. Just as in any other democracy, American politicians also need to convince their voters as to how they alone, not the opposition, can confront the evil enemy. This is probably the first time in decades that any Secretary of State is using such strong words in indicting China and its Communist Party, the real power brokers in Beijing. Speaking at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library, Pompeo asked, “What do the American people have to show now after 50 years of engagement with China”? and ended by asking, “Is America safe”? Close on the heels of suspending trade talks, the Trump administration took steps to ban Chinese officials responsible for prohibiting the entry of US officials into Tibet. The White House’s support to protesters in Hong Kong and defence deals with Taiwan are too explicit to be wrapped in diplomatic niceties. The Quad countries have reopened the issue of South China Sea (SCS), with the US sending in its USS Ronald Reagan and USS Nimitz aircraft carriers, which China countered by deploying its Flanker fighter jets. China has been building a network of surveillance platforms as part of its navy’s efforts to strengthen capabilities in international waters. New Delhi will have to strategise for a calibrated response mechanism in the event of the SCS turning into a flashpoint in the near future. Stepping up the diplomatic confrontation with Beijing, the Trump administration ordered the Chinese consulate in Houston shut down, labelling it “a hub of spying and intellectual property theft.” Expectedly, China reciprocated by giving the marching orders to US officials at its consulate in Chengdu province. Next, Pompeo brought up the issue of detention camps for Uighurs in Xinjiang. The next step might be in the air – the US and some of its allies could stop flights to Xinjiang, and Washington could begin to list Taiwan as an independent entity for commercial aviation, hitting at the ‘One China’ policy. Trump has been particularly lucky in finding a readymade enemy to bash up. The trade war with China has provided him an opportunity to blame Beijing for every ill afflicting the US economy. On its part, China stands discredited for its highly opaque trade policy, using non-tariff trade barriers, stealing intellectual property or forcing it to be handed over; the list of its errors of omission and commission are endless. Contrary to Trump’s strident anti-China stand on almost any issue – from commerce to coronavirus -- the Democrats seem to favour a subtler, if not softer, approach towards Beijing. Unable to project a stronger alternative to Trump whether in terms of their presidential candidate or their policies on the economy and trade, national security or even resurrection of what seems to be a collapsed health infrastructure, the Democrats may not be able to stop a Trump re-election. But elections being what they are, a surprise turn of events can never be ruled out. After all, this year, the election will also be about Trump’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. New Delhi has invested in Trump, but it will have to be ready with plan B in the event of a change of guard in the White House, which would come as music to Beijing’s ears. Any reversal of Trump’s trade restrictions and military stance in the region will ease the pressure on China. Any rethinking in the White House, post-election, on resuming aid and arms supplies to Islamabad will seriously impact the regional balance, putting China-Pakistan in a position of great advantage. Some academics and observers are apprehensive that even Trump, if he is re-elected, would water down his attack on China, beginning by absolving Beijing of guilt for inflicting the Covid-19 pandemic on the world. Once off the hook on that, Beijing could begin to deal with Asian capitals more aggressively, weakening the nascent anti-China coalition. No matter who is the White House post-November, however, the US-China rivalry and competition is not going to die down. And New Delhi cannot sit this one out, whether the next US President chooses to step up a direct confrontation with China or prefers the wiser course of offshore balancing. When the Chinese Ambassador to India and the Australian High Commissioner in New Delhi engage in a sharp back-and-forth on twitter, New Delhi must realise India is the new arena in this US-China rivalry. And it has a huge role in determining whether this remains a cold war or turns into a hot one. India needs to be on the right side on this one. But it also needs to be able to follow an independent path when needed. The increasing realisation that we need to be strong economically and militarily to avoid becoming a pawn in the international geopolitical schemes of stronger powers has to be put into action with an appropriate plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pompeo-is-pumping-up-the-volume-on-beijing-is-it-the-silly-election-season-871205.html
09-08-2020||Opinion||What will Ram temple symbolise for you?||The temple has been on many minds since the Bhoomipujan of August 5. The-mosque-that-once-was has also been in our thoughts. The building of a grand temple to Rama on the same spot where the Babri Masjid once stood is something so many of us are finding hard to wrap our heads around. What does the temple stand for now? What does it symbolise? As I heard the speeches made after the Bhoomipujan and took in the enormity of the moment, a part of my mind felt as though I was watching not the building of a new temple but the inauguration of a new India. An India that would run according to principles very different from the ones chosen at the birth of the Republic. Prime Minister Modi had just performed an hour-long puja on live TV to mark the start of the temple’s construction. The temple was being described as the new symbol of national integration. Where was the Constitution in all of this, I wondered. RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and Modi soon went on to speak of the temple as the symbol of a self-confident and self-reliant India. They also hailed it as a modern-day marker of India’s ancient ethos of peaceful co-existence with all. The prime minister quoted from Tulsidas’ Ramayan or the Ramcharitmanas to great effect, describing how the temple was linked to creating a society with a place for all strata of people, invoking the ideal of ‘Ram Rajya’ no doubt. As the number of things the temple was supposed to symbolise mounted, I remembered something I had read in the columns of those who had covered the Babri Masjid demolition. They spoke of how it was important even then to have distinguished between the devotion of common Hindus for the birthplace of Rama and the political movement that had seized the initiative to milk this sentiment for whatever grievance there was in it. I saw this same sentiment of simple devotion reflected on my social media timelines that day. To many Hindus, then, the temple stood for belief in something bigger than themselves. It was simply the supreme object of their bhakti. It would never be as simple for me, alas. But watching the scenes unfold on TV, I too found myself responding to something other than a sense of fear and disbelief at the proceedings unfolding in front of me. Perhaps it was a flicker of recognition — nothing more — that what responded in me to the beauty of Tulsidas’ words, and the gentleness and generosity of Rama that I could sense, was also active in those before me on the stage, no matter what their lapses as people were. It was something vague, difficult to explain. I knew it was the intimation of something bigger than the treasure trove of my likes and dislikes. How? I was crying by now, grief mixed with something less definable. Something that felt like a release. The good and the bad, the beautiful and the despicable, the right and the wrong all mixed up. Like they are in all human beings. This is the thing, then, that I took away from Ayodhya on August 5: The Ram temple will be a reminder of the failures of our State, our politics and our society; but it will also be a reminder of what we need to do to help us stay the course henceforth. Let me put it another way. That day in Ayodhya, no one mentioned Ravana. But Ravana was liberated by Rama, not just killed by him, at the end of their epic battle. The teaching there is that we must liberate the tendency in us to hate and allow it to be won over by the essence of love. That is what Rama stands for and that is what his temple, too, must represent. It is this understanding that must guide us now in the long fight that awaits us against what is unjust in this land. Fight we must, but without anger or hate. This is what the temple will symbolise for me. What does it symbolise for you?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-will-ram-temple-symbolise-for-you-871207.html
09-08-2020||Opinion||Songs of the lake||All the lakes are dry. The frogs have given birth. The ponds are dry. The crickets have given birth. Why have you not come, O God of rain?” So goes a local song, sung by women living around the lakes of Sarjapur. When the rains do come, as they have in force this year, they create a problem of plenty. Coorg and Kerala are facing landslides this year, Bombay is dealing with unprecedented rains. It will soon be our turn, if the rains keep on at this rate. How did people get Gangamma, the Goddess of water, to stay and bless the land with life-giving water? Songs may provide us a clue. Yelegowda built a small lake, so goes another song. But there was not a single drop of water in the lake for the cows, or the bull. Yelegowda started to worry. He prayed to Gangamma. There was no thunder, no lightning – but magically, it started to rain. Water flowed into the six canals that Yelegowda had built. It flowed out, above the waste weir. Gangamma had come, but refused to stay. Gangamma demanded a human sacrifice. She asked for the eldest daughter-in-law of Chikkanna Gowda to carry a deepa made of rice flour, offer a goat, and provide herself as a sacrifice. Chikkanna Gowda angrily refused. But his daughter-in-law Honnamma, having overheard the conversation, made up her mind. “Honnamma became one with Gangamma.” Poignant and heartbreaking, these songs are filled with stories of sacrifice – a cost largely borne by the women of the landscape. “Gange, Goddess of the seven heavens”, they sing. “Can our lakes survive without water? And will the canals remain? Fishes survive in the lakes. In the fields, paddy grows with water. Without water, all life will be destroyed, O Gange. The entire universe belongs to you.” The rural landscape of peripheral Bengaluru described in these songs has transformed into one that is decidedly urban. The canals and ponds on Sarjapur road, once thick with fish, have been lost to roads and high-rise apartments. Paddy fields and wetlands have been taken over by IT companies and malls, and cashew and mango plantations have been replaced by marble and granite tile factories. Where are the kaluves that took the water to the fields? Where are the eleven large open wells that once surrounded Kaikondarahalli lake, absorbing the excess water during the rains and then returning it to the land and its people in summer? Gangamma, the Goddess of water, and Maleraya, the God of the rains, are described as powerful but capricious, generous but demanding. There is a landscape element to satisfying this demand – clear as an underlying signature. The lakes will fill if the canals are dug. The water will stay if the bunds are built. The lake will hold water if the community gets together to desilt the bottom. Maleraya will consent to shower the land with rains if seven Gowdas of seven villages get together, holding a collaborative community feast – he does not seem to answer private requests. The rains will come more easily and more often if the forests in Coorg are intact. The waters of the Cauvery will fill if the hillsides of the Western Ghats are cloaked with trees, which channel the rains into the river. The river will flow free if it is not impeded by rampant sand-mining and encroachment. Urban Bengaluru will be primed to receive water not by the marriage of frogs, but by restoring its wetlands, canals, lakes, ponds, and valleys. Gangamma and Maleraya do not want private investment-backed ‘lake beautification’ ventures. They have always responded to the requests of communities, to the needs of the fish and the trees, the grass and the cows, the fruit and the flowers. Without the songs of the community, and the vision of the landscape, there is no hope for the future of Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/songs-of-the-lake-871208.html
09-08-2020||Opinion||Of macabre thought experiments and moral compasses||Despite being banished from my living room-study to the far corner of a bedroom, everyone in the household can involuntarily hear me when I do webinars. One of my recent webinars must have coincided with the time they were all hanging out just outside my door, because that evening Fairy accused me of “bullying” my students too much. When I asked her to be more specific, she told me that she overheard me interrogating my students on whether they would let a runaway train kill people sleeping on the railway track. So, the kids had overheard part of the discussion on the trolley problem. Since 2018, I have been developing and teaching a course called “Ethical Reasoning in Public Policy” as part of Takshashila’s graduate programme. It came out of a realisation that while students of public policy are taught economic reasoning at the better schools, few expose them to reasoning out the ethical dimensions. In our own student base, the fraction of students who have studied philosophy at college is minuscule. I myself am among those who didn’t have to take a single lesson in ethics or philosophy even at the master’s level at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. To fix this widespread shortcoming, I have come up with an ‘Eightfold Path’ for ethical reasoning in public policy. It was this class that the kids had overheard. The trolley problem is an archetypical moral dilemma used to peel the onion of ethical reasoning. And it can bring tears into your eyes. Devised by the British philosopher Philippa Foot in 1967, it involves a runaway train that will kill people lying on the track in front of it. You can pull a lever to shift it to a different track, but there are people lying on that, too. This creates the setting for a thought experiment. Would you allow one person to die if you could save two or more? The idea is to put people in the uncomfortable position of having to grapple with a difficult, inescapable moral choice as the first step in helping them learn to make well-reasoned ethical decisions. Since students initially try to cop out by saying things like “I’ll apply the brakes” or “I’ll make a loud noise and alert the people sleeping on the tracks”, I often have to compel them to confront the main issue. To the kids this sounds like bullying. So, I decided to put the trolley problem to thekids. All three readily said that they would let one person die if it saved two or more lives. This suggested that they are instinctively utilitarian, like Jeremy Bentham choosing the “greatest good for the greatest number.” But Fairy said that it also depends on who the people were. The three agreed that they would save their friends and people they knew even if it meant more strangers would die. And what if there were friends on both tracks? Would they save closer friends or more friends? I think the discussion was inconclusive on this, and when I pressed with my questioning, Fairy said that this is exactly why she accused me of bullying. After introducing students to the trolley problem, I usually ask them to read Kenan Malik’s The Quest for a Moral Compass to examine the various ways we can approach the dilemma. I couldn’t assign this homework to my kids, but I’m hoping they’ll overhear the next few lessons on virtue, duty, dharma and utilitarian ethics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/of-macabre-thought-experiments-and-moral-compasses-871210.html
09-08-2020||Opinion||Two roads diverged at Ayodhya, and we took the one more travelled by||Being at the crossroads implies a period of reflection, a pause during which a nation decides which fork to take, which path to opt for over the other. In the week gone by, India hit a crossroads so briefly it was barely noticeable: There was, after all, always only one road it was going to tread. Narendra Modi’s speech at the puja and brick-laying for the Ram mandir was a powerful one that hit all the notes you would have expected at an event that has been years in the making. The stage was set, and the consummate politician and speechmaker was never going to fluff his lines. Six years into his prime ministership, Modi was presiding over his party’s most triumphant hour: Not just the realisation of another manifesto promise but the birth of a moment few devout Hindus, until late last year, thought they would see in their lifetimes. A lot has been said about how Modi’s speech channelled Ram’s teachings to preach unity and equal treatment for all. It touched every possible constituency: women, the poor, the oppressed, Dalits, Adivasis. It made a point of quoting from the Ramayana of Tamil country, a rare part of the land where the BJP has little sway; why, it even mentioned the word ‘Muslim’, even if it was only to note how a country like Indonesia had a Ramayana tradition of its own. But the speech was most significant for none of these. It was important because it left no doubt, if there ever was any, about the Sangh Parivar’s vision for India’s future. India is truly on the path towards a Hindu Rashtra, defined by a few for the many initially, but fast becoming a snowball of an idea gathering mass and momentum as it rolls downhill. The great irony of a speech that extolled Ram’s belief of even-handedness and love for all was that it was most notable for its exclusions. It was a continuation of the BJP’s pretence that there is only group that matters in India, a pretence that seems, depressingly, set to become reality as the years roll on. It was no accident that Modi drew a parallel between the struggle for independence that culminated with freedom on August 15 in 1947 and the struggle for the Ram mandir that led to the chest-thumping of August 5, 73 years later. This one comparison should be enough: a struggle that unified India and was fought by Indians of all stripes for a national cause was being equated with a struggle -- however worthy -- of one section of Indians -- however large. Only the very dense -- of the order of Congress men still hoping for a meritocratic succession in their party -- would miss the meaning. There is some previous to this, as they say. The Citizenship Amendment Act from late last year was remarkable, and made headlines worldwide for the deliberate message of exclusion it sent to Muslims. Twelve months ago, there was the message sent to India’s only Muslim-majority state, Jammu & Kashmir: a move that may have been in the national interest, but done in as draconian a way as possible. The BJP’s model seems to be Israel, which has been sending these messages to its minorities for years, or at a stretch China, ace encroacher and app-blocked enemy, for its treatment of Uighurs. All this seems intended to leave the Muslim community in a state where it hopes for neglect and nothing more. After all, the elections of 2029 could be fought between a Right-wing party and an ultra Right-wing one. The Congress has been expressing its joy at the construction of the temple, and a government-friendly TV channel recently described archenemy Arvind Kejriwal as a “pragmatic CM and uncompromising politician”. It would be naive, and missing the point, to bemoan the loss of an opportunity for the BJP to unite the nation. The nation will be united, but it depends on how the BJP defines the nation. If you can take this, it is fine: a united India is a stronger India. After all, bhaya binu hoyee na preethi, the ancient Indian wisdom, echoed less poetically by Theodore Roosevelt, of speaking softly and carrying a big stick. Just one point, though, for those gloating over how a majority has been restored to its glory and a minority shown its rightful place: You never know when they will come for you. With a small number making all the decisions on what is right and wrong, brooking no questions or opposition, most people are vulnerable to some degree because every community and each of us is a minority in some way or the other. Tomorrow, it could be a ‘national’ language; day after, a dress code; a week later, a mandatory national greeting. Some of these will be harmless but annoying; some will mark the end of traditions held dear by many. Perhaps (or perhaps not) the pendulum is righting historic wrongs, and the key is in stopping the pendulum at a position of equilibrium. Historically, though, regimes that reengineer peoples’ minds don’t know when to stop: The temptation to keep going will be strong. Will the ancient wisdom of Ram Rajya come to the rescue?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/two-roads-diverged-at-ayodhya-and-we-took-the-one-more-travelled-by-871211.html
09-08-2020||South||Home Minister Amit Shah condoles lives lost at Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 facility||At least seven patients were killed in the fire at a hotel which was converted to a Covid-19 care facility in Vijayawada. "Deeply anguished by the news of a tragic fire accident at a Covid-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. Centre assures all possible support to the state govt. "My condolences are with the affected families in this time of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/home-minister-amit-shah-condoles-lives-lost-at-andhra-pradesh-covid-19-facility-871282.html
09-08-2020||South||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Vijaywada Covid-19 facility fire incident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed anguish at the death of patients in a fire incident at a Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh's Vijaywada on Sunday. He said he discussed the incident with state chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and assured all possible help. Seven Covid-19 patients were killed in the incident at a hotel converted into a treatment facility at Vijayawada. "Anguished by the fire at a Covid centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible," the Prime Minister tweeted.   "Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan Ji and assured all possible support," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-vijaywada-covid-19-facility-fire-incident-871285.html
09-08-2020||South||Telangana Covid-19 tally reaches 79,495; 12 deaths push toll to 627||Telangana reported 1,982 new Covid-19 cases taking the overall infection tally to 79,495, while the death toll mounted to 627 with 12 more fatalities. The declining trend in new positive cases (observed during the last several days) continued in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with 463 fresh cases being reported. Medchal-Malkajgiri (141), Rangareddy (139), Karimnagar (96) and Jogulamba Gadwal (93) were at the top in positive cases, a state government bulletin said on Sunday, providing data as of 8 pm on July 8. The GHMC has been the epicentre of the virus spread in the state. Districts, including Rangareddy, Medchal- Malkajgiri, Karimnagar have also been reporting a considerably large number of cases in the state. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.78 percent, while it was 2.03 percent at the national level. The total number of people who have recovered from the infectious disease so far was 55,999, while 22,869 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 70.44 percent in the state, while it was 68.32 percent in the country. The number of individuals in-home/institutional isolation was 16,112. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 22,925 samples were tested on August 8. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 6,13,231. The state government last week decided to increase the number of samples to be tested daily to 40,000. On age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34.4 percent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 25 percent (male-17.7 and female-7.3). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds were 11,643 and 4,352 and 1,889 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in the government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 323 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The bulletin provided a list of laboratories, rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, the lists of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-covid-19-tally-reaches-79495-12-deaths-push-toll-to-627-871291.html
09-08-2020||South||Death toll in landslide in Idukki district rises to 28||The death toll in the massive landslide that destroyed a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in the high range Idukki district of Kerala rose to 28 on Sunday with two more bodies being retrieved from the debris. "Three days after the settlements were swept away by devastating landslides at Pettimudi near Rajamala, authorities have now decided to take help of sniffer dogs to trace the persons buried under the debris," officials said. According to the government, 78 people were staying at the spot where the tragedy occurred. While 12 were rescued, 28 bodies were found. Officials said efforts were on to find the rest. The picturesque landscape of Pettimudi was flattened into a rough patch of boulders and mud with parts of asbestos and tin sheets seen scattered around. The incident is said to have occurred in the wee hours of Friday when a huge mound of earth fell on the "row houses" and two children and five women were among the deceased, most of whom were plantation workers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. NDRF chief in charge of south Indian state, Rekha Nambiar is leading the 55-member team which is entrusted with the search and rescue mission. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts on Sunday. Incessant rains, landslides and opening of shutters of dams across rivers have caused a rise in water level in rivers and streams in central Kerala. The normal life of people living in low lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha has been affected by floodwaters entering their homes. Low-lying areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts are heavily impacted due to flooding. Hundreds of families have been shifted to relief camps from-low lying areas including Kumarakom and Kuttanad regions of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts, they said. A car with a man was washed away in floodwaters at Manarcad area in Kottayam district in the wee hours of Sunday. The NDRF team has launched a rescue operation for the missing person identified as Justin, a native of Angamaly. He is an airport taxi driver. Considering the spread of novel coronavirus, the authorities have opened separate camps for different categories of the flood-affected people. In Ernakulam district, 1,203 flood-affected people have been shifted to relief camps. While 1,118 persons have been lodged in general relief camps, 67 senior citizens are staying in camps for persons above 60 years of age. Eighteen persons are staying in the camps set for quarantined people, district administration officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-in-landslide-in-idukki-district-rises-to-28-871295.html
09-08-2020||South||Kozhikode air crash: DGCA begins examination of AI plane's black box||Indian investigators on Sunday began examining the black box of a Boeing-737 that overshot a runway on its second attempt, killing 18 people in the country's worst aviation accident in a decade. The aircraft fell into a valley and broke in half. In an interview with Reuters' partner ANI, on Sunday, Anil Kumar, head of India's Directorate General of Civil Aviation, said the country would open the recovered transcripts to international investigators, as well as manufacturer Boeing. "Only after conducting a thorough and unbiased probe, can we tell what exactly happened," Kumar said. The 2,700-metre runway at the airport is known as a "table-top", an aviation term for runways with steep drops at one or both ends. They leave little room for error should a pilot overshoot the runway, either through human error or mechanical failure. Late on Saturday, Kumar told CNN-News18 in an interview that the pilot made an aborted landing attempt into a headwind and then made a second approach with a tailwind, landing 1,000 metres down the runway. An air traffic control official familiar with the crash confirmed this version of events, adding it is unusual to attempt a landing at the airport with a tailwind, which is typically used for takeoffs. "The length of the runway in Calicut is around 2,700 metres and the plane touched the ground after crossing 1,000 metres of the length, leaving less room to bring the aircraft to a halt," the official, who declined to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media, told Reuters. "It was windy and rainy and the runway surface was wet. In such instances the weather is dynamic." "An aircraft typically lands and departs in a headwind as a tailwind increases the plane's speed." A spokesman for Air India did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The company has already said it will pay compensation to the families of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-air-crash-dgca-begins-examination-of-ai-planes-black-box-871315.html
09-08-2020||South||Kerala landslide: Sniffer dogs join rescue operations; 2 more bodies of victims recovered||Kerala Police's sniffer dogs were pressed into service at the landslide spot to trace at least 38 persons who are still missing, on Sunday. As many parts of Kerala were flooded as rivers breached their banks, two more bodies were recovered from landslide hit Pettimudi near Munnar, taking the death toll to 28. One of the bodies was also reportedly traced with the help of a sniffer dog. The Fire and Rescue Service personnel involved in the rescue was tested Covid-19 positive. Hence, a team of rescue workers was advised to go on quarantine. Several areas of Kuttanad in Alappuzha, Tiruvalla, and Aranmula in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam were flooded as the water level of Pamba and Meenachal rivers rose. A red alert was sounded at seven districts and an orange alert in six districts by the Indian Meteorological Department on Sunday morning. A youth was missing after a car was washed away at Kottayam district. At Kuttanad in Alappuzha, many houses were almost flooded fully. Massive destruction to agriculture was also caused. With the water level in Pamaba dam rising, a high alert was sounded at the Rani area of Pathanamthitta which might flood if water flows heavily from the Pamba dam. Around 20 boats were kept ready at Ranni for shifting people. At Aranamula in Pathanamthitta, scores of units involved in the making of traditional Aranmula mirror making already shifted raw materials like mud required for the mirror making as they suffered massive damages in 2018. Anticipating flood, many people already shifted to safer locations. Hundreds of families were shifted to relief camps from flooded ares by rescue workers. A section of local people using country bodies. With the water level of all dams were also rising and are being monitored regularly. Kerala also sought Tamilnadu's permission to take excess water from Mullaperiyar dam to Vaigai dam through the tunnel Minor landslides were reported from part of Wayanad. But no major casualties were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-landslide-sniffer-dogs-join-rescue-operations-2-more-bodies-of-victims-recovered-871324.html
09-08-2020||South||Inflow of 90,000 cusecs pushes Mettur Dam level to 75.83 feet||Due to the heavy inflow, the water-level in the Mettur Dam in Salem district on Sunday stood at 75.83 feet against the capacity of 120 feet. The inflow, which was 55,000 cusecs on Saturday, increased to 90,000 cusecs this morning, raising the water level by five feet following the release of surplus water from Cauvery river in Karnataka, official sources said. While the outflow from the dam, the Stanley Reservoir, the lifeline of farmers in the delta region, was 1,000 cusecs and the available water in the reservoir was 36. 72 tmc against 93.47 tmc, they said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inflow-of-90000-cusecs-pushes-mettur-dam-level-to-7583-feet-871329.html
09-08-2020||South||Kozhikode crash: Mortal remains of 16 passengers handed over to families||Air India Express said on Sunday that the mortal remains of the 16 passengers who lost their lives in the Kozhikode plane crash had been handed over to their families. The mortal remains of pilot-in-command Deepak Vasanth Sathe have already been taken to the Cochin International Airport, from where it would be taken to Mumbai later in the day, the airline said in a statement. The mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were cremated on Sunday "with attendance from all family members as well as with the officials of Air India and Air India Express present to mark respect to the departed soul at Mathura, his hometown", it said. The flight from Dubai with 190 people on board, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway on Friday night while landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including both pilots. "AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) has initiated the investigation into the accident with the support of Flight Safety Officials," the airline said. "As regards the deceased passengers, the mortal remains have been handed over to the families with their consent," it said. A total of 149 people have been admitted to various hospitals. 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday after his visit to the Kozhikode Medical College, where many of the affected passengers have been admitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-crash-mortal-remains-of-16-passengers-handed-over-to-families-871340.html
09-08-2020||South||Kanimozhi alleges Hindi imposition at Chennai Airport||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Sunday said that a CISF officer posted at the airport here sought to know whether she was an “Indian” for not knowing Hindi, triggering yet another debate on “Hindi imposition” in institutions and installations managed by the Centre in non-Hindi speaking states. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when Kanimozhi was at the domestic terminal of the airport to board a flight to New Delhi. As Kanimozhi narrated the incident on her verified Twitter page, #HindiImposition hashtag became the flavour on the micro-blogging site with hundreds of users supporting the MP and questioning the “insistence on one language.” “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if ‘I am an Indian’ when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi. #Hindiimposition,” Kanimozhi wrote. As the incident stoked a row with many seeking explanations from the agency, CISF said it has ordered an enquiry into the matter. “It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language,” the CISF said. Kanimozhi’s allegations of “Hindi imposition” comes close on the heels of the DMK viewing the three- language policy proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) as an attempt to bring Sanskrit via the “back door.” DMK, which was at the forefront of the anti-Hindi agitation in the 1960s and came to power in 1967 riding high on the wave, has been consistent in its stand on “Hindi imposition” as language is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu. After landing in Delhi, Kanimozhi told DH that the incident took place at the security area of the airport when an officer was making an announcement in Hindi. “I told the officer that not everyone knows Hindi and that the announcement should be in a language that people understand here (in Chennai). That is when she asked me whether I was an Indian. I did tell her this was not the way to talk and I still do not understand the connection between me not knowing Hindi and me being an Indian,” Kanimozhi added. As a damage-control exercise, CISF officials met Kanimozhi at the Delhi airport immediately after she got out of the aircraft and promised action. “The officials told me that it is not the policy of the CISF to insist on any language and promised that action will be taken. The DIG, CISF from Chennai Airport also spoke to me over the phone and promised action,” Kanimozhi added. Quoting Kanimozhi’s tweet, several people took to Twitter to narrate their experiences of being told to learn Hindi by CISF personnel at airports and how “Hindi is being imposed” quietly on people from non-Hindi speaking states. “If this is the treatment an MP and daughter of an ex-CM gets in India, imagine the plight of ordinary non-Hindi speaking people. #HindiImposition is a pandemic. Non-Hindi speakers from all over the country must fight tooth and nail to stop this inhuman imposition,” Amarnath Shivashankar, who tweets via @Amara_Bengaluru, wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kanimozhi-alleges-hindi-imposition-at-chennai-airport-871345.html
09-08-2020||South||Asked if I was an Indian for not knowing Hindi at airport: Kanimozhi||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Sunday said a CISF officer posted at the airport sought to know whether she was an “Indian” for not knowing Hindi. The incident happened on Sunday afternoon when Kanimozhi was at the Chennai airport to board a flight to New Delhi. “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if ‘I am an Indian’ when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi. #Hindiimposition,” Kanimozhi wrote on her verified Twitter page. The DMK’s Lok Sabha MP told DH that the incident took place at the security area of the airport when an officer was making some announcement in Hindi. “I told the officer that not everyone knows Hindi and the announcement should be in a language that people understand here (in Chennai). That is when she asked me whether I was an Indian,” she said. As Kanimozhi’s tweet went viral on Twitter and people began trending #HindiImposition, CISF officials met her at the Delhi airport immediately after she got out of the aircraft. “The officials told me that it is not the policy of the CISF to insist on any language and promised that action will be taken. The DIG, CISF from Chennai Airport also spoke to me over the phone and promised action,” Kanimozhi added. In a Twitter post, the CISF said it has ordered an enquiry into the matter. “It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language,” it said. Kanimozhi’s allegations of “Hindi imposition” comes close on the heels of the DMK viewing the three-language policy proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) as an attempt to bring Sanskrit via the “back door.” DMK, which was at the forefront of the anti-Hindi agitation in the 1960s and came to power in 1967 riding high on the wave, has been consistent in its stand on “Hindi imposition.” Tamil Nadu MPs from Congress and her party, DMK, came out in support of her seeking action against the officer for making such remarks. Soon, Twitter was abuzz with the #HindiImposition hashtag as many used it to air their grievances. “If this is the treatment a MP and daughter of an ex CM gets in India, imagine the plight of ordinary non Hindi speaking people. #HindiImposition is a pandemic. Non Hindi speakers from all over the country must fight tooth and nail to stop this inhuman imposition,” Amarnath Shivashankar, who tweets via @Amara_Bengaluru, wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/asked-if-i-was-an-indian-for-not-knowing-hindi-at-airport-kanimozhi-871357.html
09-08-2020||South||Police register negligence case in AIE plane crash; condition of 14 passengers critical||The state police registered a case and constituted a special team to investigate the Air India Express plane crash at Kozhikode international airport on Friday that claimed 18 lives, including the pilot and co-pilot. Condition of 14 persons injured in the crash continued to be critical, while 57 persons have so far been discharged. A total of 115 persons injured in the flight are still under treatment at various hospitals in Kozhikode and Malappuram disticts. While one of the deceased tested Covid-19 positive, one person under treatment also tested positive for the virus. Hence, all passengers have been kept in observation. Malappuram district police chief Abdul Karim said that the police case was registered at Karipur police station under section 11 of the Aircraft Act for flying so as to cause danger and sections 337, 338 and 304-A of IPC. A prima facie assumption is that the mishap occured due to negligence of the pilot. A report would be sought from the DGCA regarding the incident and further investigation would be conducted on the basis of it. A team led by additional SP G Sabu was constituted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-register-negligence-case-in-aie-plane-crash-condition-of-14-passengers-critical-871390.html
09-08-2020||South||Sri Lankan don poisoned to death by revengeful woman?||The question whether Amani Thanji, who had been living with the Sri Lankan don Angoda Lokka, poisoned him to death to avenge the killing of her husband in the island nation, is doing the rounds among the police and public. The suspicion arose after a postmortem report revealed that the finger and toe nails of the deceased gangster were bluish indicating poisoning, police sources said. Police said they suspect the don was killed as media reports in Sri Lanka indicated that Lokka, wanted by the Interpol and the Lankan police for various crimes, was poisoned to death in India in early July. It was also reported in the newspapers, quoting the Lankan intelligence, that a gang opposed to Lokka had sent a woman to finish him off. Lokka reportedly suffered a cardiac arrest and died on July 3 and the body, after the postmortem, was shifted to Madurai and cremated the next day. The CB-CID, investigating into the case, has arrested three persons - Thanji, Sivakami Sundari and Dyaneshwaran - on the charge of fabricating documents to get for Lokka an aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh. He had been staying here since 2017. The investigating agency has sent viscera samples to Chennai for examination to help in doing DNA tests and in identifying whether the deceased don was really Lokka. CB-CID is also working on to match some fingerprints received from the residence, where Lokka and Thanji were staying, with that of the gangster to establish his identity, the sources said. The agency has filed a petition in the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court seeking to take the three into its custody for interrogation. The case is coming up for hearing on Wednesday, even as Thanji was shifted to Puzhal prison in Chennai where foreign nationals are generally lodged. Thanji was hospitalised before being shifted to Chennai as she had taken an overdose of pills to terminate her two-month pregnancy, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lankan-don-poisoned-to-death-by-revengeful-woman-871403.html
09-08-2020||South||10 containers with ammonium nitrate leave from Chennai||Ten of a total of 37 containers containing ammonium nitrate, stored in a Container Freight Station (CFS) near here for five years, was on Sunday transported to Telangana after a Hyderabad-based firm won an e-auction for buying the explosive chemical. Sources said 10 containers were transported on Sunday, while the rest 27 will leave the CFS by the end of this week. The chemical was seized by the customs department in 2015 from the Karur-based Amman Chemicals for not possessing required license to import ammonium nitrate and was stored at the CFS in Manali near here since then. Fresh concerns were raised over the chemical being stored in high quantities very close to the city after a huge explosion ripped through Lebanese capital Beirut last week due to the explosive chemical. Though the customs department claimed the chemical was stored safely in the CFS and there was no residential area within the vicinity of the facility, an inspection by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) found that around 12,000 people were living within a 2-kilometre radius. The CFS, which has been operational since 2001, is spread across 18 acres and 740 tons of ammonium nitrate was stored inside 37 containers. Since the huge amount of ammonium nitrate was imported by Amman Chemicals from South Korea without required permission, the department had seized the chemical along with the containers in 2015 and had stored them at the aforesaid CFS. The consignment was seized in September 2015 after the firm’s licence was cancelled. Amman Chemicals also moved the Madras High Court against cancellation of the licence, which upheld the government’s decision in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-containers-with-ammonium-nitrate-leave-from-chennai-871410.html
09-08-2020||South||Runway expansion of Kozhikode airport held up over land acquisition delay||While the Air India Express plane crash has brought to focus the need for expanding runway of the Kozhikode international airport, a proposal of Airport Authority of India (AAI) in this regard was pending for quite long time. Public resistance against land acquisition and lack of political will are the major hurdles that affect land acquisition, which is the responsibility of the state government. AAI had even brought down their requirements to 135 acres from initial plans of 450 acres. Even as the Runway End Safety Area was set up for the tabletop runway last year after constant alerts from DGCA, it was done by utilising the existing runway. As a result, the runway length got reduced to 2,700 metres from 2,850 metres when the RESA was expanded to 240 metres from 90 metres last year. There are allegations that the present CPM-led government is now more focused on the development of adjacent Kannur international airport, which is a PPP model airport that was set up recently. T V Ibrahim, MLA of Kondotty in Malappuram where the Kozhikode airport is located, told DH that though the present government had initially shown much enthusiasm towards land acquisition, now it seems to be fading. The local residents need to be taken into confidence by identifying suitable land for rehabilitating them so that the local resistance against land acquisition could be addressed, said the IUML MLA. Restrictions were imposed on the operation of wide-bodied aircraft from Kozhikode airport owing to the limitations of the runway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/runway-expansion-of-kozhikode-airport-held-up-over-land-acquisition-delay-871419.html
09-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 5,994 fresh Covid-19 cases, 119 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported 5,994 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 2,96,901 while 119 fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,927. Of the dead, as many as 103 had co-morbidities and 16 none. An 11-year old boy, two 90-year old men, a 23-year-old man and two 40-year old women were among those who succumbed to the virus. Chennai's share in the state's death toll was 2,302. Today is the seventh day of 100 plus deaths in Tamil Nadu. The number of tests today was 70,186, the highest in a single day so far in the state and in total 32,25,805 tests have been done and all the tests were RT-PCR based, a state Covid bulletin said. While active cases were 53,336, as many as 6,020 patients were discharged from various hospitals and cumulatively 2,38,638people have recovered. In the cumulative state count of 2,96,901 cases, Chennai share was 1,09,117. The over 5,900 new cases today include 989 from Chennai, and the infections in three districts near here (Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur) together stood at 1,186, crossing the state capital's count.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-5994-fresh-covid-19-cases-119-fatalities-871427.html
09-08-2020||South||743 TTD employees tested positive till Sunday; three including one priest dead||In a startling revelation, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams officials stated that 743 employees have tested positive for Covid-19 till Sunday. The Tirumala Venkateswara temple, which was closed for pilgrims since 20 March due to Covid-19 lockdown, was reopened from 11 June for darshans in limited numbers. Though the TTD officials claim that no devotee was infected, many of the temple staff, including several archakas (priests), have tested positive. On Sunday, TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal stated that “so far 743 employees of TTD have tested positive.” “402 of them have already recovered and joined their duties back while 338 are undergoing treatment in the TTD rest houses turned Covid-19 centres at Srinivasam, Vishnunivasam and Madhavam,” the chief administrative officer said.  Singhal interacted with devotees as part of the monthly Dial-your-EO programme conducted in TTD’s administrative building in Tirupati. While the numbers appear alarming, Singhal told DH that the 743 cases were including TTD’s regular, contract and outsourced staff adding to about 22,000 strong work-force. "Only three of our employees succumbed to the dreadful virus. We are providing the best possible arrangements and treatment to our employees. I thank all our employees for offering extraordinary services to the visiting pilgrims (in such testing times)", the EO said. One of the three dead is a 48-year-old priest who was employed at the Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati but was on deputation to Tirumala where he was performing rituals. The TTD is facing criticism for keeping the temple open for darshans even as many TTD employees are testing positive and Tirupati, the gateway to Tirumala, becoming a Covid-19 hotspot with thousands of cases. Singhal disapproved of such remarks and suggested that the temple would remain open for the public.  ' "Initially, everyone appreciated TTD’s move reopening darshans. But as soon as cases started increasing in Tirupati, the blame was thrown upon us by a section of media, social media and by some vested persons who state that we have resumed darshans to make money. Whereas, we are spending more on Covid-19 measures. Our only intention is to satisfy the devotees with hassle-free darshans, strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines,” the EO stated. Singhal also clarified that given the live telecast of Srivari Nitya Kalyanotsavam in Tirumala between 12 noon and 1 pm, the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel could not relay the Bhoomi puja of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya on 5 August 5. Andhra Pradesh BJP leaders had raised this issue. "Unfortunately, some people are intentionally trying to damage TTD’s image. TTD is committed to the protection and promotion of Hindu Sanatana Dharma only," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/743-ttd-employees-tested-positive-till-sunday-three-including-one-priest-dead-871432.html
09-08-2020||South||Telangana to ramp up Covid-19 testing to 40,000 samples per day, says Minister||The Telangana government is presently conducting 23,000 Covid-19 tests per day and the number would soon be scaled to 40,000, state Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao said on Sunday. "We are testing nearly 23,000 samples per day and it will soon go upto 40,000. Tests are being carried out in 1,200 plus centres. Our fatality rate is less than 1 percent and recovery rate one of the best in the country at 72 percentage. Of course there is more to do," he noted. Rao was responding to a query posed by a twitter user on whether testing in Telangana was low compared to states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The question was part of an #Ask KTR session held by him. As of 8 PM on August 8, the state has conducted 6.13 lakh tests. The tally of positive cases in the state was 79,495. The case fatality rate was 0.78 per cent, while the recovery rate was 70.44 per cent. When a twitter user alleged that there was no proper health infrastructure in the state and also sought to know of the situation in state-run Gandhi hospital, he said the same facility and its team has treated thousands of coronavirus patients and sent them home safely. "Of course there is scope for improvement and we will take necessary steps," he said. Reacting to complaints of private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, he said the government has already taken action against a couple of private hospitals. "We have already acted against a couple of private hospitals and will not hesitate to act on more. The government hospitals are offering their best services.. request people to realise this," he said. To another query as to why the Centre's 'Ayushman Bharat' scheme was not implemented in Telangana, he claimed that the state's 'AarogyaSri' health insurance scheme was more comprehensive than 'Ayushman Bharat.' "Arogyasri is more comprehensive than Ayushmann Bharat and in fact the central government's scheme is modelled on it," he pointed out. To a suggestion to focus on rural healthcare infrastructure in the state, Rama Rao said the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that a lot more needs to be done in the healthcare sector. When a doctor, posted at a Covid-19 centre at government medical college in Nalgonda, pointed to the lack of proper accommodation for healthcare personnel, Rao said the college was a newly-established institution and that it would take time to develop it. The minister, however, said he would request the District Collector to provide better amenities to frontline warriors. Asked when city buses, the Multi-Modal Transport System (MMTS), trains and metro rail services would resume in the city, he said the state government was awaiting the nod from the Centre. When a twitter user took exception to his reported remarks that there won't be any prizes given for conducting more Covid-19 tests, Rao said he only meant to convey that the Telangana government was not in race with any other state. "Each state has its own set of challenges and we will work towards combating the pandemic as per WHO and ICMR guidelines," he said. Asked about the state's contribution for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, he said, "We will pray and hope for 'Ram rajya,' where people of all faiths, castes and classes are respected and treated equally as enshrined in the Constitution of our great country." Asked about his stand on Pothireddypaadu issue, he said the state government would fight for its rightful share in Krishna river water. "We will fight for our rightful share in Krishna waters. Already an SLP has been filed in Supreme Court by Telangana government," Rao said. The opposition Congress and BJP have accused the TRS government of not doing enough to protect the state's interests on the issue. To a query on major investments expected this quarter, the Minister said some big announcements will be made soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-to-40000-samples-per-day-says-minister-871438.html
09-08-2020||South||Kerala plane tragedy: PIL against tabletop runways, learnings from Mangaluru Airport crash ignored||Putting the entire blame of Friday’s Air India Express crash on pilot error, are aviation regulators ignoring their role in blocking pleas that warned about the inherent risks attached to tabletop airports? The Environment Support Group (ESG) says its repeated pleas from 2000 on the risks involved were ignored. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) chief had indicated in a televised interview on Saturday that the pilot’s error of judgment could have led to the accident that killed 18 people. Aviation safety consultants endorsed this, but only partly, stating that the Kozhikode airport had unaddressed faults. Although ESG’s Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was against the construction of the Mangaluru Airport’s second runway on a tabletop, its contentions on the ‘Minimum Area of Stop-way” are relevant to the Kozhikode airport too.  Citing International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules, the PIL had noted: “If an aircraft has initiated take off, and a technical flaw requires an emergency stop, the standard prescribes the minimum area that should be kept free to enable such a stop.” The Mangaluru Airport runway was about 2400m. “Even if the area left is most cautiously utilised, what is left is only about 300m on each end of the runway. By the prescribed standard, this is far below the required distance needed for an emergency stop way.”  Therefore, the PIL drafted by Leo Saldanha noted, “the chances of an aircraft that has achieved the decision speed forcing an emergency stop are critically minimised, and the inevitable consequence could be that the plane would come crashing down the hillsides from a height of 80-100 metres on either side of the proposed runway.”   In the case of Kozhikode airport, the height of the tabletop was only 30-35m. But the Runway End Safety Area (RESA) was much less than the 300m on each end of the runway.  Aviation safety consultant Capt Mahesh Ranganathan explained this to DH, “On runways where conditions are not conducive for safe operations, the recommended RESA is 240m. But this does not start at the end of the runway. It has to start after a 60m mandatory strip on both ends. That makes it 300m on both ends.”  Countering the DGCA claim that adequate RESA was ensured by reducing the runway length, he contended: “There is no land for extension of the Kozhikode airport runway as it is on a hilltop. To ensure 300m on either end, you need to reduce runway length by 600m. But it was brought down only by 160m.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-plane-tragedy-pil-against-tabletop-runways-learnings-from-mangaluru-airport-crash-ignored-871444.html
09-08-2020||South||Campaign starts: BJP leader B L Santhosh's dig at Kanimozhi over language row||In an apparent dig at DMK MP Kanimozhi after her allegation that a CISF officer has asked her if she was an Indian as she did not know Hindi, senior BJP leader B L Santhosh on Sunday said "campaign starts" for Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Tamil Nadu Assembly election is slated to be held in the first half of next year. "Assembly elections are eight months away... Campaign starts," Santhosh, the BJP general secretary (organisation), said on Twitter.  His tweet was in response to Kanimozhi's tweet in which she said, "Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if 'I am an Indian' when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi." The DMK MP, who is also the party's women's wing secretary, used the hashtag of "hindiimposition". According to party sources, the incident occurred in Chennai when the MP was at the airport to board a Delhi-bound flight on Sunday afternoon. Congress MP Manickam Tagore, who is also from Tamil Nadu, accused Santhosh of "arrogance". "This arrogance will be costlier Santosh Avere! When @CISFHQrs officers does a mistake & when the force is ready to acknowledge the mistake by a person why you make it as BJP Vs DMK (sic), when someone asks you in Bengaluru airport whether you're a Indian? What you will do?" Tagore tweeted. Santhosh then responded, "Nandri Vanakkum. CISF has asked her to give details. Let her give the details. Action will follow. Let's discuss about arrogance at that time." BJP's rivals, especially those in the southern India, have often accused it of working to impose Hindi on the region. The BJP has denied the charge and insisted that it stands for encouraging all Indian languages. Kanimozhi had also tweeted, "I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi." Soon after, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) sought details from her. "Warm greetings from @CISFHQrs. We sincerely acknowledge your unpleasant experience. Kindly DM journey details; name of airport, location, date, and time of the incident for appropriate action in the matter," tweeted the force whose task primarily is to guard civil airports in the country and vital infrastructure in the aerospace and nuclear domain. Soon, the CISF said it has "ordered an enquiry into the matter. It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/campaign-starts-bjp-leader-b-l-santhoshs-dig-at-kanimozhi-over-language-row-871455.html
09-08-2020||South||Telangana: All hospitals, coronavirus centres told to follow fire safety norms||Against the backdrop of a fire at a Covid-19 care centre in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, health authorities in Telangana have asked all hospitals/Covid-19 care centres to strictly follow fire safety norms. In a letter sent to the hospitals and the virus care centres, director of Public Health Srinivasa Rao said many private hospitals are utilising hotels as Covid-19 care centres where patients with mild symptoms are kept in isolation. He referred to the fire in a hotel turned into a Covid-19 care centre in Vijayawada where 10 people lost their lives. "In view of this, as mandated all hospitals/Covid-19 care centres are instructed to follow fire safety norms. Any violation will be viewed seriously," the letter said. There are 36 hotels, which are functioning as Covid-19 care centres, attached to various hospitals in the state, official sources said. As many as 10 patients died at a star hotel converted into a coronavirus treatment centre in Vijayawada when panic-stricken inmates tried to flee from a fire suspected to have been caused by an electrical short circuit. A copy of the letter from the director of Public Health was sent to all district Collectors, state Fire Services Department and other officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-all-hospitals-coronavirus-centres-told-to-follow-fire-safety-norms-871464.html
09-08-2020||South||'Real Heroes' who helped rescue AIE passengers in quarantine||Unmindful of the heavy rains and Covid-19 fears, the "Real Heroes"-- the local people, who had rushed to rescue passengers of the Air India Express from Dubaithat crashed while landing at the airport here on Friday night, have gone on quarantine. Despite the airport area falling under containment zone, many locals had rushed to the accident spot on hearing about the mishap, which had claimed 18 lives and left over 100 injured. Their selfless act has come in for praise from various quarters. Police sources said 135 locals and 42 police personnel who had participated in the rescue operations have gone into quarantine. They had not been wearing protective clothing or gloves and had come in close contact with the injured, the sources said. The flight with 190 people on board had overshot the tabletop runway while landing in heavy rains and fallen into a valley 35 feet below and broken into two portions. After one of the deceased passengers tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, Health minister KK Shailaja had asked all local rescuers to go on quarantine. The state government had also decided to conduct Covid-19 tests for all the people involved in the rescue operations. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Saturday praised the 'fast response' of the local people and officials who were among the first to reach the crash site . Vijayan in a tweet had said "Yesterday, the fast response of the local people and officials made all the difference. They brave bad weather and Covid fears to rescue their fellow beings. The long queues of people who wanted to donate bloodwas just one example", Vijayan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/real-heroes-who-helped-rescue-aie-passengers-in-quarantine-871465.html
09-08-2020||South||Water release from KRS, Kabini surges Mettur dam level||The Stanley Reservoir in Tamil Nadu’s Mettur is filling up fast as over 1.30 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from Krishna Raja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs in Karnataka due to heavy rains in catchment areas of River Cauvery. The Mettur dam’s water level has risen by nearly 10 feet in just 24 hours and the trend is expected to continue for the next few days at least as rains continue to pound the catchment areas of the river in Karnataka. As huge amounts of water are being released from the reservoirs in Cauvery, the Tamil Nadu government has asked people living on the banks of the river, which begins its journey from Talakaveri in Karnataka and merges into the ocean near Poompuhar, to be alert.  The inflow of water in Biligundlu, the entry point of River Cauvery in Tamil Nadu, stood at over 1.30 lakh cusecs at 8 pm on Sunday. The water level at the Stanley Reservoir, the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in Cauvery Delta region, in Mettur stood at 81.100 feet as against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 120 feet. At 8 pm on Sunday, inflow at the Mettur dam was 1.30 lakh cusecs, while the outflow was 1,000 cusecs and the water storage was 43.061 tmcft. The water level at the 86-year-old dam is expected to rise in the coming days due to huge discharge from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs. The Mettur dam had attained FRL more than once in the past two years due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. Water released from the dam is the only source for lakhs of farmers in the Delta region who cultivate paddy and other crops.   Besides, Bhavanisagar and Amaravathi reservoirs in Western Tamil Nadu are also brimming with water as rain pound catchment areas of the rivers in neighbouring Kerala. Even as reservoirs are getting filled up fast, people in Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts have been put to severe inconvenience due to heavy rains in several parts of the region. As heavy rains rocked Kerala, the Theni district administration has asked people living on the banks of River Periyar to be on high alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-release-from-krs-kabini-surges-mettur-dam-level-871467.html
09-08-2020||South||Air India Express says Kozhikode crash probe will take some time, mortal remains handed over to families||Air India Express said Sunday the mortal remains of the 16 passengers killed in a plane crash in Kozhikode have been handed over to their families and added that authorities were investigating the accident but it will take some time to complete. The mortal remains of pilot-in-command Deepak Vasanth Sathe were taken from Kozhikode to Cochin and then to Mumbai by a flight, the airline said in a statement. Sathe's family was also escorted to Mumbai on the same flight. The mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were cremated "with attendance from all family members as well as with the officials of Air India and Air India Express present to mark respect to the departed soul at Mathura, his hometown," it said. The Boeing 737 flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau has initiated an investigation with the support of Flight Safety Officials and it will take some time before it is completed, the airline said. "As regards the deceased passengers, the mortal remains have been handed over to the families with their consent," it said. "The mortal remains (of Sathe) were honourably received today i.e. 9th August 2020 at Mumbai International Airport by the officials of Air India and Air India Express who were present to receive the family of the deceased captain along with the mortal remains of the Captain," the airline noted. A prayer meeting was arranged at Air India premises in Mumbai which was attended by senior officials of the national carrier as well as Air India Express, said the statement. Many pilots, cabin crew and other personnel also joined the prayer meeting, it added. A total of 149 people have been admitted to hospitals. Twenty-three have been discharged, while three are critically injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Saturday after his visit to Kozhikode Medical College, where many of the passengers were admitted. Air India Express is a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-says-kozhikode-crash-probe-will-take-some-time-mortal-remains-handed-over-to-families-871478.html
09-08-2020||State||CESC charged up to restore electricity supply||The personnel from Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company Ltd (CESC) are trying hard to restore the damaged electricity poles and lines as there is no power supply to the people living in the flooded areas of the district. Napoklu, Ayyangeri, Kakkabbe and Parane villages which have turned into islands and have lost power supply too. Gusty winds have brought down many electricity poles, resulting in the snapping of electricity cables. To repair the broken electricity cables, the CESC has formed teams in all the taluks under its jurisdiction. The personnel have been successful in repairing the electricity lines in urban areas in the past two days, and are working on the restoration of power supply in the rural areas, which is a real challenge. The personnel are at work in every nook and corner of the district. The personnel said that they had taken up the restoration work in the areas where the floods have receded. They will eventually work on other locations. There was a similar situation during the past two monsoon seasons. The dedicated team work was the reason behind the quick restoration of power supply in the urban areas, they added. CESC Executive Engineer Somashekhar said that the villages lying in the border areas of the district had become inaccessible as roads were either flooded or damaged. As many as 1,900 electricity poles, 25 transformers and 20-km long electricity wires have been damaged, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cesc-charged-up-to-restore-electricity-supply-871198.html
09-08-2020||State||Twitterati highlight similarities in M'luru, Kozhikode crashes||Within an hour after the Air India Express accident at Kozhikode International Airport, also known as Karipur tabletop airport, the Twitterati were highlighting how Karipur and Mangaluru Air crash in 2010 had many similarities. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Pratap Reddy also declared observing many coincidences in both the crashes. Reddy, who had served in Mangaluru as IGP (Western Range), tweeted, “.... very distressing to see eerie similarities to the Mangalore crash of 2010.Condolences to the families who lost loved ones in Kozhikode.).” The Twitterati pointed out that both the airports were tabletop airstrips. Kozhikode airport too had a similar drop at the end of the runway. The 2010 crash of Air India Express (IX-812) was a Dubai flight with 180 passengers and eight crew. Low visibility and rain had also contributed to the crash. Experts had suggested increasing the runway end safety zone (RESA) and the buffer zone at both the tabletop airports. The similarities end here. Unlike in Mangaluru Air crash, when the aircraft nosedived into the valley and broke into pieces, the AI Express did not go up in flames. The fire took a heavy toll of lives leaving only eight survivors in 2010 Mangaluru Air crash. Twitterati tagging their posts to DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation), Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA)  regretted that civil aviation officials had not learnt from their mistakes costing precious lives. Implement Gokhale report “Kozhikode tragedy could have been avoided if the 191-page ‘Gokhale Report’ on Mangaluru crash in 2010 was taken seriously,” a tweet read. The report, though focused on Mangaluru incident, had a number of references of Kozhikode (like flight crew being better trained with help of simulators). Twitterati also urged the government to declare all three tabletop runways (Mangaluru, Kozhikode and Lengpui (Manipur) as unsafe and close them immediately. “We should not have a repeat of Mangalore and Kozhikode air crashes,” the Twitterati hoped. Set up CoI IX 812 Foundation President Yeshwant Shenoy urged Union Minister of Civil Aviation to order a Court of Inquiry (CoI). “At CoI we will get an opportunity to place on record the data we have. Your officers killed 158 in Mangaluru, they killed 5 at Ghatkoper and now they have killed 19 and we are still counting,” he charged. Shenoy, who has filed cases on behalf of the passengers and pilot of the ill-fated aircraft that crashed in Mangaluru, vowed to approach courts if the Ministry failed to order the CoI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/twitterati-highlight-similarities-in-mluru-kozhikode-crashes-871199.html
09-08-2020||State||Karnataka: Kodagu reports 13 new Covid-19 cases||The Kodagu district recorded 13 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday morning, thus taking the tally of the total cases to 696. DC Annies Kanmani Joy said the district has 276 active Covid-19 cases. Among the fresh cases, five had symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) while one of the positives is a frontline worker from a private hospital. Two of the infected had international travel history and one had interdistrict travel history. The remaining were the primary contacts of the already infected persons. Following the fresh cases, the district administration has notified eight new containment zones –near agriculture office in Madikeri; near Temple Ponnathmotte in Chettalli, near Bapuji convent in Gundurao layout, near Koodige bridge, behind Basaveshwara Temple, Gummanakolli; near Belurbane in Somwarpet, Kadanga Marooru in Madikeri and dairy farm near the fire station in Madikeri. On the other hand, seven containment zones—Abburkatte in Somwarpet, near masjid in Azad Nagar, Beetikatte Gowdalli, Byadagotta in Madlapura, health quarters in Gonikoppa, opposite Chamraj bungalow in Putaninagara, and near Kaveri school in Shanivarasanthe have been denotified by the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-kodagu-reports-13-new-covid-19-cases-871314.html
09-08-2020||State||Karnataka: Flood near River Kapila likely to ease by noon||The flood-like situation on the bank of the River Kapila will likely ease by noon as the outflow from Kabini Dam declined to 30,000 cusecs from 70,000. The river is getting nearly 35,000 cusecs  water from Kabini and Nugu dam. According to the Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, the outflow from Kabini will be maintained within 30,000 cusecs as the inflow has declined. Kapila River was overflowing as a large quantum of water, nearly 80,000 cusecs, was let into the river from Kabini and Nugu dams. However, the inflow to the dam saw a decline from Saturday evening and thus the outflow was reduced to 60,000 cusecs last evening and to 30,000 cusecs on Sunday morning. As the river was overflowing, the Mysuru-Ooty road was blocked at Nanjangud and several bridges were closed. All the submerged bridges will be cleared by evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-flood-near-river-kapila-likely-to-ease-by-noon-871351.html
09-08-2020||State||Counselling for PU lecturers appointment begins today||The counselling for recruitment of 1,203 lecturers at government pre-university colleges in the state will begin on Monday. The counselling will be held through video conferencing. The director of pre-university education department has said that the Karnataka Examinations Authority had taken up the recruitment process and the counselling (for English lecturers) and for place of posting will be held from 2 pm to 5 pm on Monday. Details on timetable etc., will available on the official website of the department, www.pue.kar.nic.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/counselling-for-pu-lecturers-appointment-begins-today-871460.html
09-08-2020||State||Shepherd rescued, sheep still stranded on island||The NDRF personnel on Sunday rescued a shepherd, who was stranded at a riverine island of Krishna near Chaya Bhagavati temple. Topanna along with his flock of 200-plus sheep had left for the island a week ago. The island was cut off after 2.20 lakh cusecs were released Krishna downstream from Narayanapur dam. The NDRF team from Hyderabad spotted the shepherd with a drone camera and rescued the shepherd and his dog. However, the sheep are still stranded on the island and they would be rescued after the water level in the river subsides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shepherd-rescued-sheep-still-stranded-on-island-871475.html
09-08-2020||State||Flood threat persists in Krishna basin districts||There was some respite in rain for Krishna basin districts in the state, but the flooding threat is far from over as Krishna, Vedganga and Doodhganga rivers in the region are still flowing at danger levels. All seven low-lying barrage-cum-bridges in Belagavi district are still under water. Markandeya river and its tributary Bellary nala have wreaked havoc on standing crops and road infrastructure inthe district. The fear of flooding still persists in the villages and towns on the bank of Malaprabha river in Gadag and Bagalkot districts. With the additional discharge of water from Naviluthirtha reservoir, many roads and bridges in the region, including Govankoppa-Konnuru bridge near Badami, have been submerged or facing the threat of submergence.Meanwhile, as much as 14 tmcft of water flowed into Almatti dam on Sunday alone. The reservoir has received a staggering 44.5 tmcft of water in just four days.  The outflow from the dam in Vijaypura district on Sunday clocked 1.80 lakh cusecs. The previous day, 2,20 lakh cusecs was discharged into downstream Krishna. Despite a surge in inflows, the dam has 92 tmcft of water as against its maximum capacity of 124 tmcft. With the rains having receded in the Krishna catchment area of Maharashtra and Karnataka, the outflow from Almatti is expected to come down in the next few days. Some good news for Tungabhadra basin districts in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Water level in TB dam near Hosapete has reached 1,621.05 feet, 12 feet short of reaching the FRL. On Sunday, the dam received 1,08,915 cusecs. In the last two days, the dam got more than six feet of water. With Tunga, Bhadra and Varada rivers in spate, the inflows into the dam will go further up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-threat-persists-in-krishna-basin-districts-871480.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bannerghatta Biological Park safe for public, say authorities||The Bannerghatta Biological Park here is safe for the public to visit, authorities of the park has said. They said the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services has issued a Covid-19-compliance certificate making the park safe. "This is to inform that a team from Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, Bengaluru, conducted an evaluation of Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) recently on Covid-19 preparedness and issued a certificate of Covid-19 compliance," the park said in a statement. However, the statement said, only 4,400 visitors would be allowed in a day. There would be a contactless online ticketing system. All visitors to the park would be screened at the entry point for temperature using a hand-held thermal scanner, the statement said adding that hand-sanitisers and hand-washing facility were in place at the entrance and appropriate places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bannerghatta-biological-park-safe-for-public-say-authorities-871338.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PM Kisan scheme benefited 52.5 lakh farmers in Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said the PM Kisan Scheme has benefited 52.5 lakh farmers in the state and that the first instalment of Rs 1,049 crore will be credited into their accounts. As the Prime Minister unveiled a special package of Rs one lakh crore for farmers today, Yediyurappa tweeted, "PM @narendramodi Govt believes India's future lies in the welfare of its farmers. Thanks to @PMOIndia for #PMKISAN Scheme which has benefited over 52.50 lakh farmers in Karnataka, the first instalment Rs 1,049 crore will now be credited into their accounts." State Agriculture Minister B C Patil too thanked Modi for selecting Karnataka for launching the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund of Rs one lakh crore and releasing Rs 17,000 crore under PM Kisan scheme. In a series of tweets, Patil said, "I express my sincere gratitude to our Honourable PM for identifying Ugane PACS in Hassan District of Karnataka for interaction." He assured the Prime Minister of perfect implementation of Aatma Nirbhar Abhiyan Scheme in Karnataka, especially focussing on implementation of Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) and PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme in association with NABARD and other government departments. The Prime Minister on Sunday announced Rs one lakh crore package for farmers on the occasion of 'Hal Shashti' or Balaram Jayanti to support farmers, Primary Agriculture Credit Societies, Agri-entrepreneurs in building community farming assets and post-harvest agriculture infrastructure. These assets will enable farmers to get greater value for their produce as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reduce wastage, and increase processing and value addition, said a government press note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-kisan-scheme-benefited-525-lakh-farmers-in-karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-871343.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu tests positive for coronavirus||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and was admitted to Bowring Hospital in the city. Sriramulu said in a tweet that he'd tested for Covid-19 after suffering from fever during the day. A statement issued by his office said that the minister had slight fever and cough. "Basic tests were conducted on the patient and doctors have started treatment," it said, adding Sriramulu would stick to a diet regimen prescribed by the doctors. The Health minister's move to get admitted at a government hospital for Covid-19 was welcomed in social media, as other leaders before him had preferred private facilities. Sriramulu is the fifth minister in the state Cabinet to test positive for the virus. Among his Cabinet colleagues who have tested positive for the virus include Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa - admitted to a private hospital since last Sunday, Agriculture Minister BC Patil, Co-operation Minister S T Somashekar and Tourism Minister C T Ravi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-b-sriramulu-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-871369.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar seeks Rs 10k-cr package for Kodagu||KPCC president D K Shivakumar visited the landslide affected Talacauvery betta on Sunday and collected information on the calamity from the local residents. Speaking to mediapersons, he said “Kodagu district has been witnessing untold miseries for the last three years. The government should announce a special package of Rs 10,000 crore to find a permanent solution.” “I had visited Talacauvery several times in the past. I know the priest who went missing and is suspected to be buried in the landslide. I am saddened by the incident,” he said. The former minister said, “I have started inspecting the rain-affected areas from Talacauvery. Kodagu district has contributed a lot to the development of the state. We are helpless in front of nature’s fury. The government should find a permanent solution to ensure that such incidents do not recur,” he demanded. “We will extend all required help. Let us discuss it in Vidhana Soudha,” he toldthe government. He said, “there is a need to come forward to save Kodagu which has given birth to River Cauvery and a Rs 10 lakh tax while merging with Karnataka in the past. There is a need to mitigate the disaster caused by rain the district,” he added. Noting that the government had failed to distribute compensation to victims of last year’s natural calamity in the state, he said, “the MLAs and MPs are helpless and do not question the government. It has failed miserably in tackling Covid-19 crisis and rain destruction.”  Former MP Dhruvanarayana, MLC Veena Acchaiah and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-seeks-rs-10k-cr-package-for-kodagu-871456.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to be discharged from hospital this week||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is expected to be discharged from the hospital during the week, CMO sources said. A video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the flood situation in Karnataka and five other states, scheduled on Monday, will be attended by Home Minister Basavraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka - sitting in for the CM. Yediyurappa is under observation at Manipal Hospitals, Old Airport Road, in the city since last Sunday after testing positive for Covid-19. The CM was asymptomatic and his vital parameters were stable. “He is expected to be discharged around mid-week,” according to the sources. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa and Agriculture minister BC Patil said that Rs 1,049 crore was released for the benefit of 52.5 lakh agrarian families in the state under PM-KISAN The first in three instalments under PM-KISAN scheme, worth Rs 1,049 crore was released, “which benefits around 52.5 lakh farming families in the state,” Yediyurappa said a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-be-discharged-from-hospital-this-week-871457.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mallikarjun Kharge ticks off govt on response to floods||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge has attacked the state government over the delay in responding to the flood-affected population of the state. Speaking at the sidelines of an event held to commemorate the 78th anniversary of Quit India movement here on Sunday, Kharge urged district in-charge ministers to visit flood-affected regions of the state and take up relief activities. Last year too Kodagu suffered significant damages, Kharge said, noting the damages suffered by the district. “The government should take measures to address the issue. However, we are not seeing such an environment,” he said, criticising the state government’s response to the natural calamity. On the one-lakh crore scheme for farmers announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kharge questioned how many people received benefits of the Rs 20-lakh crore scheme announced by the centre. He accused the government of harassing labourers and other sections of society, by using the Covid-19 pandemic as a pretext. KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre accused the government of ignoring warnings for heavy rainfall. “Several people have lost their lives, while thousands of acres of cropland was inundated,” he said. Khandre alleged that the government was yet to rehabilitate the thousands of people who lost their homes during the previous floods. Siddaramaiah tweets Failure of the state government to provide relief for last year’s flood damage has aggravated floods this year, Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. In a set of posers to Deputy Chief Minister and Public Works Department Minister Govind Karjol, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar and Housing Minister V Somanna, he sought details on the flood relief activities carried out following the devastating floods last year. “I had warned the ministers a month ago about the same, but as usual, there was no response,” Siddaramaiah, who is currently hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, said in a tweet. HDK wants more aid  Demanding that the government sanction additional relief for farmers who suffered crop loss due to floods in Karnataka, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has urged it to ensure permanent relief for those who lost houses. Along with those who lost houses in the August 2019 floods, the government should ensure a permanent rehabilitation for flood victims this year, he said. “The government’s promise of providing compensation worth Rs five lakh for those who lost houses during the floods last year did not benefit a majority of the victims,” the former chief minister said in a tweet. Rather than sticking adamantly to National and State Disaster Relief Fund guidelines, the government should provide additional compensation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mallikarjun-kharge-ticks-off-govt-on-response-to-floods-871459.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka registers 5,985 fresh Covid-19 cases, 107 deaths||The Covid-19 numbers declined slightly on Sunday, a day after the state reported a single-day high of 7,178 cases. On Sunday, the state reported 5,985 fresh infections and 107 Covid-related fatalities.  The largest chunk of the new cases were in Bengaluru (1,948), followed by Mysuru (455) Ballari (380), Udupi (282), Belagavi (235) and Raichur (202). Of the deaths, the largest number were in Bengaluru (22) followed by 12 in Mysuru, nine each at Ballari and Davangere and eight in Kolar. The rest were distributed among 16 other districts. Of these only three deaths occurred on Sunday. Another 16 were from July, one of which had happened as long ago as July 6. This was a 63-year-old man in Bengaluru who had died within 24 hours of being identified as covid-positive. The youngest fatality was a 23-year-old woman in Bengaluru Urban with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) who died at a private hospital on August 6. The oldest fatality was an 89-year-old Ballari who also had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), plus comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension who died on July 30, a day afterbeing diagnosed with the disease. Eighty-six (or 80%) of the deceased had symptoms of SARI. Eight had symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI). The origin of infection for the remaining 13 deaths are still being investigated. The state also discharged 4,670 people on Sunday, out of which 39.33% (1,837 cases) were in Bengaluru Urban. In Bengaluru  According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), a majority of the new cases are in their thirties, while the next largest age group is people in their twenties. Among those discharged, the largest age group are of people in their forties, followed by people in their twenties. Among the 22 deceased, seven people were in their sixties. According to the Palike data, 10,377 tests or swabs were collected in the city on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-registers-5985-fresh-covid-19-cases-107-deaths-871472.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three die in flood-related incidents in Karnataka||Three men died in the flood-related incidents in north Karnataka since Saturday. A 28-year-old man is believed to have been swept away in the swollen Varada river at Inamlakmapur in Hangal taluk of Haveri district. Chandrappa Dalawayi had ventured into the overflowing Varada to rescue his cattle. The Fire and Emergency personnel have launched a search operation. Mehboob Jamadar (30), a native of Kalloli in Gokak taluk, drowned in a stream near the new toll plaza at Bankapur. Meanwhile, the body of Nagaraj Hubballi (18), who was washed away in Bellary Nala in Gokak taluk on Saturday while trying to retrieve pumpset, was found stuck in the bushes near his farm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-die-in-flood-related-incidents-in-karnataka-871477.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC results to be announced on Monday||The results of Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations will be announced on Monday.  The examinations were conducted between June 25 and July 5, amid the coronavirus scare and a stiff opposition by a section of people, including academicians, people’s representatives, teachers and parents. Over 8.50 lakh students appeared for the exams. The results will be announced around 3 pm. Students can check their results online at www.kseeb.kar.nic.in and www.karresults.nic.in The students will get their results on their registered mobile numbers. The officials of Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) said that the students who have passed the exams will only get messages. Due to Covid-19 related reasons a total of 102 students, including the 32 infected students, could not take the examinations. However the department has assured these students of providing an opportunity to appear during supplementary exams, after verifying the reasons for the absence, as fresh candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-results-to-be-announced-on-monday-871479.html
09-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Landslide: Ashoka directs to speed up search operations at Talacauvery||Revenue Minister R Ashoka has directed that five teams comprising personnel from State and National Disaster Response forces, police, fire and emergency services and Home Guards should be deployed for accelerating the search operation in Talacauvery. Four people went missing after a massive landslide at Talacauvery last week. Ashoka visited the landslide spot along with Kodagu district in-charge minister V Somanna on Sunday. He directed the authorities that rescue operation be conducted in three shifts and completed in two days. The minister said that there was no dearth of funds to tackle natural calamity and an additional Rs 5 crore would be released to Kodagu district for this purpose. District in-charge minister V Somanna said that the search operations had been conducted at a depth of 65 feet below the landslide spot. Elected representatives from the district and Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/landslide-ashoka-directs-to-speed-up-search-operations-at-talacauvery-871482.html
09-08-2020||West||Monsoon to become active again over coastal Maharashtra from Monday||The south-west monsoon is expected to become active again over Mumbai and other parts of coastal Maharashtra from Monday after moderate rainfall in the city and neighbouring areas in the last two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Mumbai received a record rainfall on Wednesday and in the last two days, the city and suburbs received 20 mm to 45 mm downpour, an IMD official said on Sunday. "The south-west monsoon is likely to become active again from August 10-11 over coastal Maharashtra, including Mumbai, and it may continue for a week," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-to-become-active-again-over-coastal-maharashtra-from-monday-871259.html
09-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: One killed, 8 injured in LPG cylinder blast in Pune||One person was killed and eight others were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded in a house in Pimpri Chinchwad area of Maharashtra's Pune district on Sunday morning, police said. The incident took place at a housing society in Dighi area of Pimpri Chinchwad industrial township. As per preliminary information, it seems the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) leaked from the cylinder and the explosion occurred the moment the gas stove was turned on, an official from Dighi police station said. "One person was killed. Eight people received injuries and they have been rushed to the hospital," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-one-killed-8-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-pune-871308.html
09-08-2020||West||Higher compensation to plane crash victims than landslide victims triggers partiality row in Kerala||With Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rushing to meet the Kozhikode plane crash victims and announcing a relief of Rs 10 lakh to dependents of the deceased, the opposition parties have alleged that the government being partial as only Rs 5 lakh relief was announced for the Munnar landslide victims' families and the CM did not visit them either. CM Vijayan had to clarify that the relief already announced for landslide victims was only an interim one and two ministers were deputed to the area where rescue was still underway. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who visited Pettimala on Sunday, said that since a relief of Rs 10 lakh was swiftly announced for the plane crash victims, the same compensation should be announced for landslide victims also. Otherwise, there would be resentment among landslide victims, he said. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who also visited the landslide-hit area on Sunday, said that the chief minister should not have been selective in visiting mishap spots. While 28 persons so far died at Pettimudi and around 40 were still missing, 18 persons were killed in the plane crash and the condition of 14 was reported to be serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/higher-compensation-to-plane-crash-victims-than-landslide-victims-triggers-partiality-row-in-kerala-871328.html
09-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt writes to Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa over Shivaji statue||The Maharashtra government has shot off a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa seeking restoration and reinstatement of the statue of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj that has been removed in Belagavi. The Shiv Sena has termed it a “conspiracy” by the BJP-led government in Maharashtra – and said it is unfortunate as it comes just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj during the bhoomi pujan of the Ram mandir in Ayodhya. In the letter written by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's close aide and state Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, the minister said the statue of the warrior king was removed at Managutti village by the administration.  "The statue had been installed with the permission of the gram panchayat, but the administration removed it deliberately," the minister, who is also the minister in-charge for coordination on Maharashtra-Karnataka border issue, said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut urged Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to lead an agitation to Belagavi and promised support from the Shiv Sena. “The manner in which the Karnataka Police removed the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is condemnable. Nobody from Maharashtra’s opposition party is ready to talk on it…Maharashtra government should take serious note of this incident. Without indulging in politics, the opposition party in the state should be taken in confidence,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai. The Shiv Sena also took out protests in Kolhapur that borders the Marathi-speaking areas of Belagavi in Karnataka. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said the statue has been removed by Congress MLA Satish Jarkiholi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-writes-to-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-over-shivaji-statue-871361.html
09-08-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty shares screenshots of WhatsApp chat with Sushant Singh Rajput||Actor Rhea Chakraborty shared screenshots of WhatsApp conversations in which her late partner Sushant Singh Rajput is seen saying he was worried about his sister.  The screenshots which were shared with India Today, the actor appeared to be concerned about his sister manipulating Siddharth Pithlani, who was Rajput’s roommate .  The screenshots of the chat show Sushant appreciating Rhea and her brother. “Your family is very epic. Showik is compassionate and you too who are mine, you are a sufficient cause for the inevitable change and respite globally. It will be a pleasure for me to be around you folks Cheers my friend for being a rockstar.” He added on to that by saying, “You please smile, you look great like that. I would try to sleep now. I wish I had a dream like Jamila. Would it be amazing? Bye.” The actor appeared concerned that his sister, Priyanka, for whom he used the word ‘pure evil’, was manipulating ‘Sid bhai’, according to the shared screenshot of the chat. “You do this, after the shameful act, making this a coverup to distract attention playing the victim card to the most non negotiable act of molestation under the influence of alcohol,” the actor wrote in a message that appeared to have been addressed to his sister Priyanka and shared with his then girlfriend as well. The messages were from Rajput’s number, which Chakraborty had saved as ‘Sushi’ on her phone. DH could not independently verify the authenticity of the screenshots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-shares-screenshots-of-whatsapp-chat-with-sushant-singh-rajput-871363.html
09-08-2020||West||Heavy to very heavy rainfall likely in parts of Maharashtra: IMD||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in parts of Maharashtra due to a low-pressure area formed over north-west and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. Most of the places in Maharashtra received rain or thunderstorms on Saturday, an IMD official said. Heavy rainfall is likely at some places in the Western Ghat sections of Madhya (central) Maharashtra and coastal region of the state starting Sunday, the official said. "Heavy rainfall is expected over the Vidarbha region on Monday while Madhya Maharashtra would receive thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, the official said. Mumbai and other parts of the western coast would witness strong winds with speed reaching up to 50 to 60 km per hour, he said. In the morning, the IMD said the south-west monsoon is expected to become active again over Mumbai and other parts of coastal Maharashtra from Monday after moderate rainfall in the city and neighbouring areas in the last two days. Mumbai received a record rainfall on Wednesday and in the last two days, the city and suburbs received 20 mm to 45 mm downpour, an IMD official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-maharashtra-imd-871364.html
09-08-2020||West||6 Rajasthan BJP MLAs who came to Gujarat leave for unknown destination||Six BJP MLAs from Rajasthan who had arrived in Gujarat ahead of the crucial Assembly session in that state starting on August 14 left for an undisclosed location in the early hours of Sunday. The Congress government in Rajasthan under Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is in strife after Deputy CM Sachin Pilot rebelled and was sacked from the post. The six BJP MLAs had reached Somnath from Porbandar on Saturday evening, with one of them telling reporters that the Congress government in Rajasthan was "harassing" opposition MLAs, and that they had come on a pilgrimage to Somnath to seek mental peace. Speaking on the issue, Gir Somnath BJP general secretary Mansingh Parmar said. "The MLAs left the guest-house by morning. I have no clue where they went. My responsibility was to receive them when they reached Somnath from Porbandar on Saturday, and get them to the guest-house. I had left after dinner. They were supposed to stay here for two days." The six MLAs, Nirmal Kumawat, Gopichand Meena, Jabbar Singh Sankhla, Dharamveer Mochi, Gopal Lal Sharma and Gurudeep Singh Shahpini, left between 2am-3am accompanied by local BJP leaders to an undisclosed location, guest-house sources said. Kumawat had told reporters on Saturday that the Gehlot government lacked a majority in the Assembly and that "he is harassing and putting mental pressure on BJP MLAs using SOG (Special Operations Group) and departmental raids".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-rajasthan-bjp-mlas-who-came-to-gujarat-leave-for-unknown-destination-871380.html
09-08-2020||West||Pune: Students told to get quarantined in college and appear for exam||Amid the rising coronavirus cases, a private dental college located near Pune city in Maharashtra has asked over 150 of its students to appear for examination in person next month, after getting quarantined there for two weeks. Students of the undergraduate and post-graduate dental courses of the D Y Patil Dental College and Hospital in Pimpri town said they have been asked to take Covid-19 test before leaving from their respective cities and reach college at least two weeks prior to the exam and get quarantined. The students and their parents have demanded that the exams be postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation. The college authorities, however, said all safety measures, screening, social distacning norms, sanitation will be followed during the exam. This exam was supposed to be held in the first half of the year. But due to the coronavirus situation, it had been postponed, they said. A relative of one of the students, who does not want to be named, said, "The management has asked the students to come to the college by the first week of September and get quarantined for two weeks before appearing for the exam in the third week of that month." "Everyone knows the situation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Besides, there is a Covid-19 isolation facility on the college campus. Despite all this, the college is asking students to come and appear for the exam," he said. He added that the college should postpone the exams as the coronavirus situation in Pimpri Chinchwad is not good. "Since most of the students are from out of the state, they will have to come either by plane or bus and there are a risk of contracting the infection in the process," he said. According to the relative, the students have been asked to take Covid-19 test before leaving the respective city. The college is affiliated to Dr D Y Patil Vidyapeeth, deemed-to-be-university. Its Vice Chancellor, Dr N J Pawar, however, reassured the parents and students that the college has taken all the precautions to conduct the exam of over 150 students of the BDS and MDS courses. "I reassure the students and parents that the college has taken all the necessary steps to ensure that all the safety measures, screening, social distancing norms, sanitation will be followed during the conduct of the exams," he added. As a precuationary measure, the stuents have been asked to take Covid-19 test so that they are completely confident before starting the journey. "We have already conducted the exam of our medical streams and the results of that exams are also declared. All these students who passed the exams are currently serving in the current crisis situation," he said. He added that Medical Council of India, Dental Council of India are of the opinion that manpower (medical practitioners) are needed in this current situation. Dr Pawar said that hostels will be made available for quarantine. "There is no problem for the 159 students to appear for the exam as the there is sitting capacity of 250 people where it will be conducted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-students-told-to-get-quarantined-in-college-and-appear-for-exam-871424.html
09-08-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest Covid-19 death toll of 390 patients in 24 hrs, tally crosses 5.15 lakh||A day after Maharashtra recorded the biggest addition of Covid-19 cases, The state on Sunday recorded the highest 24-hour death toll of 390 patients.  This has pushed the progressive death toll of 17,757 and 5,15,332 cases.  On Sunday, 13,348 patients were discharged taking the total to 3,51,710 who have been treated. The recovery rate in the state is 68.25 per cent and the case fatality rate in the state is at 3.45% Out of 27,25,090 laboratory samples, 5,15,332 have tested positive (18.91%) for Covid-19 until Sunday. Currently, 10,00,588 people are in-home quarantine and 34,957 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-covid-19-death-toll-of-390-patients-in-24-hrs-tally-crosses-515-lakh-871437.html
09-08-2020||West||Goa gets additional Covid-19 hospital as infections rise||The Goa government on Sunday unveiled a range of Covid-19 management initiatives, including an additional designated hospital for symptomatic patients, a tie-up with the IMA for teleconsulting with patients and antigen testing of all new patients admitted to government hospitals to shield doctors and nurses from being infected. The expansive measures were announced by Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on a day when the state witnessed a record number of 506 cases taking the overall tally of Covid-19 cases to around 8,712. "We have declared the Ponda sub-district hospital as the second Covid hospital in the state. Doctors will take charge of the facility with 48 hours. It has a capacity of 440 beds," Rane said. The decisions were taken following a series of meetings chaired by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Rane, amid growing criticism of the state government's efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Rane said that the next 45-60 days would be crucial for Goa as far as the infection spread is concerned. "We need to be vigilant over the next 45-60 days... People should only visit hospitals in case of emergencies," Rane said. The caution comes amid the increasing number of positive cases being detected among members of the government medical fraternity. Twenty-three doctors and 18 nurses have tested positive at Goa's largest medical facility, the state government-run Goa Medical College over the last couple of weeks. "From now on, antigen tests will be administered to all patients henceforth before they are treated," Rane said, adding that the tests would help protect doctors from possible infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-gets-additional-covid-19-hospital-as-infections-rise-871471.html
