10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Death toll crosses 100-mark in Hassan, 165 positive||With seven more deaths, the total deaths have crossed the 100-mark in Hassan district. The district recorded 165 positive cases. With this, the total positive cases have increased to 3,459. The total deaths is 101. While 68 patients were discharged on the day, 41 patients are being treated at the intensive care unit. Seven deaths The seven deaths included, a 45-year-old woman aged and a 61-year-old man of Arkalgud taluk, two men aged 62 and 70 from Channarayapatna, a 55-year-old man from Arsikere, a 59-year-old man from Holenarasipur and a 49-year-old man from Chikkamagaluru. 1,316 have recovered In all, 1,316 have recovered and discharged after recovery. There are 2,042 active cases, who are being treated at the Covid hospital in Hassan, taluk hospitals and Covid care centres. Out of 165, 25 are from Arsikere, seven from Channarayapatna, four from Alur, 85 from Hassan, nine from Holenarasipur, five from Arkalgud, 25 from Belur and five from Sakleshpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/death-toll-crosses-100-mark-in-hassan-165-positive-871499.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya reports 63 new cases, one death||The district reported one death and recorded 63 new cases on Sunday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 2,558. The total deaths has increased to 22. The deceased is from Nagamangala taluk and was suffering from respiratory problems. He failed to respond to the treatment and died on Saturday night. Out of 63 cases, 34 are from Mandya taluk, 13 from Nagamangala, nine from Malavalli, three from Maddur, three from Srirangapatna, and one from Pandavapura taluk. While 34 persons were discharged after recovery, in all, 1,351 people have been discharged so far. There are 1,184 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-reports-63-new-cases-one-death-871501.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||12 deaths, 455 fresh cases, 461 discharged in Mysuru||The district recorded 12 more Covid-19 deaths and 455 positive cases on Sunday. With this, the death toll has increased to 235 and total positive cases to 7,311. The district has a total of 3,868 active cases. All the 12 deceased were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). As many as 461 persons recovered and discharged on Sunday. Until now, a total of 3,208 patients have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-deaths-455-fresh-cases-461-discharged-in-mysuru-871504.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||322 houses damaged in floods, rain in Mysuru dist||In all, 322 houses have been damaged due to heavy rains and floods in the district from August 1. As many as 65 houses were damaged and crops on 35 acres were destroyed since Saturday evening to Sunday noon.   Crops on hundreds of acres were destroyed due to flood. The rain fury also claimed the life of a man and three animals. Except Mysuru taluk, all the other seven taluks were affected due to rain and floods. Around 78 houses were damaged in HD Kote taluk. While 61 houses were damaged till Saturday, 17 houses were damaged between Saturday and Sunday. While 55 houses were damaged in Periyapatna taluk, 16 houses were damaged in Nanjangud taluk, 35 in Hunsur taluk, 65 in Sargur taluk and six houses in T Narasipur taluk. According to the authorities, the water level is on the decline and there is no major mishap due to rains or floods. The district administration and the respective taluk administrations are ready with all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of people and cattle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/322-houses-damaged-in-floods-rain-in-mysuru-dist-871506.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress needs ‘Hindu Cell’: Dharmasena||Congress leader MLC R Dharmasena on Sunday opined that even Congress party needs to open a ‘Hindu Cell.’ Speaking during the celebrations of “Quit India Movement”, Dharmasena said that there is a need for a Hindu Cell in the party and suggested to the Congress city unit president, R Murthy, to send a proposal to the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee and All India Congress Committee. “There is a need for a change and we need to develop the party for youths. We need to attract every section of people. Congress has provided an opportunity for youths, women, backward classes, minorities and others. The party has made a good contribution towards Ram Mandir issue,” he said. Despite several pro-people programmes, the party was defeated in the elections. “We are responsible for our defeat and there is a need for a debate over the issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-needs-hindu-cell-dharmasena-871508.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||MCC's advt trolled on social media||Mangaluru City Corporation's (MCC) advertisement inviting tenders for installing pandals during Independence Day celebrations, at an estimated cost of Rs 4.19 lakh, ended up being a source of amusement on social media. Though MCC was quick to issue another advertisement on Sunday, declaring that the tender was cancelled, the damage was already done. The MCC in the advertisement, dated August 8, 2020, had invited contractors to submit tenders for setting up pandal during Independence Day celebrations planned at Nehru Maidan on August 18. H Shashidhar Shetty of National Environment Care Federation (NECF) suppressing his laugh said the advertisement had exposed a practice institutionalised in the Corporation. He recollected how he had filed a complaint against the MCC for clearing bills of road repair works in Kodikal with Lokayukta.  "Incidentally, no work was done and yet the MCC had cleared the bills. The Corporation saved itself from an embarrassment by getting the corporator to complete road work in Kodikal," Shetty said. Retired MCC engineer Padmanabh Ullal said many works were completed even before they are tendered. Former president of District Small Industries' Association (DSIA), who was not amused, urged deputy commissioner to recover the cost of advertisement from the officer concerned who had misused his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mccs-advt-trolled-on-social-media-871520.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC visits flood-prone areas in Udupi||Rains continue to lash Udupi district on Sunday. As a precautionary measure, people living in the low-lying areas were shifted to safer locations. When water-level in Swarna river increased near Hiriyadka on Saturday night, a few residents of Perampalli Kudru were shifted. After the flood situation receded on Sunday, the family members returned back to their houses. The flood has receded at Uppooru, Arooru areas. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha, Superintendent of Police Vishnuvardhana visited the flood affected areas in Navunda, Nada on Sunday. As a precautionary measure, 25 cattle from Udyavara Gaushala were shifted to Rajangann in Sri Krishna Mutt. In the past 24 hours, Udupi district received 11.67 mm of rainfall. Udupi taluk received 117 mm, Kundapura - 116 mm and Karkala - 102 mm of rainfall. Flood from Swarna river had inundated farmland in Parkala Shettybettu. Deputy Commissioner Jagadeesha said the flood water had receded in Navunda, Kudru areas and people need not panic. The compensation will be released to those who had suffered loss of property and lives. The deputy commissioner promised to consider the demand for a bridge from residents of Navunda Kudru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-visits-flood-prone-areas-in-udupi-871521.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Discharges outnumber fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||The number of discharges outnumbered the new Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district. On Sunday, 195 infected recovered and discharged while 132 fresh cases were reported. According to officials, the total discharges in the district is 3,682 while active cases are 3,305, who are undergoing treatment at hospitals and in-home isolation. The total cases recorded in the district is 7,207. Among the fresh Covid-19 cases, 68 were suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 11 with the symptoms of SARI. Twenty-one of the infected were the primary contacts of the infected persons while the contact tracing of 32 persons is underway. Among the fresh cases, Mangaluru taluk has highest of 81 followed by 22 in Bantwal, 4 in Belthangadym six in Puttur, and three in Sullia. While 16 infected were from outside the district. 6 more fatalities Dakshina Kannada district has recorded six more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, thus taking the tally of deaths to 220. Among the deaths, two were from Mangaluru, two from Bantwal and one each from Sullia and outside the district. All the deceased were suffering from comorbid conditions along with testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-discharges-outnumber-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-871522.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kozhikode air crash puts focus back on safety at MIA||The air crash incident at Kozhikode airport has put the runway expansion at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) under intense public scrutiny. Soon after the incident, BJP leader Capt Brijesh Chowta tweeted, “Unfortunate! Reminds us of what we saw here in Mangaluru. Both tabletop runways. But thankfully, this flight has minimum casualties so far. Last year too, we had many instances of tragedy averted at the last moment in Mangaluru. We who pride in having an airport since the days of Nehru whose flight was the 1st to land here, have unfortunately stayed put with our merits of the past.” The recent tragedy is a reminder of the need to look at the infrastructure demands at our airports especially in tier-2 cities which are pegged at being the drivers of development in the next decade to come, he stressed. Mangaluru being developed as an economic hub is important for the growth of Karnataka. As the pandemic has shown us yet again, the need for taking development to our tier-2 cities is crucial, given the times we live in, he added. “A basic tabletop one was a need in 1951. But for a town like Mangaluru, that has the strategic advantage in terms of its talent pool, its geographical positioning, cannot lose out on all that it can be just because we fail to see what we lack. If the runway cannot be extended, like was said after the crash, why can’t we have a new one that can be one of the milestones in bringing the world to ‘Destination’,” he tweeted. There was a demand to increase the runway from the present 2,450 metres to 3,050 metres. MIA Director V V Rao said that MIA has upgraded its safety aspect after the 2010 air crash tragedy. The instrument landing system (CAT ILS) is commissioned. The apron has been improved and a new air traffic control tower has been set up. Rao vouches that in the past 10 years, much has changed at the airport. The total number of passengers handled during 2010-11 was 8.45 lakh, which has increased to 18.76 lakh in 2019-20. In 2010-11, a total of 9,431 aircraft were handled while in 2019-20, 15,685 aircraft were handled. KCCI president Isaac Vas said improving basic infrastructure facilities at the MIA should get priority. MIA former director M R Vasudeva said that measures were taken for safe landing as per the recommendations of the expert committee following 2010 air tragedy. “Runway end safety area (RESA) on both the sides of the runway was increased to 240mX90m,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kozhikode-air-crash-puts-focus-back-on-safety-at-mia-871526.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Disaster management committee at GP level: Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that a disaster management committee would be set up at gram panchayat level to aid the district administration in times of need. Such committees will help the district administration in averting human tragedy similar to the one unfolded at Talacauvery, he said and added that a committee would be set up on a pilot basis in Dakshina Kannada district. “The committee will have local elected representatives, interested volunteers and will be constituted at the gram panchayat level. State disaster management authority will train these committee members on tackling disasters,” he minister said. Even the Central government to has sought information on the initiative of constituting disaster management committees at the gram panchayat level. All gram panchayats in the district will have such committees shortly, he said. The Minister earlier directed the officials to distribute compensation to the rain victims immediately without any delay. The victims of flood and people whose houses were damaged due to tree fall should receive a compensation of Rs 10,000. He said quality food should be given to the rain victims, who have been shifted to relief centres. The officials should ensure that nutritious food is supplied to the victims. Rs 5 crore was released to each district hit by rains, to tackle the situation. MLA Umanath Kotian drew the Minister’s attention to landslides at Gurupura and urged him to release Rs 5 crore. The amount will be spent on construction of a retaining wall to prevent further landslides at the site. The minister instructed deputy commissioners and revenue officials to evacuate people from their houses in flood-hit areas even if they are reluctant to move out. He cited the incident where the chief priest of Talacauvery Kshetra and his family allegedly refused to relocate from their home and are now feared buried under a massive landslide. “If people in flood-affected areas are unwilling to relocate, then officials with help of police should evacuate them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/disaster-management-committee-at-gp-level-ashoka-871527.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Search operation intensified on Brahmagiri Hills||The search operation on Brahmagiri Hills, where a family went missing, was intensified on Sunday. The NDRF, SDRF and police personnel carried out search operations and could not trace Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Achar and three others. The intermittent rain has been hampering the operation at Talacauvery. The team has been successful in reaching to the spot where the house of the priest was located. The excavators have been pressed into service to clear the mounds of soil. Among the five persons, who went missing, the body of Anandatheertha was recovered on Saturday. The rescue team has recovered clothes, vessels, photos and coins from the spot. The spot where hillock slid has turned slushy. There are possibilities of rescue team facing hardship even if they lose balance slightly. Water is also gushing at the landslide affected area. Landslide has occurred on at least 15 locations in Bhagamandala and Talacauvery. Bhagamandala resident Sunil said, “The rain in the Brahmagiri hills, the catchment area of river Cauvery, helps in the inflow of water to the river. The region was experiencing heavy rainfall in the past. However, such disaster had not occurred in the past.” The Talacauvery priest had coffee estate at Bhagamandala and had a stock of cardamom and pepper in the house. There were also ornaments in the house. Now, everything has been washed away in the fury of the nature, said the local residents with tears in their eyes. Narayana Achar’s two daughters are settled in Australia. On hearing the tragedy, they have reached Dubai and will arrive in Kodagu shortly, a family member, who was at the spot of search operation, told DH. Another son had expired a few years ago. The flood situation in Bhagamandala has receded and road is opened for movement of vehicles. A large number of locals are visiting the site to have a glimpse of the place. Spl package KPCC president D K Shivakumar who visited the spot said that the government should release special package of Rs 10,000 crore to Kodagu district. The district has been witnessing rain-related tragedies for the last few years. Speaking to mediapersons at Talacauvery, he said, “We want to save Kodagu that supplies water to several districts in Karnataka. We have been living with the source of water from River Cauvery. The flood has created untold miseries in different parts of the state.” Will seek more funds Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who visited Kodagu on Sunday, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would conduct a video conference with the rain-affected state authorities on Monday. “We will seek additional funds from the Centre to tackle the situation. I have directed officials to conduct a survey on the loss of crops. The Centre has released Rs 310 crore grant.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/search-operation-intensified-on-brahmagiri-hills-871530.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KPCC chief DK Shivakumar seeks Rs 10,000 crore package for Kodagu||KPCC president D K Shivakumar visited the landslide affected Talacauvery betta on Sunday and collected information on the calamity from the local residents. Speaking to mediapersons, he said “Kodagu district has been witnessing untold miseries for the last three years. The government should announce special package of Rs 10,000 crore to find a permanent solution.” “I had visited Talacauvery several times in the past. I know the priest who went missing and is suspected to be buried in the landslide. I am saddened by the incident,” he said. The former minister said, “I have started inspecting the rain-affected areas from Talacauvery. Kodagu district has contributed a lot to the development of the state. We are helpless in front of nature’s fury. The government should find a permanent solution to ensure that such incidents do not recur,” he demanded. “We will extend all required help. Let us discuss it in Vidhana Soudha,” he toldthe government. He said, “there is a need to come forward to save Kodagu which has given birth to River Cauvery and a Rs 10 lakh tax while merging with Karnataka in the past. There is a need to mitigate the disaster caused by rain the district,” he added. Noting that the government had failed to distribute compensation to victims of last year’s natural calamity in the state, he said, “the MLAs and MPs are helpless and do not question the government. It has failed miserably in tackling Covid-19 crisis and rain destruction.” Former Chamarajanagar MP Dhruvanarayana, MLC Veena Acchaiah and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kpcc-chief-dk-shivakumar-seeks-rs-10000-crore-package-for-kodagu-871570.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Amid fishermen's worries, state plans stage 2 of Karwar port||A year after hundreds of people from the fishing community protested against the proposal to extend the Karwar Port by the Centre, the state government has now proposed to take up 2nd stage development of the port at an estimated cost of Rs 1,500 crore. Last year, fishermen and their families had taken to the streets to protest against the Union government’s proposal for development of the port under the Sagarmala project. The high court had in January stayed the project after an association of fishermen filed a petition, highlighting violations by the authorities. The state government’s project is in addition to the works planned under Sagarmala. As part of extending the port, it seeks to build the second stage of the port, including an office building for maritime board, a godown, cement silo, tank terminals, hotels and shops and other utilities. Officials have stated that the project seeks to realise maximum potential of the port, which is bringing up to Rs 20 crore in direct revenue and about Rs 300 crore in duties and taxes. Under Sagarmala, work was taken up to build a breakwater and dedicated coastal jetty of 250 metres for slightly larger ships. Fishermen had said that the work will ruin their livelihood. An official, however, said the larger scheme of things paints a dark picture for Karwar. “Karwar is a sensitive area surrounded by hills. It is already taking pressure from projects like Naval base, national highways, railways. Not to forget the indirect effects of Kaiga. We are already worried by the harm to be caused by the Sagarmala project. The state government’s project will come as a last straw,” he said.  Sources in the Department of Ports and Inland Water Transport said the second stage works will not affect the fishing community. “The main concern of the fishermen was regarding construction of breakwater under the central scheme. Our works do not affect them in anyway,” the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amid-fishermens-worries-state-plans-stage-2-of-karwar-port-871575.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 9 fresh Covid-19 cases||Among those who tested coronavirus positive, one is suffering from ILI while another had a travel history to Bengaluru. The remaining were the primary contacts of the already infected persons, said DC Annies Kanmani Joy. The total Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 714. With 436 infected person being discharged so far after recovery, 62% of the total cases in the district have been discharged till Sunday evening, said the DC. A total of 267 infected are undergoing treatment at designated hospitals and Covid Care Centres in the district. With the recording of fresh cases, the district administration has notified two more containment zones at Chikkanna Extension in Kushalnagar and near Maruthi school, Balamuri temple road in Kushalnagar. On the other hand, the authorities have denotified the containment zone of Dechuru near a water tank in Madikeri after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-9-fresh-covid-19-cases-871621.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Entry to Hogenakkal falls restricted||With heavy rains in the catchment areas, the Cauvery river has swollen and the popular Hogenakkal falls is in full glory. However, the entry of tourists to Hogenakkal and other picnic spots had been banned in the wake of Covid-19.  Even if the district administration gave permission for tourism, the Palamadu bridge that was washed away due to floods two years ago, is yet to be repaired. Hence, tourists are not able to visit the view-point of the falls. Hanur in-charge tahsildar K Kunal said, as safety measures need to be taken before making tourist places open to public, visitors are not being allowed to visit the spot. Certain norms would be introduced and the place open for the public, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/entry-to-hogenakkal-falls-restricted-871626.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KPCC's Satish Jarkiholi hits out at Maharashtra leaders over Shivaji statue row||KPCC Working President Satish Jarkiholi said that the issue of removing the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Mangutti village in Hukkeri taluk has been blown out of proportion by the political leadership from Maharashtra. Jarkiholi said that the warrior king wasn’t the property of copyright of the neighbouring state as Karnataka has more statues of the king in the state at different places installed by our money and Maharashtra hasn’t contributed a penny. Jarkiholi told reporters here on Monday that the locals from Mangutti who had installed the statue have themselves removed it and have assured to solve the local issue between them and outsiders should not interfere in it.  Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi and other officials held a meeting in the village and they agreed to resolve the issue locally in the coming days. It’s a purely one village-level issue that has been blown out of proportion by political leaders in Maharashtra, he said. "The previous year, we installed a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj that cost Rs 50 lakh at Kadoli village near here and none from Maharashtra contributed for it. We have many statues of the warrior king in the boundary areas of the state, most of the districts and even in Bengaluru. All have been installed from our funds. There was no need for us to get lessons from Maharashtra regarding the respect to be given to the warrior king and he was national hero," Jarkiholi stated. It’s a fashion in Kolhapur in Maharashtra to pelt stones over issues pertaining to Karnataka like the recent issue or other issues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kpccs-satish-jarkiholi-hits-out-at-maharashtra-leaders-over-shivaji-statue-row-871656.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Newborn girl dumped in garbage bin rescued in Udupi||A newborn girl who was dumped in a garbage bin near Chittaranjan circle was rescued by pourakarmikas in Udupi and was shifted to B R Shetty government hospital on Monday. "The girl baby is out of danger and is doing well," Legal-cum-Probation Officer at District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), Prabhakar Achar, told DH when contacted. Pourakarmikas cleaning the street near Chittaranjan circle were taken aback to hear cries of a baby coming from a garbage bin. On approaching the bin, the pourakarmikas were shocked to see a newborn girl kept in a paintbox. The pourakarmikas alerted social worker Nityananda Volakad who in turn informed Udupi women police station Sub Inspector Violet Femina and Udupi Town police station Sub Inspector Sakti Velu. Prabhakar Achar with help of police shifted the newborn baby to a hospital. Prabhakar said the baby's health would have deteriorated if she would have been exposed to rains for another two hours. Achar declared that the abandoning of the baby in a garbage bin was an unacceptable and heinous act. "The mothers who cannot look after their babies should place them in 'Mamatheya Thottilu' kept in front of B R Shetty hospital in Santhekatte and Balika Kendra in Nitturu," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-girl-dumped-in-garbage-bin-rescued-in-udupi-871672.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Raped minor dies by suicide in Karnataka's Dharwad district||A minor girl died by suicide after allegedly being raped in a village in North Karnataka recently, police said on Monday. According to police, the incident occurred when the girl, aged 13-14 years and studying in the eight standard, was on her way to a temple on July 30 at Bogur in Dharwad rural. The girl returned home and reported the matter to her mother. Later, she consumed poison, police said. She was rushed to a hospital but could not be saved. The accused has already been arrested, they added. State Minister for Medium and Large Industries, Jagadish Shettar has promised justice to the family. "An incident of rape and death of a minor girl has taken place recently in village Bogur in Dharwad district. I met the family of the victim and consoled them," the minister said in a tweet Shetter added that he has asked police to investigate the matter and provide security to the family. According to Shettar, for the past few days, the youths in the village are staging a demonstration demanding stringent punishment to the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raped-minor-dies-by-suicide-in-karnatakas-dharwad-district-871703.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hard work helped me to excel in SSLC exam: Dakshina Kannada student||Hard work and consistency in studies helped me to excel in SSLC exam by securing full marks, said Anush A L of Kumaraswamy English Medium High School, Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada. “I was expecting above 620 marks but exhilarated at having scored the perfect score of 625. I had studied well with the help of my teachers and parents who guided me throughout,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hard-work-helped-me-to-excel-in-sslc-exam-dakshina-kannada-student-871738.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC results: Covid-19 vacation helps this student to score heavily||For C Manu, who scored 623 out of 625 in SSLC examinations, Covid-19 vacation helped him a lot to secure highest marks. Manu, a student of city-based Vijaya Vittala School, son of C Chikkanna, a Police Head Constable working with City Crime Branch (CCB), said, “As the examination was postponed due to outbreak of Covid-19, it helped me to go through textbooks multiple time. I took a break for a few days and restarted studying hard during Covid-19 vacation,” he said. Earlier, the SSLC exam was scheduled to be conducted from March 27 to April 9, 2020 but, postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The board later conducted examinations from June 25 to July 4, at various centres spread across the state. Manu wants to pursue Engineering and wants to be a civil servant. “I am planning to appear for a competitive examination after my Engineering,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-results-covid-19-vacation-helps-this-student-to-score-heavily-871774.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC results: Mandya climbs to 4th place||Mandya district has climbed to the fourth place in the state, in the SSLC exam results announced on Monday. The district has inched forward from the 10th slot last year. The then ZP CEO Yalakki Gowda and DDPI R Raghunandan had taken several measures to ensure that the district scores well in the exam this year. The results has brought happiness and enthusiasm among the teaching faculty. The district was in 23rd place in 2017 and later slipped to 28th place in the year 2018. The officials worked hard to ensure that the district moved forward to the 10th place, in 2019. While M P Dheeraj Reddy of Sri Sai Saraswathi High School in Maradevanahalli, Mandya taluk scored 625 marks, the other district toppers are M N Amulya of Adarsh Vidyalaya, Malavalli (623), H S Rani Aishwarya of Poornaprajna School, Shivapura, Maddur (619) and S Bhuvan, Adarsh Vidyalaya, Marehalli, Maddur (615).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-results-mandya-climbs-to-4th-place-871856.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Harsha of Channarayapatna secures 623 marks||Harsha N Koundinya, a student of Malnad Olympiad School, at Dutanuru Kaval of Channarayapatna taluk, Hassan district, has secured 623 out of 625 marks in SSLC exams. He has secured 125 in Kannada, 100 in English, 100 in Social Science, 99 in Maths, 100 in Hindi and 99 in Science. His father is H S Nagendra, head master of the same school. He teaches Maths. His mother Ashwini is a Science teacher at a government high school in Athichowdenahalli. Harsha said, “I had prepared a time-table in the beginning of the academic year. I used to study as per the schedule. My teachers too extended all help in studies.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/harsha-of-channarayapatna-secures-623-marks-871858.html
10-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Shivaji statue issue blown out of proportion by Maharashtra leaders says Jarkiholi||KPCC Working President Satish Jarkiholi said that the issue of removing the statue of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Mangutti village in Hukkeri taluk has been blown out of proportion by the political leaders of Maharashtra. "The warrior king isn’t the property or copyright of the neighbouring state as we have more statues of the king in Karnataka at different places installed by our money and Maharashtra hasn’t contributed a penny," he said. Jarkiholi told reporters on Monday that the locals from Mangutti who had installed the statue have themselves removed it and have assured to resolve the issue between them and that outsiders should not interfere in it. The land where the statue had been installed belonged to the Laxmi temple trust and on being apprised of it, those who had installed the statue removed it. Superintendent of Police, Laxman Nimbargi and other officials have held a meeting in the village and agreed to resolve the issue locally in the coming days. It’s a purely a village-level issue that has been blown out of proportion by political leaders in Maharashtra, he said. Previously, we installed a statue of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj that cost Rs 50 lakh at Kadoli village and none from Maharashtra contributed towards it. We have many statues of the warrior king in the boundary areas of the state, most of the districts, and even in Bengaluru. All have been installed from our funds. There is no need for Maharashtra to give us lessons on the respect to be given to the warrior king as he was a national hero, Jarkiholi stated. It’s a fashion in Kolhapur in Maharashtra to pelt stones over issues pertaining to Karnataka, he added. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah have been admitted to the same hospital for treatment of Covid-19 and have met and exchanged their views. "In politics, we cannot keep fighting 24/7 and also have affection and respect for leaders of other parties. Political ideologies of both are different, hence they cannot come on one platform. As both are undertreatment, they have come at one place. I was unaware of the talks between them, but will definitely ask Siddaramaiah of what transpired between them," he expressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivaji-statue-issue-blown-out-of-proportion-by-maharashtra-leaders-says-jarkiholi-871704.html
10-08-2020||National||SC to pass order in 2009 contempt case against advocate Bhushan||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Monday its judgement in the 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan on his charge of corruption among former CJIs.  A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra would decide whether the court would accept an explanation, including regret by Bhushan, and close the contempt case against him. In case, the court rejected his explanation, it would then proceed further to examine the case. On Tuesday, August 4, Bhushan refused to apologise for his 2009 interview with Tehelka magazine, wherein he accused eight out of 16 former Chief Justices of India of corruption.  However, he has expressed regret, if his statement caused hurt to judges or their family members and if it was misunderstood to lower the reputation of the judiciary. Before reserving the order, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari had the said that any statement of corruption in the judiciary per se would amount to contempt.  The court said that there was a thin line between free speech and contempt. It also told the counsel to save the system's grace and bring an end to the matter. In his statement, Bhushan said he had used the word corruption in a wide sense meaning lack of propriety. "I did not mean only financial corruption or deriving any pecuniary advantage. If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same. I unreservedly state that I support the institution of the judiciary and especially the Supreme Court," he said. Bhushan is facing another Suo Motu criminal contempt for two tweets issued in June on the role of four CJIs in "destruction of democracy" and current CJI riding a high-end bike and shutting the Supreme Court. The same bench had reserved its judgement in this separate matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pass-order-in-2009-contempt-case-against-advocate-bhushan-871503.html
10-08-2020||National||Show your unity on the floor of the House, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot at CLP meet||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked the party legislators to show their unity on the floor of the House. Addressing a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at a resort in Jaisalmer, he said, "We are all democracy warriors. We are going to win this war and also win the (assembly) election after three-and-a-half years." "The unity which you have shown till now, the same unity you have to show in the House," the chief minister said. The state has been witnessing a political turmoil after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and legislators loyal to him.  The state assembly session will start on August 14 and Gehlot is likely to seek a trust vote during the session. Gehlot asked the legislators to tour their respective areas and submit a list of public welfare works, adding that the government will work on them.  He also exuded confidence of winning the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Randeep Surjewala and state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra were also present in the meeting.   Congress national general secretary Avinash Pande said the party has a history of struggle since and before independence. He also thanked the legislators of other parties supporting the Congress in the present political crisis in the state.   Congress MLAs are currently holed up in a Jaisalmer hotel as the party has accused the BJP of horse-trading following the revolt by Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/show-your-unity-on-the-floor-of-the-house-says-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-at-clp-meet-871533.html
10-08-2020||National||From Delhi to Mumbai, police officials scramble to save man showing 'suicidal activity' on Facebook||A timely alert by an Ireland-based Facebook staffer to Delhi police saved the life of a 27-year-old man, who was under financial stress because of the coronavirus lockdown and showing "suicidal activity" on the social media platform, officials said Sunday. The man had been posting videos on Facebook that apparently showed him preparing to end his life and this raised a red flag on the social media giant's network. Facebook feared that any direct contact with the man could drive him to expedite his suicide plans, officials said. So a company official contacted Delhi Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Anyesh Roy as the phone number used for the Facebook account was registered in the national capital. The Facebook staffer shared the details of the "suicidal activity" with Roy on his email just before 8 pm Saturday, and what began then was a race against time to save the man. The phone number was traced to a woman in east Delhi, the DCP said. Roy reached out to Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh and they immediately sent a police team to the address but found the woman completely fine. The case then took a wild turn when the woman told the officials the Facebook account was used by her husband who had left for Mumbai two weeks ago after a fight with her. She also said the man was working as a cook in a small hotel in Mumbai, police said. The woman had her husband's phone number but did not know his address. DCP Roy got in touch with his counterpart in Mumbai, DCP (Cyber) Rashmi Karandikar, but the man's phone number was found "unreachable". Karandikar said she received a phone call from Roy around 11 pm Saturday, more than three hours after the matter first came to light in Delhi. "Our biggest challenge was to trace him and our priority was to reach him quickly because we were told he had put out at least four videos of himself preparing to end his life by hanging. Until 12.30 am, we were struck," Karandikar told PTI over the phone from Mumbai. The Mumbai police then asked the man's mother to video call him on WhatsApp, so that they would be able to trace his location, but the call got disconnected after a single ring. "The man then contacted his mother through another number and that's how we traced his location. For an hour, one of my officers kept him engaged on a phone call and tried to convince him to not take any an extreme step," the senior Mumbai police officer said. By 1.30 am, a police team reached his address and counselled him. The man told Mumbai police that he was under severe financial distress for a few months because of lockdown and had fought with his wife. He said he was worried how would he be able to raise his recently born child and decided to end his life, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-delhi-to-mumbai-police-officials-scramble-to-save-man-showing-suicidal-activity-on-facebook-871537.html
10-08-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Infosys Foundation's Sudha Murthy on her Covid-19 contribution||This episode of The Lead from DH Radio brings to you, Infosys Foundation's Sudha Murthy. "Remember," she says, "generosity of a few, is hope for millions," as she talks about how she has been contributing to the world during the Covid-19 pandemic. Nina George: I remember in March that you had said that you would love to build a hospital and you have fulfilled your vision, how did you went about fulfilling that vision?  Sudha Murthy: I'll tell you. Western countries were ahead of us in Covid. We used to see the difficulty the other countries were facing. When the patients come there are no beds. I used to see their difficulties. In every hospital, there are three-four ventilators of small size and even in big hospitals, every bed will not have a ventilator. I didn't know all these things will be there. I am the sister of a doctor. I was thinking on March 15, to be precise, when we come to Bangalore, are we prepared for it. There may be hospitals but what about the ventilators. I took that initiative and called CM Yediyurappa and he put me to right people, DR Sudhakar and I discussed with him that we should get well equipped and at least on our side we would like to help and very happy if the government also goes, collects ventilators and keeps them ready for an emergency. However, on my end, I want to do. If you give me a hospital with 200 beds or 500 beds, not building because there is no time. If you give us hospital and you really want we should help, in that case, we are ready to do. It will be a Covid hospital... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-infosys-foundations-sudha-murthy-on-her-covid-19-contribution-871539.html
10-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 10||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 22 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 22,62,907 as of August 10 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  45,206   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-10-871551.html
10-08-2020||National||India's data-curb plan jolts US tech giants as they plan pushback||India's plan to regulate "non-personal" data has jolted US tech giants Amazon, Facebook and Google, and a group representing them is preparing to push back against the proposals, according to sources and a letter seen by Reuters. A government-appointed panel in July recommended setting up a regulator for information that is anonymised or devoid of personal details but critical for companies to build their businesses. The panel proposed a mechanism for firms to share data with other entities - even competitors - saying this would spur the digital ecosystem. The report, if adopted by the government, will form the basis of a new law to regulate such data. But the US-India Business Council (USIBC), part of the US Chamber of Commerce, calls imposed data sharing "anathema" to promoting competition and says this undermines investments made by companies to process and collect such information, according to a draft letter for the Indian government. "USIBC and the US Chamber of Commerce are categorically opposed to mandates that require the sharing of proprietary data," says the USIBC's previously unreported letter, which is likely to be completed and submitted in coming weeks to India's information-technology ministry. "It will also be tantamount to confiscation of investors' assets and undermine intellectual property protections." A USIBC spokeswoman had no comment on the draft letter. The US Chamber of Commerce didn't respond to Reuters queries. The head of the panel, Kris Gopalakrishnan, a founder of Indian technology giant Infosys Ltd, said the group will work with the government to review input from the industry. India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Amazon.com Inc, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google did not respond to requests for comment. The report is open for public comments until Sept. 13. Forced Data Sharing India's plan to regulate non-personal data is the latest irritant for US tech companies that have been battling tighter e-commerce rules and data storage norms that several countries are also developing. New Delhi and Washington are already at odds on such issues, as well as over digital taxes and tariffs. The USIBC draft letter says "forced data sharing" will limit foreign trade and investment in developing countries, and the panel's proposals run against Prime Minister Narendra Modi's calls for US companies to invest in India. The lobby group expresses concern about the panel's recommendation to mandate local storage for non-personal data, describing this as a "dramatic tightening" of India's international data transfer regime. "These are far-reaching concepts that would have a significant impact on the ability of both Indian and multinational firms to do business in India," Washington-headquartered law firm Covington & Burling said in a note prepared for the USIBC, which was also seen by Reuters. The law firm did not respond to a request for comment. The Indian panel has listed research, national security and policymaking among purposes for which such data should be shared. Three sources said tech executives participated in several meetings in recent weeks to discuss concerns over the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-data-curb-plan-jolts-us-tech-giants-as-they-plan-pushback-871556.html
10-08-2020||National||Academicians split over new National Education Policy||The new National Educational Policy (NEP) passed by the Union Cabinet on July 29 has thrown the academic community into turmoil with some supporting the long-awaited changes and others opposing it for its alleged exclusionary character.   The policy has introduced some sweeping changes in the overall educational system of the country right from primary to higher education. Some of the significant changes include the scrapping of MPhil programmes, shifting from 10+2 structure to 5+3+3+4 structure, offering multi-disciplinary courses in colleges and universities with multiple exit points and choosing regional languages as the medium of instruction till Class 5. Some of the suggested changes at school level are the introduction of grades over marks, coding from Class 6 and vocational education so as to have a holistic development rather than rote-learning.   While school teachers have praised the ambitious policy, implementation of the same has given everyone a pause.  Expressing her concerns at the new policy, Paramita Chakraborty, an English teacher at a prominent school in Kolkata said, “The no marks policy is a good point however with a grading system there might be a potential generalisation. There needs to be ancillary tools or attitudinal tests that supplement the grading system.”  The policy also reflects the American education system and lacks an indigenous touch, she noted. Another concern for Chakraborty was the choice to instruct students in the regional language until Class 5. As students shifted from vernacular language to English, some students may not be able to cope with the change easily, she said, which might contribute to drop out rates. Pointing out logistical difficulties that will crop up during the implementation of the policy, Paulami Mondal, a teacher at Harma Jaminibala Balika Vidyamandir Secondary School near Kolkata, said that training teachers to adjust to the new policy will be the imperative now.  For this, the recruitment procedure needs to be more streamlined. Moreover, to empower them, teachers need to be given the incentive to pursue higher education. “In the current scenario, teachers are not encouraged to study further. However, I feel that teachers need to pursue higher education. They need to be trained so that they can be sensitive towards matters of caste, class and gender, only then can the new policy be truly effective,” she added. Implementation of the policy is a major concern for some universities. On August 7, the CBSE director Biswajit Saha announced that the National Curriculum Framework will be responsible for the formulation of a framework through which the new NEP can be realised.  At the moment, the policy sets a time period of two years within which Institutes of Eminence such as the Banaras Hindu University, Delhi University, IITs, Jadavpur University, University of Hyderabad and Anna University are supposed to implement the policy. Talking about the effect NEP will have on college admissions in the coming years, DUTA’s president, Professor Rajib Ray, said, “No academic council or discussion has taken place on how to formulate the policy decision yet. If standardised tests are implemented, it may not be the best solution for a country as diverse as India. Standardised test or a series of tests for different subjects or universities will facilitate the mushrooming of tuition centres.” The policy also aims to invest six percent of the GDP as recommended by the Kothari Commission in 1968. As calculated in 2018, around 4.43 percent of the GDP is invested in the education sector. The policy also aims to increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio from 26.8 percent in higher education (including vocational training) to 50 percent by 2035. Commenting on this, Professor MD Monirul Islam of Presidency University, Kolkata, said, “We don’t have enough colleges or universities to facilitate such a huge group of students yet. The first thing that is required is a huge investment on behalf of the government. If the government invests enough in infrastructure, employing faculty members and in developing other things that will give access to such a huge number of students only then will the policy will have any positive change.” While some of the changes are welcome, a number of steps outlined by the policy are worrisome and ominous, Professor Islam noted. For instance, the commercialisation and corporatisation of education, which this policy facilitates, might stop the upward mobility of lower-class people. Scientific temperament finds little mention while the word “secular” is completely missing from the document, he stated. Stressing on the practical aspect of education, Professor Anil Mishra of the Lucknow University, lauded the much-awaited changes to the NEP.  “The only question I have is, why did they take so long to go for this policy. We have been following a pattern that did not give a holistic understanding or knowledge,” he said. Giving the example of History, he said the maximum of the learning is not used later. Right now, the focus should be on practical knowledge and how it can be used later in life. “It does not make sense to learn who Akbar was and what he did. Of course, students should have an idea about what happened in the past but the maximum of this is not used later in life. I would say that this should have been implemented at least 20-30 years back,” he added.  The government plans to implement the policy in its entirety in another 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/academicians-split-over-new-national-education-policy-871558.html
10-08-2020||National||EIA draft must be withdrawn to stop 'environmental destruction': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday stepped up his attack on the Centre over the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), saying it must be withdrawn to stop "environmental destruction". Gandhi alleged that the aim of EIA 2020 draft was clear -- "loot of the nation". "This (EIA) is another dreadful example of what the BJP government has been doing for its select suit-boot 'friends' who loot the resources of the country," Gandhi alleged. "EIA 2020 draft must be withdrawn to stop #LootOfTheNation and environmental destruction," he tweeted. यह एक और ख़ौफ़नाक उदाहरण है कि भाजपा सरकार देश के संसाधन लूटने वाले चुनिंदा सूट-बूट के ‘मित्रों’ के लिए क्या-क्या करती आ रही है। The draft EIA notification, which involves the procedure of issuing environmental clearances to various projects, was issued by the Environment Ministry in March and public suggestions were invited. The Environment Ministry had earlier said it would not extend the deadline for people to give suggestions and opinions beyond June 30 but later gave time till August 12. On Sunday, Gandhi had urged people to protest the new EIA 2020 draft, saying it was "dangerous" and, if notified, the long term consequences would be "catastrophic". In a Facebook post using the hashtag 'WithdrawEIA2020', Gandhi had slammed the government over the EIA, 2020, draft, saying it was not only "disgraceful", but "dangerous". "Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect our environment, but it could also potentially unleash widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eia-draft-must-be-withdrawn-to-stop-environmental-destruction-rahul-gandhi-871596.html
10-08-2020||National||SC decides to continue with 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to continue with the 2009 contempt case against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for his allegations of corruption against former CJIs. "Before reaching to any finding whether the statement made as to “corruption” would per se amount to Contempt of Court, the matter is required to be heard," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, rejected an explanation which included regret by Bhushan for his 2009 interview with the Tehelka magazine, where he hurled corruption allegations against eight out of 16 former Chief Justices of India. The Supreme Court fixed August 17 as the date for further consideration of the matter. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, father of Prashant had sought to intervene into the matter. He submitted the matter should be heard when physical courts hearing is resumed. On August 4, Bhushan refused to tender apology but he expressed regret, "if his statement caused hurt to judges or their family members and if it was misunderstood to lower the reputation of the judiciary". Bhushan also said he had used the word corruption in a wide sense meaning lack of propriety. "I did not mean only financial corruption or deriving any pecuniary advantage. If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same. I unreservedly state that I support the institution of the judiciary and especially the Supreme Court," he said. Bhushan is facing another Suo Motu criminal contempt for two tweets issued in June on the role of four CJIs in "destruction of democracy", current CJI riding a high-end bike and shutting the Supreme Court. The same bench had reserved its judgement in this separate matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-decides-to-continue-with-2009-contempt-case-against-advocate-prashant-bhushan-871606.html
10-08-2020||National||600 million LED bulbs to be sold at Rs 10 apiece in rural areas: Report||Under the Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) scheme, which is led by ESSL, 600 million LED bulbs will be made available to the rural user at Rs 10, without any government support or subsidy. The reason for such a low price is that, after ESSL registers the UJALA scheme under the United Nations’ Clean Development Mechanism, the firm will be able to claim carbon credit for using energy-efficient bulbs which will contribute Rs 60 of the total price. The total price is Rs 70. The balance will be paid by the rural consumer. “We realised that a rural consumer isn’t able to pay Rs 70 per LED bulb. Under the proposed scheme, we will be taking back the consumer’s incandescent and CFL (compact fluorescent lamp) bulbs and provide this LED bulb for Rs 10 apiece. The balance cost and our margin will be recouped through the carbon credits earned,” Executive Vice Chairperson of ESSL, Saurabh Kumar told the publication.  This scheme will primarily focus on rural areas now as only one-fifth of the 360 million LED was previously distributed in there. The scheme also has a mandatory domestic manufacturing clause that will improve energy access in rural areas.  The new bulbs will enhance the Make in India campaign and help India’s climate change strategy to reduce its carbon footprint as per the Paris agreement of 2015.  The ESSL is especially interested in the investment as the cost of reducing one tonne of greenhouse gases in India is much lower at around $10 to $40 as compared to a developed country where it costs around $100 to $200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/600-million-led-bulbs-to-be-sold-at-rs-10-apiece-in-rural-areas-report-871618.html
10-08-2020||National||Former President Pranab Mukherjee tests positive for coronavirus||Former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, the latest VIP to contract the virus infection. The 84-year-old Mukherjee announced the test results on Twitter in which he said he came to know about the virus infection when he visited the hospital for a separate procedure. "On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19," he said in the tweet. Sources said Mukherjee is admitted in the Army Research and Referral Hospital in the national capital. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the hospital to inquire about the former President's health. A number of messages wishing him speedy recovery flooded the social media. "We wish former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. The former President's son Abhijeet Mukherjee, a former Congress MP, tweeted, "I wish my father a speedy recovery! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health." We wish for your speedy recovery Pranab Da. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "concerned to hear about former President Pranab Mukherjee Da testing positive for Covid-19. My prayers are with him and his family during this time and I wish him a speedy recovery."  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said, "I have come to know former President of India  Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery." Union minister Piyush Goyal said he is confident that Pranab Mukherjee successfully recover from the virus quickly and wished him good health.  I pray for the well being and speedy recovery of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. This month alone, a number of prominent politicians have tested positive for Covid-19, including Home Minister Amit Shah, Minister of State Arjun Meghwal and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit while Uttar Pradesh Minister Kamal Rani Varun died on August 2 after testing positive for Covid-19. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu, Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain, UP BJP president Swantantra Dev Singh and senior JD(U) MP RCP Singh were among the prominent politicians who tested positive for Covid-19 in the recent months. In Maharashtra, five ministers and three MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 while in Tamil Nadu, 21 MLAs and three ministers had contracted the virus infection. In Delhi, three AAP MLAs also recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-871634.html
10-08-2020||National||Plea to take CLAT from home not maintainable as exam postponed: NLU to HC||The National Law Universities (NLU) consortium told the Delhi High Court on Monday that since the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 has been postponed, the plea seeking that candidates be allowed to take it from their homes instead of at exam centres is no longer maintainable. The petitioner, seeking to pursue a masters degree course in law, should withdraw the plea and file a fresh one, if required, when the new dates are announced, NLU said. It also said that the petitioner's plea was premised on the admission test of National Law University Delhi (NLUD), which has its own entrance exam different from CLAT, which too has been postponed. Justice Jayant Nath, however, simply adjourned the matter to September 10, saying the petitioner in the instant matter is asking that candidates be permitted to take the online exam from their homes in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. The court on August 4 had asked the central government to inform the court whether it would be permissible to hold such an exam at physical centres in view of the prevailing pandemic. It had also issued notices to the central government and the NLU, seeking their stand by August 10 on the petition which has sought that the online CLAT exams be allowed to be undertaken from home. No response has been filed yet by the central government, its standing counsel Ajay Digpaul said. CLAT is a centralised exam for admissions to bachelors and masters courses in law in 22 NLUs in the country and is conducted by the consortium. Under the CLAT 2020 notification, the exam would be held online at notified centres where computers would be set up for candidates to access the test. The counsel appearing for the consortium, on the last date (August 4), had said the plea was not maintainable in Delhi as the consortium was based in Bengaluru. He had also said that it was decided not to hold CLAT at home as it would lead to rampant cheating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-to-take-clat-from-home-not-maintainable-as-exam-postponed-nlu-to-hc-871638.html
10-08-2020||National||45% MGNREGA fund spent in 4 months of Covid-19 lockdown||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has provided employment to 90 million households between April and July, while subsidised rations under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) distributed food grains to about 720 million people during the four months, data showed.  Speaking to the Parliamentary standing committee on labour on Friday, a rural development ministry official said that at this pace, the MGNREGS funds will be exhausted by early December. However, the official gave reassurance that MGNREGS is a demand-driven scheme and that there will be no shortage of funds. The demand for work and food peaked during June as the national lockdown was slowly eased. It dropped in July as migrant workers who had travelled to their villages and hometowns in a mass exodus migrated back to cities in search of work after travelling restrictions were lifted gradually.  Under MGNREGS, 24.2 million households were provided work in July, compared to 38.9 million in June (the highest ever monthly figure under the scheme month) and 33.1 million in May. Similarly, distribution of ration under the Public Distribution System peaked in June with 94 percent of the 800 million beneficiaries receiving food grains. It dropped to 91 percent in July.  About 2.8 million tonnes of rice and 21 million tonnes of wheat was distributed in June, which went down to 2.44 million tonnes of rice and 1.99 million tonnes of wheat in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/45-mgnrega-fund-spent-in-4-months-of-covid-19-lockdown-871644.html
10-08-2020||National||AGR dues case: SC to hear telcom companies||The Supreme Court will hear the case on the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues of telecom companies which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah had on July 20 reserved the verdict on the issue of timeline for staggered payment of AGR-related dues by telecom companies. The top court, which on June 18 had asked the telecom companies including Bharti Airtel, Vodafone to file their books of accounts for last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for paying the AGR dues, were miffed when some senior lawyers started disputing the dues being calculated by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT). (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agr-dues-case-sc-to-hear-telcom-companies-871655.html
10-08-2020||National||Protest over madrasa teacher being 'beaten up' by cop during lockdown||Several people, including clerics, have protested over the alleged thrashing of a madrasa teacher by a sub-inspector in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district during the weekend lockdown. The madrasa principal was returning home on his bike in Kakrauli area on Sunday after filling petrol when he was beaten up with a baton by the sub-inspector, who also snatched his mobile and abused him, according to a complaint. Several clerics have filed the complaint and demanded strict action against the sub-inspector. Kakrauli police station incharge Mukesh Solanki has assured them that action would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protest-over-madrasa-teacher-being-beaten-up-by-cop-during-lockdown-871673.html
10-08-2020||National||62,064 new Covid-19 cases take tally past 22 lakh; recoveries surge to over 15.35 lakh||India's novel coronavirus tally crossed the 22-lakh mark on Monday with 62,064 new cases, while the recoveries surged to over 15.35 lakh, the Health Ministry said. The death toll from the pathogen climbed to 44,386 with 1,007 more fatalities, according to the ministry data. There are 6,34,945 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The total coronavirus cases now stands at 22,15,074, it said. India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed the "historic peak" of 1.5 million with the recovery of 15,35,743 patients that was possible because of the policy of "testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently", the Health Ministry said in a statement. "Better ambulance services, focus on standard of care and use of non-invasive oxygen have given the desired results," the ministry said. With the highest-ever single-day recoveries of 54,859 in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate has scaled another high of almost 70 per cent, it said. The record high recoveries have ensured that the percentage of the active cases have reduced and currently comprise only 28.66 per cent of the total positive cases.  The coordinated efforts of the Centre and state/UT governments on early detection through aggressive testing and efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases have shown results with continuously regressing case fatality rate, which now stands at 2 per cent and is steadily declining, the ministry said. Early identification of cases has also led to a steep fall in the percentage of active cases, it said. "Early identification helps to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to effective management of cases," the ministry said. It is important to note that the Covid-19 infection still remains concentrated in 10 states and Union territories that contribute more than 80 per cent of the new cases, it said. The aggressive testing and tracking through house-to-house surveys and well implemented containment strategies and surveillance in these areas may lead to an initial increase in positive cases, but well implemented strategies will ensure that the caseload reduces over time, the ministry said. This is the fourth consecutive day that the Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 60,000. As many as 4,77,023 samples were tested on Sunday, taking the total to 2,45,83,558, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Of the 1,007 more deaths, 390 are from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 107 from Karnataka, 97 from Andhra Pradesh, 54 from West Bengal, 41 from Uttar Pradesh, 24 each from Gujarat and Punjab, 22 from Jharkhand, 19 from Madhya Pradesh, and 13 each from Delhi, Odisha and Jammu and Kashmir. Eleven fatalities have been reported from Rajasthan, 10 from Telangana, nine from Haryana, eight from Uttarakhand, seven each from Chhattisgarh and Puducherry, five each from Bihar and Assam, three from Goa, two from Kerala, one each from Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Chandigarh. Of the total 44,386 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum of 17,757, followed by 4,927 in Tamil Nadu, 4,111 in Delhi and 3,198 in Karnataka. There have been 2,652 fatalities in Gujarat, 2,069 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,059 in West Bengal, 2,036 in Andhra Pradesh and 996 in Madhya Pradesh. A total of 789 people have died in Rajasthan due to the pandemic, followed by 637 in Telangana, 586 in Punjab, 483 in Haryana and 472 in Jammu and Kashmir. There have been 387 Covid-19 deaths in Bihar, 272 in Odisha, 177 in Jharkhand, 145 in Assam, 125 in Uttarakhand, 108 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 96 deaths, followed by 87 in Puducherry, 75 in Goa, 42 in Tripura and 25 in Chandigarh. Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported 20 deaths, Himachal Pradesh 15, Manipur 11, Ladakh nine and Nagaland eight. There have been six coronavirus deaths in Meghalaya and three in Arunachal Pradesh, while Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu reported two and Sikkim one. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/62064-new-covid-19-cases-take-tally-past-22-lakh-recoveries-surge-to-over-1535-lakh-871675.html
10-08-2020||National||Pakistani troops fire at border posts along LoC||Pakistani troops opened fire on forward posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said. The unprovoked firing from across the border started in the Balakote sector around 10.15 am and was given a befitting response by Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC, the spokesman said. He said the cross-border firing between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no report of any casualty, the spokesman said. Officials said Pakistan Army personnel also fired mortar shells targeting Tarkundi village, causing panic among residents. On Sunday, Pakistani troops resorted to heavy shelling in Mankote, Shahpur, Kirni and Krishna Ghati sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-troops-fire-at-border-posts-along-loc-871677.html
10-08-2020||National||India faces lost generation as coronavirus pushes children to work||By Shwetha Sunil The coronavirus pandemic is forcing India’s children out of school and into farms and factories to work, worsening a child-labor problem that was already one of the most dire in the world. Sixteen-year-old Maheshwari Munkalapally and her 15-year-old sister stopped attending lessons when virtually the entire economy was brought to a halt during the world’s biggest lockdown. Munkalapally’s mother and older sister lost their jobs as housemaids in Hyderabad, the capital of the southern Indian state of Telangana. The younger girls, who had been living with their grandmother in a nearby village, were forced to become farmhands along with their mother, in order to survive. “Working under the sun was difficult as we were never used to it,” Munkalapally said. “But we have to work at least to buy rice and other groceries.” It’s difficult to quantify the number of children affected since the pandemic erupted, but civil society groups are rescuing more of them from forced labor and warn that many others are being compelled to work in cities because of the migrant labor shortage there. Even before the outbreak, India was struggling to keep children in school. A 2018 study by DHL International GmBH estimated that more than 56 million children were out of school in India -- more than double the combined number across Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. The cost to India’s economy, in terms of lost productivity, was projected at $6.79 billion, or 0.3% of gross domestic product. Of those children not in school, 10.1 million are working, either as a ‘main worker’ or as a ‘marginal worker,’ according to the International Labour Organization. Global child labor had been gradually declining in the past two decades, but the Covid-19 pandemic threatens to reverse that trend, according to the ILO. As many as 60 million people are expected to fall into poverty this year alone, and that inevitably drives families to send children out to work. A joint report by the ILO and United Nations Children’s Fund estimates that a 1 percentage point rise in poverty leads to at least a 0.7 percentage point increase in child labor. Indonesia, the world’s fourth most-populous nation, is another country that will see large numbers of children from vulnerable families drop out of school and into the workforce. The ILO estimates about 11 million are at risk of being exploited as child laborers under current conditions, especially in the less-developed eastern parts of the country, like Sulawesi islands, Nusa Tenggara and Papua. In India, home to more young people than any other country in the world, this lost generation of children will have substantial effects on Asia’s third-largest economy: lower productivity and earning potential, unrealized tax revenue, increased poverty levels and pressure for more government handouts.      “Even prior to the pandemic, numbers of children out of school in India and in child labor were high,” said Ramya Subrahmanian, the chief of research on child rights and protection at Unicef-Innocenti in Florence, Italy. “An even bigger issue will be for those children who are due to enter school during this time. If these children face delays in entering school, there may be an increase in the numbers of never-enrolled children, which could in turn push up child labor numbers.” The Indian constitution provides free and compulsory education for all children in the age group of six to 14 years as a fundamental right. While Munkalapally and her sister are no longer covered by it because of their age, they are protected by the local law on child labor, which prohibits employment of adolescents between the age of 14 and 18 from working in any hazardous or dangerous occupations. The same law bars children under the age of 14 in any form of occupation except as a child artist, or in a family business. “At a household level, it’s hard to differentiate whether children are involved or not,” says Dheeraj, a program manager at Praxis: Institute for Participatory Practices, who uses only one name. The jobs may still be hazardous and against the law -- small-scale businesses such as matchbox-making can be run from home -- but the difficulty in identifying such labor leaves children open to exploitation. Bonded labor, where people are forced to work for creditors to pay off their loans, is another avenue where families send their children to work. A total of 591 children were rescued from forced work and bonded labor from different parts of India during the lockdown by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a civil society group on children’s rights, founded by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi. “Once the lockdown is lifted and normal manufacturing activity resumes, factory owners will look to cover their financial losses by employing cheap labor,” the group said in a statement. NGOs point to the fact that the real spike in child labor is yet to come. When economic activity begins accelerating, there is a risk of returning migrants taking children along with them to the cities. “When hotels reopen, construction work starts, the railways get back on track, when everything opens up, this community that has returned will be the main source that take our children to the cities,” said Abhishek Kumar, program coordinator at SOS Children’s Villages.    Children may be seen as a stop-gap measure to fill jobs left vacant by migrant laborers who fled cities for their rural homes during the lockdown. “The burden has shifted to the poor households within urban areas,” said Rahul Sapkal, an assistant professor at the Centre for Labour Studies in the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai. While children aren’t exactly engaging in heavy labor usually carried out by adults, if parents take their children along for support in their jobs, even if it’s to avoid leaving them at home, a precedent is set, and such activity is normalized, he said. Mukalapally mother, Venkatamma, is unhappy that her children are now forced to work, but cannot think of any alternative. The money they make is still not enough. “Vegetables, rice, spices, soap, we still cannot afford these despite the four of us working,” she says. “It would be better if we could go back. In Hyderabad, even if the work is difficult, the pay is better.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-faces-lost-generation-as-coronavirus-pushes-children-to-work-871679.html
10-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi holds meeting with Chief Ministers of six states to review flood situation||Owing to continuous heavy rainfall over the last few days that has resulted in the loss of lives and disruption of normal life, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with the Chief Ministers of six states to review the flood situation. In the meeting that was held through video conference with the Chief Ministers of Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, PM Modi emphasised on better coordination between all central and state agencies, to have a permanent system for flood forecasts and extensive use of innovative technologies to improve the forecast and warning system. From Karnataka, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka attended the meeting as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19. In the meeting which was attended by Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, PM Modi said that investment should be increased in localised early warning system so that people in a particular area can be provided with a timely warning in case of any threatening situation such as breach of river embankment, inundation level, lightning etc. He also said that over the past few years, the forecasting agencies like India Meteorological Department and Central Water Commission have been making efforts to make better and more usable flood forecasts. "They are trying to provide not only rainfall and river level forecast but also location-specific forecast of inundation," said a statement from the Prime Minister's Office. "Efforts are underway to also use innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence to improve location-specific forecasts, for which states should provide necessary information to these agencies and timely disseminate the warnings to local communities," said the statement. He also emphasized that in view of the Covid-19 situation, while undertaking rescue efforts, states must ensure that people follow all health precautions. The states also complimented the efforts of central agencies including NDRF teams in timely deployment and rescuing people, said a statement. Heavy rainfall and flood have hit normal lives in Karnataka, Kerala, Bihar and Assam for the past few days and have also caused loss of lives and properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-holds-meeting-with-chief-ministers-of-six-states-to-review-flood-situation-871697.html
10-08-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for providing PPEs to healthcare workers||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre on a plea for providing a sufficient number of PPEs to healthcare workers, police, and other services engaged in the fight to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the Union government on a petition filed by advocate Amit Sahni. The court decided to consider the matter after two weeks. Acting on a petition by Gursimran Singh Narula, a final law year student, for banning sanitisation tunnels, the bench also issued notice to the Union government. The petitioner claimed the disinfectant tunnels were ineffective in checking the spread of the coronavirus but also were harmful for its dangerous impact due to exposure of human beings to ultraviolet rays. Such tunnels also amounted to non-consensual medical experiments for the people. The petitioner also pointed out that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued an advisory against spraying disinfectant on people during the Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-providing-ppes-to-healthcare-workers-871699.html
10-08-2020||National||Enquiry on in 63 moons technologies complaint against P Chidambaram: CBI to Bombay High Court||The CBI told the Bombay High Court on Monday that it was conducting a preliminary enquiry into the complaint filed by 63 moons technologies limited against former Union finance minister P Chidambaram and two other bureaucrats alleging abuse of official powers. CBI advocate Hiten Venegavkar told a division bench of Justices S S Jadhav and N J Jamadar that since the allegations pertain to the year 2012-2013, the agency has to recover relevant documents which will take some time. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Jignesh Shah-promoted company, earlier known as Financial Technologies Ltd, questioning the 'delayed' action by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against senior Congress leader Chidambaram and bureaucrats K P Krishnan and Ramesh Abhishek. Abhishek was chairman of the Forward Markets Commission and Krishnan was an additional secretary and joint secretary in the Ministry of Finance when Chidambaram was the finance minister. "We (CBI) are conducting a preliminary enquiry. Since the case dates back to the year 2012 and 2013, we need to apply our mind and verify the allegations levelled and recover all relevant documents," Venegavkar said. He said the complainant (63 moons technologies) was summoned by the CBI for recording of statement and the firm was asked to submit further evidence in support of its allegations. "However, till date CBI has not received any further evidence or documents from the petitioner company, Venegavkar said. Advocate Aabad Ponda, appearing for 63 moons technologies, refuted this argument and said all relevant documents have already been submitted to the CBI. "A preliminary enquiry, as per provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, has to be completed within a period of four months. In this case, the preliminary enquiry was initiated in February. We (petitioner) moved the high court in July, Ponda argued. The bench directed the CBI to file an affidavit stating details of their enquiry and posted the plea for further hearing on August 13. On February 15, 2019, 63 moons technologies filed a complaint with the CBI, seeking that a case is registered against the three for allegedly abusing their official positions and causing damage to the company when the multi-crore payment default scam at the National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) came to light. On June 20, 2019, the company filed a petition in the high court, seeking a direction to the CBI to register an FIR. In August 2019, the CBI informed the court that after verification of the complaint, a preliminary enquiry (PE) will be initiated. The petition said in March 2020, the company representatives were summoned by the CBI to record their statement as the preliminary enquiry was initiated. "Four months have elapsed since then and there has been no further communication from the CBI and the agency has not registered FIR too, the petition filed on July 4 said. The company has accused Chidambaram and the other two of taking malicious and mala fide action against it when the NSEL scam came to light in 2012-13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enquiry-on-in-63-moons-technologies-complaint-against-p-chidambaram-cbi-to-bombay-high-court-871700.html
10-08-2020||National||Kozhikode plane crash: Air India Express says 56 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||Air India Express on Monday said 56 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospital after "obtaining complete fitness". Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured in the B737 plane crash. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. "The Chief Executive Officer, Air India Express Ltd as well as Regional Head-Southern Region continue to remain in Calicut (Kozhikode) to render continuous support to the family members," the airline said in a statement on Monday. "As on date, 56 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness," it added. Air India Express, a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline said on Sunday that the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-plane-crash-air-india-express-says-56-injured-passengers-discharged-from-hospitals-871706.html
10-08-2020||National||Overwhelming majority of rural Indians satisfied with Modi govt's steps to fight Covid-19: Survey||An overwhelming majority of rural Indians are satisfied with the steps taken by the Narendra Modi government as well as state governments to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, despite facing hardships that forced some to sell land, phones and watches, and take loans from neighbours to get by, according to a nationwide survey unveiled on Monday. Seventy-four per cent of rural Indians are satisfied with the steps taken by the Modi government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the "nationwide" survey of rural India by media platform Gaon Connection. About 78 per cent respondents said they were also satisfied with the steps taken by their own state government, according to the findings of the survey. A total of 25,371 respondents were interviewed between May 30 and July 16, 2020 during the exercise and all of them were main earners of their households, and thus primarily men, the Gaon Connection said. The survey was designed and data analysed by the Lokniti-CSDS team at the New Delhi-based Centre for Study of Developing Societies CSDS). It was carried out through face-to-face interviews following social distancing in 179 districts across 23 states and union territories by Gaon Connection Insights, the data and insights arm of the media platform. On the margin of error in the survey, Sanjay Kumar, professor at CSDS, said: "If the entire sample had been selected using the probability sampling methods, the overall margin of error for a sample as large as this (25,300 respondents) would have been +/- 1 per cent at a 95 per cent confidence level." "However, given that the sampled locations were not spread out evenly in most states/UTs and were selected by non-probability sampling methods owing to logistical and Covid-related issues, we are not in a position to provide reliable estimates of sampling error," he said. The nationwide lockdown was first imposed by the Centre from March 25 for 21 days to check the spread of coronavirus and was subsequently extended. Of those who supported the Modi government's steps, 37 per cent said they were "very satisfied" and 37 per cent said they were "somewhat satisfied" with the central government, according to the survey. More than 14 per cent respondents said they were "somewhat dissatisfied" with the Modi government, and seven per cent said they were "very dissatisfied". According to the survey, the lockdown doesn't seem to have adversely impacted the perception of rural citizens about the Modi government at the Centre, or the governments in the states on the whole.  "For instance, on being asked whether the Modi government’s attitude towards migrant workers during the lockdown had been good or bad, 73 per cent or over seven out of ten respondents interviewed in rural areas of the country said it had been good (29 per cent said very good and 44 per cent rated it as good)," the Gaon Connection said. Only 23 per cent or around one of every four were of the opinion that the lockdown had been bad (9 per cent very bad and 14 per cent bad), it said. While 40 per cent respondents said the lockdown was "too harsh", 38 per cent said it was "adequately harsh", 11 per cent said the lockdown should have been harsher. Only 4 per cent respondents said the lockdown should not have happened at all, according to the survey findings. The state governments on the whole were rated equally positively, in fact slightly more than the Centre, with 76 per cent describing their attitude towards migrants as good and only 20 per cent rating it as bad. "Interestingly, respondents in BJP-ruled states were less impressed with the Modi government’s and their state government’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic than those in many other states," the Gaon Connection said. “Rural India has not been part of the national media narrative in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. This survey offers powerful insights into how rural India dealt with this crisis, and what it plans to do ahead – including questions like, will they return to cities? Will they change spending patterns?” said Neelesh Misra, founder of Gaon Connection. According to the survey, about 23 per cent rural Indians borrowed money during the lockdown, eight per cent sold a valuable possession (phone, watch etc.), seven per cent mortgaged jewellery, and five per cent sold or mortgaged land. It also found that 71 per cent ration card-owning households said they received wheat or rice from the government during the lockdown. Of the 17 per cent citizens who do not own ration cards, only 27 per cent said they received wheat or rice from the government, according to the survey findings. Twenty-three per cent of the migrant workers returned home walking during the lockdown and over 33 per cent migrant workers said they want to go back to the cities to work, the survey showed. It also showed that skilled workers and manual (unskilled) labourers were the hardest hit. Work shut down completely for 60 per cent skilled workers and 64 per cent manual labourers. "One in every eight rural households surveyed reported frequently having gone without eating food the entire day during lockdown due to lack of money and resources," the Gaon Connection said. Only 20 per cent respondents said they got work under MGNREGA in the lockdown, according to the survey. Chhattisgarh reported the highest percentage of such households at 70 per cent followed by Uttarakhand (65 per cent) and Rajasthan (59 per cent). Gujarat and UTs of Jammu & Kashmir-Ladakh reported the lowest work under MGNREGA at 2 per cent and 4 per cent, respectively, according to the survey.     More than 68 per cent rural Indians faced “high” to “very high” monetary difficulty during the lockdown, the survey findings said. According to the survey, 42 per cent of the households with pregnant women said these women did not get pregnancy check-ups and vaccination during the lockdown. The lowest percentages were in West Bengal (29 per cent) and Odisha (33 per cent). Seventy-eight per cent respondents saw their work coming to a "complete standstill" or "a standstill to a large extent" during the lockdown while 44 per cent respondents said their work came to a complete standstill during the lockdown. Seventy-one per cent surveyed households reported a drop in total monthly household income during the lockdown months compared to pre-lockdown months, according to the survey. The poor were the hardest hit -- 75 per cent poor families and 74 per cent lower-class households suffered a fall in income during the lockdown, according to the survey. It also found that only nine per cent of rich rural households, who do not own a car, to be thinking of buying a car in the coming months. Similarly, only 14 per cent of non-bike owning rich households plan to buy a bike in the next five to six months, the survey found. More than half the farmers managed to harvest their crops in time in the lockdown, but only one fourth could sell them on time. “The Rural Report” by Gaon Connection is the first set of national insights that document the post Covid impact on livelihood, income, debt, perception towards governments, consumption patterns and future plans, the Gaon Connection said, adding that full details are available at www.ruraldata.in. The states where the survey was conducted are Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Odisha, Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The surveyed union territories are Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overwhelming-majority-of-rural-indians-satisfied-with-modi-govts-steps-to-fight-covid-19-survey-871707.html
10-08-2020||National||Teacher arrested for raping minor girl in Raipur||A nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a teacher at her home in Raipur, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday following which the 25-year-old accused was arrested, they said. The accused, who was a teacher at a madarsa (an educational institution), had been going to the victim's house to teach Arabic to her younger sister for last 15 days. Since Saturday, he was also teaching the victim, Khamardih police station house officer Mamta Sharma Ali told PTI. On Sunday, he allegedly sexually assaulted the victim at her house and escaped from there, the police official said quoting the complaint lodged by the girl's parents. The victim later narrated the incident to her parents following which they approached police, she said. The accused was arrested and booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said, adding that further investigation was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teacher-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-raipur-871712.html
10-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Karnataka’s flood-related losses at Rs 3,500 cr-4,000 cr; Pranab Mukherjee tests Covid-19 positive||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, we look at Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka's statement on the government’s preliminary estimate for flood-related losses were Rs 3,500-4,000 crore; The Supreme Court on Monday decided to continue with the 2009 contempt case against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for allegations of corruption among former CJIs; Karnataka Education Department on Monday announced the results of SSLC examination and Former President Pranab Mukherjee tests positive for Covid-19.    Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday said the government’s preliminary estimate for flood-related losses were Rs 3,500-4,000 crore.  At least 12 districts have been affected by floods caused due to heavy rainfall. A dozen persons have lost their lives, thousands of homes and acres of crops damaged.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi is reviewing the flood situation in Karnataka and he will be briefed by Ashoka and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on behalf of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is in hospital after testing Covid-19 positive.  Karnataka will seek financial assistance from the Centre for the rehabilitation of the flood-affected persons and to rebuild infrastructure. “We will ask for an advance to be given for now,” Ashoka said. “In the last six months, the Centre gave Rs 310 crore for precautionary measures under disaster management. This won’t be enough. We need to provide compensation (for crop losses) and build new homes for people who will be shifted from landslide-prone areas,” he said, adding that the government will send a detailed report to the Ministry of Home Affairs seeking commensurate compensation.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah welcomed Modi’s move to review the flood situation in the state, while urging the government to ensure proper financial assistance. “Last year, the CM had estimated damages due to floods at Rs 50,000 cr. He had requested the PM for Rs 35,000 cr but what Karnataka got was just Rs 1,860 cr. Let the ministers be brave enough to ask for the remaining compensation as well,” he said in a tweet.  A red alert has been sounded in seven districts of rain-ravaged Karnataka where one more death was reported on Sunday, taking the toll to 13. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, there would be heavy rain for the next 24 hours in coastal areas, in the northern and in the interior parts of the south. The red alert has been issued in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga as they would get heavy rainfall. As on Sunday, Cauvery and Krishna rivers were flowing above the danger mark, and the sluice gates of the dams were opened. Due to the release of water, many regions in the low- lying areas were inundated. In the Cauvery basin, Krishnaraja Sagar Dam, Harangi, Hemavathi, and Kabini Dams were almost full. In view of the swollen Cauvery river, the Mandya district administration put barricades near the Sri Nimishamba Temple near Ganjam in Srirangapatna Taluk to ensure the safety of public in general and pilgrims and tourists in particular.     The Supreme Court on Monday decided to continue with the 2009 contempt case against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for allegations of corruption among former CJIs.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra rejected an explanation, including regret by Bhushan, for his 2009 interview with Tehelka magazine, wherein he accused eight out of 16 former Chief Justices of India of corruption.  The court fixed August 17 as the date for further considering the matter. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, father of Bhushan had sought to intervene into the matter. He submitted the matter should be heard when physical courts hearing is resumed. On August 4, Bhushan had refused to tender apology but he had expressed regret, "if his statement caused hurt to judges or their family members and if it was misunderstood to lower the reputation of the judiciary". The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, had earlier observed that any statement of corruption in the judiciary per se would amount to contempt.  The court had said that there was a thin line between free speech and contempt.      Actress and model Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused by Sushant Singh Rajput’s family for the actor’s death, appeared for the Enforcement Directorate for the second round of grilling session on Monday. Rhea, her brother Showik and their father Indrajit Chakraborty were seen going inside the ED office on Monday. Rhea Chakraborty on Monday approached the Supreme Court with a fresh plea alleging media trial and attempts to pronounce her guilty for the death actor Sushant Singh Rajput.      The Education Department on Monday announced the results of the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) (class 10) examination that was held in June-July. The state reported an overall pass percentage of 71.80%.  This year the exams were conducted amidst the fear of Covid-19 pandemic and compared to the previous year, the state witnessed a dip in the pass percentage by 1.9%.  Of the 8,48,203 candidates registered for the exams, 8,11,050 were present and of which 5,82,316 have cleared the exams.  Due to Covid-19 reasons over 18,067 students were absent and will be allowed to appear for exams during supplementary as fresh candidates. Apart from this 19086 students were not allowed to appear for exams due to a shortage of attendance.      Former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, the latest VIP to contract the virus infection. The 84-year-old Mukherjee announced the test results on Twitter in which he said he came to know about the virus infection when he visited hospital for a separate procedure. "On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19," he said in the tweet. Sources said Mukherjee is admitted in the Army Research and Referral Hospital in the national capital. This month alone, a number of prominent politicians have tested positive for Covid-19, including Home Minister Amit Shah, Minister of State Arjun Meghwal and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit while Uttar Pradesh Minister Kamal Rani Varun died on August 2 after testing positive for Covid-19. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu, Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain, UP BJP president Swantantra Dev Singh and senior JD(U) MP RCP Singh were among the prominent politicians who tested positive for Covid-19 in the recent months. In Maharashtra, five ministers and three MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 while in Tamil Nadu, 21 MLAs and three ministers had contracted the virus infection. In Delhi, three AAP MLAs also recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-s-flood-related-losses-at-rs-3500-cr-4000-cr-pranab-mukherjee-tests-covid-19-positive-871753.html
10-08-2020||National||Four Indian Army Gurkha soldiers test Covid-19 positive in Nepal||Four Gurkha soldiers of the Indian Army who were visiting their home in Nepal have tested positive for the coronavirus at a quarantine centre in the country's eastern Sunsari district, officials said on Monday. The Nepalese nationals from the Gurkha regiments of the Indian Army tested positive after their swab samples were collected at a quarantine facility in Dharan Municipality of Sunsari district in Eastern Nepal, Assistant Chief District Officer Mahesh Kumar Pokharel said. The soldiers, aged around 40-45 years, were on leave and staying in the quarantine centre in Sunsari after returning home. A large number of Nepalese nationals are serving in seven Gurkha regiments in the Indian Army. The coronavirus cases in Nepal reached close to 23,000 while 75 people have died so far. Nepal has a very low mortality rate of 0.3 percent while the recovery rate is 71 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-indian-army-gurkha-soldiers-test-covid-19-positive-in-nepal-871754.html
10-08-2020||National||Govt to provide mobile connectivity to border villages||Mobile connectivity to 354 villages located in strategic and border areas will be provided soon, said Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday. A tender for 144 uncovered villages in the strategic, remote and border areas has been finalised and is under implementation in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, he said. The rest of 210 villages are in Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. These villages have been strategically chosen to cover border area connectivity on the mobile. Satellite-based DSPTs (Digital Satellite Phone Terminal) are also being provided at 1,347 sites for the army, BRO, BSF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB in Jammu and Kashmir. Of which 183 sites are already commissioned and remaining are in the process, Prasad said. The Department of Telecommunications is also providing connectivity in uncovered villages of 68 aspirational districts, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-provide-mobile-connectivity-to-border-villages-871763.html
10-08-2020||National||Plea filed in SC to take away senior advocate designation of Dushyant Dave||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to take away senior advocate designation of Dushyant Dave for his arguments in Suo Motu contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan. Petitioner Sharad Yadav claimed that on August 5, Dave raised unconnected issues to run down the Supreme Court's judges to defend Bhushan for his two tweets, triggering adverse proceedings. Dave had then raked up the issue of Judges' press conference, sexual harassment charge against then CJI Ranjan Gogoi and subsequent acceptance of Rajya Sabha nomination by him, Ayodhya and Loya case judgements among others. "The conduct of Dave has smeared the image of Supreme Court, and sowed certain misgivings about the institution," the petitioner claimed, asking the court to withdraw the designation of senior advocate from Dave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-to-take-away-senior-advocate-designation-of-dushyant-dave-871780.html
10-08-2020||National||Majority of the parents against re-opening schools in September: Survey||Fearing for the wellbeing of their children amid coronavirus pandemic, a survey on Monday claimed that 58% of parents are opposed to reopening of schools in September as they are not ready to take chances on health matters and concerns about the collapse of social distancing norms. According to the survey by 'Local Circles' based on responses from around 25,000 spread across 252 districts, only 33% were positive about re-opening of schools while 9% did not have an opinion. Educational institutions have been closed since around mid-March and several schools are going ahead with digital classes. The survey was conducted amid reports that the government was mulling starting classes for Class X-XII from September 1 and for Class VI-IX a fortnight later. Among those opposed to the re-opening of schools from September 1, the survey claimed that 13% said they cannot afford to take chances with children given the risk and unknowns related to Covid-19 while 9% felt social distancing will not be possible in schools. According to the survey, 5% felt Covid-19 spread will increase even faster if schools were opened while 2% believed online education is a good substitute given the situation and 1% said there is a serious risk with seniors in the family in case a child in the family gets infected. "47% said all of the above were valid reasons for them and 23% said they are not opposed to the opening of schools from September 1," it added. "This shows that the risk and unknowns of Covid-19, hard to implement social distancing in schools and risk to seniors in the family are amongst top reasons why parents don’t want the school to start from September 1," the survey added. One of the concerns of parents is about access to online classes as many of them do not have the proper equipment for attending digital classes. Media reports suggested that the number of students testing positive for Covid-19 increased since the re-opening of schools while hundreds have been ordered into quarantine. Israel was the first country to re-start schools in May and within days, a number of students contracted the virus infection. On the other hand, Kenya had decided to cancel the entire school year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-of-the-parents-against-re-opening-schools-in-september-survey-871785.html
10-08-2020||National||MHADA CEO Milind Mhaiskar and other IAS officers transferred||Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) vice president and CEO Milind Mhaiskar is one of the IAS officers who were transferred by the state government on Monday. Mhaiskar's new role will be principal secretary of forest department, a government order said. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection department secretary Sanjay Khandare will be the new chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (MAHAGENCO). Aurangabad district collector Uday Chaudhari, Jalswaraj Project Manager (Navi Mumbai) AA Gulhane and additional collector KH Bagate have been posted as deputy secretary (chief secretary's office) in Mantralaya, Chandrapur district collector and CEO of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mhada-ceo-milind-mhaiskar-and-other-ias-officers-transferred-871790.html
10-08-2020||National||Gujarat thief accidentally kills self while cutting bank strong room||A thief accidentally killed himself by slashing his neck from the electric cutter he was using to cut down the strong room of a private bank here in Gujarat, police said Monday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, they said. "The thief died after accidentally getting hit by the electric cutter he was using to cut the strong room of the Ujjivan Small Finance Bank branch located at Sangam Crossroads here,"said S S Anand, inspector, Varasiya police station. According to him, the thief had cut through the inner plate of the strong room. The cutter likely stopped after the wire moved. He went to fix it, and was coming back through the narrow passage leading up to the strong room when the moving cutter in his hand accidentally hit him in the neck, killing him on the spot, he said. The body of the thief, identified as Nitin Vora, was found by the bank manager covered in blood inside the strong room around 1 am on Sunday, the inspector said. The manager, who was sent to the bank by its vigilance staff who saw the activity on the CCTV, informed the police who reached the spot around 1:30 am, Anand said. The police officer said that a case was registered against the thief under IPC sections 380 (theft) and 511 (attempt to commit offence). The body was handed over to his family members after post-mortem, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-thief-accidentally-kills-self-while-cutting-bank-strong-room-871800.html
10-08-2020||National||SC to consider plea for filling up abandoned seats in PG course in medical colleges||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider a plea for filling up 3373 all India quota seats in postgraduate courses in medical colleges across the country. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna posted the petition filed by Rajkumar Saini for hearing on August 14. The court directed for serving the copy of the petition with the Union government's counsel. The petitioner said after completion of round-2 of counselling of NEET-PG 2020 examination on June 16, 2020, the selected candidates were to join their colleges by June 30. However, many of them have joined central institutes like AIIMS, JIPMER or PGI-Chandigarh, leaving vacancy of 3373 seats in all India quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-for-filling-up-abandoned-seats-in-pg-course-in-medical-colleges-871805.html
10-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi reasserts India's traditional strategic role in Indian Ocean, sends out a message to China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reasserted India’s traditional dominance in the Indian Ocean, even as its navy of late deployed an unusually large number of warships in the region to send out a message to China.    “(The) Indian Ocean has been the center of India’s trade and military prowess for thousands of years,” the Prime Minister said, after launching the submarine Optical Fibre Cable connectivity between Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the mainland. His comment came even as the Indian Navy of late ramped up deployment of warships by nearly 25% in the Indian Ocean to counter Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy’s bid to expand its footprints in the region. India moved to display its maritime might amid its continuing military stand-off with China along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The warships of the Indian Navy’s Eastern and Western Fleets are now patrolling the Bay of Bengal, the Malacca Straits, the Andaman Sea, the southern and the central Indian Ocean region, the Gulf of Aden and the Persian Gulf. The Indian Navy’s warships INS Rana, INS Sahyadri, INS Shivalik and INS Kamorta last month participated in the “cooperative exercise” with the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group, which was on its way to West Asia after conducting a drill with USS Ronald Reagan in the South China Sea. The drill by the two US Navy carriers in the South China Sea as well as the joint exercise by the Indian Navy ships and the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group in the Indian Ocean came in the wake of growing belligerence of China – not only along its disputed boundary with India but elsewhere in Indo-Pacific too. The joint exercise by US and Indian warships closer to Malacca Strait was intended to send out the message to China that the sea lane, which is vital for the communist country, could be choked in case of a conflict in the region. The Chinese PLA navy deployed its 35th Task Force in Indian Ocean region in late April – just a few days before its soldiers made the first attempt to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – in Galwan Valley. The PLA Navy also deployed its missile destroyer Taiyan and frigate Jingzhou in the Indian Ocean, as the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA spread to other areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi has of late been also worried over reports of China deploying a fleet of underwater drones (Unmanned Underwater Vehicles) in the Indian Ocean. The Indian Navy in September 2019 spotted and chased away China’s research vessel Shiyan 1 in the Exclusive Economic Zone of India near the Andaman and Nicobar islands. The Chinese PLAN also deployed submarines in the Indian Ocean, including Shang class Type 093 nuclear-powered ones. Though Beijing publicly said that the deployment was intended to step up patrols on the sea lanes to protect vessels from pirates, New Delhi has been suspicious about the PLA Navy’s moves in the Indian Ocean region.    The Prime Minister on Monday said that the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and all other islands of India would have important roles to play as New Delhi started pursuing a new strategy for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. He said that the Andaman and Nicobar Islands would also play an important role in India’s Act-East policy to step up cooperation with the South East Asian nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-reasserts-indias-traditional-strategic-role-in-indian-ocean-sends-out-a-message-to-china-871818.html
10-08-2020||National||Kozhikode plane crash: 109 passengers still undergoing treatment||As many as 109 passengers injured in the Kozhikode flight crash are still under treatment. Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan said that condition of 14 was still serious. He also said that all hospital authorities were advised not to impose any charges from patients. Discussions were also being held with Air India Express on meeting the hospital bills. Meanwhile, a picture of police personnel saluting a group of local people who were actively involved in the rescue operations became viral on social media. Many celebrities shared the pictures. However, a section had raised objections against the police official's gesture and hence the Malappuram district police sought a report on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-plane-crash-109-passengers-still-undergoing-treatment-871822.html
10-08-2020||National||Indian Railways suspends regular train services till further notice||Indian Railways on Monday clarified that regular train services including mail, express and passenger train service suspended till further order.  However, the railways said 15 pair of Special Rajdhani Express trains, 100 pair of special timetabled trains will continue to operate.  The railways' clarification came in the backdrop of circulation of a notification in social media saying regular train services suspended till September 30.  The railways on May 11 issued a notification suspending regular trains till further order and same will continue, said an official in the railways. The officials also said that if required more special trains will be operated.  The Indian Railways suspended the train operations from March 22 and continue to operate only freight trains transporting essential commodities. However railways from May 1st it started operating Shramik Special. Subsequently Special Rajdhani Express trains on May 12  and Special timetabled train on June 1 started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-suspends-regular-train-services-till-further-notice-871824.html
10-08-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Department of Telecom to apprise how it will recover AGR dues from Telcos facing insolvency||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Department of Telecom (DoT) to apprise it as how it plans to recover Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues from telecom companies facing insolvency proceedings and whether spectrum given to these companies can be sold. DoT told the top court that their stand is that the spectrum cannot be sold by the telecom companies facing insolvency proceedings as it not their property. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for DoT to apprise it as how it plan to recovers the AGR related dues from these companies. “Please tell us what will happen to the DoT’s AGR related dues, if the companies like RCOM, Aircel and Videocon goes into insolvency then what would happen to the said amount. Tell us how you will recover Rs 31,000 from RCOM and Rs 12,000 crore from Aircel. You have to do something. This is a public money,” the bench told Mehta. It said that the court needs to ascertain the bonafides of the telecom companies who have gone under proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Mehta said that he will be filing an affidavit in this regard. He said telecom companies at varying stage of insolvency proceedings. The law officer said that their appeal against the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order has been pending before the top court on the question whether the spectrum given to the companies can be sold or not. The bench asked Mehta as why did NCLAT dismissed their petition against sale of spectrum to which he replied that due to delay in filing of appeal against the order. “Why was delay in filing the appeal? What would happen if the spectrum is sold out by then?” the bench said. It said that the court want to go into cause of initiation of insolvency for these telecom companies and want to know about their liabilities and what was the urgency for pushing for insolvency. The bench said it wanted to know as how insolvency proceedings were initiated against Reliance Communication (RCOM) even after the operational creditor the Swedish telecom equipment maker Ericsson was paid its dues. “How were the proceedings under IBC, revived when the Supreme Court had in its 2019 order directed for settlement of dues of Ericsson?”, the bench said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Resolution Professional for RCOM narrated the sequence of events to the bench. The bench said, “our order is binding for all courts and tribunals. How can NCLAT revive insolvency proceedings despite payment to Ericsson?” The bench asked the companies to file the affidavit giving each and every detail by next date of hearing. Senior advocate Ravi Kadam, appearing for Aircel said that as per them the spectrum can be sold as it was mentioned in the terms and condition that it is transferable and the company have made an upfront payment for it. "Since the spectrum is transferable therefore, it can be sold", he said. He said that this stand of the company has been upheld by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Kadam said that Aircel was not going into liquidation as a resolution plan has been approved by the NCLT. The bench then asked the SG to come prepared on the next date of hearing as how the spectrum can be sold. On July 20, the top court made it clear it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR related dues of telecom companies which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. The apex court had observed that it was not a reasonable proposal that a period of 15 to 20 years be given to the telecom companies to pay AGR dues. It had reserved the verdict on the issue of timeline for staggered payment of AGR-related dues by telecom companies. The top court, which on June 18 had asked the telecom companies including Bharti Airtel, Vodafone to file their books of accounts for last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for paying the AGR dues. The top court had took note of the submission of the Centre that there were “moratorium” in place with regard to some companies like RCom and Videocon as insolvency proceedings against them have started. It had sought details within seven days from the Centre with regard to the pendency of proceedings against some firms under the IBC and said that it would like to ensure whether IBC was being misused to “escape liabilities”. The Centre had earlier urged the top court that up to 20 years be given to telecom companies for the payment of dues in a staggered manner. On June 18, the top court was informed by the Centre that the DoT has decided to withdraw 96 per cent of the Rs 4 lakh crore demand for AGR related dues raised against non-telecom PSUs like GAIL. The apex court had in October 2019 delivered the verdict on the AGR issue for calculating government dues of telecom companies such as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. After the top court had rejected pleas by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking review of the judgement which widened the definition of AGR by including non-telecom revenues, the DoT had in March moved a plea seeking staggered payment over 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-department-of-telecom-to-apprise-how-it-will-recover-agr-dues-from-telcos-facing-insolvency-871845.html
10-08-2020||National||India, UK strike new med-tech pact to fight Covid-19||Innovative Indian medical technology (med-tech) start-ups were on Monday invited by the UK and Indian governments to apply for a Rs 5.6-million manufacturing support programme as part of a new bilateral med-tech partnership to combat Covid-19.  The programme involves the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) joining forces with the UK government to plug the gap between the demand and supply of ventilators and essential medical equipment, crucial in the fight against the deadly coronavirus. Selected start-ups, who have until the end of August to apply, will be hosted at AMTZ’s MediValley incubation centre, receiving financial, technical and infrastructure support necessary to make their equipment market-ready. “I am delighted that this new med-tech programme takes our partnership even further. I look forward to seeing the life-saving solutions we can pioneer by bringing the best scientific minds from the UK and India together as a force for good in the world,” said Sir Philip Barton, the British High Commissioner to India. “Covid-19 affects every human being on the planet and respects no border. The need for collaboration on science and innovation between nations has never been more important,” he said. The envoy highlighted that the UK is already India’s second-biggest research partner, with joint research expected to be worth 400 million pounds by 2021, with five new projects to tackle anti-microbial resistance announced last month. The new med-tech programme follows a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed recently between the UK government and AMTZ and aims to boost med-tech collaboration between the two countries by creating direct research and development linkages between UK companies and AMTZ’s manufacturing and testing facilities, as well as to the wider Indian healthcare market. “AMTZ is happy to sign a memorandum of understanding with the British High Commission for encouraging innovations in medical devices, particularly on those products that are necessary for fight against the pandemic,” said Dr Jitendar Sharma, Managing Director and CEO, AMTZ.  “Through this partnership, British High Commission and AMTZ aims to encourage a number of innovators and provide them with technical, technological, financial, entrepreneurial and strategic hand holding enabling them to leapfrog from idea to innovation and from a start-up to an established enterprise. This is with an aim to serve the global innovation community,” he said. The call for applications is open to all Indian start-ups, micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and innovators, including those at prototype, development, pilot, validation, early traction, and scaling stages. It signifies a major development as part of the UK-India Tech Partnership, which was established in 2018 to bring together the best tech minds from both countries to deliver high-skilled jobs and economic growth as well as to collectively tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges. AMTZ is an enterprise under the government of Andhra Pradesh, dedicated to medical device manufacturing. It has reserved 100,000 square feet rent-free manufacturing space for start-ups to facilitate quick commercialisation of successful solutions. It has been contracted by the government of India for the manufacture of ventilators and other essential medical equipment, such as masks, personal protective equipment (PPE), testing kits, etc. MediValley is the incubation and innovation arm of AMTZ, funded by NITI Aayog, as Atal Incubation Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-strike-new-med-tech-pact-to-fight-covid-19-871846.html
10-08-2020||National||Mayawati's BSP only alternative to Yogi Adityanath government in UP?||On Sunday when Mayawati promised to build a taller Sri Parshuram temple than one promised by Samajwadi Party, the BSP supremo was trying to recreate the magic social coalition of 2007, which had propelled her party to power with a single-party majority when two caste groups from the contrarian poles---—Brahmins and Dalits came together, changing the political discourse for some time. Down in the dumps since last years, having lost two state polls-- to SP in 2012 and BJP in 2017 having won zero in 2014 and only 10 (when she allied with SP) of 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BSP is keen to douse the fire in the backyard and pulling out all stops to revive the party, assiduously built by her mentor Kanshi Ram. But the BSP, whose vote had remained static around 20 per cent in last few years, has to take on BJP which got nearly 50 per cent votes in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BSP knows it well and hence it is working on the fault-lines—seeking to consolidate its Dalit vote base by wooing back non Jatav Dalits, large chunks of which drifted towards the BJP, aggressively woo the Brahmins, sections of whom seem somewhat cut up the Yogi Adityanath-led government in UP with the old Thakur-Brahmin rivalry coming to fore and being fomented by opposition parties. In 2017 UP assembly polls, the BSP fielded 97 BSP Muslim including in Faizabad, the seat of Ram temple movement, which she said, “no other party can do” and accused the Congress of being diffident in giving tickets to Muslims. BSP’s hope is on the consolidation of Brahmin (9 per cent), Muslims (19 per cent) and Dalits (21 per cent) but Shaibal Gupta, social scientist, Founder Member-Secretary of Asian Development Research Institute, feels otherwise.  “It is difficult to create any new social coalition now. Brahmins may be a bit unhappy with BJP for the time being but have been voting for the saffron party for long. Their earlier preferred destination was Congress. They are an aspirational group. There is a doubt that will vote en bloc for any party now. Actually, no party can now be sure of getting 100 per cent vote of any community.” In 2007 when Mayawati’s party coined the slogan “Brahman shankh bajaayega, haathi aage jaayega (the Brahmin will blow the conch and the elephant will march forward)”,  it was a radical shift from BSP’s 1989 slogan of Tilak, tarazu aur talwar, inko maro joote char (Hit the Brahmins, Thakurs, and Banias with shoes) or its 1996’s Brahmin, thakur, bania chhor, baaki sub hain DS 4 (Barring the Brahmins, Thakurs, Banis everyone is DS4 -- Dalit Shoshit Samaj Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of oppressed castes). By 2009, BSP had moved from ‘Bahujan’ to ‘Sarvajan politics’ but it continued to decline electorally post 2012. Mayawati, who is not a member of any House of Parliament, after having resigned from Rajya Sabha in July 2017 is totally focussed on her party’s revival in UP as she has this bitter realisation that when BSP is out of power in UP, its electoral performances suffer badly in other states as well, a fact proved in 2018 state polls in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, 2019 state polls in Haryana and Maharashtra and 2020 state polls in Delhi and Jharkhand. With SP having failed twice in 2017 polls when it allied with Congress, and in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it allied with BSP and got only half of the number of seats won by (BSP won 10 and SP-05), BSP is now seeking to give the message that only it could be the alternative to the Yogi Adityanath led BJP in the state. A task difficult given the divided nature of polity in the state,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawatis-bsp-only-alternative-to-yogi-adityanath-government-in-up-871849.html
10-08-2020||National||Kozhikode plane crash: Air India Express hires US-based firm to recover baggage||Air India Express said on Monday that it has contracted a US-based company to recover and restore the baggage of the crew and passengers of its plane that crashed in Kozhikode. The airline's flight from Dubai with 190 people overshot the tabletop runway while landing amid heavy rain at the Kozhikode airport on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. Air India Express said in a statement that Kenyon International specialises in recovery of baggage in case of a major accident. "Their expertise lies in identification of baggage with their specialised services through advanced technology," it said. The team of the US-based company will be arriving on Monday night, the statement said. "The contract service provider Kenyon International will carry out the functions of restoration of personal effects with the help of Angels of Air India. Personal effects are items belonging to crew and passengers on board an aircraft involved in an aircraft accident," it said. Angels of Air India is a special team of the airline to assist passengers and their family members at a time of accident. Air India Express is a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India. A total of 56 passengers injured due to the crash have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining complete fitness, said Air India Express. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured in the B737 plane crash. The airline said on Sunday that the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-plane-crash-air-india-express-hires-us-based-firm-to-recover-baggage-871852.html
10-08-2020||National||Petition by N Ram could not have been posted before any other bench than of Justice Mishra, SC clarifies||The Supreme Court on Monday clarified that the writ petition filed by journalist N Ram and others challenging the validity of the Contempt of Courts Act could not have been listed before any other bench than the one headed by Justice Arun Mishra. Official sources issued a note stating since the plea in the petition by Ram and others sought to stay on the contempt proceedings against activist advocate Prashant Bhushan, it could not have been listed before any other bench. The contempt petition in 2009 case, as well as 2020 Suo Motu matter, were then pending before Justice Mishra. "It is a cardinal principle of law that a coordinate bench cannot stay the proceedings on ongoing cases which are pending before other similar bench. This would have created problems as one court cannot stay the proceedings of the other court having the same jurisdiction," they said. In a joint plea, Ram, Arun Shourie and Bhushan himself challenged the validity of the Contempt of Court Act for stifling free speech. Notably, the top court authorities have on August 8 sought a response from its Registry officials for "mistake" and "ignoring established practice and procedure" in listing the writ petition before a separate bench than the one led by Justice Mishra. The matter, which was then posted before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph, was deleted. The bench led by Justice Mishra had on July 22 issued a notice for Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings to Bhushan for his two tweets made in June 27 and 29 on role of four former CJIs in "destruction of democracy" and current CJI riding on a high-end bike and shutting down the Supreme Court. This particular bench had already reserved the judgement in the contempt case. On Monday, this particular bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, decided to consider from August 17 the 2009 contempt petition, rejecting Bhushan's explanation for his remark in Tehelka magazine about corruption in former CJIs. The plea by Ram and others would now come up for hearing before the bench presided over by Justice Mishra on August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petition-by-n-ram-could-not-have-been-posted-before-any-other-bench-than-of-justice-mishra-sc-clarifies-871854.html
10-08-2020||National||Air India Express crash: Boeing gets on board; ‘tired pilot’ theory to be studied||As Boeing got on board the probe into Friday’s Air India Express crash at the Kozhikode International Airport, the spotlight is likely to fall on multiple issues linked to the airport’s infrastructure and an apparently ‘tired’ pilot’s fatal decision to make a risky landing. Only a thorough analysis of the Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder recovered from the crash site will be conclusive. But only a ‘well-rested’ commanding officer could take spot decisions quickly with a clear mind, a commercial pilot with over 15,000 hours of flying told DH. Weather is an ever-changing phenomenon. “An airport that has no rain when the flight is approaching could suddenly be enveloped in a heavy downpour when the flight lands. The pilot is required to continuously update the weather data through the ATC. Only a well-rested pilot can judiciously use that data to make a sound decision.” Aviation safety consultant Capt Mahesh Ranganathan had also indicated to this newspaper that the pilot might have been tired and taken the decision to land despite the risk due to a condition called ‘Press-on-itis’ in aviation terms. This meant a decision to continue a planned destination even when significantly less risky alternatives existed. Technically, the consultant had said, the pilot should not have made another attempt. “But Press-on-itis could set in when he is tired.” It is still unclear how much rest the pilot Capt Deepak Sathe got before he took control of the Boeing 737 aircraft from Dubai. But a pilot, who had frequently flown on the Middle East route, said the turnaround time for scheduled flights are too short for pilots to get proper rest. Since the Air India Express flight was on a Vande Bharath mission, it is unlikely that the pilot had issues with rest time. The flight had taken off from Dubai as scheduled at 1.30 pm local time. However, it was not immediately clear whether the pilot had flown a flight from India to Dubai before commanding the Kozhikode-bound service. If that were the case, a veteran pilot explained on condition of anonymity, “A pilot reports an hour and a half before for an international flight, flies the aircraft to Middle East for four hours plus, stays on the ground for an hour and a half and flies the aircraft back for another four-plus hour. That itself is 9:30 hours.” Now add his preparation time at home and travel time to the airport. “And after landing, the time required to complete his customs and immigration and catch a cab to home to hit the bed. That’s at least another two minimum! That is 11:30 hours total, on duty.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-express-crash-boeing-gets-on-board-tired-pilot-theory-to-be-studied-871862.html
10-08-2020||National||Mahatma Gandhi's iconic glasses go on sale in UK||A "rare and important" pair of iconic glasses worn by Indian independence hero Mahatma Gandhi look set to sell for tens of thousands of pounds after a British auction house put them up for sale on Monday. The gold-plated spectacles were stuffed through the letterbox of East Bristol Auctions in southwest England last Friday, with a letter attached saying, "these glasses belonged to Gandhi, give me a call," auctioneer Andrew Stowe told Sky News. "The spectacles formed an important and somewhat iconic part of Gandhi's overall appearance,...a rare and important pair of spectacles," the auction house's website said of the lot. "It can be presumed that these were gifted by way of thanks from Gandhi for some good deed," it added. Gandhi was known for giving out old or unwanted pairs to those in need or those who had helped him. The talismanic non-violent protestor gave the glasses to the vendor's uncle while he was working for British Petroleum in South Africa during the 1920s or 30s, said the auction house. An auctioneer found them last Monday when he reopened for business after the weekend. "A few hours later, we were digging around and doing some research and we discovered that they are a very important historical find," Stowe told Sky News. "I phoned the gentleman back ... his exact words were 'if they're no good, just throw them away'," he added. "I told him I thought they were worth £15,000 ($19,500, 17,000 euros), and I think he nearly fell off his chair." The item is due to go under the hammer on August 21, but has smashed expectations with online bidding already up to £50,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhis-iconic-glasses-go-on-sale-in-uk-871870.html
10-08-2020||National||Delhi government to provide loans upto Rs 20,000 to street vendors||The Delhi government will provide loans up to Rs 20,000 to street vendors in the city, officials said on Monday. The national capital has close to 5 lakh street vendors, but only 1.3 lakh had registered themselves with the erstwhile MCD and the NDMC in 2007. The Delhi SC, ST, OBC, Minorities and Handicapped Finance and Development Corporation (DSFDC) will provide loans up to Rs 20,000 at low-interest rates to the street vendors, including vegetable and fruit sellers, the official said. The decision, taken by Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam during a meeting of the corporation, will reduce the dependence of street vendors on private moneylenders, he said.   The DSFDC has also renovated its 60 work sheds in Raghubir Nagar. These are ready for allotment to entrepreneurs belonging to Scheduled Castes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-to-provide-loans-upto-rs-20000-to-street-vendors-871873.html
10-08-2020||National||India immediately sending more relief, humanitarian material to explosion-hit Lebanon||India is immediately sending relief and humanitarian material of medicines, foodstuff and essential items to Lebanon and is discussing with the authorities there on any further contributions to help alleviate difficulties on ground in the wake of the massive explosion last week that destroyed the port of Beirut and killed more than 150 people. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti offered deep condolences on behalf of the Government and people of India to Lebanon on “this terrible human tragedy". "We are shocked by the loss of human lives and the widespread destruction this has caused in Beirut. We pray for strength to families to overcome their great loss,” Tirumurti said on Monday at a briefing on the humanitarian situation in Lebanon. Tirumurti said India just recently sent Lebanon essential medical items to combat Covid-19. “We are immediately sending more relief and humanitarian material of medicines, foodstuff and other essential items to do whatever we can to alleviate the difficulties on the ground. We are discussing with the Government of Lebanon on how we can contribute further,” he said. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres also paid condolences to the families and loved ones of the more than 150 people who were killed, and wished a full recovery to the many thousands of injured in the explosion, which sent shockwaves across the bustling city of Beirut, bursting  out windows and shaking buildings. Tirumurti recalled that he had paid an official visit to the “beautiful city of Beirut” last year, and said it is difficult for him to imagine that this vibrant and bustling city has been affected by the blast. “I admire the resilience of the people and the dedication of the rescue workers to cope with this tragedy,” he said. India has had traditionally close and historical relations with Lebanon, including through Indian peacekeepers in the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), Tirumurti said, adding that “I would like to express our solidarity with Lebanon at this juncture.” Guterres said almost a week after the blast, many people remain missing. Buildings were damaged for miles around the city of Beirut after 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilisers, stored at the port for six years, reportedly caused the explosion. A plane carrying 20 tonnes of World Health Organization health supplies landed in Beirut on Wednesday to cover 1,000 trauma interventions and 1,000 surgical interventions for people suffering from injuries and burns as a result of the blast. Further, within hours of the blast, the Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon released USD 9 million from the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund to address immediate needs. Last Friday, the Emergency Relief Coordinator released a further USD 6 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund. UN General Assembly President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande said the devastating impact of last week’s tragedy makes it imperative for the international community to stand beside the people of Lebanon who have generously hosted thousands of refugees for years. "We must respond by providing the necessary humanitarian assistance to alleviate the immediate suffering and to support the Lebanese people as they embark on the road to recovery. The needs are enormous and great.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-immediately-sending-more-relief-humanitarian-material-to-explosion-hit-lebanon-871874.html
10-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases jumped from 10 lakh to 22 lakh in 24 days: Data analysis||India's Covid-19 cases have jumped from 10 lakh to 22 lakh in 24 days, with over 60,000 infections reported daily in the last four days, an analysis of the Health Ministry data showed on Monday. However, the recoveries have also surged rapidly to over 15 lakh with a record 54,859 people recuperating in the past 24 hours, according to the data. The recovery rate now stands at nearly 70 per cent. India's case fatality rate has dropped to about 2 per cent, the ministry said. India breached the one million-mark on July 17, reporting 10,03,832 Covid-19 cases and 25,602 deaths. On August 7, the total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 20,27,074 with 41,585 deaths. It took 110 days for Covid-19 cases in the country to reach 1 lakh, another fortnight to reach 2 lakh-mark on June 3. In the next 18 days, the Covid-19 tally zoomed past 4 lakh. On July 17, the cases crossed the 10 lakh-mark, while on July 29 the cases rose to 15 lakh and on August 7, the grim 20-lakh mark was crossed. In the next three days, the tally crossed the 22 lakh-mark and now stands at 22,15,074. The death toll has climbed to 44,386, according to the government data. The first positive case of the coronavirus was reported in Kerala on January 30. India has the third-highest number of confirmed cases, behind the US and Brazil. The three countries have been reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases as compared with other nations. In India, the past 24-hour tally of Covid-19 stood at 62,064, while it was 53,893 for the US and 49,970 for Brazil, according to the WHO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-jumped-from-10-lakh-to-22-lakh-in-24-days-data-analysis-871887.html
10-08-2020||National||More items will be included in negative list of defence imports: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Monday asserted the ban on import of 101 types of military equipment is a big step towards making India self-reliant in defence production and more items will be added to the list soon. Singh, who digitally inaugurated two new projects at Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) in Kolkata as part of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Week' celebrations, said in a Facebook post later that the "week of self-reliance" will witness initiatives for modernisation and upgradation of defence facilities. The ban on import of 101 items is a big step towards an Atma Nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). This list of negative items contains not only small items but weapon systems of high and critical technology. More such items will be added to this list shortly which will save crores of rupees in imports, he said in a Facebook post after the webinar. Singh said the central government has made several "timely and thoughtful" interventions during Covid-19 times like issuing negative list for import, increasing FDI limits and a separate budget for domestic capital procurement. The Atmanirbharta Saptah (self-reliance week) will be a witness to initiatives pertaining to modernisation & up- gradation of facilities by DPSUs & OFB. As part of Atmanirbharta Saptah, the DPSUs & OFB are also organising a series of webinars covering all relevant topics including all stakeholders, he said. The Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) are key to India's pursuit of enhancement of military capabilities. In a major reform initiative to boost the domestic defence industry, Singh on Sunday announced restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms including artillery guns, assault rifles and transport aircraft. A state-of-the-art indigenous underwater CNC Plasma Cutting Machine and a Modern Hull Block Fabrication Complex were digitally inaugurated by Singh at GRSE, a press statement said. The CNC Plasma Cutting facility set up at a cost of Rs 4.14 crore will enhance the plate cutting capacity by 30% and the complex constructed at a cost of Rs 19 crore for hull block fabrication will enable concurrent construction of large-sized (40 Ton) hull blocks in a covered environment, it said. Both these facilities will go a long way in enhancing the production capacity of the shipyard, especially during the execution of the three major warship building projects comprising of 15 warships that GRSE is presently handling for the Indian Navy. These include P17A Stealth Frigates, the ASW Shallow Water Craft and the Survey Vessels (Large), the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-items-will-be-included-in-negative-list-of-defence-imports-rajnath-singh-871888.html
10-08-2020||National||I had no desire for any post: Sachin Pilot||Breaking his silence over the rebellion in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot on Monday said he had no desire for any post but only wanted his grievances to be heard by the Congress leadership. Soon after giving up his rebellion, Pilot met senior Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal late Monday evening along with the MLAs supporting him. “Party gives us posts and it can also take it back. I have no desire for any post but I wanted our self-respect to remain intact,” said Pilot, who was stripped of the twin posts of Rajasthan Congress chief and Deputy Chief Minister after he stayed away from the meetings of the Congress Legislature Party on July 14. Patel, Venugopal and Priyanka form the three-member committee set up by Congress President Sonia Gandhi to address the grievances raised by Pilot. Speaking to reporters, Pilot did not miss an opportunity to take a jibe at his bete noire Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who had called him “useless” (nikamma). “I was surprised by a few things that were said. I think we should always maintain restraint and humility. There is no place for personal malice in politics,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leaders hailed Rahul Gandhi for bringing back Pilot to the party fold. “Today because of the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and the efforts of Priyanka Gandhi we have managed to keep one of our own, Sachin Pilot, with us. This is the democratic spirit of our party where there is room for dissent and debate,” former union minister Jitin Prasada said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-had-no-desire-for-any-post-sachin-pilot-871889.html
10-08-2020||National||MBBS student jumps off roof of AIIMS hostel, dies||A 22-year-old medical student ended his life by jumping off the roof of a hostel in All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday evening here, police said. The 2018 batch MBBS student, who hailed from Bangalore, was admitted in the psychiatry ward of the hospital and was undergoing treatment for some mental health problem. He had taken an hours' break from the ward. He then apparently reached the hostel 19 roof from where he jumped, AIIMS sources said. The incident was reported to the police at around 6 pm. He jumped from the hostel roof and was moved to the Trauma Centre where he was declared dead during the course of treatment, said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). Further enquiry is underway, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mbbs-student-jumps-off-roof-of-aiims-hostel-dies-871891.html
10-08-2020||National||Covid-19: PM Narendra Modi to hold video meet with select CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with select states on Covid-19 on Tuesday.  Officials said the Chief ministers of all states will not be part of the meeting and only those with high caseload will be represented.  The Prime Minister is likely to take stock of the situation along with the Chief Ministers. They are also likely to discuss the unlocking of the country so far.  Modi may also seek the Chief Ministers's views of about further relaxing restrictions, which included the opening of cinema halls and other places, Metro rail and educational institutions.  However, they did not rule out the possibility of another round with remaining states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-narendra-modi-to-hold-video-meet-with-select-cms-871892.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||BJP, Congress leaders on toes as Manipur MLAs to participate in trust vote in Assembly||The BJP and the Congress leaders are on their toes as legislators in Manipur will vote on a confidence motion to be moved by Chief Minister N Biren Singh during a special one-day session of the Assembly on Monday. The trust vote will decide the fate of the BJP-led coalition government in the state. Both the BJP and the Congress have issued whips to their 18 and 24 MLAs respectively asking them to be present in the Assembly and vote as per their party's line. The strength of the 60-member House is 53 at present after the resignation of three legislators and disqualification of four members under the anti-defection law. BJP state president S Tikendra Singh said he was confident that the government will win the trust vote by garnering the support of more than 30 members even though the coalition's strength in the House stands at 29. The Congress had on July 28 moved a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led government in the state. Congress MLA Keisham Meghachandra Singh, who had submitted the no-confidence motion, said the confidence motion to be moved by Chief Minister N Biren Singh has been listed for discussion in the business agenda of the House circulated by the Assembly secretary on Saturday. "The rules of business of the House clearly mention that if there are two separate motions on the same spirit of the topic, one moved by the opposition and the other by the government, priority should be given to the government's motion. So, Congress will take part in the discussion," he said. During the discussion, the Congress will highlight issues like the high-profile drug seizure case involving former Chandel Autonomous District Council Chairman Lhukhosei Zou, a BJP leader at that time, the spread of COVID-19 and non-availability of essential commodities during the lockdown, Singh added. The BJP-led coalition government in the state plunged into a political crisis on June 17 after six MLAs withdrew their support while three BJP legislators quit the party and joined the Congress. However, four National People's Party (NPP) MLAs later returned to the coalition following the intervention of top BJP leaders and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma, who is also the NPP supremo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-congress-leaders-on-toes-as-manipur-mlas-to-participate-in-trust-vote-in-assembly-871580.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Salman Khurshid, Amit Malviya take on CAA debate in new book||Congress veteran Salman Khurshid and BJP's Amit Malviya offer insights into the history and politics of the citizenship law debate as they together attempt to present the two sides of the contentious issue in a new book. The Parliament passed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 on December 11, 2019, triggering heated debates and protests - both violent and non-violent. In the book titled "The Citizenship Debate", Malviya argues that the CAA is a case of misreading, while Khurshid says it is a case of misdirection. Malviya, the head of the BJP's information technology cell, contends that the "entire debate on the CAA, and the violent protests and the riots that have been engineered are all part of a political scheme aimed at unsettling the BJP government and creating an atmosphere of fear and anxiety in the country". This is not just any old opposition tactic or hypocrisy but political gamesmanship that threatens the very foundations of a democratic India, he alleges. According to him, the CAA is not against the spirit of the Constitution but is, in fact, the nurturing spirit that will strengthen the spirit of the Indian ethos. However, Khurshid feels the CAA, in its "implicit endeavour to subsume a refugee law in its Citizenship Act, has forgotten to give concrete rationale for inclusion of only a few religious groups or countries given the broad contours of persecution". Malviya argues it is wrong to say that the CAA is a step towards 'Hindu Rashtra'. "It is a step towards a policy that rejects appeasement politics, pandering to particular groups, and assuring the rights of those minorities who are facing religious persecution at the hands of extremists, rogue states and agents provocateurs," he writes in the book, published by Rupa. "The Hindu Rashtra argument falls apart for another very important reason: the CAA is not a law that protects only Hindu minorities from the three neighbouring countries, but it is also a conscious attempt to protect the interests of other persecuted groups, including Christians, Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs," he says. But Khurshid, a senior advocate and a former Union minister, says "questions are posed on one's nationality on the basis of religion. Muslims, even today, are viewed as naturally disloyal to the nation in popular perception". Malviya sees no link between the CAA and the NRC exercise from a legalistic point of view. Khurshid finds the real sting is in NRC-NPR, and the CAA is but the balm for some who might be singed by the former. "But even the arguably intended beneficiaries will be at a loss to establish their Pakistan, Bangladesh or Afghanistan citizenship having failed to establish their Indian citizenship," he says. The CAA seeks to grant citizenship to non-Muslim migrants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Jain and Parsi communities who came to India from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan on or before December 31, 2014. Malviya also says that the allegation that the track record of the NRC is poor is a red herring and needs to be dismissed with the contempt that it deserves. "If at all a government agency is not working efficiently, then it is incumbent upon both the political leadership and executive to shape up and demand efficiency. To, therefore, argue that the NRC exercise ought not to be carried out is mischievous," he says. Khurshid is of the opinion that the central government, with the CAA and the intention of conducting a pan-India NRC, should have given it a deeper thought to finalise what documents they want shown. With this lack of clarity in the 'Show Your Documents' drive, a large number of people get sent to detention camps, with no concrete treaty with countries such as Bangladesh for deporting migrants, he says. "India is a large country with a majority of its population poor and illiterate. Documentation thus becomes a herculean task not only for the authorities conducting this exercise but also for the people to own them," Khurshid writes. People have different impressions about the CAA-NRC-NPR protests happening across India, says the senior Congress leader. "Some are impressed, others curious whilst a few are puzzled. As much as Amit Shah would have us to believe that there is no evidence of large-scale public support for CAA, it is undeniable that the trigger may have been the spontaneous reaction in Muslim-dominated areas and institutions. "However, from the beginning, citizens of different faiths have participated in the protests with determination and conviction. It was truly an inclusive endeavour untouched by party political ambition," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/salman-khurshid-amit-malviya-take-on-caa-debate-in-new-book-871623.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||TMC questions defence sector reforms, says ordnance factories undermined in past 5 yrs||A day after the Centre imposed restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms, the Trinamool Congress on Monday sought to know if the country's defence industry has the ability to produce these items. Senior TMC leader and the party's national spokesperson Saugata Roy said the central government should create a "proper roadmap" to make India's indigenous defence sector self-reliant. In a major reform initiative to boost the domestic defence industry, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday announced restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms including artillery guns, assault rifles, transport aircraft and sonar systems. "The announcement might sound good, but there are a few things that have to be looked into. The Centre has put an embargo on 101 items, but the question remains whether our indigenous defence sector has the ability to produce those items. If not, what is the Union government doing to enhance its capabilities," the senior TMC leader told PTI. Roy, a veteran parliamentarian and former union minister, claimed that attempts have been made to undermine the countrys ordnance factories over the last five years. "On one hand, you talk of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self- reliant India) and on the other, you weaken our ordnance factories instead of strengthening them. This is unacceptable," he said. Efforts should be made to build fighter jets, submarines and other high-end defence products in India, the Lok Sabha MP from Dum Dum insisted. "If the country lacks capability, foreign companies will set up units in India and sell their products to us. That won't serve the purpose. The government must come up with a proper roadmap to make the defence sector self-reliant," he added. The defence minister had on Sunday said that the domestic defence industry would receive contracts worth almost Rs four lakh crore within the next five to seven years as a result of the decision to prune the import list of military platforms and equipment. He also said that all necessary steps will be taken to ensure that timelines for domestic production of equipment identified under the negative list for import are met, adding the measures will include a co-ordinated mechanism for hand- holding of the industry by the defence services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-questions-defence-sector-reforms-says-ordnance-factories-undermined-in-past-5-yrs-871666.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi's objections to draft EIA 'unnecessary and premature': Prakash Javadekar||Those raising objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification are the same people who took "big decisions without consultations" when they were in power, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday, hitting out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Gandhi had on Sunday tweeted that the draft EIA was a "disaster" and urged people to protest against it. "We have received thousands of suggestions which we welcome. We will consider those suggestions. Then take a call and come out with the final draft. So people jumping just on the draft is not a fair practice. Those who want to now protest, during their regime took many of the big decisions without consultations. It is unnecessary and premature. I have mentioned it in my letter to (Congress leader and former Union minister) Jairam Ramesh," the minister told reporters. "It (Gandhi's comment on EIA and demanding protests) is unnecessary and premature," Javadekar said. Gandhi had on Sunday tweeted, "This EIA 2020 draft is a disaster. It seeks to silence the voice of communities who will be directly impacted by the environmental degradation it unleashes. I urge every Indian to rise up and protest against it." The Congress leader has also called for its withdrawal, saying it will lead to further environmental destruction and looting. "EIA 2020 draft must be withdrawn to stop the loot of the nation and environmental destruction,” Gandhi said. The draft EIA notification has drawn flak from environmentalists, students, youth wings and NGOs across India who claimed it diluted the environmental clearance procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhis-objections-to-draft-eia-unnecessary-and-premature-prakash-javadekar-871690.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis blows over, Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||The month-long political crisis in Rajasthan blew over on Monday with rebel leader Sachin Pilot meeting Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra pledged to work in the interest of the party and the government in the state. After a series of back-channel talks, Pilot drove down to meet Rahul and Priyanka at the former’s 12, Tughlaq Lane residence, a meeting that appeared to put an end to the rebellion in the Rajasthan Congress that had pushed Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s government on the brink. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will set up a three-member committee to address the issues raised by Sachin Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said in a statement. “Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of Congress party and Congress government in Rajasthan,” Venugopal said. Pilot and MLAs supporting him will now attend the Congress Legislature Party meeting later this week and also vote in favour of the Gehlot government in case the chief minister seeks a trust vote in the Rajasthan assembly session beginning Friday. Bhanwarlal Sharma, an MLA from the Pilot camp, rushed to Jaipur soon after Pilot’s meeting with the Gandhis and met Gehlot at his residence. “All my grievances are now gone. Ashok Gehlot is our leader. He will be Chief Minister for five years,” Sharma told reporters in Jaipur. Congress had accused Sharma of negotiating a deal with Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to topple the Gehlot government. Gehlot camp had released audio tapes of the purported conversation. Pilot, who was the Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan Congress President, had stayed away from party meetings from July 13 following differences with Gehlot, whom he accused of high-handedness. Pilot was stripped of both the posts on July 14 and two of the 18 MLAs supporting him – Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena – removed as ministers suspended from the party. The immediate trigger for the rebellion was a notice by the state police to Pilot and Gehlot among others in connection with a case of horse-trading during the Rajya Sabha elections in June. The first signs of a thaw emerged last week when the Special Operations Group of Rajasthan Police, which was investigating the horse-trading charges moved the court seeking to drop the sedition charges in the FIR and hand over the case to the Anti Corruption Bureau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-blows-over-sachin-pilot-meets-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-871705.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Distressing to note WB farmers being denied PM-Kisan scheme: West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, expressing displeasure over her government not implementing the Centre's PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, which, he said, would have benefited at least 70 lakh farmers in the state. Alleging that the state has cracked a "cruel joke" on the farmers, Dhankhar, who has crossed swords with the TMC government over a host of issues in the past one year, said that it was "distressing to note" that beneficiaries in West Bengal were being deprived of central aid under the scheme. "Farmers in the state have already lost benefits of Rs 8,200 crore... While farmers all over the country have received Rs 12,000 each, our farmers have been denied this legitimate right on account of insensitivity and confrontational stance of the state government," Dhankhar said in his letter to the chief minister. In the past, too, the governor had on several occasions flayed the TMC dispensation for its decision to not implement the scheme. The government, on its part, said it has introduced several pro-farmer projects in the state. "I fail to understand why this (implementation) has not been done by the state government. This is an unfortunate lapse, painfully harmful to the interest of the farmers. The cruel joke and historic injustice on the farmers should make us realise that governance has to be for the benefit of the people at large," he wrote. Farmers across the country have received about Rs 92,000 crore so far, and those in Bengal got nothing, he rued. "This calls for soul searching and immediate amends," Dhankhar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/distressing-to-note-wb-farmers-being-denied-pm-kisan-scheme-west-bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-871734.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||At meeting with PM Modi on floods, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar flags non-cooperation from Nepal||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday drew the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi about alleged non-cooperation from Nepal in managing floods that have ravaged the state's northern districts. Rivers originating in the neighbouring country have inundated several districts of the state. At a meeting convened by the prime minister on the flood situation in states hit by the calamity, Kumar said that the authorities in Bihar had "not been receiving full cooperation from Nepal in the past few years" and sought the Centre's intervention on the matter. "North Bihar gets ravaged by floods because of heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Nepal. In accordance with an agreement between India and Nepal, the water resources department of Bihar conducts the flood management work in the bordering areas. "But we have not been receiving full cooperation from Nepal in the past few years," Kumar said in the meeting held via video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-meeting-with-pm-modi-on-floods-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-flags-non-cooperation-from-nepal-871746.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Congress seeks withdrawal of draft EIA rules||Congress on Monday stepped-up the campaign against the draft Environment Impact Assessment rules, with Rahul Gandhi terming them as “dangerous” and with the potential to lead to catastrophic consequences if notified. Rahul called for the withdrawal of the draft EIA notification, describing it as a “Loot of the Nation” that needed to be stopped to prevent environmental degradation. Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar hit back at Rahul terming his objections as “unnecessary and premature”. “People jumping on the draft is not a fair practice,” Javadekar said, claiming that the previous UPA government led by the Congress took big decisions without any consultations. On Sunday, Rahul had urged people to protest the draft EIA rules 2020, terming it was “dangerous” and which could lead to long term “catastrophic” consequences if notified. In a Facebook post, Rahul had slammed the government over the draft EIA rules, saying it was not only “disgraceful”, but “dangerous“. “Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect our environment, but it could also potentially unleash widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India,” he had said. Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh wrote yet another letter to Javadekar giving a point-by-point rebuttal of the minister’s clarifications on the issue. “It is unclear what is meant by the objective of bringing all violators “under the regulatory regime. It appears from the processes proposed in Clause 22 of the Draft Notification that the government’s objective is to give all violators an opportunity to regularise their illegal activities,” Ramesh said. Ramesh demanded stringent punishment for violators by shutting down projects permanently and denying the promoters future regulatory clearances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-seeks-withdrawal-of-draft-eia-rules-871823.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Hindi imposition row: Congress, JD(S), TMC come out in support of Kanimozhi||The debate on “Hindi imposition” continued unabated on Monday with leaders from non-Hindi speaking states, including Karnataka, coming out in support of DMK MP Kanimozhi who complained that a CISF officer at the airport asked her if she was an Indian for not knowing India. Besides support from her party president and half-brother M K Stalin who sought whether the country was “India or Hindia”, Kanimozhi received backing from former Union Minister P Chidambaram, former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, and TMC MP Mahua Moitra. Kanimozhi, while thanking leaders who backed her, said in a statement on Monday that “this kind of stealth imposition of Hindi is widespread, as seen from the comments of many people on my (Twitter) timeline.” “This is not a tirade against any individual or person. The official who accosted me did so because of her lack of appropriate training. This is a larger issue and about the many official positions of authority, who do not know that both English and Hindi are official languages,” she said. While Chidambaram said he had also experienced “such taunts” from government officers and citizens for not speaking in Hindi, Kumaraswamy narrated his experiences in Delhi as an MP and said most “Hindi politicians do not respect non-Hindi politicians.” “The unpleasant experience of DMK MP Ms Kanimozhi at Chennai airport is not unusual. I have experienced similar taunts from government officers and ordinary citizens who insisted that I speak in Hindi during telephone conversations and sometimes face to face,” Chidambaram tweeted. If the Central government is genuinely committed to both Hindi and English being the official languages of India, it must insist that all central government employees are bilingual in Hindi and English, he added. “Non-Hindi speaking recruits to central government posts quickly learn functional, spoken Hindi. Why cannot Hindi speaking recruits to central government posts learn functional, spoken English?” the former Union Minister asked. Kumaraswamy said it is apt to debate how political leaders from the South were snatched of their opportunities by Hindi politics and discrimination. "Hindi politics has prevented many South Indians from becoming PM- H.D. Deve Gowda, Karunanidhi and Kamaraj are prominent. Though Deve Gowda was successful in breaking into this barrier, there were several incidents of him being criticised and ridiculed for reasons of language,” he wrote.  TMC MP Mahua Moitra said: “BJP treasury benches define Indianness by their own narrow parameters of homogeneity - you & I face this every day in LS. To see this @BJP myopia spread beyond Parliament & into streets only tells me how important it is for us to continue to stand straight & fight this.”  The reactions came a day after Kanimozhi complained that a CISF officer asked her if she was Indian for not knowing Hindi. The DMK Lok Sabha MP from Thoothukudi had told DH that the incident took place at the security check area of the Chennai Airport on Sunday afternoon when she told the officer to make announcements in Tamil or in English and not in Hindi. After the incident, the CISF expressed regret and ordered an enquiry into the issue. Kanimozhi’s complaint triggered a fresh debate on “Hindi imposition” in institutions and installations managed by the Centre in non-Hindi speaking states. Kanimozhi’s allegations of “Hindi imposition” came close on the heels of the DMK viewing the three- language policy proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) as an attempt to bring Sanskrit via the “back door.” DMK, which was at the forefront of the anti-Hindi agitation in the 1960s and came to power in 1967 riding high on the wave, has been consistent in its stand on “Hindi imposition” as language is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hindi-imposition-row-congress-jds-tmc-come-out-in-support-of-kanimozhi-871830.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: Delhi govt's Independence Day event unlikely at Chhatrasal Stadium, may shift to Secretariat||The Delhi government is unlikely to hold its main Independence Day event at the Chhatrasal Stadium due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and may instead organise a small one at the Secretariat, where Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to hoist the national flag, officials said. An official in the Directorate of Information and Publicity said that the guest entry for the Independence Day event will be limited to ensure adherence to social-distancing norms. For years, the Delhi government has been holding a grand event at the Chhatrasal Stadium on the occasion of Independence Day, which witnesses flag-hoisting by the chief ministers and followed by several cultural programmes. "The Independence Day event is expected to be held at Delhi Secretariat this year instead of Chhatrasal Stadium," an official said. During the event, social-distancing and other anti-Covid-19 measures will be followed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-delhi-govts-independence-day-event-unlikely-at-chhatrasal-stadium-may-shift-to-secretariat-871851.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||'We have managed to keep one of our own with us': Jitin Prasada on Sachin Pilot||"We have managed to keep one of our own, Sachin Pilot, with us," Congress leader Jitin Prasada said on Monday, hailing Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for it. Prasada's remarks came after Pilot met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi here, amidst indications of a possible breakthrough in the Pilot-Gehlot government standoff. "Today because of the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and the efforts of Priyanka Gandhi we have managed to keep one of our own, Sachin Pilot, with us," Prasada said in a tweet. "This is the democratic spirit of our party @INCIndia where there is room for dissent and debate," said Prasada, who is considered a leader of the party's young brigade. After his meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, the party said Pilot will "work in the interest" of the Congress and its government in Rajasthan. Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi decided that the AICC will constitute a three-member committee to address the issues raised by Pilot and an aggrieved MLA and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof. After Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee chief, Prasada had said no one can take away the fact that Pilot has long worked with dedication for the Congress. Prasada, 46, and Pilot, 42, were said to be part of the Congress young brigade along with Milind Deora and Jyotiraditya Scindia. Scindia left the Congress to join the BJP earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-have-managed-to-keep-one-of-our-own-with-us-jitin-prasada-on-sachin-pilot-871866.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Former President Pranab Mukherjee critical after brain surgery, on ventilator support||Former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday underwent brain surgery at a military hospital here, and he tested positive for Covid-19 prior to the procedure, sources at the hospital said. The surgery was carried out at the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) hospital for removal of a clot in his brain, they told PTI. Mukherjee is critical and is on ventilator support, the sources said. At the same time, they said his vital parameters are stable and that the surgery was successful. A multidisciplinary team of doctors is constantly monitoring the health of 84-year-old Mukherjee. In the afternoon, the former President had tweeted: "On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19." Following his tweet, wishes for an early recovery poured in on Twitter from a large number of people including leaders from across the political spectrum. President Ram Nath Kovind spoke to Mukherjee's daughter Sharmistha and inquired about his health, the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. A powerful orator and scholar, he had been a Congress stalwart before he was elected as India's 13th President and served from July 2012 to 2017 in the top post. "We wish former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid-19," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Abhijeet Mukherjee, Congress leader and the former president's son, tweeted, "I wish my father a speedy recovery! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the R&R Hospital and enquired about the former president's health. Singh was at the hospital for around 20 minutes. Union minister Piyush Goyal also wished good health for Mukherjee and said he is confident that the former president will quickly recover from the virus.  Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, "Astonishing and matter of concern that former President Pranab Mukherjee tested positive for Covid-19 per press reports. Very active, regular walker, wish him a quick recovery and restful convalescence." Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot too wished Mukherjee a speedy recovery. "Wishing Sri Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery. I am sure he will be out of this sooner than later," said Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-critical-after-brain-surgery-on-ventilator-support-871868.html
10-08-2020||National Politics||Congress' internal fight, Rahul woke up late: BJP||Under attack from the Congress for “destabilising” the Rajasthan government, BJP hit back on Monday after rebel leader Sachin Pilot called for a truce after meeting Rahul Gandhi. “We had been saying all along – it is the Congress’ internal fight and it was needlessly blaming the BJP,” Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia said. “The poor Rajasthan was forced to this Ramleela of the Congress for 31 days. Sister Priyanka Gandhi and brother Rahul Gandhi woke up very late. Poor Ashok Gehlot and Congress leaders were on the run,” Poonia said. Congress had accused the BJP of horse-trading by offering unheard of amounts to Congress MLAs to topple the Rajasthan government with help from Pilot. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also accused Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of trying to bribe Congress MLAs and even registered a complaint against him based on the audiotapes that had surfaced on social media. While the BJP maintained that it had nothing to do with the political crisis in Rajasthan, it is learnt that former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, who wields considerable clout in the state, was not on board for joining hands with Congress rebels to topple Gehlot. During her interactions with the central BJP leadership over the weekend, Raje is learnt to have told them about her reservations on joining the rebels in the toppling game.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-internal-fight-rahul-woke-up-late-bjp-871877.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||DH Toon | Jammu and Kashmir gets no outside investors after a year as a UT||Local investors have made Rs 900 crore investment in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of special status of erstwhile state last August while there has been no investment from outsiders in the Union Territory in one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-jammu-and-kashmir-gets-no-outside-investors-after-a-year-as-a-ut-871554.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Budgam attack: BJP worker Abdul Hamid Najar succumbs to injuries||A BJP worker, who was shot at by militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir,  succumbed to injuries at a hospital here on Monday, police said.  Abdul Hamid Najar, a resident of Mohiendpora area of Budgam in central Kashmir, was shot at and critically injured by militants in his native village on Sunday, the official said. He succumbed to injuries early Monday. Najar is the fourth BJP worker or office bearer targeted by militants in the last one month. BJP's district president for Bandipora, Waseem Bari,  his father and and brother were shot dead by militants last month. A BJP panch was shot at and injured on August 4, while another sarpanch from the party was shot dead two days later in south Kashmir's Kulgam district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/budgam-attack-bjp-worker-abdul-hamid-najar-succumbs-to-injuries-871574.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Chandigarh civic body floats Rs 30 lakh tender to renovate VIP toilets: Report||The administration has floated a tender for the same amounting to Rs 29.97 lakh, of which Rs 7.71 lakh will be spent on glazed wall tiles. Lalit Kumar, executive engineer asserted that the toilets are in poor condition and need to be renovated.  “Other than VIP toilets, we are also carrying out renovation of five other men’s and women’s toilets each. There are 19 water closets, 22 urinals and 11 washbasins that require change,” Kumar told the publication.  The administration has drawn flak from activists for taking up such a project even as the department claims to be facing a financial crunch. “When we are facing a financial crunch, these luxury and useless expenses need to be stopped. The engineering department is making an imaginative scheme to spend money on unproductive schemes,” activist R K Garg told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-civic-body-floats-rs-30-lakh-tender-to-renovate-vip-toilets-report-871594.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Security guard killed in Noida factory fire||A 27-year-old security guard was killed in a fire that broke out at a pen manufacturing company in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Monday morning, police said. The fire broke out in the early hours in the Sector 63 located company and was controlled by 7:00 am, the police said.  "Sandeep Kumar, who worked as a security guard, in the company got killed in the fire. He was a native of Bahraich district," an official from the local Phase 3 police station said.  The cause of the fire was not known immediately and further proceedings were underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-guard-killed-in-noida-factory-fire-871597.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops fire at border posts along Line of Control||Pakistani troops opened fire on forward posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said. The unprovoked firing from across the border started in the Balakot sector around 10.15 am and was given a befitting response by Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC, the spokesman said. He said the cross-border firing between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no report of any casualty, the spokesman said. Officials said Pakistan Army personnel also fired mortar shells targeting Tarkundi village, causing panic among residents. On Sunday, Pakistani troops resorted to heavy shelling in Mankote, Shahpur, Kirni and Krishna Ghati sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-fire-at-border-posts-along-line-of-control-871601.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Frequent earthquakes prompting people to look for home insurance||Frequent low-intensity earthquakes are prompting people living in the National Capital Region (NCR) to look for home insurance, says a survey conducted by the e-insurance platform Policybazaar.com. The company said it surveyed more than 11,000 insurance buyers who visited the mobile application of the company between July 17 and 21, 2020. The survey was carried out to apprehend the perception and understanding of people towards home insurance and to gauge their understanding of the benefits home insurance. According to the online survey, five out of ten respondents in Delhi said that earthquakes have made them anxious to think about buying home insurance. "In an already uncertain time, the anxiety about earthquakes has triggered nearly 42 per cent of respondents’ pan-India and in Delhi, who don't have a home insurance yet, to consider buying home insurance in the near future," Policybazaar.com said. Pan-India, nearly every fifth person who took the survey admitted to already having home insurance while in the National Capital Region, 35 per cent of the respondents have home insurance, it said. It further noted that "unfortunately, home insurance is certainly not the first insurance product" on most people's list as 73 per cent of the respondents across India and 57 per cent in Delhi (NCR) said that they have so far not considered buying home insurance. "These numbers depict a major concern and this is because, according to a report by the National Disaster Management Authority, 59 per cent of India’s area is vulnerable to moderate-to-major earthquakes," it said. The country is divided into four seismic zones — II, III, IV and V — that signify an increasing order of intensity and frequency of occurrences of earthquakes, it added. As per the survey, around 10 per cent of respondents who do not have a home insurance yet said that they were planning to buy home insurance in the near future, while over 30 per cent considered buying home insurance a possibility. "It may be assumed that considering the given scenario and the frequency of earthquakes, people have slowly and steadily started to realise the importance of home insurance and are giving it a second thought for protecting their home and property," said PolicyBazaar.com. The survey also revealed reasons why people choose to avert home insurance even after it being as important a product as health and life insurance. Approximately, 25 per cent of the respondents residing pan-India and 28 per cent of Delhi-NCR residents cited their living in a rented apartment as the reason behind not opting for home insurance. "The findings reflect that people still have low awareness about home insurance. However, the recent earthquakes have definitely made them think about its importance, with the pandemic situation also playing on their mind," said Sarbvir Singh, CEO, PolicyBazaar.com. Under a comprehensive home insurance policy, though the insurer will not pay you for the regular wear and tear of your house, it will cover any damage caused by natural calamity including flood, earthquake or cyclone, PolicyBazaar.com said in the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/frequent-earthquakes-prompting-people-to-look-for-home-insurance-871605.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh youth held for sexually harassing minor girl||A man has been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a 10-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Monday. Vicky who was absconding was arrested in Kairana police station area on Sunday evening, an officer said. The girl was sexually harassed when she was on her way to a shop on July 22, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-youth-held-for-sexually-harassing-minor-girl-871607.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||States can't decide on cancelling final exams, UGC tells Supreme Court||Higher education regulator UGC on Monday told the Supreme Court that states can't decide on their own to cancel final examinations, as this might cause trouble in recognition of students degrees. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar allowed the UGC to reply by August 14 to the states' move. The court was hearing a batch of petitions including by Bengaluru resident Praneeth K and Yuva Sena, the students wing of Shiv Sena who have challenged the validity of July 6 notification by the UGC to the varsities to conduct their final exams by September 30. On Monday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UGC, contended that it was not in interests of students not to have the exams. He said the UGC was the only body which can prescribe rules on conferring degrees. Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate A M Singhvi contended that there was inconsistency in stands taken by the MHRD and the UGC. The court said it would consider on Friday the response filed by states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab and Karnataka in the matter. The UGC, in its response, had earlier maintained that its guidelines were issued in overall academic interest. The UGC's guidelines "adequately account for the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic because they provide sufficient time till September 30 to conduct final year examinations after following the protocols and procedures," it said. The UGC also claimed the guidelines provided enough flexibility to universities and institutions to conduct such examinations online, offline (pen and paper) or blended (online and offline) mode. Further, it provided for an examination through a special chance for students who for whatsoever reasons are unable to appear for the examinations by September 30. It also submitted that the decision of some state governments including Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel the final year examinations was contrary to its guidelines and would affect standard of higher education. This would also cause encroachment upon the legislative field reserved for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/states-cant-decide-on-cancelling-final-exams-ugc-tells-supreme-court-871619.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court refuses to consider TMC MP's plea on CM Relief Fund||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea by TMC MP Mahua Moitra questioning the Centre's decision to exclude the Chief Minister's and State Relief Funds within corporate social responsibility activities under Section 135 of the Companies Act.  A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed the plea for bringing the CM's Relief Fund at par with the PM Cares Fund. The bench questioned the petitioner for filing a petition again when a similar matter was dismissed in May. "This will not set a right precedent. You shouldn't have filed it again after you withdrew a similar petition in May," the bench told Moitra's counsel. The counsel told the court that the petitioner has challenged the validity of subsequent notification of May 27. The court, however, refused to consider the matter. On May 5, the court had refused to entertain a plea by Moitra for allowing the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to receive donations under the corporate social responsibility funds, saying the issue should be raised before Parliament which was a proper forum for examining it. The MP from West Bengal had then questioned the validity of a circular by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs excluding Chief Minister's Relief Fund from the ambit of corporate social responsibility funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-tmc-mps-plea-on-cm-relief-fund-871636.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||56 prison inmates test Covid-19 positive in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly||At least 56 inmates of two prisons in Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. "Reports of 51 inmates of central jail and five inmates of district jail have been found positive for Covid-19" District Surveillance Officer, Ashok Kumar said. Inmates of the prisons were tested after an inmate of the central jail died due to Covid-19, he said. The district has so far reported 3,773 coronavirus cases with 98 deaths. Meanwhile, according to a report from Banda, a journalist died due to Covid-19 on Sunday. Anjani Nigam (52) was admitted at the Banda Medical College and later referred to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday when his condition deteriorated, Divisional Commissioner Banda Gaurav Dayal said, adding that he died on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/56-prison-inmates-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttar-pradeshs-bareilly-871645.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||SC to hear plea to suspend 6 BSP MLAs from Rajasthan Assembly on August 11||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider on Tuesday a plea to suspend the membership of six Rajasthan Assembly MLAs who got elected on BSP ticket and subsequently merged themselves with the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari agreed to take up the petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar on August 11, along with a transfer petition by the six MLAs. Dilawar sought a stay on the order of September 18, 2019, passed by Speaker C P Joshi allowing six MLAs' merger with the Congress. He also sought a direction to restrain MLAs-- Lakhan Singh, Rajender Singh Guda, Deepchand Kishangadbas, Joginder Singh Avana, Sandeep Kumar and Vajib Ali -- from voting in Assembly session beginning August 14. The six MLAs, for their part, have also moved the top court for transferring a plea by Dilawar from the High Court to the top court, as similar matters were pending here. Petitioner Dilawar challenged the validity of the High Court's order of August 6, 2020. He claimed that HC had failed to appreciate that the Speaker straight away "illegally" accepted the request of six MLAs and allowed the so-called merger of their party, i.e. BSP, into the Congress, recognised it and ordered that now onwards these six MLAs will be treated as MLAs belonging to Indian National Congress. On Monday, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, contended that his client filed a disqualification petition in March but the Speaker dismissed it. The HC issued a notice on a plea questioning the Speaker's decision. Since six MLAs have sought transfer of the matter from the High Court to the top court, let both the petitions be considered together, Salve said. In his plea, Dilawar said the BSP which is a recognised national party has never merged with any at any given point of time.  The petitioner further contended that the Speaker had wrongly recorded that two-third of the legislators of any political party can merge their party into any other political party. "This is a total misreading of the provisions of law. As per para four of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, the condition of two-third MLAs accepting merger is a second condition, not the first. The first is that the original political party of the legislatures who are claiming merger should have merged with another political party," he pointed out. Moreover, the Speaker had no jurisdiction to record a finding of a so-called merger, without giving notice to the Bahujan Samaj Party and without holding an enquiry as to whether the BSP has actually merged in the Congress or not, he contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-plea-to-suspend-6-bsp-mlas-from-rajasthan-assembly-on-august-11-871652.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Will give digital degrees online to graduates who haven't received them, DU tells HC||In a relief to those who graduated from Delhi University up till last year but did not receive their degrees, the varsity has activated an online portal for issuance of digital degree certificates to speed up the process, the Delhi High Court has been informed. The university submitted before the high court that the students have to register on an online portal www.digicerti.du.ac.in, and give their details including academic qualification and name of their college and after completion of the verification, the digital degree certificates will be issued by DU within a week. The submissions were made before Justice Prathiba M Singh, who was hearing various petitions by 21 doctors who completed MBBS graduation in 2018 and 2019 from Lady Hardinge Medical College, Maulana Azad Medical College and University College of Medical Sciences, affiliated with the DU, but have not received their degree certificates till date on the ground that the contract with the printer had expired. Regarding these petitioners, the court directed that the digital degree certificates for all of them be issued by email, on or before August 13, as they wish to apply for their residency programmes in the United States and to sit in the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). August 15 is the last date by which the degree certificates would have to be uploaded for processing to the ‘My ECFMG’ mobile application. In pursuance to the court’s earlier directions, the university prepared a sample digital degree with the assistance of officials from Digilocker, an initiative by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) and IT Department of the high court. “The court has perused the digital degree certificate, which has been sent by e-mail and the court is satisfied with the contents of the same. The issuance of similar digital degree certificates duly verified by two officials of the DU and digitally signed by the authorised officer of the DU would in the court’s opinion, satisfy the purpose of the petitioners,” Justice Singh said. The court said the doctors, represented through advocate Sarthak Maggon, are free to use the digital degree certificates for the purpose of their ECFMG applications and if the ECFMG authorities need any clarification, they may be addressed to the email IDs of DU officials Sanjeev Singh or Vinay Gupta. The court also asked the DU authorities to look into the question as to whether marksheets and transcripts of students can also be issued digitally and asked them to deal with this aspect in their affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on September 7. Regarding the other students, the DU officials told the court that the data of all the students who have graduated up till November, 2019 is already available with the varsity. The court noted that DU is working out modalities with the officials of Digilocker to transmit all the data relating to degrees awarded by it to Digilocker within a time bound manner. “Let the above measures and timelines thereto be placed on record by means of an affidavit by DU. Let an affidavit be also placed on record by MEITY/ Digilocker as to what are the steps that DU needs to take to ensure that the data is made available to the students through Digilocker,” the court said and asked the varsity and the ministry to file the affidavits within two weeks. The court also appreciated the effort of the officials of the high court IT team, Digilocker and DU for coming up with the template of the digital degree certificate in a timely manner to enable students to complete their formalities for their proposed post-graduate applications. It said all such students who require their digital degree certificates due to any urgent deadlines are free to register on the portal and the officials at DU shall ensure that their digital degree certificates are issued within a period of one week from registration. In case the portal is not working for any reasons, the details may be submitted on the e-mail addresses of joint director of DU Computer Centre Sanjeev Singh and Dean of Examination Professor Vinay Gupta and steps shall then be taken within the time prescribed, it said. Digilocker is an initiative under Digital India, in which the government aimed at transforming India into a digitally empowered society. It provides citizens a shareable private space on a public cloud and makes all documents or certificates available on cloud. The court was earlier unhappy with the conduct of DU for not taking proper steps to issue digital degrees to students who have graduated and said there was a "complete collapse of administration" in the varsity and it reflects a "sorry state of affairs". It had said most institutions have made alternative arrangements during the lockdown period for issuance of digital certificates, digital mark sheets and digital transcripts online, along with the digital signatures and security features. It had said most of DU is under lockdown and there is very minimal physical interface between students and the administration. There is no reason as to why DU should not be adopting technically advanced methods to ensure that the students are not inconvenienced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-give-digital-degrees-online-to-graduates-who-havent-received-them-du-tells-hc-871662.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||MP: 25-year-old SAF jawan hangs self in Shahdol||A Madhya Pradesh Special Armed Force (SAF) jawan allegedly committed suicide in the early hours of Monday in Shahdol district, police said. Shahdol Superintendent of Police Satyendra Shukla said jawan Omkar Sharma (25) a resident of Bhind district, was found hanging from a tree in the police lines at around 2am. "He stayed in the police lines barracks. He was talking to someone on the phone till late night. He was found dead later. His family has been informed," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-25-year-old-saf-jawan-hangs-self-in-shahdol-871665.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||15% students enrolled in Delhi government schools not attending e-classes since Covid-19 induced lockdown||Close to 15 percent students enrolled in Delhi government schools are not "traceable" since the lockdown was announced and have not been attending the alternative classes conducted online or through phones, according to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Sisodia, who is also the Education Minister, said efforts are being made to locate these students either physically or telephonically to get them into the system. "We are conducting full-fledged teaching-learning either online or through phones and teachers have been instructed to ensure personal involvement with each student. So far, there are maximum 15 percent students who are not traceable and are not in contact with their schools and hence not attending the classes," Sisodia told PTI. "I have been reviewing this personally and we have been able to trace few students, for others either they are not staying at the same addresses or their phone numbers mentioned in our records are not traceable. I have asked that School Management Committees (SMCs) should be roped in to track these students. There are certain students who have gone to places like Uttarakhand and Bihar but are still connected with us and are attending the classes and doing assignments," he added. Asked about a definite number of the students who have not been traced, Sisodia said, "On an average, there are four to five students in every class who are in this category. Many of them are class 6 students and numbers for other classes are quite low". There are around 15 lakh students enrolled in over 1100 Delhi government schools. "We started conducting online classes for class 12 students from April 6 and sending e-learning material or activities to those enrolled in classes nursery to eighth over WhatsApp or SMS. The government has also provided a subsidy of Rs 200 for internet packages to all its class 12 students who had registered for the online classes," a senior Directorate of Education (DoE) official said. The HRD ministry had last month asked states and union territories to ensure that the names of children of migrant workers who returned home during the Covid-19 pandemic are not struck off their school rolls. Issuing a set of guidelines, the ministry had also directed the states to prepare a database of children who have left the local area for their homes in other states or other parts of the same state. It also suggested that the state governments may direct all schools to give admission to any child who recently returned to the village without asking for any other documents, except for some identity proof. Universities and schools across the country have been shut since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shut down as part of measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day and threw economic activities out of gear, rendering many homeless and penniless and leading to an exodus of migrants to their home states. While the government has largely eased restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-students-enrolled-in-delhi-government-schools-not-attending-e-classes-since-covid-19-induced-lockdown-871682.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Speculation about Shah Faesal rejoining IAS rife in Kashmir||A day after former IAS officer-turned-politician Shah Faesal removed from his Twitter bio his designation as the president of Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Movement (JKPM), speculation about his rejoining government service are rife in the Valley. Faesal, the 2010 IAS topper, left the civil service on 9 January 2019 to launch the JKPM. He had reasoned the “unabated killings in Kashmir, lack of political outreach from New Delhi, marginalization and invisiblization of around 200 million Indian Muslims at the hands of Hindutva forces, and hate in the mainland India in the name of hyper-nationalism” as reasons for his resignation However, just seven months after the launch of the JKPM, Center revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and most of the politicians, including Faesal were taken into custody. He was subsequently booked under Public Safety Act (PSA) which was revoked in June this year. On Sunday, Faesal deleted the information about his being president of the JKPM from his Twitter handle. His twitter bio now mentions: “Edward S Fellow @HKS Harvard University. Medico. Fulbright. Centrist.” The development comes in the backdrop of reports that he is likely to rejoin the civil service as he has been offered the same by the government. His resignation has not been accepted by the government of India as on date and he figures at serial no 36 in the seniority list of J&K IAS officers. On the J&K government website, his present place of posting reads: “The Officer has submitted his resignation, which has been forwarded to the DOPT, GOI for acceptance.” Despite repeated attempts, 37-year-old Faesal was not available for the comment. However, one of his close associates told DH that 2010 IAS topper has been conveyed that he can rejoin the service. “Faesal wanted to travel to the USA and settle there after his release, but wasn’t allowed to do so. He was given two choices: either to carry out his political activities but without touching Article 370 revocation or rejoin the civil service. Most probably he will opt for the second choice,” he revealed. Last August he was detained at Delhi airport when he was reportedly on the way to Istanbul. Sources said security agencies were averse to allowing Faesal to travel to some foreign country. “If he goes out, there is every possibility that Pakistan may tap him and use him for an anti-India campaign for which his profile suits the neighboring country the best,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/speculation-about-shah-faesal-rejoining-ias-rife-in-kashmir-871692.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Several BJP workers in Kashmir continue to resign after attacks by militants||In the backdrop of recent killings of BJP workers in Kashmir, the process of resignation by the saffron party workers continued on Monday. In the last one month 17 BJP workers, including panches and sarpanches, have publicly announced resignations after the killings spread a sense of fear among the saffron party functionaries and workers across Kashmir. Of these, eight have quit over the last 24 hours after the killing of a BJP worker in Budgam. A senior police official said that over a hundred BJP workers have been shifted to secured accommodations while over 25 others have been provided security after the killing of the saffron party leader Wasim Bari, along with his father and brother, in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. Since the killing of the Bari family, four more BJP workers have been killed by the militants, three in south Kashmir and one in Budgam. In a statement Monday, the party said the targeting of BJP leaders was part of a “sinister design”, hinting that it might not be just Pakistan-backed militants trying to scuttle the revival of the political process in J&K but also local elements. “Unfortunately, only the BJP workers were daring to reach out to the people in their constituencies because they felt obliged to serve those who have elected them. All those with a status quo mindset, including Pakistan, are against the revival of the political process,” the statement said. “Is it only Pak sponsored terrorists or some more who may be interested in neutralising the challenge posed by BJP? Request the L-G admin for a thorough investigation,” it added. On Sunday, BJP’s J&K General Secretary (Organisation) Ashok Koul wrote to party’s national president J P Nadda and sought safe accommodation for the party leaders in every district of Kashmir and urged workers and leaders not to come out without security cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-bjp-workers-in-kashmir-continue-to-resign-after-attacks-by-militants-871725.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||No possibility of leadership change in Rajasthan: State Congress chief||Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Monday ruled out any possibility of a leadership change in the state, saying it is merely a rumour. "There is no such thing or discussion on change in leadership. It is a fake and hollow rumour. Ashok Gehlot is the chief minister and he will remain so for five years,” Dotasra told reporters here. Dotasra along with other Congress leaders were here to meet the Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi ahead of the assembly session convened from August 14. Replying to a question on Sunday’s CLP meeting where the Congress leaders ruled out the return of rebel legislators to the party, Dotasra said everyone is free to speak in a meeting but decisions ultimately are taken by the party high command. "There is a freedom for every member to put forth his views but decisions ultimately are taken by the party high command. Everything is in the knowledge of the party high command and whatever decision is taken, it will be right," he said. When asked whether the party’s doors for Sachin Pilot camp have been closed, he said, "Doors were open. They have run away. We have not asked them to go.” He said it’s now between the rebel MLAs and party high command as we did not discuss their return, said Dotasra. The party’s state unit chief said party leaders met Speaker Joshi on Monday so that the House runs smoothly when the session begins on August 14 and issues related to people are discussed peacefully in the House. He also said the Congress will become a party in the court on the issue of merger of six BSP candidates as they are now the Congress legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-possibility-of-leadership-change-in-rajasthan-state-congress-chief-871727.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus effect: A Janmashtami without devotees at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi||For the first time, the festival of 'Janmashtami' (birth of Lord Krishna) would be celebrated on Wednesday at the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, about 400 kilometres from here, without the presence of the devotees. According to the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Samiti office bearers, the rituals and pujas on the birthday of Lord Krishna would be performed by the priests but the devotees would not be allowed keeping in view the coronavirus pandemic. The administration imposed a ban on the entry of the devotees in the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi till Thursday, according to the officials in Mathura. The celebrations would be telecast live for the benefit of the devotees, the officials said. The celebrations at Nandgaon (the village near Mathura, where Krishna spent his childhood) would be held on Tuesday. The famous 'Radha Rani' temple at Nandgaon had been decked up for the celebrations. Lakhs of devotees from across the world used to throng the twin towns of Mathura and Vrindavan on the occasion of 'Krishna Janmashtami' every year. Entry into other temples in the two towns had also been restricted, the officials said. The famous Banke Bihariji Temple at Vrindavan had already been closed for the devotees in view of the pandemic. Almost all other famous temples in Vrindavan were also closed for the devotees. Security arrangements have been tightened at the Janmabhoomi and at other important temples and buildings in the town, they said. Barricades have been put at the entry points into the towns and the vehicles were being subjected to thorough search before being allowed in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-effect-a-janmashtami-without-devotees-at-shri-krishna-janmabhoomi-871729.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Shah Faesal steps down as JKPM president||Shah Faesal, who resigned from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and floated the Jammu and Kashmir People's Movement (JKPM) last year, has resigned as its president, the party said on Monday. Faesal had dropped a hint about stepping away from politics on Sunday as he edited his personal details on Twitter, removing the reference to his political affiliations. He could not be contacted for comments. The JKPM's executive committee held an online meeting on Monday to discuss the ongoing political developments in the state, the party said in a statement. "In the meeting, request of Dr Shah Faesal to spare him from the organisational responsibilities was discussed. Dr Shah Faesal had informed state executive members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation," the JKPM said. "Keeping in view this request, it was decided to accept his request so that he can better continue with his life and contribute whichever way he chooses," the party said. The JKPM statement said it has been unanimously decided to appoint vice president Feroze Peerzada as interim president till formal elections can be held for the post of president. The committee also accepted the resignation of its chairman Javed Mustafa Mir, who is a former MLA, it said. Faesal, who surprised everyone by resigning from the government service in January 2019, had floated his own political party two months later. He was arrested in August last year, a week after the Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and divided it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Faesal was booked under the stringent Public Safety Act later on and released in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shah-faesal-steps-down-as-jkpm-president-871733.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Take steps to reduce noise pollution: DPCC to traffic police, municipal corporations||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has asked the traffic police, public works department and municipal corporations to take steps to bring down noise pollution in the city and submit an action taken report by August 20. The directions have been issued after an analysis at 31 locations in Delhi in June revealed that noise pollution levels exceeded the prescribed limits at 26 locations. The locations included hospitals, educational institutions, commercial and residential areas. According to the DPCC, a survey in July found vehicular movement, traffic congestion, honking, road bottlenecks, congestion at parking sites, construction activities and air conditioning exhaust to be contributing to noise pollution at these locations. The pollution control body has now asked the Delhi Traffic Police and PWD to remove bottlenecks and carry out realignment of roads to ensure smooth flow of traffic so as to bring down noise pollution levels. The agencies have been asked to submit an action taken report by August 20, according to officials. The DPCC has also asked the municipal corporations to remove "chaotic conditions" at parking sites, markets, and to install noise barriers around construction sites to bring noise levels within permissible limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-steps-to-reduce-noise-pollution-dpcc-to-traffic-police-municipal-corporations-871739.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Army starts enquiry after families allege militants killed in Shopian were labourers||The army has initiated an enquiry into the killing of three alleged militants in Shopian on July 18 after the family members of three missing labourers from Rajouri in Jammu alleged that the trio was killed in a fake encounter. “We have noted social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on 18 July. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols. The army is investigating the matter,” PRO Defence, Col Rajesh Kalia told DH. On July 18, police said, three unidentified terrorists were killed in an operation carried jointly by the Army’s 62-Rashtriya Rifles, CRPF and J&K police in Amshipora village of Shopian. A day after the encounter, police said that the process of identification of the slain militants is underway while “the bodies were sent to Baramulla for last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities.” Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, security forces are not handing over the bodies of the militants to families for last rites but instead burying them discreetly at faraway places. On Monday families of Imtiaz Ahmed son of Sagar Hussain, Ibrar Ahmed son of Bagha Khan and Ibrar Ahmed son of Mohammad Yousuf lodged an FIR at Peeri Police Post, in Rajouri district that their kins were missing since July 17. Guftar Ahmad Chaudhary, a social activist from Rajouri, said the families have apprehensions that these boys may have been killed in the Shopian encounter. “This matter should be investigated at the earliest,” he said. Zafar Choudhary, a journalist from Jammu, tweeted that he had spoken to the family who had identified the three youths “beyond any doubt”: “The three boys killed in Amshipora were in my distant relation. I have just spoken to family, they’ve identified them beyond any doubt. They don’t remember the exact date of speaking to them last but say the news of death came on the 22nd day of losing contact with them,” he tweeted. The missing trio, according to reports, had left their homes on 16 July to find work in Kashmir. Amidst the coronavirus lockdown, the trio managed to reach Shopian district where as per families, they rented a room and purchased some essentials. Quoting a relative of one of the missing persons, a local newspaper reported: “The last time we spoke to them was on July 17, after that we were not able to establish any contact with them.” Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) Shopian, Amrit Paul Singh said they were investigating the case. Sources said only two pistols along with some bullets were recovered at the spot of the encounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-starts-enquiry-after-families-allege-militants-killed-in-shopian-were-labourers-871741.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Five revenue officials, ‘mahant’ indicted for fraudulent sale of temple land in Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir Anti-Corruption Bureau on Monday indicted seven persons including five revenue officials and a priest in a nine-year-old case of fraudulent sale of over 18.75 acres of temple land here. The ACB indicted the seven in a charge sheet filed in the special anti-corruption court against them, three of whom have already expired during the probe into the case, an ACB spokesperson said. He said the accused in the case include former Patwari Dalip Singh, the then Naib Tehsildar Manohar Singh, erstwhile Tehsildars Shanti Saroop and Surinder Gupta (both dead) and former Patwari Babu Ram (expired) besides Mahant Baba Ram Milan Dass and his assistant Damodar Dass of Uttar Pradesh. The case was registered on February 21, 2011, after the verification of allegations that over 18.75 acres of land situated in villages Muthi and Paloura and belonging to the temple “Thakur Dwara Shri Ram Janki Pracheen Mandir, Udheywala, Jammu”, was sold off illegally, the spokesman said. During the investigation, he said it transpired that the ‘mahant’, who was priest-cum-custodian of the temple, had no authority or competence to alienate or transfer or lease out the land belonging to the temple. To take undue pecuniary benefits for himself and to make a wrongful loss to the temple, the ‘mahant’ hatched a criminal conspiracy with accused revenue officials who issued the revenue extracts for the execution of the sale and lease deed illegally and later on entered and attested mutations of different pieces of land, the spokesman said. "This action on their part individually as well as collectively was found to be illegal involving a sheer abuse of their official positions and powers to confer an undue benefit to the ‘mahant’ and wrongful loss to the temple," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-revenue-officials-mahant-indicted-for-fraudulent-sale-of-temple-land-in-jammu-871749.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Work underway to provide mobile connectivity in border villages of J-K, Ladakh, other areas: Prasad||Work is underway on a Rs 337 crore project to provide mobile services in 354 uncovered villages in remote and border areas of the country, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday. The project includes all uncovered villages of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. "A Rs 337 crore tender has been floated for the same and work is going on. This will include 87 uncovered villages of Jammu and Kashmir. After completion of this project, there will not be a single uncovered village left in Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh for mobile services," the telecom and IT minister told reporters. The project also includes 144 border villages in Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. Prasad said the government is also installing VSATs (Very Small Aperture Terminals) to provide satellite phone services to soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh so that they can connect with their families. Satellite-based DSPTs (Digital Satellite Phone Terminals) are also being provided at 1,347 sites for Army, BRO, BSF, CRPF, ITBP and SSB, among others, out of which 183 sites have already been commissioned. Prasad said the Department of Telecom is working on providing mobile connectivity in villages in 24 aspirational districts in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. A total of 7,287 uncovered villages in 44 aspirational districts in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh will also be covered.   According to telecom ministry data presented in Parliament in February, there were around 27,721 villages (as per census 2011 data) which were not covered by mobile services. The minister further said the Chennai - Andaman and Nicobar Islands (CANI) optical fibre link launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will increase innovation and establish more startups in Andaman and Nicobar Islands.   "Earlier we were supplying the internet using satellite bandwidth at 4 gigabit per second (Gbps) speed. After the start of the link between Chennai and Port Blair, speed will be 400 GBps and other islands will get 200 Gbps. This will encourage innovation there, increase startups," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/work-underway-to-provide-mobile-connectivity-in-border-villages-of-j-k-ladakh-other-areas-prasad-871781.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||CM Gehlot 'villain' of Rajasthan political crisis, he tried to become a hero, says BJP state president Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Monday asked Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to quit on moral grounds, saying he is the “villain” of the political crisis unfolding in the state. He said the crisis reflected the weakness of the Congress high command and exposed the party’s “character” before people once again. Poonia also raised the issue of the Congress MLAs’ stay at hotels for the past month, claiming nearly Rs 10 crore has been spent on it. He held the "infighting" in the party responsible for it. “I had said on day one that it is the infighting of the Congress and they kept running from one place to another. There should be an audit of it in 'janta ki adalat',” Poonia told reporters at the party office here. Lashing out at the chief minister, the state BJP chief said, “In this entire episode, the one who is actually a villain tried to become a hero. Ashok Gehlot should quit as the chief minister on moral grounds as it would lead to the solution of a lot of problems." He also accused the government of failing to deliver on its promises. “There are many unemployed people in the state. Rajasthan has become a crime capital. The government should have taken care of it as well,” he said. Rajasthan is witnessing a political crisis, triggered by the rebellion of dissident Congress leader Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The Congress has accused the BJP of horse-trading to topple its government in the state, a charge rejected by the opposition party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-gehlot-villain-of-rajasthan-political-crisis-he-tried-to-become-a-hero-says-bjp-state-president-satish-poonia-871784.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Patient jumps off 3rd floor of Covid-19 facility, injured||A 55-year-old Covid-19 patient was on Monday injured after jumping off the third floor of a hospital in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, police said. He also slit the veins of his wrist before jumping from the super specialty hospital in Gajra Raja Medical College in the afternoon, said Kampu police station in-charge KN Tripathi. "He was saved because he did not land on the ground but on top of a tin-shed covering the generator set. He has received injuries. A guard saw him first," the official said. Tripathi informed that the man had been admitted in the Covid-19 facility on August 8, adding that he did not appear to be mentally sound.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-patient-jumps-off-3rd-floor-of-covid-19-facility-injured-871786.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||UP floods: 303 villages in 19 districts marooned; over 1 lakh families affected||The flood situation in Uttar Pradesh improved slightly on Monday, but 19 districts are still affected and their 303 villages cut off from the other parts of the state, officials said. The 19 affected districts are: Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Balrampur, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kheri, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar, Pilibhit, Siddharth Nagar and Sitapur, they said. Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal said a total of 582 villages in the 19 districts are affected and 303 of these villages have got marooned. On Sunday, a total of 20 districts in the state were affected by the flood. Pratapgarh has been dropped from the Monday list of affected districts. Also, on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers of six affected states, including Uttar Pradesh, to discuss the flood situation. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath informed the PM that though the state received 10.4% less rainfall between June 1 and August 8, four rivers -- Ghaghra, Rapti, Sharda and Gandak -- crossed the red mark due to 20% excess rainfall in 15 districts of the state’s eastern region, parts of Uttarakhand and the neighbouring country Nepal, according to the relief commissioner. As many as 1,04 562 families and 38,248 hectare of agricultural land have been affected in the 19 flood-hit districts, the CM said. The chief minister also said that excess water damaged three embankments in Azamgarh, Mau and Gonda, but they have now been mended. The Prime Minister stressed on maximum use of technology to reduce losses because of floods and assured all possible help to deal with the situation, the Relief Commissioner said. The CM has directed officials to ensure proper social distancing norm in flood shelters set up in the affected areas, besides keeping vigil on release of water in the embankments, Goyal said, adding the overall situation was under control. Government media statements have not mentioned any flood-related deaths so far this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-floods-303-villages-in-19-districts-marooned-over-1-lakh-families-affected-871788.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh likely to receive extremely heavy rains on Tuesday||Light to moderate rain occurred in parts of Himachal Pradesh on Monday, with Una recording the highest rainfall in the state at 91mm, the Meteorological Centre here said.   Dharamshala received 13mm rain, Dalhousie and Sundernagar 12mm each, and Fagu 9mm, Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh said. The weatherman has issued an 'orange' warning for extremely heavy rains in the state on Tuesday. The Met office issues colour-coded warnings to alert people ahead of severe or hazardous weather that has the potential to cause damage, widespread disruption or danger to life. Orange is for weather conditions that have the capacity to impact significantly. The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Bilaspur at 32.5 degrees Celsius and the lowest in Keylong at 12.4 degrees Celsius, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-likely-to-receive-extremely-heavy-rains-on-tuesday-871806.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal government is again misleading people by re-launching the failed employment scheme: Adesh Gupta||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Monday accused the AAP government of "misleading" people on the employment issue, and sought to know how many jobs were provided through its recently launched job portal. The Delhi government had on July 27 launched the job portal and appealed to the traders, industrialists and people to join hands to revive Delhi's economy. Addressing a press conference, Gupta claimed that only 334 people got jobs in an employment scheme started by the Arvind Kejriwal government two years ago. "The Kejriwal government is again misleading the people of Delhi by re-launching the failed employment scheme," he alleged. There was no immediate reaction from the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on the allegation. Delhi Employment Minister Gopal Rai had last week said 8.64 lakh job aspirants have registered with the government's 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal. He said 9 lakh vacancies were available on the portal, where 6,271 companies have registered. The Delhi BJP chief, however, demanded the AAP government to specify the number of people employed through the job portal. "It is being claimed that the job portal has more than 9 lakh vacancies with 8,64,000 applicants. The Kejriwal government should specify how many people have got jobs through the portal so far," he said. Gupta also showed a purported screenshot of a job posted on the portal wherein he claimed that people are asked to download a video application. He added that offensive and vulgar videos and photos are shown in this application. The BJP leader also alleged that the city government has sent notices to 5,586 businessmen who create jobs, instead of providing employment to the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-government-is-again-misleading-people-by-re-launching-the-failed-employment-scheme-adesh-gupta-871808.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Work for installation of smog tower in Delhi has started: Centre to SC||The Centre Monday told the Supreme Court that work for installation of smog tower at Anand Vihar in east Delhi has started and soil samples have been taken for examining the structural stability. Smog tower is a structure designed as large-scale air purifier to reduce air pollution. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that an memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed for the project of installation of smog tower and IIT Bombay and Tata Projects Limited are in touch with University of Minnesota for transfer of technology. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, was informed by Mehta that as on August 8, site survey has been done and soil samples have been taken and are being examined. Meanwhile, the bench refused to entertain the contention of an intervenor, who had filed an affidavit raising questions over the effectiveness of smog tower and claimed that money for it would ultimately go to Chinese companies. The bench said it would hear the issue of smog tower tomorrow (Tuesday). Besides this, the top court also dealt with the issue of pollution from stubble burning in states including Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The bench asked the chief secretary of Punjab, who was present in the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, about the steps taken in providing machines and equipment to small and marginal farmers to prevent instances of stubble burning there. The chief secretary of Punjab told the bench that subsidy is being provided to these small and marginal farmers but they are facing shortage of funds due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The bench asked the Centre's counsel to apprise it about the subsidy and also about implementation of its orders passed in the matter earlier. It also asked other stakeholders to give detailed report on the issue of stubble burning. The bench, which observed that policies need to be put in place now to prevent stubble burning, asked whether Panchayats have been roped in for spreading awareness of various projects for prevention of stubble burning. It said if the authorities will not take proper steps, then the issue of stubble burning would continue in times to come. It also sought affidavits on the steps taken by the concerned authorities in dealing with pollution hotspots in the region. The top court asked Punjab government to apprise it about the steps taken to deal with industries which were found non-compliant with pollution norms. The bench asked Delhi’s chief secretary, who was also present in the hearing, about the steps taken to deal with pollution, including from stubble burning. Delhi’s chief secretary said that several steps have been taken to reduce traffic congestion and also to deal with open waste. The bench also dealt with the issue of vehicles running on kerosene and said that Centre should formulate rules for preventing it and also confiscate such vehicles. On August 4, the top court had asked the Centre to "start at the earliest" the work for installation of smog tower at Anand Vihar. The government had then informed the bench that setting up of smog tower would take 10 months. The solicitor general had told the apex court that supervision of the project work would be done by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay while funding would be provided by the government. The apex court had earlier questioned the Centre as to why its January 13 order, directing the project to be completed within three months, was not complied with. It had earlier expressed shock at IIT Bombay's backing out of the smog tower project and said this was "not expected of such institutions”. Earlier, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Central Pollution Control Board had filed an affidavit in the top court and claimed that the MoU was not finalised as IIT Bombay has not agreed to take responsibility of overall coordination of project and verification of works to be carried out by Tata Projects Limited, which has been involved by IIT Bombay for construction, operation and maintenance of smog tower. It had said that funds amounting to Rs 18.52 crore have been sanctioned for the project. In the stubble burning issue, the top court had last month asked governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan about the arrangements made by them for preventing it. These issues have cropped up before the apex court during the hearing in pollution matter in which it is dealing with several aspects. In November last year, the apex court had expressed serious displeasure over the failure of state machinery in preventing stubble burning and said that citizens of Delhi-national capital region were "suffocating" due to air pollution and people cannot be left to die in a "gas chamber".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/work-for-installation-of-smog-tower-in-delhi-has-started-centre-to-sc-871811.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Head constable killed as drunk youth rams car into police patrol vehicle||A drunk youth rammed his car into a police patrol vehicle in north Delhi early Monday, killing a head constable and injuring his colleague, officials said. Tushar Gupta, 19, who was returning home after meeting a friend, crashed his Honda City into the 'Prakhar' van near Khalsa College around 1.30 am. The impact was so huge that the police vehicle overturned and skidded for nearly 15 feet on the road, a police official said. Head Constable Wazir Singh was trapped in the van and had to be rescued by his colleague Amit and passers-by, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said. Singh was admitted to a hospital but succumbed during treatment, Bhardwaj said. Amit, who was driving the patrol vehicle when Gupta crashed into it from the other side, has been discharged from hospital after receiving stitches on his hand, the DCP said. Gupta, a resident of Model Town, also suffered injuries but has been arrested. His medical examination showed he was drunk at the time of the accident, police said. Gupta was pursuing B.Com in Singapore and had returned to Delhi in March before lockdown. His father is a businessman and owned a shop in Sadar Bazar, they said. A case under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act of endangering life) of the Indian Penal Code have been registered, the DCP said. Constables Singh and Amit were on night duty when the accident happened. "I was driving the vehicle. My colleague was seated right beside me. As the traffic light turned green, I took a turn towards the university area and suddenly a car rammed into us from another side," Amit said. "We were severely injured and my colleague got trapped inside the vehicle. Public came to our rescue. They first rescued my colleague and then we were rushed to a hospital where my colleague who had suffered serious injuries died during treatment," he said. Amit, who lives with his family in Narela, joined Delhi police in 2018 and is deputed in the Police Control Room unit. Singh, who served the force for over 25 years, was previously with the traffic unit but was transferred to the PCR unit in May-end this year, police said. Singh is survived by his wife, two sons and mother who live in a village near Sonipat. His elder son Vinay is a constable with Haryana police and lives in Gurgaon and the younger son is pursuing B.Com from a university in Rohtak. According to Delhi Police, the national capital reported 2,164 accidents between January 1 till July 30 this year in which 557 people were killed and 1,908 were injured. In July end, an on-duty ACP of the traffic police unit died in an accident near Rajokri flyover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/head-constable-killed-as-drunk-youth-rams-car-into-police-patrol-vehicle-871819.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Tiger disturbs mating session of two other big cats in Panna, killed||A tiger was killed in Madhya Pradesh's Panna Tiger Reserve after it intruded into the mating session of two big cats and picked up a fight, an official said on Monday. The carcass of tiger P-123 was found floating in Ken river near Pathai camp under Hinauta range on Sunday evening, PTR field director K S Bhadoriya said. "A forest guard on Friday saw tiger P-431 and tigress T-6 mating near Ken river in Sakra in Jhalar beat of PTR's Gahrighat range. Tiger P-123 reached the spot and started fighting with P-431 in the river," he said. "When senior officials reached the spot, tiger P-431 and tigress T-6 were around but P-123 was missing as it had been killed and its carcass washed away in the river," he added. He said the post mortem revealed signs of the fight between the two tigers, adding that the carcass was disposed of as per National Tiger Conservation Authority guidelines. This is the third tiger death in PTR in the last two-and-half months, the other two taking place in Majholi beat on July 27 and in Mahuamod beat on June 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-tiger-disturbs-mating-session-of-two-other-big-cats-in-panna-killed-871820.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops target forward areas along LoC in Jammu & Kashmir's Poonch with heavy mortar-shelling||Pakistani troops resorted to intense mortar-shelling and firing from small arms on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Monday, a defence spokesperson said. The heavy shelling and firing from across the border in Balakote and Krishna Ghati sectors drew a strong and befitting response from the Indian Army, the spokesperson said. In the first act of ceasefire violation of the day, the Pakistani troops opened fire on forward posts in Balakote sector around 10.15 am, the spokesperson said. The cross-border firing between the two sides continued for quite some time, but there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, he added. Officials said the Pakistan Army personnel also fired mortar shells targeting Tarkundi village and triggering panic among the villagers. The Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire again by resorting to unprovoked firing from small arms and intense mortar shelling in Krishna Ghati sector around 6.35 pm, the spokesperson said. The shelling is still going on and further details are awaited, he added. On Sunday, the Pakistani troops had resorted to heavy shelling in Mankote, Shahpur, Kirni and Krishna Ghati sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-target-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmirs-poonch-with-heavy-mortar-shelling-871832.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Rebel Congress MLA meets CM Gehlot, says 'Rajasthan govt safe'||Rebel Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma here on Monday met Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, indicating a patch-up between rival party factions. After the meeting at Gehlot’s official residence, Sharma said the "government was safe" and things will get clear by Tuesday. He said other rebel MLAs should also return to Jaipur. The meeting took place hours after dissident Congress leader Sachin Pilot met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in New Delhi. Sharma is one of the 18 legislators who backed Pilot in the power tussle with CM Gehlot. Earlier, the Rajasthan Police had lodged an FIR against him for the “plot” to topple the state government. After meeting the CM, he told reporters, "It was an internal matter, which has now been resolved. There was no resentment against the party or the chief minister. The issue was related to the work of my areas. I have been assured that all work will be done." Sharma is said have been camping along with other rebel legislators in Haryana’s Manesar since July 13. Earlier, Sharma had said he will not join the BJP, but wants a change in the leadership. He had said that situation will get clear once the floor test takes place. The seven-time MLA had then blamed Congress national general secretary Avinash Pande for the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rebel-congress-mla-meets-cm-gehlot-says-rajasthan-govt-safe-871848.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Militants hurl grenade at BJP panchayat member's house in Kashmir||Militants on Monday night hurled a grenade towards the residence of a BJP panchayat member in Pulwama in Kashmir, the latest in a string of attacks targeting workers and leaders of the party in the Valley. There were no casualties in the explosion, police said. "Terrorists lobbed a grenade on the house of Bhupinder Singh in Tral town on Monday night," a police official said. The grenade exploded outside the house of Singh, who is a BJP worker and a panch, the official said adding there was no damage caused by the blast. Militants have stepped up attacks on BJP workers in Kashmir valley since last month. The latest attack came on a day BJP worker Abdul Hamid Najar, who was shot at by militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, succumbed to injuries at a hospital. Najar was the fourth BJP worker or office bearer targeted by militants in the last one month. BJP's district president for Bandipora Waseem Bari, his father and brother were shot dead by militants last month. A BJP panch was shot at and injured on August 4, while another sarpanch from the party was shot dead two days later in south Kashmir's Kulgam district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-hurl-grenade-at-bjp-panchayat-members-house-in-kashmir-871855.html
10-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi University online exams: Slow pace of 2G internet a hurdle for students in Kashmir||From going to friends' homes to keeping their fingers crossed that 2G internet connectivity does not deceive them, Delhi University’s Kashmiri students have an additional set of worries regarding their online open book exams. The Delhi University commenced its online open book examinations from Monday, amid opposition from students and teachers who had been demanding that exams be scrapped and evaluation be done over past performance. Abha Dev Habib, a professor at Miranda House said, “Kashmiri students from our college said they want education and not depression". She said even if the students in Kashmir managed to get connected to the 2G network, they found it difficult to download heavy applications and the internet connection would not always be stable. “Students have also said they have to rely on resources provided by others and miss out on one-on-one interaction which is the crux of the teaching and learning process. They have also claimed that many teachers are inconsiderate to these situations before giving out links and readings in class and during assignments,” she added. Bushra, a student of BA (English) Hons at Zakir Husain College, said her district in Jammu and Kashmir was in a state of lockdown. "I am from Rajouri district. We have 2G network here. I had planned to go to a friend’s house for taking my exams but it is almost four hours away and it’s not feasible during the pandemic. Internet cafes are closed because of the lockdown in my area. I am praying that my 2G network does not deceive me and I am able to take my exams which will begin from tomorrow,” she said. Samiya Aziz, another student of Zakir Husain College, said her nearest Common Service Centre (CSC) was 16 kilometres away and during the pandemic it was not feasible for her to travel for each exam. She said she will go a friend’s place where there is wi-fi connection to take her exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-online-exams-slow-pace-of-2g-internet-a-hurdle-for-students-in-kashmir-871878.html
10-08-2020||Panorama||NDA Government’s ‘anti-graft agenda’ disappears from public domain||The last time India saw people filling the streets demanding action against corruption was during the Jan Lokpal protests of 2011-12. Nearly a decade has passed since. A two-term Prime Minister was voted out of power in 2014, and the party he represented is currently gasping for survival. The new establishment that came to power on the promise of stamping out corruption in India will firmly be in the saddle until 2024.  From willful corporate defaulters to well-known crony capitalists, and from brazen horse-trading of legislators to appointment of compromised officials to our premier institutions, corruption in India takes many forms. We haven’t been lacking in big-bang events. At 8 pm on November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the dramatic announcement that from that midnight, the Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes would no longer be legal tender. This was a landmark announcement that achieved little by way of a ‘war against corruption’ as it was touted to be. Instead, it guaranteed the 8 pm Indian Standard Time perpetual infamy.  In the eyes of the government, that single swallow was supposed to make many a summer, for they did little else to burnish their anti-corruption credentials. Sure, the Modi government forcibly retired over two dozen Indian Revenue Service officials in recent months and the word is that more such exits are set to follow. The government has also used its anti-corruption arms to target political opponents. The entirely predictable (and ultimately futile) modus operandi reveals the government’s motives as purely geared towards capturing power.  In spite of all this, somewhere along the way, the ‘anti-corruption agenda’ has disappeared from the public domain. We have not seen public opinion being mobilised to demand action against corruption in public life. Instead, one after the other, institutional checks and balances have been dismantled. Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (2019) paints a sorry picture, ranking India 80th among 180 countries.  We have lost nearly a decade while corruption in India has spread unchecked. Below are outlined five urgent areas that we must act on:  1. Demand greater transparency in the workings of the government: Governments often seem like a black box. In a fight against corruption in public life— as was amply demonstrated during UPA-2— the Right to Information (RTI) Act is absolutely critical. Acts like the RTI compel governments to be transparent. Whistleblowers do the same, from within government and outside. Over the years, RTI activists have been harassed and killed, and the government has used a multitude of excuses to maintain the veil of secrecy. Rich private trusts resist while political parties do not come under the purview of RTI at all. That needs to change. 2. Dismantle electoral bonds and make election campaign finances transparent and strictly regulated: Electoral bonds put paid to any hopes we may have had that campaign financing will see a change for the better. Cash contributions continue to be significant. But the new laws have taken away the cap on corporate donations, which used to be limited to a maximum of 7.5% of net profits. Not just that, foreign contributions to political parties are now kosher while the government continues to harass NGOs trying to source similar funds. All this adds up to a whirlpool of corrupt practices with anonymous donors, shell companies and foreign interests potentially playing havoc with how political parties are funded in India. This needs to stop.    3. Investigate the income declarations of politicians and prosecute rapidly: Every year, the Association for Democratic Reforms and others pore over thousands of pre-election affidavits that contain personal data ranging from pending criminal cases to personal and family asset holdings. One often laments that the affidavits mean little unless the data is used beyond generating infographics for the media. Candidates must face legal consequences if they indulge in under-reporting income or assets.  4. Fight institutional decay: Across states, the police— underpaid and overworked— are known for their brutality and complicity with politicians, as rule of law is a scarce commodity in states like Uttar Pradesh. Our premier central institutions are in terminal decay. The Election Commission is unable to clamp down on the obvious irregularities in election finance.  Institutions such as the Central Information Commission and the Central Vigilance Commission have been rendered toothless and there is no apparent resistance. At the root of a lot of institutional abdication seems to be a surge of post-retirement sinecures or worse, positions with further power that are distributed on the basis of loyalty.  5. Demand space for civil society: In today’s world, journalists and activists are our voices. As we middle-class citizens are too busy to sully our hands in activism, these people give us a voice. They ask the questions that we don’t. They go to places we stay away from. They occupy the streets when we vacate them. And yet, they are vilified as seditious anti-nationals at the drop of a hat. India’s democracy was supposed to gradually empower its citizenry. Decentralised governance, the rights-based legislation and the enhancement of capabilities (better health and education) over time should lead to citizens demanding higher levels of participation in governance. However, the reality is that our democracy is a mediocre one, fulfilling satisfactorily, only the most basic requirement of regular (and reasonably free and fair) elections.  To celebrate our incredible democracy, it is not enough to just conduct polls every five years, and for everyone to accept the election results. That is a very low bar. Citizens need to demand accountability. When we don’t, we reduce politics and governance to just the packaging and give politicians and administrators a free pass.  When we stop holding governments accountable, we make our personal contributions towards building a cult. In the last six years, the government has grown unaccountable and insolent. We need a mass movement calling for action against systemic corruption before the damage to our country becomes irreparable. (The writer works on governance projects in South Asia and East Africa)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nda-government-s-anti-graft-agenda-disappears-from-public-domain-871550.html
10-08-2020||South||Accused policeman in Tamil Nadu custodial deaths case dies of Covid-19||Pauldurai was shifted to the hospital last month from the Central Prison in Madurai after testing positive for Covid-19. The SSI was among two policemen involved in the case who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus last month. Besides, seven sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case after taking over from the Tamil Nadu police’s CB-CID wing, had also tested positive for the virus. As many as 10 policemen were booked for their role in the case of the custodial deaths, while only five of them were arrested. Jeyaraj, 61, and his son Emmanuel Bennix,31, were arrested by police in Sathankulam town, 635 km from here, in Thoothukudi district over an argument on June 19. The father-son duo was allegedly tortured during police custody leading to their deaths, three days later. While Bennix breathed his last on June 22, Jeyaraj died a few hours later in the early hours of June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/accused-policeman-in-tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-case-dies-of-covid-19-871576.html
10-08-2020||South||Kanimozhi’s experience not unusual, have faced similar taunts, says P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday came out in support of DMK MP Kanimozhi who was asked whether she was an Indian by a CISF officer at the airport here for not knowing Hindi, saying he had also experienced “such taunts” from government officers and citizens. In a series of tweets, Chidambaram, who was Union Finance and Home Minister in the UPA-I and UPA-II, asked why cannot recruits to Central Government offices learn “functional English” when non-Hindi speaking recruits quickly learn “functional and spoken Hindi.” His reaction came a day after Kanimozhi complained that a CISF officer asked her if she was Indian for not knowing Hindi. The DMK Lok Sabha MP from Thoothukudi had told DH that the incident took place at the security check area of the Chennai Airport on Sunday afternoon when she told the officer to make announcements in Tamil or in English and not in Hindi. After the incident, the CISF expressed regret and ordered an enquiry into the issue. “The unpleasant experience of DMK MP Ms Kanimozhi at Chennai airport is not unusual. I have experienced similar taunts from government officers and ordinary citizens who insisted that I speak in Hindi during telephone conversations and sometimes face to face,” Chidambaram tweeted. The unpleasant experience of DMK MP Ms Kanimozhi at Chennai airport is not unusual. If the Central government is genuinely committed to both Hindi and English being the official languages of India, it must insist that all central government employees are bilingual in Hindi and English, he added. “Non-Hindi speaking recruits to central government posts quickly learn functional, spoken Hindi. Why cannot Hindi-speaking recruits to central government posts learn functional, spoken English?” the former Union Minister asked. Kanimozhi’s complaint triggered a fresh debate on “Hindi imposition” in institutions and installations managed by the Centre in non-Hindi speaking states. Kanimozhi’s allegations of “Hindi imposition” came close on the heels of the DMK viewing the three-language policy proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) as an attempt to bring Sanskrit via the “back door.” DMK, which was at the forefront of the anti-Hindi agitation in the 1960s and came to power in 1967 riding high on the wave, has been consistent in its stand on “Hindi imposition” as language is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kanimozhi-s-experience-not-unusual-have-faced-similar-taunts-says-p-chidambaram-871587.html
10-08-2020||South||PM Narendra Modi launches submarine optical fibre cable between Chennai and Port Blair||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday  launched the submarine Optical Fibre Cable between Chennai and Port Blair via video conferencing. The submarine optical fibre cable link will deliver bandwidth of 2 x 200 Gigabits per second (Gbps) between Chennai and Port Blair, and 2 x 100 Gbps between Port Blair and the other islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands chain. The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to other seven islands - Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat. The Prime Minister laid foundation stone for this project on December 30, 2018 at Port Blair. The project is funded by the Government through the Universal Service Obligation Fund under Ministry of Communications. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) executed the project while Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) was its technical consultant.  About 2,300 km of Submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) has been laid at a cost of about Rs 1,224 crore, and the project has been completed in time, the statement from Department of Telecom said. Addressing during the occassion, the PM said " through our efforts today, not only will the islands and its residents get new facilities in the coming decade but it will also establish Andaman and Nicobar on the world tourist map in a major way." This optical fibre cable project, connecting Andaman and Nicobar with rest of the country is a symbol of our commitment towards ease of living.  Be it online classes, tourism, banking, shopping or telemedicine, thousands of families in Andaman-Nicobar will now get its access, he said. Insisting that importance of the islands has increased in light of India's 'Act East' policy, PM said that an 'Island Development Agency' was created three years ago, as a result of which connectivity is being enhanced between 12 islands of the cluster. The PM also said there is a proposal to build a transshipment port in Great Nicobar at an estimated investment  of Rs 10,000 crore. Earlier, taking to Twitter, PM Modi said that the inauguration of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands will ensure high-speed broadband connectivity, fast and reliable mobile and landline telecom services and delivery of e-governance platforms to the islands, crucial for India's security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-narendra-modi-launches-submarine-optical-fibre-cable-between-chennai-and-port-blair-871600.html
10-08-2020||South||Delhi police crack down on shopkeepers selling Chinese, Bareilly manjhas||Selling manjhas of Chinese and Bareilly origins have been banned in Delhi since 2016.  Those violating the ban were booked under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act. The violation of this ban could result in imprisonment up to five years or a fine up to Rs 1 lakh or even both.  “We received information about the kite sellers and sent a team to raid Chand Mohalla, a big market in Shahdara. The offenders said they didn’t know about the manjha ban. We have registered a case against them and will probe the matter,” an officer told the publication.  In 2016, animal rights group People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) had filed a petition at the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that said, ”Due to 'manjha' being coated with glass, metals and other sharp material, these strings act as good conductors of electricity, increasing the probability of detached manjha strings getting stuck in power lines, electrocuting kite flyers and passers-by coming into contact with these strings.”  Kite flying can now only be done using a cloth or natural fibre manjhas. In 2016, a three-year-old girl Saanchi Goyal was killed by a stray kite’s manjha. She had her head stuck out of the sunroof of a car when a piece of manjha slit her throat.  The capital has reported several manjha related accidents and deaths over the years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/delhi-police-crack-down-on-shopkeepers-selling-chinese-bareilly-manjhas-871609.html
10-08-2020||South||NIA Special Court dismisses Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh's bail plea||An NIA special court here on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. The court, which examined the case diary produced by the NIA in detail, dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh considering the evidence produced by the investigation agency on the alleged role of the woman in smuggling gold worth over Rs 100 crore through the diplomatic channel since November last year. Strongly opposing her bail plea, it had submitted that an intensive investigation has to be carried out in the case. The NIA had said there was prima facie evidence to the effect that the accused intentionally committed the act which will fall directly under Section 15 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. In her plea, Swapna Suresh alleged she was implicated in the crime on a wild imagination without any basis and the case was an offshoot of the "political rivalry" between the state and central governments, triggered by the colourful and fictitious stories aired by the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-special-court-dismisses-kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-sureshs-bail-plea-871611.html
10-08-2020||South||India's largest crocodile park strapped for cash after coronavirus lockdowns||India's largest crocodile park may have as little as four months before it runs out of funds to feed animals, pay staff and do research, as ticket revenue shrinks after coronavirus lockdowns choked the flow of visitors, park officials said. Annual sales of about 5 million tickets usually make up roughly half the revenue of the park, located about 40 km (25 miles) from the southern city of Chennai, but it has been shut since March 16, with no prospect of reopening in sight. The lockdowns during the summer vacation season have cost an estimated 1.4 crore rupees ($187,000) as visitors dropped by almost 25 lakh, said Allwin Jesudasan, the director of the Madras Crocodile Bank. "Our present funding situation will allow us to stay functional for another three or four months," he told Reuters. Started in 1976 by American-born snake expert Romulus Whitaker, who has also won recognition for his conservation work, the park is spread over 8.5 acres (3.44 hectares). It is home to more than 2,000 crocodiles and alligators, as well as reptiles such as turtles, tortoises, lizards and snakes. "Our senior staff have taken a voluntary 10% to 50% pay cut on their salaries and we have cut down our activities to just the critical ones," the park said in an appeal for funds on its website. But the future of its staff and animals was not immediately clear after funds are exhausted. The Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology, which has bred more than 5,000 crocodiles during its existence, houses 14 of 23 existing crocodile species, three of them endangered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-largest-crocodile-park-strapped-for-cash-after-coronavirus-lockdowns-871614.html
10-08-2020||South||Telangana Covid-19 tally crosses 80,000 mark; 1,256 new cases||Telangana reported 1,256 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count in the state to 80,751. With 10 more deaths, the death toll mounted to 637, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8:00 pm on August 9. The trend of decline in fresh positive cases continued in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the hotbed of the virus spread in the state, with only 389 new cases being reported. The districts of Rangareddy (86), Sangareddy (74) and Karimnagar (73) were at the top in new positive cases. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.78 percent, while it was 2.01 percent at the national level. The total number of people who have recovered from the infectious disease so far was57,586, while 22,528 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 71.31 percent in the state, while it was 68.78 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 15,789. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 11,609 samples were tested on August 9. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 6,24,840. On age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34.4 per cent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 25 percent (male-17.7 and female-7.3). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,532 and 4,496 and 1,838 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in the government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 323 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The bulletin provided a list of laboratories, rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, the lists of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-covid-19-tally-crosses-80000-mark-1256-new-cases-871620.html
10-08-2020||South||Shutters of Pamba dam in Kerala shut||Six shutters of the Pamba dam, which were opened on Sunday evening after its water level rose near the permissible limit, were shut on Monday, reducing concerns of flood in its downstream. Officials said there was a 30 to 40 cm rise in water level in river Pamba but the river did not breach. They said the shutters of the dams were closed after bringing down the water level in the dam to 982.8 metres. The dam has the capacity to store 986.332 metres of water. Anticipating a flood situation downstream due to the opening of the dam, Pathanamthitta district authorities had made elaborate arrangements to deal with any emergency by shifting people living in vulnerable areas to safety and bringing fishermen from Kollam with their boats to carry out rescue operations. Meanwhile, the water level at Mullaperiyar reservoir in Idukki district reached 136.40 feet on Monday. The Idukki district Collector had held discussions with the Collector of Theni in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with regard to the release of water through the tunnel to Vaigai dam when the water level touched 136-feet mark. The Kerala government had on Saturday asked the Tamil Nadu government to release water from Mullaperiyar through the tunnel to Vaigai Dam in a phased manner when the water level reached 136 feet in view of heavy rains in Idukki. Low-lying areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts of Kerala continued to experience severe floods on Monday, although there was a respite from rains since the morning. Two deaths were reported from Kottayam district on Monday. Hundreds of people have been shifted to camps after Kumarakom and Kuttanad areas were affected by the floods. Crops in hundreds of hectares in Kuttanad 'Below Sea Level Farming System', the only such one in India practising rice cultivation below sea level for the past two centuries, were destroyed due to the breach of bunds due to floods, farmers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shutters-of-pamba-dam-in-kerala-shut-871624.html
10-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM directs officials to bring back bodies of students from Russia||Four students from Tamil Nadu pursuing medical education in Russia drowned in a river in that country and directions have been issued to bring back their remains back home at the earliest, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Monday. He said he has directed senior government officials to immediately get in touch with the External Affairs Ministry and the Indian embassy in Russia, and arrange for bringing back the bodies of the four who drowned in the Volga river. The victims were studying at the Volgograd State Medical University, he said in a statement here. The four students are Mohammed Ashiq of Tiruppur district, R Vignesh (Cuddalore), Manoj Anand (Salem) and Stephen (Chennai). Expressing his heartfelt condolences and sympathies to the bereaved families, Palaniswami said he was "extremely anguished" over the news of the death of the four students on August 8. The family of Manoj Anand had petitioned Palaniswami in Salem on Sunday requesting him to take steps to bring his body back to the country. Palaniswami today assured that senior government officials were carrying out his instructions on coordinating with the external affairs ministry and Indian embassy in Russia, to arrange for bringing back the bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-directs-officials-to-bring-back-bodies-of-students-from-russia-871681.html
10-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt unveils new Industrial Policy, identifies 10 thrust areas||Andhra Pradesh government on Monday unveiled its new Industrial Policy 2020-23 identifying 10 thrust areas to propel economic growth, with manufacturing as the high priority sector that would create large scale employment. The government has identified industrial zoning as a key focus area to ensure planned industrial development and provide a risk-free, investment-friendly environment for setting up and operating industries in the state with minimal impact on the environment. "De-risking the investments is the cornerstone of the new industrial policy. We are introducing 'YSR AP One', a multi-faceted business enablement centre which acts as a one- stop resource and support centre for industries," state Industries and Infrastructure Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said, unveiling the new policy at the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation. 'YSR AP One' would provide handholding support (to investors) during pre-establishment and setup of industrial units, post-setupsupport, backward and forwardlinkages and access to market and new technologies among other things, the minister said. The major incentive a prospective investor gets, under the new policy, is reimbursement of State Goods and Services Tax for five years (capped to Fixed Capital Investment) for medium, large and mega industries linked to employment creation, the minister added. The current lease and buy models for land allotment are being replaced with a composite lease+buy model, where an industrialist gets to purchase the land after successfully running his unit for 10 years. "The manufacturing sector, as an employment provider, remains a high priority for the state. The government will undertake structural reforms to accelerate industrialisation in the state. We believe that providing the right facilities at the right cost and offering transparent approvals is critical to the success of the industrial sector," Goutham Reddy noted. The thrust areas identified by the government, under the new industrial policy include foodprocessing, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, textiles, electronics, footwear and leather, toys and furniture, petrochemicals, aerospace and defence, automobiles and components, machinery, precision equipment and mineral-based industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-unveils-new-industrial-policy-identifies-10-thrust-areas-871688.html
10-08-2020||South||Puducherry Minister tests Covid-19 positive, admitted to JIPMER||Puducherry Agriculture Minister R Kamalakannan tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He was admitted to JIPMER, director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told PTI. Meanwhile, 245 new cases were reported in the Union Territory taking the total number of infections so far to 5,624, Kumar said in a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-admitted-to-jipmer-871718.html
10-08-2020||South||Weather dismissed as factor in Kerala Air India crash||By Anurag Kotoky Weather conditions were within safe ranges and pilots were briefed about them by controllers just before the Air India Express jet they were flying crashed at a southern Indian airport Friday, killing at least 18 people and injuring more than 100, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The Boeing Co. 737 appeared to touch down near the middle of the 9,000-foot-long (2,743-meter-long) runway at Kozhikode, the person said, before skidding off the end and careening down a slope, breaking into three parts. The captain was experienced, with 11,000 flying hours, while the co-pilot had 2,000 hours. Neither one made a distress call, and both died in the crash. Visibility, precipitation and tailwinds were within acceptable guidelines for landing, the person said, asking not to be identified because the investigation is ongoing. A playback on the FlightRadar24 website shows a first attempt to land the plane was aborted before another effort was made from the opposite direction. The flight-tracking site shows visibility at the airport was 1,500-to-2,000 meters, and winds were blowing at 12-13 knots, which is a moderate breeze on the Beaufort scale. Indian officials say 800 meters is sufficient visibility for landing. Kozhikode’s table-top runway, so named because it sits on higher ground, was shortened by 150 meters to create a bigger safety area before the downward slopes, but it still is long enough under international regulations, the person said. He didn’t say when it was shortened. Most table-top runways in the U.S. and elsewhere have areas called arresting beds that stop planes from going off the edge. Flight 1344, operated by the low-cost unit of state-run Air India Ltd., was carrying 190 passengers and crew from Dubai to Kozhikode, the Keralan city formerly known as Calicut, in southwest India. Many were on the repatriation flight after losing their jobs because of the coronavirus pandemic. There was no distress call from the cockpit to the air traffic control tower prior to the 7:41 p.m. crash. The flight-data recorder and cockpit-voice recorder, known as the black boxes, were recovered from the crash site for examination. Teams from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and Boeing will join India’s Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau in the investigation, and an initial report could come in a few months, the person said. A representative of India’s civil aviation ministry didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. A representative for Boeing in India didn’t have an immediate comment. Investigators are looking at both human error and mechanical failure as potential causes of the crash, the person said. The last major commercial aviation disaster in India was in 2010, when a plane -- also a Boeing operated by Air India Express and flying from Dubai -- overshot another table-top runway in Mangalore and burst into flames, killing 158 people. Investigators are looking into why there was no fire in Friday’s crash and are checking whether the aircraft’s engines were shut down, the person said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/weather-dismissed-as-factor-in-kerala-air-india-crash-871731.html
10-08-2020||South||Newborn girl found abandoned in garbage bin in Udupi||A newborn baby girl was found abandoned in a garbage bin near the district mother and child hospital in Udupi, about 55 kms from here, on Monday morning, police sources said. The baby, spotted by civic workers, has been admitted to the hospital. The condition of the infant is stable, the sources said. A case has been registered and investigations to find out the person who abandoned the baby have begun. CCTV cameras in the area are being examined, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/newborn-girl-found-abandoned-in-garbage-bin-in-udupi-871740.html
10-08-2020||South||"Is this India or Hindia," asks Stalin on CISF official's remarks to Kanimozhi on Hindi||DMK president MK Stalin on Monday took umbrage over the incident in which his sister and party MP Kanimozhi was asked by a CISF official if "she was an Indian" as she could not speak Hindi, asking if knowing that language was the 'yardstick' of being an Indian. "Is Hindi the yardstick for being an Indian. Is this India or Hindia," the DMK chief said in a tweet. Kanimozhi has alleged a CISF official at Chennai airport had asked her if "she was an Indian" as the DMK leader could not speak Hindi. Stalin, whose party, as a policy, is opposed to the "imposition" of Hindi for decades, further said in the tweet that those trying to "bury pluralism" will get "buried." On Sunday, Kanimozhi had tweeted "today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if 'I am an Indian' when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi," prompting the paramilitary force to order an inquiry. "It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-this-india-or-hindia-asks-stalin-on-cisf-officials-remarks-to-kanimozhi-on-hindi-871751.html
10-08-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh denied bail citing prima facie evidence of economic terrorism||Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh was denied bail by NIA special court in Kochi on Monday citing that prima facie UAPA case against her would stand as it involved an attempt to destabilise the nation's economy. However, the court also maintained that so far there is no evidence of any direct link of Swapna Suresh with any terrorist organisation. But an in-depth probe is required to find if the proceeds from gold smuggling were used for funding any terrorist activities. Swapna, who was a former executive secretary of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, is arraigned in a case initiated by UAPA against the gold smuggling racket. Apart from the seizure of 30-kilogram gold from diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate, the racket was found to have smuggled gold at least 15 times in the same modus operandi and a commission was also suspected to be given to the senior officials of the consulate. The court also rejected Swapna's stand that the case against her was politically motivated citing that the NIA probe was ordered after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a comprehensive probe. The NIA has already arrested around 12 persons in connection with the case, which also included suspected PFI workers. An NIA team also reportedly left for UAE to quiz an accused in the case, identified as Fazil Fareed, who allegedly sent the baggage with gold from UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-denied-bail-citing-prima-facie-evidence-of-economic-terrorism-871755.html
10-08-2020||South||NHRC sends notice to Karnataka government over 'cruel' practice of neck-deep burying of children in pits||Concerned over the "weird, unethical and cruel" practice of burying children neck-deep in compost pits to cure their deformities in Karnataka, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday asked the state government to provide details of action taken to curb such rituals. The Justice H L Dattu-led Commission action came following a media report about the children with special needs being subjected to the practice believing that exposure to sharp rays during a solar eclipse will cure them of their deformities. Such incidents were reported from three villages in Taj-Sultanpur on the outskirts of Kalaburagi town and Ainolli and Gadi-Lingadalli villages in Chincholi Taluk. The district child protection task force had rescued the children following a tip-off.  The NHRC felt that such rituals "tantamount to violation of human rights" of the victim children and there is a need to sensitise the authorities as well as the parents of such children. "The ritual appears weird, unethical and cruel towards poor kids, who are being treated with indignity in the name of faith. Today, when medical science is progressing and very complicated surgeries are being conducted in the country itself, the young children with deformities require medical care and treatment and not such kind of inhuman practice, which not only subjects them to humiliation but may also cause a kind of inferiority complex," it said.  "A child who would suffer such trauma will find it definitely very hard to overcome its adverse impact. It will be a nightmare for him/her throughout life," it said. Asking the state government to respond within six weeks, the NHRC notice said it would like to know whether the ritual is practised in places other than Kalaburgi in the state. In its report, the state will also have to explain whether it has issued any guidelines on the subject. "The Chief Secretary of the State is expected to look into the matter personally," it said. On holding awareness campaigns, the NHRC said it was not advisable to organise such camps in villages during Covid-19 pandemic but local authorities could use the help of media and various digital modes like video conferencing to spread the message about the impact it could have on children's minds. Quoting the media report, the NHRC said the children remained buried in the pits for the full duration of the solar eclipse in the re-run of a similar incident reported a decade ago. Reports also said an orthopaedic surgeon Dr S Kamareddy, a resident of Kalaburgi, has offered to perform the rectification surgeries on children, without any cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nhrc-sends-notice-to-karnataka-government-over-cruel-practice-of-neck-deep-burying-of-children-in-pits-871787.html
10-08-2020||South||Death toll in Munnar landslide rises to 49, over 25 still missing||Six more bodies were recovered from the landslide-hit Pettimudi at Munnar in Idukki district, while over 25 were still missing. The death toll reached 49. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose said that those still missing included many children. The search was being carried out at the nearby river and forest areas as the chances of bodies washed away was high. The search among debris was getting delayed as huge rocks that caved in over the settlement clusters need to be removed. Several bodies were already recovered from the nearby river. The bodies also started decomposing. Among the deceased, six were working as temporary staff with the state forest department. Postmortem examination of the bodies being recovered was performed and funeral performed. Meanwhile, there was a decline in the rough weather that prevailed across the state over the last few days. Though many parts of the state, including Kasargod, were flooded, the floodwater receded at most places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-in-munnar-landslide-rises-to-49-over-25-still-missing-871794.html
10-08-2020||South||Vijayawada Covid-19 centre fire mishap: Police arrest three executives of the hospital||The Vijayawada police have arrested three executives of Ramesh Hospitals including its Chief Operating Officer Kodali Rajagopala Rao in connection with the Sunday fire mishap that killed 10 Covid-19 patients. The city-based Ramesh Hospitals was running a Covid-19 care centre in the Swarna Palace hotel, where a massive fire broke out early morning. 31 patients were lodged inside the hotel at that time. Quick arrival and timely rescue using ladders by the fire officials have saved the lives of 21 patients. About a dozen medical, and supportive staff also escaped death.    “We have arrested three executives of the concerned hospital today. We are awaiting the probe reports of the incident to proceed further in the case,” Vijayawada Commissioner of Police B Srinivasulu told DH. Two others arrested are hospital’s general manager Sudarshan K and night shift manager P Venkatesh. Only medical services were our responsibility: Hospital MD In a video message circulated to the media, Ramesh Hospitals’ founder and Managing Director Dr Ramesh Babu Pothineni expressed anguish over the incident but stated that “only medical services were their responsibility.” “We have started this facility for moderate Covid-19 cases in two hotels following all the SOPs, staff training, after permission from the district collector and health officer. Our agreement with the hotels was such that all facilities and other management were their responsibility while medical services were ours,” Dr Pothineni said adding that they had treated over 200 patients like this. The Governorpet police had registered a case against the hotel and the hospital management based on the complaint of the local tehsildar P Jayasri.  In her complaint, the official has contended that the hotel and the hospital managements had opened the Covid-19 facility despite having knowledge of the electrical defects in the building and its hazards. “They avoided repairs as rectification involves huge amounts,” the Vijayawada central tehsildar said adding that the two groups “became responsible for the cause of death of 10 persons.” The case was booked under IPC sections 304 (negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) and 308 (acting with knowledge and under circumstances where a death-causing act would a culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Andhra Pradesh’s health minister AKK Srinivas had announced committees to probe the incident’s cause and examine the permissions granted for the hotel to operate as a Covid-19 centre, giving them two days’ time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayawada-covid-19-centre-fire-mishap-police-arrest-three-executives-of-the-hospital-871810.html
10-08-2020||South||Landslides wipe out Tamil Nadu family in Kerala village||Twenty one-year-old Vijay says he has nothing more to lose as the landslides at Pettimudi near Munnar last week snatched away his entire family of 15 people, including his father and mother. Only his step-mother and one of his half-sisters managed to survive the devastating landslide. While the step-mother is recovering, the sister is in the ICU of a hospital battling for her life. Of the 15 people, bodies of only six people – Vijay’s father Shanmugaiah, mother, two sisters and their husbands – have been found so far, while the husband of a sister and eight children are still missing.  “How do I describe my loss? I lost my entire family. There is none left except my step mom. Everything was gone in one night. Worse is we could not even see the lifeless bodies of the children. We have no hope that they would have survived,” Vijay told DH. Shanmugaiah’s second wife died, but his first wife has survived. Vijay’s father, who belonged to Kayathar in Thoothukudi district in Tamil Nadu had migrated to Munnar and was working at the Kannan Devan Tea Estate along with his son-in-law. More than 45 people who are either dead or missing belong to this village, which is now mourning the loss of its people. The 21-year-old survived as he was stranded in his native village after coming from Pune due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “Numerous efforts to go to Munnar to meet my parents and sisters failed due to lockdown restrictions. I have been here for the past three months and I really do not know how to come out of this irreparable loss,” he said, unable to control his emotions. Vijay, his cousin Ravi, and uncle Murugaiah went to Munnar to complete the last rites of their family members and returned only on Sunday. They had to return immediately to Kayathar as they could not find a place to stay due to Covid-19 restrictions. “We were standing in the rain for eight hours in a row. All that we could see was the disfigured bodies of my uncle and his family. No one should face such a tragic death in their life. Most of the bodies were disfigured. Some bodies were beyond recognition as they were pulled out several hours after the landslides. We can never forget the faces of our family members,” Ravi told DH. Ravi said he visited his uncle and his cousin sisters in Munnar in March just before the nation-wide lockdown was announced and stayed with them for a few days. “I was very much attached to my uncle’s family. I was like their son Vijay, even much more than him. Our world has come crashing down with the landslides,” Ravi said. Vijay has been promised help by Tamil Nadu Information Minister Kadambur Raju who hails from Thoothukudi district. “The minister and district collector came on Monday to condole the death of people from our village. We hope they will help me in restarting my life without my family,” the 21-year-old said. Murugaiah, who had worked at the Kannan Devan Estate, said eight houses would be lined in a row and all the four rows were affected due to the landslide. “We always knew the houses were located in a dangerous zone, but what was the other option? They had to feed their families. Not just my family, the entire village is devastated after hearing about the landslide. Nearly 45 people from our village were there at the houses when the landslides took place. And all of them are from our area Bharathi Nagar of Kayathar,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/landslides-wipe-out-tamil-nadu-family-in-kerala-village-871817.html
10-08-2020||South||AIE plane crash: Condition of eight injured critical||The condition of eight, out of the 101 passengers, who were injured in the Air India Express plane crash at Karipur airport here, remains critical, officials said. A total of 71 have been discharged until now, after being treated at various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode. "A total of 71 persons have been discharged till now...101 are in various hospitals, out of which the condition of eight is critical," a senior official of the Malappuram district administration told PTI. Meanwhile, Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said the district administration was planning to initiate the process to release the baggage of the passengers. "We want to release the baggage to the relatives and the passengers. It's more important. It normally starts after three-four weeks but here we are trying to finish the process within two weeks," Gopalakrishnan said. The district administration had collected the baggage of the passengers soon after the rescue operations were over. Eighteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight from Dubai, lost their lives when it overshot the tabletop runway at the airport here while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. Air India Express on Sunday said the bodies of 16 passengers, who lost their lives in the crash, have been handed over to their families. The bodies of the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight were handed over to their families on Saturday. The body of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday in the presence of family members and officials of Air India and Air India Express at Mathura, his hometown, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aie-plane-crash-condition-of-eight-injured-critical-871821.html
10-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt enhances value of land in urban areas, eyes Rs 800 cr additional annual revenue||The cash-starved Andhra Pradesh government on Monday enhanced the value of land in urban areas by 10 to 30 percent to net additional revenue of Rs 800 crore per annum but kept the registration rate unchanged at six percent. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue, Stamps and Registrations) Rajat Bhargava told PTI that revision of land values has been effected to reflect the reality as there were a lot of anomalies in the current rates. We had to rationalise and equalise the value of land, based on nature and use in a vicinity. Only where there was a huge difference between the prevailing higher market value and its substantially lower registration value, we increased the land rate by 10 percent to 30 percent to achieve market value correction," he said. This would also protect the avenues for revenue generation "in a balanced manner", Bhargava said. He said the stamp duty and transfer duty structure on land and related transactions had not been increased from the existing six percent because of the prevailing economic environment, though many other states had enhanced the rates. "We have focused more on rationalisation and simplification of numerous land rate slabs by rectifying various anomalies," the official said. Non-implementation of revised rate on land converted from agriculture to other uses, plotted layout having rate per acre, different rates on either sides of national highway, state highway for lands of comparable or similar land use are some of the anomalies "that we have now sought to correct, Bhargava added. The Special Chief Secretary said a very scientific approach had been followed using GIS maps, cadastral maps and superimposing Google maps with the latest land use maps provided by the urban local bodies. This was compared with the data available on the 'Meebhoomi' website of the state government. We now have better indexing of urban properties as per the prevalent land use like residential, house site or commercial. We also prepared a list of converted land and land where layouts and colonies were approved by the Town and Country Planning Department, Bhargava said. This exercise would also ensure better land management in urban areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-enhances-value-of-land-in-urban-areas-eyes-rs-800-cr-additional-annual-revenue-871825.html
10-08-2020||South||Covid-19 negative certificate must for Sabarimala darshan||A covid-19 negative certificate will be made mandatory for pilgrims at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple during the pilgrimage season scheduled to be held from November 15 to January 14. A meeting convened by Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Monday to discuss the arrangements also decided to allow pilgrims only through the online queue booking system of Kerala police. In view of the COVID scenario, it may not be possible to conduct the pilgrimage, as usual, this time, the meeting observed. President of Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), N Vasu, said that a final decision on the conduct of the annual pilgrimage would be taken only after further reviews of the Covid-19 scenario. Only the basic preparations were discussed on Monday. It may be recalled that though the government and TDB earlier decided to allow pilgrims at the temple for monthly pooja and festival from June 14 by following safety measures like no-Covid certificate for devotees from other states, it was later put off as the temple tantri (head priest) Mahesh Mohanaru raised concerns over Covid-19 spread among devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-negative-certificate-must-for-sabarimala-darshan-871826.html
10-08-2020||South||Water level in Mettur dam continues to rise due to heavy water discharge from dams in Karnataka||The water storage at the Stanley Reservoir, the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in the Cauvery Delta region in Tamil Nadu, crossed the half-way mark on Monday as it stood at 54.833 tmcft against the full capacity of 93.5 tmcft as excess water continues to be discharged from dams in Karnataka. The water level at the 86-year-old reservoir built by the British regime also rose to 91.930 feet at 8 pm on Monday against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 120 feet. While the inflow was 1,29,000 cusecs, the outflow was 10,000 cusecs. The dam’s water level and storage have been witnessing a steady increase due to heavy discharge of water from Krishna Raja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs in Karnataka. The reservoirs continue to get huge amounts of water as rains continue to pound the catchment areas of river Cauvery. As huge amounts of water are being released from the reservoirs in Cauvery, the Tamil Nadu government has asked people living on the banks of the river, which begins its journey from Talakaveri in Karnataka and merges into the ocean near Poompuhar, to be alert.  The inflow of water in Biligundulu, the entry point of River Cauvery in Tamil Nadu, stood at over 1.29 lakh cusecs at 8 pm on Monday. The water level at the 86-year-old dam is expected to rise in the coming days due to huge discharge from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs. The Mettur dam had attained FRL more than once in the past two years due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. Water released from the dam is the only source for lakhs of farmers in the Delta region who cultivate paddy and other crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-level-in-mettur-dam-continues-to-rise-due-to-heavy-water-discharge-from-dams-in-karnataka-871827.html
10-08-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA Special Court dismisses Swapna Suresh's bail plea||An NIA special court here on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. The court, which examined the case diary produced by the National Investigation Agency in detail, dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh considering the evidence produced by the agency on her alleged role in smuggling gold worth over Rs 100 crore through the diplomatic channel since November 2019. In his order, NIA court judge P Krishna Kumar said there are sufficient grounds for believing that the accusation made against the petitioner is prima facie true. "When it is found so, section 43 D of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act mandates that she is not entitled to be released on bail," the judge said. Section 43D (5) of the UAPA Act explicitly provides that the Court, which has the statutory duty to form an opinion, whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation made against the petitioner is prima facie true, has to arrive at such a satisfaction from the case diary when the final report is not filed. Strongly opposing her bail plea, the NIA had submitted that an intensive investigation has to be carried out in the case. It had said there was prima facie evidence to the effect that the accused intentionally committed the act which will fall directly under Section 15 of the UAPA. In her plea, Swapna Suresh alleged she was implicated in the crime on a wild imagination without any basis and the case was an offshoot of the "political rivalry" between the state and central governments, triggered by the colourful and fictitious stories aired by the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-nia-special-court-dismisses-swapna-sureshs-bail-plea-871844.html
10-08-2020||State||48 new cases in Chamarajanagar||The district reported two deaths and 48 new cases on Sunday. Both the deceased were also suffering from other co-morbidities, other than testing positive for Covid-19, according to sources. The total positive cases are 1,151. There are 357 active cases. Fifteen patients are in the intensive care unit. A 55-year-old woman from Chamarajnagar taluk and a man aged 48 years of the city, are the deceased. But the district administration has listed them as non-Covid-19 deaths. With this, the district has reported 14 deaths due to Covid-19. In all, 72 people were discharged after recovery on Sunday, In all, 773 people have been discharged. Out of 48 new cases, 18 are from Chamarajnagar taluk, 16 from Kollegal, 12 from Gundlupet, two from Yalandur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/48-new-cases-in-chamarajanagar-871502.html
10-08-2020||State||Flood situation eases in River Kapila, Mysuru-Ooty Road opens for traffic||As the outflow from Kabini dam has reduced, the flood-like situation on the bank of the River Kapila has eased, on Sunday. The river was overflowing from the last four days, as a large quantum of water was let into the river from Kabini and Nugu dams. Nearly 80,000 cusecs of water was released from Kabini, Nugu and Tarak dam, into the river on Saturday. The authorities reduced the outflow from the dam in Beechanahalli in HD Kote taluk to 16,600 cusecs. While 16,000 cusecs of water was released into the river, 600 cusecs of water was being released to canal. The authorities have been reducing the outflow from Saturday evening. While the outflow was 70,600 cusecs on Saturday, it was further reduced to 60,000 at 7 pm on the same day. The outflow further declined to 30,000 cusecs at 9 am, on Sunday. As the rainfall declined in Wayanad region in Kerala, the inflow has come down to 47,074 cusecs from nearly 65,000 cusecs. Accordingly, the outflow has also been reduced. This has eased the flood-like situation in the region. Several bridges, roads and hundreds of acres of agricultural lands have submerged. The river water has also entered the houses at low lying areas. Besides, historical and religious places were partially submerged. Dams fill to brim Both Kabini and Nugu dams have filled to the brim and the authorities are maintaining water level. The maximum storage capacity of Kabini dam is 19.52 tmcft and the dam has stored 16.30 tmcft. The dam has a capacity to store up to 2,284 feet and the water level was maintained at 2,278.52 feet. Similarly, Nugu dam has the capacity to store 5.44 tmcft, the dam has stored 4.58 tmcft water. The dam is receiving 7,596 cusecs of water and 9,878 cusecs of water is being released from the dam. NH opens  The Mysuru-Ooty Road, which was blocked due to overflowing Kapila at Nanjangud on Saturday, opened for vehicular movement on Sunday, after the water receded. Bridges open The bridges, which remained submerged since Friday due to overflowing water, were opened for vehicles on Sunday. Suttur bridge in Suttur of Nanjangud taluk and Madapur-Bellathur bridge, connecting Madapur and Bellathur, were submerged. With water overflowing, nearly 40 villages had lost connectivity. The authorities had made alternative route via K Belatthur, Manuganahalli, Hunasalli and other villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-situation-eases-in-river-kapila-mysuru-ooty-road-opens-for-traffic-871507.html
10-08-2020||State||HFGC introduces schemes for wards of Covid-19 warriors||Hindustan First Grade College (HFGC), a unit of the Hindustan Group of Institutions, has announced a unique All India ‘Adopt a Covid Warrior Ward Scheme.’ Under the scheme, the wards of Covid-19 warriors, who lost lives fighting the Covid pandemic, will be given a complete tuition fee waiver in the discipline of their choice.  According to HFGC principal C J Priya, it has introduced a Covid Frontline Warriors Scholarship scheme for the wards of doctors, healthcare professionals, government and service personnel, who have rendered their services for the Covid pandemic. The scheme will cover all the expenses of the student, including boarding and lodging. The scholarship will cover only for the prescribed period of course. HFGC has also instituted scholarship programmes for students under the founder chairman Dr K C G Verghese scholarship. The scholarship is offered under three categories -- Merit Scholarship, Merit-cum-Means Scholarship, Sports and Cultural Scholarship. For more details please visit: www.hindustancollege.in Call: 94823 34943, 89714 22338, 70222 56463.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hfgc-introduces-schemes-for-wards-of-covid-19-warriors-871510.html
10-08-2020||State||Cesc in full swing to restore power supply in Malnad region||Rains have started receding in the Malnad region, after leaving a trail of destruction. Coffee, pepper, arecanut, banana plantations in hundreds of acres have been destroyed due to rain fury. Several villages have lost connectivity and power supply has been disconnected. More than 200 houses are partially damaged. The officials of the Agriculture and Revenue departments have begun survey of the damaged lands. As the rains have receded in the catchment areas, the inflow into the Kabini dam, has also reduced. The Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation have started restoration works of the electricity poles and transformers with the help of the employees from other districts. Meanwhile, District in-charge Minister K Gopalaiah and Revenue Minister R Ashoka visted the flood-hit areas, and took stock of the situation. The officials are working round-the-clock to restore power supply within the next 24 hours, said assistant commissioner M Girish Nandan. The power has been disconnected at Sakleshpur, Alur and Belur taluks. More than 725 electric ity poles and 10 transformers have collapsed in these three taluks. As a result there is no power in the villages for the last eight days, and the residents are facing acute drinking water problem. The Cesc is striving to ensure that power restores by Monday afternoon, he said. The assistant commissioner also assured Rs 10,000 compensation for families which have lost their belongings to the fury. The tahsildar has registered separate cases for compensation to those who have lost their houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cesc-in-full-swing-to-restore-power-supply-in-malnad-region-871511.html
10-08-2020||State||282 fresh Covid-19 cases in Udupi||As many as 282 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 6,194. Among the total cases, 135 are women. As many as 132 patients had contracted an infection from primary contacts, 69 with ILI symptoms and 6 with SARI symptoms had tested positive to Covid-19. The contacts of 66 are being traced, six have domestic travel history and three patients had international travel history. Udupi taluk topped the list with 152 cases, Kundapur and Karkala taluks have 86 and 43 cases respectively. As many as 173 Covid-19 positive patients were being treated in different Covid-19 designated hospitals. Ninety-seven patients have recovered and were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of discharges to 3,444.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/282-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-udupi-871523.html
10-08-2020||State||Incessant rain continue to lash Dakshina Kannada||Incessant rain continued to lash different parts of Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday. However, the inflow into River Nethravathi has reduced and as a result, the flood water in Bantwal has receded. The water level stood at 6.7 metres on Sunday. The authorities have advised the people not to venture near the banks of rivers and rivulets in the district. For any grievances related to natural calamity, people can contact 1077 or 9483908000. The AMR dam, Thumbe vented dam and Disha dam at Kadaba are brimming with water and their gates were opened to release excess water. Flood water has entered low-lying areas at Bantwal Kelagina Pete, Badadka, Panemangalore, Bogodi, Bastipadpu, Ponnodi, Ajilamogaru and Navooru. Nandavara bridge is inundated. Maravoor dam across River Palguni is overflowing. The officials of Panja Gram Panchayat engaged an excavator to remove the tree branches struck between the piers of a bridge. The bridge connects Bolmale to Bastikadu. The blocking of the vents at the vented dam resulted in the flooding of farmland in the nearby areas in Vitlapadnooru. A huge boulder fell on a house at Serkala in Kolandu and damaged the bathroom. The inmates of the house had a miraculous escape. The landslide continued at Kootelu on Renja-Mudpinadka road. The movement of vehicles has been restricted on the road. The PWD had cleared mounds of soil from the landslide on Friday. However, as the landslide continued, there is a threat of road caving in at the site. On the direction of the Deputy Commissioner, barricades were placed on the road to prevent the movement of vehicles. The rain for the past two days in Puttur has damaged houses at Mundooru, Guthinapalu, Patte and other surrounding areas. Paddy seedlings are destroyed as the paddy fields are submerged. An autorickshaw was damaged when a retaining wall of a house collapsed at Wagle in Puttur. The sea erosion has intensified in Baikampadi, Meenakaliya, Tannirbavi, Ullal and Someshwara. Several coconut trees have been washed away in Baikampady area. The officials have shifted eight families residing on the banks of River Phalguni at Kuloor to schools in Baikampady and Angaragundi. The water level in Rivers Kumaradhara and Nethravathi have receded at Uppinangady. The water level in River Nethravathi stood at 24 metres at Uppinangady. Water had entered into two cowsheds at Adyapadi and Kolambe near Bajpe. All the 16 cows from the shed have been shifted to safer locations. As many as 15 families living in the low-lying areas at Jeppinamogaru and Attavara have been shifted to Arya Marata Sangha building. Flood water in Kallapu has increased and the residents have been asked to shift to safer locations. A relief centre will be opened at Someshwara. Mangaluru taluk will have six relief centres, said Mangaluru Tahsildar Guruprasad. Dakshina Kannada district has received an average rainfall of 81 mm in the last 24 hours (ending 8.30 am on Sunday). Mangaluru taluk received the highest rainfall of 98.1 mm followed by Belthangady- 93.3 mm and Bantwal- 86.4 mm. The video clipping of youth engaged in merrymaking in River Nethravathi in Bantwal has gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/incessant-rain-continue-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-871524.html
10-08-2020||State||Validity of e-pass extended till Sept 8||The validity of e-pass issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Mangaluru subdivision to students, professionals and other workers from Kasargod, to assist them in their work in Dakshina Kannada district, was extended till September 8 (10 pm). Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that all the pass holders had to strictly abide by the national directive on unlock-3, issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (Government of India), order dated July 29. To prevent any inconvenience to the pass holders, it was decided to extend the validity of the e-pass, he added. Hundreds of workers from Kasargod are working in various sectors in the district. Due to the restriction on the movement, many had remained stranded in their home district and were on the verge of losing their employment. Many had initiated an online campaign with the hashtags #Opentheborder and #Savemyjob requesting Kasaragod district collector to allow them to commute daily between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. The movement of people from Kasargod is possible only through Talapady checkpost and not on other checkpoints that connect DK with Kasargod. Heaps of soil were dumped on other roads, connecting the districts, to prevent themovement of vehicles during the lockdown. It is yet to be cleared. The border with Kasargod (Kerala) was closed at 29 places in Dakshina Kannada when there was a surge in Covid-19 cases in the former district in the month of March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/validity-of-e-pass-extended-till-sept-8-871525.html
10-08-2020||State||13 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||The Kodagu district recorded 13 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday morning, thus taking the tally of total cases to 696. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that the district has 276 active Covid-19 cases. Among the fresh cases, five had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) while one of the positive is a frontline worker from a private hospital. Two of the infected had international travel history and one had inter-district travel history. The remaining were the primary contacts of the already infected persons. Following the fresh cases, the district administration has notified eight new containment zones – near agriculture office in Madikeri; near Temple Ponnathmotte in Chettalli, near Bapuji convent in Gundurao layout, near Koodige bridge, behind Basaveshwara Temple, Gummanakolli; near Belurbane in Somwarpet, Kadanga Marooru in Madikeri and dairy farm near the fire station in Madikeri. On the other hand, seven containment zones — Abburkatte in Somwarpet, near Masjid in Azad Nagar, Beetikatte Gowdalli, Byadagotta in Madlapura, health quarters in Gonikoppa, opposite Chamaraj Bungalow in Putaninagara, and near Kaveri School in Shanivarasanthe have been notified by the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/13-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-871528.html
10-08-2020||State||Flood recedes, roads opened for traffic||The flood water in Kushalanagar receded on Sunday. However, the people are still worried over flood in the future. As River Cauvery was flowing above the danger level in Kushalnagar, the low-lying areas remained inundated for the last few days. Hundreds of houses in Kushalnagar, Guddehosooru, Teppadakandi, Madapattana, Mullusoge, Gummanakolli, Koodumangalore and Koodige continued to remain inundated. Several houses have developed cracks and windows and doors are damaged. The compound walls have collapsed in many houses.. All the valuable electronic goods like washing machine, TV and refrigerators have been damaged by the flood water entering houses in several layouts in the town. National Disaster Response Force, fire service personnel and members of Red Cross Society members are engaged in rescue operation. The people in Kushalnagar have also extended helping hand to the flood victims by providing them shelter. Road opened The highway that was closed for the past two days for vehicular movement was reopened on Sunday. Water from the river was flowing on the roads at Tavarekere and Gandhadakoti for the last two days. The roads were opened for traffic after the water level receded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-recedes-roads-opened-for-traffic-871529.html
10-08-2020||State||Karnataka SSLC 2020 results declared: How and where to check||The Karnataka Secondary Education and Examinations Board will announce the results for the SSLC 2020 supplementary exams soon. How to check your results:  2. Click on the "Karnataka SSLC results 2020" link. 3. Enter your registration/hall ticket number and hit "submit". 4: Your result will be displayed on the screen. You can download and take a print out for future refer||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sslc-2020-results-declared-how-and-where-to-check-871595.html
10-08-2020||State||Karnataka's flood-related losses estimated at Rs 4,000 crore||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday said the government’s preliminary estimate for flood-related losses were Rs 3,500-4,000 crore.  At least 12 districts have been affected by floods caused due to heavy rainfall. A dozen persons have lost their lives, thousands of homes and acres of crops damaged.  “Based on the preliminary estimates, the losses could be Rs 3,500-4,000 crore. The preliminary estimates also show crop losses on 80,000 acres of farmlands,” Ashoka told reporters before the PM’s video conference.  Karnataka will seek financial assistance from the Centre for the rehabilitation of the flood-affected persons and to rebuild infrastructure. “We will ask for an advance to be given for now,” Ashoka said. “In the last six months, the Centre gave Rs 310 crore for precautionary measures under disaster management. This won’t be enough. We need to provide compensation (for crop losses) and build new homes for people who will be shifted from landslide-prone areas,” he said, adding that the government will send a detailed report to the Ministry of Home Affairs seeking commensurate compensation.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah welcomed Modi’s move to review the flood situation in the state, while urging the government to ensure proper financial assistance. “Last year, the CM had estimated damages due to floods at Rs 50,000 cr. He had requested the PM for Rs 35,000 cr but what Karnataka got was just Rs 1,860 cr. Let the ministers be brave enough to ask for the remaining compensation as well,” he said in a tweet.  “Last year, the CM had reported to the PM about only the damages that happened in August. He had not reported about the damages in September-October. The ministers should apprise the prime minister about that as well and ask for higher compensation,” Siddaramaiah added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-flood-related-losses-estimated-at-rs-4000-crore-871629.html
10-08-2020||State||Sudhakar praises medics who helped Covid-19 positive woman deliver baby||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar complimented the doctors and paramedical staff at Primary Health Centre at Halashi village in Khanapur taluk for successfully helping a Covid-19 positive woman deliver her baby and instilling confidence in her. Dr Sudhakar in his tweet late on Sunday, complimented Dr Manjunath Dalwai, nurse Rani Lakhangouda and other staff for delivering the baby succesfully. The woman gave birth to a baby boy A Covid-19 positive woman from Halaga village in Belagavi taluk had been admitted in the Primary Health Centre on Saturday night after she began to experience labour pain. Dr Dalwai, nurse Lakhangouda other medical staff instilled confidence in the woman and conducted the prodecure wearing personnel protection equipment. The health of the mother and baby was satisfactory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sudhakar-praises-medics-who-helped-covid-19-positive-woman-deliver-baby-871669.html
10-08-2020||State||Covid-19 vaccine research: Karnataka plans tie up with US-based Emory Vaccine Center||Karnataka is planning to set up a research centre for immunology and vaccine in partnership with the Atlanta-based Emory Vaccine Centre, Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said Monday. Narayan, the IT/BT, Science & Technology minister, held talks with Emory Vaccine Centre director Rafi Ahmed during a webinar and they discussed the growing significance of immunology. If the collaboration comes through, then Bengaluru will get the research centre. “The entire world is pondering about immunology and effective vaccines at this juncture. The decision to set up an immunology and vaccine research centre is very conducive in view of the present situation,” Narayan said. “Immunology is going to be the prospective area in the near future. Vaccines, infectious diseases, cancer research...all these boil down ultimately to immunology,” he said. Narayan promised policy support for future collaboration. “There are at least 20 institutions of national eminence engaged in vaccine development. All these will be integrated and the government is ready to support through policy implementation. Also, rigid restrictions on clinical trials are now being relaxed,” Narayan said, adding that Karnataka was home to “a robust ecosystem for research and innovation.” Ahmed said the Emory Vaccine Centre would submit a collaboration proposal to the state government. “There is a scope for academic collaboration between Karnataka and the Emory centre. In the current situation, this can be achieved through an online platform,” Ahmed said.  The Emory centre has developed “a highly specific and sensitive rapid test” for Covid-19 that hospitals in Atlanta have adopted, Ahmed said. He said it would take 6-8 months for a Covid-19 vaccine to get a provisional licence when Narayan enquired about the status of clinical trials in the US. “At present, clinical trials with respect to three vaccines of Covid-19 are at the forefront. Among these, two trails are in the third stage. The vaccines need to be trialled on 30,000 patients. The evaluation process is being carried out. If the efficacy of these vaccines is found to be more than 50%, they may get a provisional license,” Ahmed explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-research-karnataka-plans-tie-up-with-us-based-emory-vaccine-center-871835.html
10-08-2020||State||These kids shun tuitions, re-establish reliability of schools||The children of people not very stable financially coming up trumps in board exams often tell inspiring stories and these two children seem no different.  M Abhishek, son of auto driver Manjunath and Netravathi, a housekeeper, (of Guttur) has scored 623 out of 625 in the SSLC exams and has brought laurels to his city, parents and teachers. That the student achieved the feat in Kannada medium is the icing on the cake.   The boy used to write down on a piece of paper that he will score maximum and that left a lasting impression in his mind. The result: 100% in all papers, except Social Science, which fetched him 98.    Abhishek is a student of MKTLK High School in Harihar and cycled to school every day. The first of three siblings, he dreams to be a software engineer after studying Computer Science in PUC.    He kept awake till midnight for his studies, only to rise early at 5 am for an early morning session till 7 am. The technology was a great help for Abhishek as he would enjoy mathematical sums shared on the class WhatsApp group.  The fact that she could study only up to class 7 and her husband up to class 8 has strengthened Netravathi’s resolve to give all her children a good education.  School headmaster Vinod Hegde recalls how Abhishek would pursue his doubts with his teachers so that he need not take tuition classes. The boy was good at sports, elocution and quiz contests too, Hegde said.  Daneshwari Prakash Hunagundi of SRA composite PU college of Janata Shikshana Sangha in Rabakavi-Banahatti (Bagalkot district) too utilised the services of her school teachers to the optimum level, to excel in the SSLC exams.  At 99.04%, she stands seventh in the state. With a 100 percentile in Kannada (125/125), Hindi and Social Science, she has scored 97 in English, 98 in Mathematics and 99 in Science.  The girl also made use of the lessons aired on Chandana TV of Doordarshan. Daneshwari was expecting 100/100 in Maths and had worked hard during the lockdown period.   Principal M M Hombaradi said she had always topped in the school exams and congratulated her on her success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/these-kids-shun-tuitions-re-establish-reliability-of-schools-871841.html
10-08-2020||State||After a brief lull, showers lash coastal districts with renewed vigour||After having remained subdued for the past two days, rains returned with renewed vigour in the coastal districts on Sunday with Uttara Kannada district bearing the brunt of rain fury. The coastal belt of Uttara Kannada experienced heavy showers through the day on Monday. The overflowing rivers and rivulets unleashed flood fury in Kumta and Honnavar taluks. Chandika stream meandered its way along Kumta-Sirsi highway at Katagala, blocking the busy road for several hours. Many villages in the district are cut off. More than 50 houses are inundated by the Badagani stream. The Gundabala river and Bhaskeri stream have flooded 12 villages in Honnavar taluk. More than 550 affected people have been shifted to nine relief centres opened in the region. Several lakes and ponds have breached in Banavasi hobli of Sirsi taluk. Bhatkal recorded 20 cm (200 mm) of rain in the last 24 hours (end at 8 am on Monday). Honnavar and Kumta registered 15.5 cm and 13.7 cm of rain in a day. Heavy showers and increased inflows into the rivers and the rivulets have triggered floods in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. After a brief lull, skies opened up on Monday morning in twin districts and it poured through the day as the low-lying areas and vast tracts of paddy fields went underwater. The fresh spell of showers is expected to swell the water levels of Netravati, Kumaradhara and Phalguni rivers. Landslides were reported at Mittakodi near Mudipu. The flood situation has worsened in Baindoor where Sauparnika river is flowing above the danger mark. Several villages, including Navunda, Maravanthe, Hadavu, are inundated. Nada in Kundapur taluk has received 28.4 cm (284 mm) of rain in the last 24 hours. Sea erosion has intensified at Padubidri, Padukere, Baindoor and Malpe. The weather department has forecast more heavy showers in the coastal districts for the next three days. Meanwhile, parts of Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru on Sunday received moderate spells. Flood threat wanes in NK In Krishna basin districts, the flood situation has eased as inflows into the rivers have come down considerably. The water levels in Krishna and its tributaries Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Markandeya among others are fast recedings. Several bridges, including the Sadalga-Boregaon bridge in Chikkodi taluk, were opened for traffic on Monday. The outflow from Almatti dam has decreased. The focus is now on filling the dam, according to KBJNL officials. As much as 60 tmcft of water flowed into Almatti reservoir from August 6 to 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/after-a-brief-lull-showers-lash-coastal-districts-with-renewed-vigour-871861.html
10-08-2020||State||Case filed against Facebook user for uploading morphed photo of PM Modi||Davangere police registered a case against Facebook user for allegedly uploading morphed images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Facebook. According to police, the original images of Modi, Shah and Yediyurappa had been morphed and uploaded the same on Facebook by the user whose profile name is G H Naveen. An FIR has been registered under IPC section 505 (2) (public mischief) and sections of the Information Technology Act following the complaint by Shivamurthy and the investigation is on||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/case-filed-against-facebook-user-for-uploading-morphed-photo-of-pm-modi-871880.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Red alert sounded in seven districts of Karnataka||A red alert has been sounded in seven districts of rain-ravaged Karnataka where one more death was reported on Sunday, taking the toll to 13. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, there would be heavy rain for the next 24 hours in coastal areas, in the northern and in the interior parts of the south. The red alert has been issued in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga as they would get heavy rainfall. As on Sunday, Cauvery and Krishna rivers were flowing above the danger mark, and the sluice gates of the dams were opened. Due to the release of water, many regions in the low- lying areas were inundated. In the Cauvery basin, Krishnaraja Sagar Dam, Harangi, Hemavathi, and Kabini Dams were almost full. In view of the swollen Cauvery river, the Mandya district administration put barricades near the Sri Nimishamba Temple near Ganjam in Srirangapatna Taluk to ensure the safety of the public in general and pilgrims and tourists in particular. "The public is not allowed to venture into the Cauvery River as a precautionary measure," read a statement issued by the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Mandya District Dr M V Venkatesh. In Kodagu, the situation remained grim due to a heavy downpour and incidents of landslides were reported. Congress state president D K Shivakumar, on a two-day tour of Kodagu from Saturday, visited many relief camps and spoke to the people there. Also, he inspected a few places which suffered severe damages due to landslides. Later, Shivakumar issued a statement saying the district has been suffering rain-related damages and all political parties should come to the aid of the people. In Belagavi, reports emerged that youth got swept away in the rain. In Mysuru, the Hebbal lake was overflowing. Eighty relief camps have been set up to house 1,600 people as 278 houses have been fully damaged and 2,140 partially damaged, according to the Disaster Monitoring Centre. A total of 23 animals have perished in the rains which destroyed 31,541 hectares of crops while inundating 35,000 hectares of horticultural crops. The State government has released Rs 50 crore as an initial amount to carry out relief and rehabilitation work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/red-alert-sounded-in-seven-districts-of-karnataka-871494.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Flood-hit areas may get rain relief; dams see heavy inflows||Coastal and Malnad districts are likely to get relief from torrential monsoon rain in the next few days, even as surging inflows into reservoirs kept authorities on edge. Authorities set up more relief camps in low-lying areas along the banks of River Krishna. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Authority, as many as 768 people were provided shelter at relief camps on Sunday, taking the number of people in such camps to 1,599. Currently, there are 80 relief camps, of which 49 are in Mysuru district, 10 in Kodagu, nine in Belagavi and eight in Dakshina Kannada district. While very heavy rainfall was reported in the coastal districts during the day, the IMD forecast said that monsoon activity will subside in the coming days. Skies are also expected to clear in Bengaluru Urban and other interior Karnataka districts after the region experienced overcast conditions for more than a week. On Sunday, inflow to Narayanapura reservoir was in excess of 2.1 lakh cusecs and is expected to reduce owing to the reduction in rainfall in the catchment areas of River Krishna and its tributaries. Almatti dam received 1.6 lakh cusecs of water. Water storage at KRS was at 42.10 tmcft, which is 85% of its full capacity of 48 tmcft. The dam received an inflow exceeding 90,000 cusecs and the heavy inflow is expected to continue for a day or two. Water level in the Tungabhadra dam in Ballari district rose after the dam saw an inflow of 1.08 lakh cusecs.  Meanwhile, rescue efforts were on to recover the bodies of four people who were buried alive in a landslide in Bhagamandala, Kodagu district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flood-hit-areas-may-get-rain-relief-dams-see-heavy-inflows-871514.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC results 2020: Pass percentage dips 1.9%||The Education Department on Monday announced the results of the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) (class 10) examination that was held in June-July. The state reported an overall pass percentage of 71.80%.  This year the exams were conducted amidst the fear of Covid-19 pandemic and compared to the previous year, the state witnessed a dip in the pass percentage by 1.9%.  Of the 8,48,203 candidates registered for the exams, 8,11,050 were present and of which 5,82,316 have cleared the exams.  Due to Covid-19 reasons over 18,067 students were absent and will be allowed to appear for exams during supplementary as fresh candidates. Apart from this 19086 students were not allowed to appear for exams due to a shortage of attendance.  The students who have cleared the exams will get their provisional marks cards at the respective schools in Tuesday. This is for the benefit of students to get admission into Pre University courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-results-2020-pass-percentage-dips-19-871686.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Floods: State asks Rs 4,000 crore for special assistance||Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai pitched for the special assistance during a video conference with Modi, who took stock of the state’s flood situation. “We have asked for Rs 4,000 crore to be given as special additional assistance,” Bommai said, after the video conference with the PM. “We had floods in 2018 and 2019 also. Then, we had the Covid-19 pandemic. We asked the PM for special assistance to be given outside the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) norms,” he said. The government also asked the Centre to release in advance Rs 395 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). At present, 56 taluks and 895 villages have been affected by floods. “As per a preliminary assessment, about 3,000 homes have been damaged and there are crop losses on 80,000 hectares. There’s damage on 3,500 km of roads, including landslides. Also, there’s damage to 393 buildings, 250 bridges have collapsed and 104 minor irrigation tanks have been breached,” Bommai said. “It’s still raining and we’re unable to do a survey on the ground. But our initial estimate is that there are losses to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore.” Since August 1, at least 12 persons have been killed due to heavy rainfall and landslides across 12 districts. “We’re facing two types of floods: The north-east monsoon from the Bay of Bengal and then the southwest monsoon through the Arabian Sea have joined to result in huge rainfall in the Western Ghats and our rivers are flowing in spate,” Bommai said. Karnataka told the PM that some long-term measures need to be taken at the Centre’s level. “An Integrated Flood Forecasting and Response System should be in place for inter-state river basins such as Krishna. One state’s mistake shouldn’t lead to another state’s suffering,” Bommai said. The government also pitched a Landslide Hazard Mapping and Development of Early Warning System in the Western Ghats section. “The Western Ghats are fragile; they’re prone to landslides. Such places should be mapped. Not just Karnataka, all states in the Western Ghats range should do this,” he said. It also asked the Centre to bring coastal sea erosion under the National Cyclone Relief Mitigation project. “River soil erosion is also happening due to floods. Soil erosion should be considered as flood damage,” Bommai said. Lastly, Karnataka demanded four more NDRF teams be deployed to Karnataka. “At present, 4 NDRF teams and 200 SDRF trained personnel have been deployed. Four IAF helicopters are reserved for us and army personnel are also on standby,” Bommai said. Ashoka and Bommai briefed the PM on the steps the government had taken thus far. “Flooding is happening in the Krishna and Cauvery basins. We have established coordination with Maharashtra. Even dam-to-dam engineers’ coordination is happening. Our Belagavi DC is in touch with Kolhapur DC. So, we’ve been able to mitigate damages,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-floods-state-asks-rs-4000-crore-for-special-assistance-871715.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa recovers from coronavirus||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was discharged from Manipal Hospital after testing negative for Covid-19. The CM had been admitted to the hospital on August 2 after he tested positive for the virus. He had spent nine days in the hospital. Dr Manish Rai, the hospital’s director, on Monday in a statement said, “His vital parameters were stable. He is advised home quarantine.” The CM will continue to be under self-quarantine for a few more days. “Thank you, everyone, for your wishes and prayers. I have been discharged and will be in self-quarantine," he tweeted. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters, “Two days of quarantine will do as the CM is asymptomatic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-recovers-from-coronavirus-871716.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC results: Sagar boy scores 624 out of 625||T S Abhiram, a student of Pragaathi composite school in Sagar town, bagged the second rank in Karnataka SSLC examinations by scoring an astonishing 624 out of the total 625. He has scored 125 in Sanskrit, centum in four subjects-English, Kannada, Science and Mathematics and 99 in Social Science. Speaking to DH, he said that he used to study for only one hour when the coronavirus lockdown was enforced. There was uncertainty over the SSLC examinations. "Later, I studied for 10 to 12 hours in the last 15 days before the examination. I solved old question papers when exam time table was announced. It proved highly beneficial for me," he said. While speaking about future plans, he expressed his ambition of taking up UPSC exam after completing MBBS or law. He would study science in PU. T S Ramana, the father of Abhiram, is an advocate by profession. He said that he has a good memory power and it is the key to his success in academics. Besides, he attended Vedic mathematics classes and it helped him to score 100 in Mathematics. Moreover, he holds black belt in karate and participated in karate competitions held in Nepal, Ramana added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-results-sagar-boy-scores-624-out-of-625-871747.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC results: Mandya boy is a state topper||M P Dheeraj Reddy, a student of Sri Sathya Sai Saraswathi Boys High School, Maradevanahalli, in Mandya taluk, is one of the SSLC toppers of Karnataka. He has secured 625 out of 625 marks in the SSLC examination. The family is the native of Kyasamballi village, Bangarpet taluk, Kolar district, Andhra Pradesh border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-results-mandya-boy-is-a-state-topper-871752.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No shortage of funds to handle floods: R Ashoka||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday refuted talk that the government did not have sufficient funds to handle the flood situation. “There is no shortage of funds,” he said, adding that deputy commissioners had Rs 1,120 crore in their personal deposit accounts. “Also, the Centre had given Rs 310 crore towards precautionary measures,” he pointed out. “The CM has informed me that he had asked the finance department to release whatever is required to handle the flood situation.” Ten districts of the state will get ‘permanent disaster centres’ that will have all facilities to house people displaced during floods or other natural calamities. “I’m ordering the release of Rs 200 crore for this. Officials have been asked to identify convention halls that can be converted as disaster centres,” Ashoka said. At present, there are 87 relief camps housing 1,993 people in six districts. “I have ordered officials to provide people in the relief camps with eggs, pickles, curry and other food items. Just because these people are displaced doesn’t mean they shouldn’t get good, nutritious food,” he said. The state government will follow a four-category system to compensate people whose homes suffer damage due to floods, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Monday. Similar to the system followed during the floods last year, the government will treat house damages as follows: Category A (75% or more damage), Category B (25-75% partial damage requiring full reconstruction), Category B (25-75% partial damage needing repair) and Category C (15-25% minor damage). “As per norms, Categories A and B should get Rs 95,100, but the government has decided to give Rs 5 lakh,” Ashoka said. “Those under Category C will get Rs 50,000 instead of Rs 5,200 as per norms.” According to preliminary estimates, 2,831 homes have been partially damaged and 63 are completely or severely dilapidated. The government has released Rs 334 crore to the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd towards compensating people who are building new homes following the 2019 floods. “About 80% of people did not start housework after receiving the first instalment of Rs 1 lakh. They’re saying there were no workers available, shortage of sand and other construction materials. The government is ready to give the money, but people should take it by ensuring progress in the construction of their new homes,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-shortage-of-funds-to-handle-floods-r-ashoka-871789.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt awaits Centre's order on reopening of schools||The state government will decide on the reopening of schools only after receiving an official communication from the Centre. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the Centre was planning to reopen the school from September in a phased manner. "However, we will take a call only after receiving an official order from the Union government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-awaits-centres-order-on-reopening-of-schools-871837.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC results: Karnataka scraps district-wise ranking system||To put an end to the unhealthy competition among districts in SSLC results, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has scrapped the district-wise ranking system from this year. Instead of rankings, KSEEB has introduced grading system which will be calculated using three main parameters. Explaining this to reporters during the press conference, Dr K G Jagadeesha, commissioner, department of public instruction, said, “the ranking for districts had led to unhealthy competition among districts and to do away with it, we have introduced grading system after discussing with the panel of experts in the Board.” From this year on, districts will be awarded A, B and C grades. To calculate this, the Board gives 40% weightage for overall pass percentage of the district, 40% for average marks scored by students (pass/fail) and 20% weightage to the number of students who get distinctions and first-class marks in the exams.  This year 10 districts received A grade, 20 got B grade and 4 got C grade. A Grade: Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Rural, Madhugiri, Mandya, Chitradurga, Kolar, Udupi, Ramanagar, Hassan, Uttara Kannada B Grade: Chamarajanagar, Mangaluru, Ballari, Tumakuru, Sirsi, Bengaluru North, Davangere, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Bidar, Vijayapura, Bagalakot, Dharwad, Raichur, Bengaluru South, Chikkodi C Grade: Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Yadgir||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-results-karnataka-scraps-district-wise-ranking-system-871838.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 Vaccine: Karnataka plans tie-up with US firm||Karnataka is planning to set up a research centre for immunology and vaccine in partnership with the Atlanta-based Emory Vaccine Centre, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday.  Narayan, the IT/BT, Science & Technology minister, held talks with Emory Vaccine Centre director Rafi Ahmed during a webinar and they discussed the growing significance of immunology. If the collaboration comes through, Bengaluru will get the research centre.  “The entire world is pondering about immunology and effective vaccines at this juncture. The decision to set up an immunology and vaccine research centre is very conducive in view of the present situation,” Narayan said. “Immunology is going to be the prospective area in the near future. Vaccines, infectious diseases, cancer research, all these boil down ultimately to immunology,” he said.  Narayan promised policy support for future collaboration. “There are at least 20 institutions of national eminence engaged in vaccine development. All these will be integrated and the government is ready to support through policy implementation. Also, rigid restrictions on clinical trials are now being relaxed,” Narayan said, adding that Karnataka was home to “a robust ecosystem for research and innovation.”  Ahmed said the Emory Vaccine Centre would submit a collaboration proposal to the state government. “There is a scope for academic collaboration between Karnataka and the Emory centre. In the current situation, this can be achieved through an online platform,” Ahmed said.  Covid test The Emory centre has developed “a highly specific and sensitive rapid test” for Covid-19 that hospitals in Atlanta have adopted, Ahmed said.  Ahmed said it would take 6-8 months for a Covid-19 vaccine to get a provisional licence when Narayan enquired about the status of clinical trials in the US. “At present, clinical trials with respect to three vaccines of Covid-19 are at the forefront. Among these, two trials are in the third stage. The vaccines need to be trialled on 30,000 patients. The evaluation process is being carried out. If the efficacy of these vaccines is found to be more than 50%, they may get a provisional licence,” Ahmedexplained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-karnataka-plans-tie-up-with-us-firm-871840.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Faced discrimination, ridicule for not knowing Hindi: H D Kumaraswamy||Joining the Hindi imposition row, former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said he along with his father, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, had faced discrimination and ridicule because they were not native speakers of the language. He said political leaders from the south were “snatched of their opportunities by Hindi politics and discrimination.” Hindi politics, Kumaraswamy said, had prevented many South Indians like former Tamil Nadu chief ministers M Karunanidhi and K Kamaraj from becoming prime ministers. "Though Deve Gowda was successful in breaking this barrier, there were several incidents of him being criticised and ridiculed for reasons of language," he said in his tweets. The JD(S) leader said that he had similar experiences when he was a Lok Sabha member twice. "The ruling class ignores the South with disdain. I have seen from close quarters on how Hindi politicians manoeuvre. Most of them don't respect non-Hindi politicians," he said. Kumaraswamy also criticised the 'clandestine' attempts of the central government to promote Hindi. "Centre says Hindi is one of the languages. But it is spending crores of rupees in India and abroad organising programmes to popularise Hindi. This is one of the clandestine programmes. It is possible to fight this only with prompt love and respect for each one's language," he said. Linguistic discrimination has crept into public sector jobs too, he said, adding that candidates are forced to write exams in either English or Hindi. "There is no place for Kannada in this year's (IBPS) notification. Kannadigas are being denied of opportunities for getting jobs. This must stop," he added. IBPS is Institute of Banking Personnel Selection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/faced-discrimination-ridicule-for-not-knowing-hindi-h-d-kumaraswamy-871842.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Haveri girls end lives over poor SSLC results||Upset over low scores in SSLC exam, two 16-year-old girls ended life by suicide in separate incidents reported from the district on Monday. Vaishnavi Ritti (16), a resident of Dyamavvana Gudi Oni in Haveri, ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling of her house after she learnt that she'd failed in mathematics subject. The Haveri Town police have registered a case of unnatural death. In another incident reported from Kashambi in Byadagi taluk, Bharathi Koti consumed poison. It is said, she was upset over poor results. The girl had scored 61.6%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-haveri-girls-end-lives-over-poor-sslc-results-871843.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Priest's daughters get emotional seeing ravaged house||The joint search operations, by the NDRF, SDRF and Kodagu police, forest and fire and emergency personnel, have been intensified at the foothills of Brahmagiri Hill, where Talacauvery Kshetra priest T S Narayan Achar and four of his family members went missing after a landslide three days back. On Sunday, two daughters of Achar who returned to Bhagamandala from Australia, broke down on seeing the fate of their parental home. Sharada and Namitha recalled that during their last call, Achar told them about torrential rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/priests-daughters-get-emotional-seeing-ravaged-house-871857.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Boy who wrote SSLC exam with his toes gets first class||A differently abled boy, who wrote the SSLC examination with his toes, has come out with flying colours by getting first class. The results were announced on Monday. Kaushik Acharya, a student of the SVS Kannada medium school, scored 424 out of 500 marks. The student, whose hands are disabled, has been writing examinations using his toes since the first standard. He belongs to Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. State Education Minister Suresh Kumar had visited the student on July 10 at his residence after he appeared for the examination. The Minister commended the boy's efforts, saying he was a role model. Kumar had also promised to assist the student in pursuing his pre-university studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/boy-who-wrote-sslc-exam-with-his-toes-gets-first-class-871867.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 4,267 new Covid-19 cases; 114 deaths||Karnataka reported 4,267 new Covid-19 cases on Monday and 114 Covid-19 deaths taking the fatalities to 3,312 and active cases to 79,908. Eight people died due to non-Covid-19 reasons.  Monday's 5,218 discharges took the total number of recoveries to 99,126. The total number of Covid-19 cases is now 1.82 lakh.  The state did only 22,620 tests taking the total number of tests to count to 1.72 lakh. Bengaluru reported 1,243 new cases and 36 new deaths. Twelve districts reported cases in triple digits. The recovery rate of Bengaluru is now 54.58% and the mortality rate is 1.69%. In comparison, the state's recovery rate is 54.36% and the mortality rate is 1.82%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-4267-new-covid-19-cases-114-deaths-871875.html
10-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees fall in new Covid-19 cases after three weeks; state tally crosses 1.82 lakh||Karnataka on Monday logged 4,267 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1,82,354 and the toll to 3,312, the health department said. This is the first dip in the number of new cases recorded in a single day that the state has seen in three weeks. The lower numbers brought down the active cases below the 80,000 mark as the day also saw 5,218 patients being discharged after recovery. Of the fresh cases, as many as 1,243 were from Bengaluru Urban district alone. On August 9, the state reported 5,985 fresh Covid-19. The state sees record-high spike on August 7 with over  6,800 cases and earlier on August 4 with more than 6,200 cases in 24 hours. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has recovered 'completely' from Covid-19 and was on Monday discharged from a private hospital, the state government said. As of Monday evening, cumulatively 1,82,354 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 3,312 deaths and 99,126 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 79,908 active cases, 79,227 are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 681 are in the intensive care units. Among the fresh deaths, Thirtysix were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Davangere (11), Dakshina Kannada (8) and Ballari (7). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Besides the state capital, Mysuru 374 cases, Ballari 253, Davangere 225, Kalaburagi 196, Raichur 165, Dharwad 157, Bagalkote 147, Dakshina Kannada 146 and Vijayapura 139 were among the districts with higher cases. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 75,428 infections, followed by Ballari 10,624 and Mysuru 7,685. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 41,166 discharges, followed by Ballari 5,447 and Kalaburagi 4,837. A total of 17,29,067 samples were tested so far, out of which 22,620, the lowest in recent days, were tested on Monday. Among the samples tested today 8,193 were rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-fall-in-new-covid-19-cases-after-three-weeks-state-tally-crosses-182-lakh-871881.html
10-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: In shock over 'inflated' power bill, man kills self||Shocked to get an "inflated" electricity bill, a 57-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by setting himself on fire in Nagpur city, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday afternoon at his residence in Yashodhara Nagar locality, police said. "The family members of the deceased, identified as Liladhar Laxman Gaidhane, told the police that he was depressed and tense after getting Rs 40,000 power bill last week. Due to the shock, he had increased his liquor consumption," an official of Yashodhara Nagar police station said. "On Saturday afternoon, Gaidhane immolated himself after pouring kerosene. The family members rushed him to a hospital, where he breathed his last," he said. According to the police official, the family of the deceased lives on the ground floor of the house, while their tenants live on the first floor. "No suicide note was recovered from the spot and a case of accidental death was registered," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-in-shock-over-inflated-power-bill-man-kills-self-871495.html
10-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Fire at commercial building in Thane; no casualty||A fire broke out in a three-storey commercial building in Ulhasnagar township of Maharashtra's Thane district, a fire official said on Monday. No casualty was reported, he said. The blaze erupted around 10:30 pm on Sunday in the office of a printing services company on the ground floor of the building in Press Bazar locality and spread to its upper floors, the official said. Printing material kept in the premises led to the rapid spread of the blaze, Ulhasnagar Municipal Council's disaster cell chief Balasaheb Netke said. Five fire engines of the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation were rushed to the spot. Two fire engines each of the Kalyan and Ambernath civic bodies were also pressed into service. The blaze was brought under control at around 8:30 am on Monday, the fire official said. A probe was underway to ascertain the cause of the fire, Netke said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fire-at-commercial-building-in-thane-no-casualty-871613.html
10-08-2020||West||Disabled cow in Maharashtra gets artificial leg||A disabled cow got a new lease of life after a team of doctors from a hospital here fitted an artificial leg, helping it to walk properly. A team led by Dr Salil Jain, head of prosthetics and orthotics department at Sancheti Hospital, made the artificial leg and gifted it to the cow from a shelter home on Pune-Solapur highway. Amar Jagtap, a pharmacist, said when he visited the gaushala a couple of months back for some work, he noticed the disabled cow and approached the hospital. The leg was made and fitted to the cow recently. "The cow is now able to stand and is walking slowly. But, it will take at least a month for it to get adjusted to the artificial leg," Dr Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/disabled-cow-in-maharashtra-gets-artificial-leg-871633.html
10-08-2020||West||Three of family killed as house collapses after heavy rain||Three members of a family, including a four-year-old child, were killed and one member was injured after their house collapsed due to heavy rains in Gujarat's Panchmahal district on Monday morning, police said. The incident took place around 6 am when the four family members were sleeping in their one-room house located at their farm at Kanjipani village in Jambughoda taluka, Panchmahal Superintendent of Police Leena Patil said. "The house collapsed due to heavy rains when the four family members were sleeping. Three of them died while one member escaped with minor injuries," she said. The bodies were pulled out of the debris by a rescue team in an operation that lasted for about an hour, she said. The deceased included a 70-year-old woman, her son and grandson, aged 40 and 4 years, respectively. The woman's other son, aged 35, received minor injuries, Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-of-family-killed-as-house-collapses-after-heavy-rain-871693.html
10-08-2020||West||Philanthropic communities join hands to help migrants||India’s leading philanthropists have come together to introduce the Migrants Resilience Collaborative (MRC) committed to ensuring safety, security, and mobility for vulnerable migrant families across India. Launched by Ashif Shaikh, co-founder, Jan Sahas, a leading NGO who that been working with migrant communities over the last decade to ensure their social protection and safe migration, the MRC has an ambitious goal to reach out to over 10 million-plus migrant workers and their families in 100 districts and cities pan India over the next 5 years. Committed to delivering social security entitlement, providing access to responsible recruitment and strengthening tracking, worker protections, welfare and redressal, the steering committee comprising of some of India’s leading philanthropists and leaders with deep experience across sectors like Ashif Shaikh, co-founder, Jan Sahas, Vidya Shah, CEO, EdelGive Foundation, Anu Aga, former chairperson, Thermax Limited, Rati Forbes, director, Forbes Marshall Group, Arun Maira, former member, Planning Commission of India, Kumar Gera, Chairman, Gera Developments Pvt. Ltd, Lalita Vadia, a former migrant worker will lead and guide MRC’s strategy. Jan Sahas, along with strategic partners- Global Development Incubator and EdelGive Foundation, is working with a wide range of partners and advisors to strengthen strategies for MRC to implement.  ‘While the civil society, philanthropies, private and government sector coalesced to provide immediate relief to migrant community, there is a crying need to transition from relief to focusing on core needs of migrant workers to build medium to long-term resilience as the country prepares for the long road to economic recovery and the possibility of multiple waves of COVID. MRC is an endeavor to address these needs,” said Shaikh.  “Through the MRC, we hope to enable access to entitlements and responsible recruitment for our migrant workers, alongside strengthening initiatives towards their welfare and protection,” Vidya Shah, CEO, EdelGive Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/philanthropic-communities-join-hands-to-help-migrants-871713.html
10-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Fine for not wearing mask raised to Rs 1,000 in Gujarat||In a bid to stem the spread of Covid-19, the Gujarat government on Monday increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places to Rs 1,000 from the present Rs 500. The decision came after the Gujarat High Court in its order last month asked the government to collect a minimum fine of Rs 1,000 from those found without mask in public places. In the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state, the high court had observed that "masks are logically the best defense individuals have against Covid-19". "Following the high court directive, the penalty for not wearing mask in public will be Rs 1,000 from August 11 onwards," Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said here. To stop human-to-human transmission of the virus, Rupani urged people not to come out of their homes to celebrate festivals, including Janmashtami which falls on Tuesday. The Gujarat government had recently increased the fine for not wearing mask to Rs 500 from Rs 200. During a hearing in HC last month on a sou motu (taken by court on its own) PIL about various aspects related to coronavirus, the state government informed the court that the hike of Rs 300 led to a significant decrease in the number of people who violated the rule. However, the high court said some people still do not adhere to the rule, and asked the government to increase the fine for not wearing mask in public places to a minimum of Rs 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-raised-to-rs-1000-in-gujarat-871720.html
10-08-2020||West||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra serious, says Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the Covid-19 situation in his state was serious and it accounted for 42 per cent of all deaths nationwide due to the infection. Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the Assembly in the neighbouring state, was in Goa to pay a courtesy visit to Chief Minister and party colleague Pramod Sawant. Speaking to reporters here, Fadnavis said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra must increase testing and set up more isolation facilities. He said RT-PCR and antigen tests must be carried out in correction proportion for effective detection of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-serious-says-devendra-fadnavis-871724.html
10-08-2020||West||191 kgs of heroin worth Rs 1,000 crore smuggled as 'ayurvedic medicine'; seized||Customs and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Navi Mumbai Nhava Sheva port on Saturday seized 191 kilograms of heroin, roughly worth Rs 1,000 crore, that was being Smuggled in long plastic pipes painted like bamboo sticks. The contraband was presented as ayurvedic medicine to smoothen the transportation process and reached the Maharashtra port from Afghanistan. It further added that on examination of the consignment, the officials found orange-coloured bags that had been imported by Sarvim Exports. The items inside were labelled Glycyrrhiza glabra extract, or licorice root extract. “The wooden textured structure was covered by bark, which appeared to be pasted on it artificially. On removing the outer wooden bark and wood dust with the help of a cutter, it was noticed that there was a green coloured plastic pipe and inside this, the cream coloured powder purported to be heroin was found. A test using an NDPS kit confirmed it was heroin,” said the official in the report. The contraband has been seized under the provisions of the NDPS Act. Two customs house agents- Meenanatha Bodake of MB Shipping and Logistics Solution and Kondibhau Pandurang Gunjan were arrested for their involvement in the case. The accused were produced before a local court and were remanded in judicial custody. Ongoing investigations seem to suggest that similar quantities of drugs had been smuggled in the past by the accused. Officials added that this was the largest drug haul in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/191-kgs-of-heroin-worth-rs-1000-crore-smuggled-as-ayurvedic-medicine-seized-871782.html
10-08-2020||West||Palghar mob-lynching case: No chargesheet filed, 28 get bail||A local court on Monday granted default bail to 28 accused in the April 16 Palghar mob-lynching case in which two sadhus and their driver were killed as no charge sheet was filed against them in the specified 90 days. Dahanu Judicial Magistrate First Class MV Jawle ordered their release on bail, said counsel Amrut Adhikari. The 28 were arrested as part of the first two FIRs relating to murder and attempt to murder filed in the case, Adhikari said. However, of this group, 18 will be taken into custody again as their names figure in the third charge sheet relating to obstructing police, rioting and attempt to murder filed against 47 accused on Friday. A total of 154 people were arrested in the mob lynching case which took place late night on April 16 in Gadchinchale village in Kasa area of the district. Sadhus Kalpavruksha Giri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-mob-lynching-case-no-chargesheet-filed-28-get-bail-871797.html
10-08-2020||West||Shocked over Rs 40,000 electricity bill, man dies by suicide||An inflated electricity bill of Rs. 40,000 shocked 57-year-old man residing in Nagpur, who was unable to pay the large sum and led him to take his own life. Leeladhar Laxman Gaidhani, who died by suicide, tried to reason out with the officials at the electricity board. However, his pleas fell on deaf ears, and he decided to immolate himself. "On Saturday afternoon, Gaidhane immolated himself after pouring kerosene. The family members rushed him to a hospital, where he breathed his last," he added. In June, Mumbai residents complained of inflated electricity charges and the Chief Minister of Maharashtra stepped in after repeated complaints, stating that the private and state-owned power supplying companies were not cheating the people. However, the sudden increase in electricity charges during the lockdown period created a financial burden for many.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shocked-over-rs-40000-electricity-bill-man-dies-by-suicide-871850.html
