11-08-2020||First Edit||Air crash: A case of lessons not learnt?||The tragic crash of an Air India Boeing 737 aircraft on Friday at Kozhikode airport in which 18 people, including the pilot and the co-pilot, lost their lives again brings to the fore issues of aviation safety when the country is planning to give a push to the sector by building more airports and starting more services. The aircraft, which carried 191 passengers, was on a Vande Bharat mission from Dubai, and the fact that the passengers were returning home to save their lives adds to the poignancy of the accident. Some of the passengers are being treated for serious injuries but most were lucky to survive, thanks to many factors. Though the aircraft overshot the runway of the tabletop airport, plunged 35-40 feet into a ditch and broke into three, it did not catch fire, probably because the pilot had exhausted the fuel, trying to land in inclement weather, or ejected it anticipating a crash, apparently, after the aircraft’s landing gear did not work.  Various theories have been put forward to explain the mishap. The Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has initiated an investigation, but it will take a while before the cause is identified and the result made public. The aircraft tried to land when it was raining and visibility was poor. There may be questions about the working of the systems that aid and facilitate landing, and an error on the part of the pilot has also not been ruled out. Comparisons with another air crash in 2010 at Mangaluru airport, which also has a tabletop runway, are inevitable. A runway end safety area (RESA) of 250 m was built at both ends of the Mangaluru airport after the accident but the RESA in Kozhikode is only 90 m long. It has been noted that the proposal to extend the runway at Kozhikode has not been implemented even after 10 years. Questions have also been raised about the continued use of the airport and the runway when the reasons for the crash have not been identified. The continuing heavy rainfall in the area has added to the concern. The crash should prompt the authorities to re-evaluate air safety measures not only in Kozhikode but in all other airports and take remedial measures wherever necessary.  The casualties would have been much higher if the local residents had not rushed to the crash site immediately and launched rescue operations, ignoring the fact that some passengers could be Covid-19 carriers. They also transported many injured persons to nearby hospitals. The civil aviation ministry has praised their efforts, and they deserve the nation’s commendation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/air-crash-a-case-of-lessons-not-learnt-871915.html
11-08-2020||In Perspective||An attempt to silence environmental activism||Thankfully, a democracy comes loaded with checks and balances that keep the government from acting in ways it should not. One such check is the public. By speaking out against such short-sighted moves and through collective pressure, the public holds the government to account. For added measure, our Constitution protects this right to speak out by preventing the government from arbitrarily restricting the voice of the people. Or at least, so goes the theory. The reality, however, is different. Recently, when three youth-run organisations (Let India Breathe [LIB], Fridays for Future India [FFF India], and There Is No Earth B [TNEB]) attempted to mobilise public opinion and speak out against the Draft EIA Notification, they found their websites, and by extension their voices, shut down in a manner that can only be classified as arbitrary. According to the law, the government can only restrict access to a website for the legitimate purposes of protecting the sovereignty and integrity of the country, security of the State, public order, decency, or morality, friendly relations with foreign States; or in relation to a contempt of court, defamation, or to prevent the incitement of a crime. The decision to censor must be authorised by a committee that evaluates the reasons offered by the government and any statements made by the party facing censoring. Only someone with an overly developed sense of imagination could aver that the activities of these three organisations reached this threshold; yet, that is precisely what Delhi’s police department claimed. On July 8, Delhi Police’s Cyber Crime Unit ordered FFF India’s website to be shut down on the ground that it contained “objectionable contents and unlawful activities or terrorist act, which are dangerous for the peace, tranquillity and sovereignty of India”. The statement, verging on the boundary of ludicrousness, is patently nonsensical. Perhaps it was this realisation that prompted Delhi’s DCP Cyber Crime, Anyesh Roy, to later contend in an interview with Firstpost that the notice was “inadvertent”. Far from being comforting, the admission casts serious doubt on the professionalism and competency of Delhi Police. Roy also claimed in the same interview that they had withdrawn all notices and that if the website is not running, it is not because of them.   To add to this painful comedy, the domain provider has said that they have received no notice withdrawing the July 8 order. If we are to believe Delhi Police, then we are left to conclude that the domain provider is either being dishonest or that the notice has somehow been lost in transit between the two mailboxes. Either way, the tragedy continues and this time with no one apparently to hold responsible. The websites of FFF India, along with those of LIB and TNEB, remained inaccessible for weeks, with the latter two having received no news whatsoever.   Internet censorship is not a new phenomenon in India. In the past, governments of all political hues have sought to curb freedom of speech and expression by censoring websites. There have been instances where courts have banned websites operated by whistleblowers, or ministers have asked social media operators to delete content that might “offend sensibilities”. One time, in a move eerily reminiscent of the British Raj, the Mumbai Crime Branch took down cartoonist Aseem Trivedi’s website, “Cartoons Against Corruption,” which he used as a platform to criticise the government during the nationwide anti-corruption crusade of 2011. These instances of arbitrary internet censorship have harsh ramifications that run far deeper than simply hurting the sentiments of those whose websites are taken down. They paint a worrisome picture of a country in which the government considers itself to be above the law and that views the very foundations of a democratic system as inconvenient hurdles that can simply be pushed to the side. By eroding freedom of speech, the government chips away at that pillar of our democracy that supports accountability and transparency. When societies descend into such lawlessness, the pathway is cleared for corruption, suppression, or as is the case with the Draft EIA Notification, for recklessly exploiting our environment. History teaches us that strong and inspiring speech is the catalyst for social change. Through the power of the internet, Let India Breathe, Fridays for Future India, and There Is No Earth B have attempted to inspire citizens of this country to mobilise against the government.  They want to prevent the government from enacting a draft EIA that will damage our environment and threaten those who are most vulnerable. Their efforts are, however, being sought to be stymied by a government that cannot see beyond short-term political and economic gains. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against this creeping authoritarianism to protect our democratic freedoms and our environment. (The writers teach at Jindal Global University, Sonipat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/an-attempt-to-silence-environmental-activism-871916.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Eight Covid-19 patients dead in Dakshina Kannada||Eight Covid-19 fatalities were reported, along with 146 fresh cases, in Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. The district’s death toll is now 228. So far, 7,353 have tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 81 patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like illness (ILI) and 16 patients with Severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) tested positive. Fifteen people had contracted the virus from primary contacts and the contacts of 30 positive patients are being traced. Mangaluru taluk tops the list with 94 cases. As many as 533 persons recovered and were discharged on Saturday. The number of persons discharged from the hospital is over 4,215. Six among eight patients who died were suffering from other co-morbidities, according to a press release issued byDeputy Commissioner Dr K V Rajendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eight-covid-19-patients-dead-in-dakshina-kannada-871896.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Daughters of Talacauvery chief priest visit landslide site||Sharada and Namita, daughters of Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Achar, returned from Australia on Monday and visited Brahmagiri Hills. Looking at the site of landslide where their house once stood, both turned emotional and shed tears remembering their missing parents. The relatives of Narayana Achar, who are residing in Mangaluru, had informed his daughters about the incident. Housing and Kodagu District In-charge Minister V Somanna and Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah met the daughters of Narayana Achar and tried to console them. Sharada and Namita became inconsolable after they saw the clothes, pooja materials and utensils recovered from the ravaged site of the landslide. Incidentally, a book titled 'Samadhi Nirnaya' has been found under the debris. Both the daughters said that they called their parents often. During their last call, Achar had informed them about the incessant rains. Somanna said even after three days of search operations, only the body of Achar's elder brother Anandatheetha Swamy had been recovered from the site and other four were yet to be found. "Three excavators are on the site. Dog squad has also been deployed to trace the bodies. Currently, the operation is carried out on the site where the house is situated. Operations are also being carried out in the place where the carcasses of cattle were found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/daughters-of-talacauvery-chief-priest-visit-landslide-site-871898.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu secures 18th place in SSLC results||Kodagu district stood at the 18th position in the state in the SSLC examination results announced on Monday. The district has shown a lot of improvement as it was in the 22nd position last year. This year, a total of 7,164 students took SSLC exams in 27 exam centres in the district. Among them, 74 candidates were from Covid-19 containment zones. Jagath Poovaiah of Fathima Convent in Kushalnagar has emerged as the district topper while scoring 620 out of 625 marks. Gana, a student of Sandeepani School in Somwarpet, has scored 618 marks and is the second topper from the district. She has scored 122 marks in first language Kannada, 97 in English and 100 each in Hindi, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. Gana said she expected more marks. The Covid-19 lockdown came as a blessing in disguise. She devoted five to six hours everyday for her studies. She aspires to be an IAS officer in the future. Other toppers Vijaya M D from Morarji Desai Residential School and K S Anusha from Lions School, Gonikoppa, have secured 617 marks each and share the third place in the district. H K Rahul from Vishwamanava Kuvempu High School of Chowdlu village has secured 607 marks. OLV English Medium School student N K Shravani has secured 605 marks. Government High School in Mayamudi has secured 100% results.  The students have excelled in the examinations, despite the pandemic. Most of the students in the school are from economically backward families and therefore, their achievement is worth a praise, Headteacher Vani Nachappa said. Other schools which have registered 100% results are: Morarji Desai Residential School in Basavanahalli, Cauvery School and Pragathi School in Virajpet, St Annamma High School and Bright School in Virajpet, Sandeepani English Medium School and Vishwamanava Kuvempu English Medium School in Somwarpet and Shantinikethana School, Kodagarahalli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-secures-18th-place-in-sslc-results-871900.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Residents clean their houses as flood recedes in Kushalnagar||Residents clean their houses as the flood recedes in Kushalnagar People in various residential areas in the town are busy cleaning their houses as floods have receded to a great extent. Strangely, they are facing a shortage of water to clean their houses. Owing to incessant rains during the last week, the houses in the residential extensions situated close to the rivers were waterlogged. However, with the rains receding, the floods have subsided and people have started cleaning their houses filled with slush. As the houses were waterlogged continuously for five days, electronic goods such as television, refrigerator and washing machine and other furniture are spoilt. The slush is emanating stench. The drinking water supply is yet to resume to the full extent. Due to lack of power supply, the Town Panchayat is unable to supply water to all localities. Some non-government organizations have beenproviding drinking water to the needy. The organisations such as red cross are also helping people in cleaning their houses as removing the mud is a tedious job. People are throwing the spoiled items out of their houses. Sri Saibaba Layout, Kuvempu extension, Russel Layout, Sigaramma extension, Indira extension, Dandinapet, Vivekananda extension, Yogananda extension, Basappa extension and Adi Shankaracharya extension were flooded during rains. People in these areas are grieving over the pathetic condition of their houses. Apart from the houses, several schools and Anganwadi centres in Kushalnagar too, have been damaged during the floods. The flood level has come down in Koodige, Guddehosuru and Koodumangaluru gram panchayat limits as well. Town Panchayat has been carrying out necessary relief works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residents-clean-their-houses-as-flood-recedes-in-kushalnagar-871902.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Incessant rain inundates farmland in Dakshina Kannada, triggers landslide||Incessant rain resulted in houses and agricultural fields in low-lying areas being inundated with floodwater on Monday. A minor landslide occurred near the house of Ravi Kumar at Kaniya in Bajathooru of Puttur taluk. In the past 24 hours (ending 8.30 am on Monday), Dakshina Kannada received an average of 91.3 mm rainfall. Bantwal received highest with 114.9 mm followed by Mangaluru 104.9 mm, Belthangady 87.7 mm, Sullia  82 mm and Puttur 67.2 mm. The water level in river Nethravathi stood at 5.9 meters in Bantwal and 27.1 meters in Uppinangady. According to officials, 91.2 hectares agriculture crops and 12.36 hectares horticulture crops had been destroyed due to heavy rain in Dakshina Kannada district. From April 1 till date, 34 houses were fully damaged and 853 houses were partially damaged in the district. A team of 25 SDRF and 25 civil defence personnel were deployed in the affected areas for rescue operations, DK Deputy Commissioner Rajendra K V said. Landslides Landslides had occurred on at least four acres of land in Alladakadu forest area in Kolli Nadthikallu of Belthangady taluk. As the area comes under reserve forest, people live three kilometres away from the site. A boulder fell on the road following heavy rain in Mithakodi near Mudipu. The district administration is preparing to shift families from low-lying areas in Ullal and other parts of Mangaluru.   The rise in water level in Kudtamugeri rivulet has inundated farmland in Kolnadu. The tree branches and driftwood had struck in the piers of the vented dam, inundating the surrounding areas at Karai.  As river Nandini is in spate, the connecting road to Mahaganapathi Mandira at Athooru Bailu was inundated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/incessant-rain-inundates-farmland-in-dakshina-kannada-triggers-landslide-871929.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bantwal boy who wrote SSLC exam using his toes scores 67.84%||Kaushik Acharya who won the heart of Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar S for his unwavering spirit by writing the SSLC exam using toes, has passed with first class by scoring 67.84 percent. Born with deformed arms, he is the student of SVS High School in Bantwal. By overcoming all obstacles, he practiced to write gripping pen between his toes. There was celebration at his house at Kanchikarapete when the results were announced on Monday. His parents Rajesh Acharya and Jalajakshi distributed sweets. He scored 96 in Kannada, 50 in English, 83 in Sanskrit, 63 in mathematics, 54 in science and 78 in science. Kaushik wishes to continue his studies in commerce stream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bantwal-boy-who-wrote-sslc-exam-using-his-toes-scores-6784-871933.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Toppers attribute success to confidence, hard work||Surabhi S Shetty from Sandeepana English Medium High School, Kirimanjeshwara, Udupi district, is the second topper in the state by scoring 624 marks and is also the topper in Udupi district. Speaking to DH, she said she is happy but expected full marks in the exam. “I lost one mark in Social Science and wish to apply for revaluation.” “I used to study for six to eight hours daily and hard work has paid a rich dividend in the form of marks I secured.  My parents and teachers were always motivating and supporting me to excel. Further, revision of old question papers and discussion with my friends also helped me a lot in my studies,” she said. “Further, I did not refer to any guide. Instead, I was following NCERT textbooks which helped to understand the basic concepts. My parents are overexcited,” she added. She is the daughter of Suresh Shetty and Seema Suresh from Uppunda. She is interested in medical science and wishes to continue the same. “I used to participate in essay competitions and have won several prizes. This year, I concentrated more on my studies,” she added. Other toppers in Udupi from government schools are Bhavya Nayak (622) of Government High School, Valakkadu; Shravya S Mogaveera (621) of Government High School, Basruru and U S Advaith Sharma (620) of Sundara Puranika Government High School in Pervaje in Karkala. Government High School, Valakkadu headmistress Nirmala said that Bhavya Nayak’s score is the highest in the history of the school. In 2017, the topper in the school had scored 618. Bhavya was attentive in the classrooms and had concentrated on her studies. Government High School, Basruru headmistress Jyothi said Shravya was very confident from the beginning and had promised during the beginning of the academic year that she will secure above 620 marks and she has fulfilled it. U S Advaith Sharma (620) of Sundara Puranika Government High School in Pervaje in Karkala was an all-rounder and a brilliant student, said headmistress K Harshini to DH. She said Advaith had secured second in the district in national merit scholarship examination and was one of the 10 toppers in the district in NTSE. In fact, Minister Suresh Kumar had visited his house during his visit to Karkala a few months ago. Greeshma Shettigar of Chethana High School, Hangarakatte, who scored 621 marks, said that hard work and guidance of teachers and parents helped her to excel. “I want to be a software engineer. I used to study for four hours daily. The teachers instilled confidence in us during the Covid-19 lockdown.” The Udupi district has secured A grade in the SSLC examination. Udupi district had slipped to the fourth position by registering a pass percentage of 87.97% last year. In Udupi district, 159 schools have secured A grade, 79 schools B grade and 23 schools C grade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/toppers-attribute-success-to-confidence-hard-work-871940.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||BSNL filled with traitors, 88,000 staff to be fired, says Anantkumar Hegde||BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde stirred up another controversy, by calling BSNL employees 'traitors' who weren't willing to work to develop the beleaguered firm. More than 88,000 employees will be fired from the public sector unit (PSU), as government will privatise the company, he said. In a video of an event held Monday at Kumta in Uttara Kannada district, Hegde is heard saying, "BSNL has a system filled with traitors. I am using accurate words to describe them." He further says that even the Narendra Modi-led government was unable to address the problems faced by the PSU.  "The government has given money, people require services and there is infrastructure. Yet, they (BSNL employees) don't work. PM talks of Digital India, has provided funds and technology. Yet, they are not willing to work," he said, adding that the central government will repair the firm by privatising it.  BSNL has become a black mark for the entire country and we will finish it. The central government will introduce disinvestment policy and close BSNL and the space will be occupied by private parties in the coming days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsnl-filled-with-traitors-88000-staff-to-be-fired-says-anantkumar-hegde-871965.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Palace to be open for visitors on weekends||Mysuru Palace, which attracts a large number of people from across the country and also foreign tourists, will be open for visitors on all the days, and also on holidays from 10 am to 5.30 pm. According to a press release, the palace is open for the tourists on all the days, including holidays. However, the administration has decided not to resume the Sound and Light programme and illumination on Sundays, until further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-palace-to-be-open-for-visitors-on-weekends-871991.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Majethia Foundation converts building to Covid facility in Hubballi||The Majethia Foundation, which constructed a hospice centre for critically ill cancer patients at Karnatak Cancer Therapy & Research Institute (Padmashree Dr R B Patil Cancer Hospital) premises at Navanagar in Hubballi, has converted the entire building into a 60-bed Covid Health Centre to treat Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms. "The building is set up on 17 guntas of land, has separate entry, and is not near residential buildings," said  Majethia Foundation chairman Jitendra Majethia. According to Karnatak Cancer Therapy & Research Institute chairman B R Patil, the Covid health centre would have facilities like oxygen supply and round-the-clock availability of doctors and nurses. Quarantine facility has also been arranged for medical staff who work in the centre. The new Covid health centre would be handed over to the institute in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, on August 14 at 12:00 noon, he said. Senior doctor K Rameshbabu felt that private doctors should have come forward to treat Covid-19 patients voluntarily, much earlier than the government asked to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/majethia-foundation-converts-building-to-covid-facility-in-hubballi-872023.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Liberating Kashi, Mathura from non-Hindu culture real freedom: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said he would not withdraw his statement that temples in Kashi and Mathura must be liberated from mosques even if he has to spend his life time in jail.  Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he said Mathura is the birth place of Lord Krishna and Kashi is the birth place of  Lord Vishwanath. But mosques had been constructed there by demolishing temples. They were the religious centres of Hindus of the nation. Those who visit these places experience the feeling of slavery even today due to the presence of mosques. So temples have to be constructed there, he demanded.  He said India has thousands of mosques for Muslims to offer prayers. "We are not opposing them. But mosques had been constructed in both the places by demolishing temples. Muslims must respect emotions of Hindus." The proposed Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh has united emotions of Indians.  He said the real freedom of India is not based on constructing roads, buildings but liberating religious centres from non-Hindu culture. This is the opinion of not just BJP workers but also workers of Hindu religion in Congress and JD(S). Many Hindus have sacrificed their lives for the survival of Hindu culture. The RSS always respects such emotions, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/liberating-kashi-mathura-from-non-hindu-culture-real-freedom-k-s-eshwarappa-872043.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka-based industrialist installs late wife's statue during house-warming ceremony||People have expressed their love for wives in different ways. A Koppal-based industrialist has found yet another way to show how much he loved his wife who died in an accident in 2017.  Srinivas Gupta has installed a silicon wax statue of his deceased wife at his newly-built house at Bhagyanagar adjacent to Koppal. Though the house-warming ceremony was held on August 8, a video of the ceremony went viral on social media on Monday.  Gupta had lost his wife KVN Madhavi in July 2017 in an accident while they were on a family trip. Madhavi had a dream to construct a house on the premises of Gupta Apartment near the Railway Station. To keep her memory alive, the industrialist installed her statue in the newly-built house. The 15-20 kg statue has been prepared at Gombe Mane in Bengaluru, using imported silicon. The statue, which took almost a year to be built, was sculpted by Sridhar Murthy. Srinivas Gupta said his children are happy to have the statue of their mother at the home. It also gives me contentment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-based-industrialist-installs-late-wifes-statue-during-house-warming-ceremony-872048.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Geo mapping will be carried out in sensitive regions to check landslides: Basavaraj Bommai||Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister who is also Udupi District-in-Charge Minister said that geo-mapping will be carried out in sensitive areas in the Western Ghats to find a permanent solution to check landslides. Speaking to media persons after inspecting the sea erosion affected Padubidri beach, he said, “We have discussed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conference on the measures to mitigate sea erosion in coastal areas and landslides in the Western Ghats. We have sought additional funds from the Center to initiate permanent measures to check sea erosion. Geological Survey of India will be asked to conduct geo-mapping in sensitive areas in the Western Ghats to find a solution to check landslides. Measures will be taken to shift those residing in the landslide affected areas at the earliest." He also said that the Independence Day celebration will be a low-key affair, and the public will not be allowed to take part in it, there will be no parade. The programme will be organised as per the guidelines of the Central government. He added that Rs 10 crore will be released under National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to take up relief works in flood-affected areas in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/geo-mapping-will-be-carried-out-in-sensitive-regions-to-check-landslides-basavaraj-bommai-872049.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Brahmin’s board to pay beneficiaries' share for housing scheme||Karnataka State Brahmins' Development Board Chairman C V Gopinath said the board will pay Rs 31,000, required to be paid by Brahmin beneficiaries to avail houses sanctioned under Rajiv Gandhi Avas Scheme of the government. Addressing a media conference, Gopinath said the board also will give away three cash prizes of Rs 15,000, Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000 for three top-scoring Brahmin students in SSLC exams in each district. “The Union government has provided 10% reservation to economically backward candidates of 144 castes. The state government should implement this reservation. The government has issued Rs 25 crore for 11 schemes and thus, Brahmins should come forward to make good use of them,” said M R Balakrishna, a director of the board. President of Mysuru District Brahmins' Association D T Prakash and R Venkatesh Padaki were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/brahmin-s-board-to-pay-beneficiaries-share-for-housing-scheme-872171.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Idolising one's wife, Koppal man shows the way||Men express their love for their wives in different ways. This businessman from the city showed how much he loves his deceased wife, by getting a silicon-rubber statue of her installed at the opening ceremony of his newly built house at Bhagyanagar. Though the house-warming ceremony was held on August 8, a video of the ceremony went viral on social media on Monday. Srinivas Gupta, who is into the hair business, lost his wife K V N Madhavi in an accident in July 2017 during a family trip. Madhavi had expressed a wish to get a house constructed on the premises of the Gupta Apartments near the railway station. But Madhavi breathed her last before her wish could be realised. To keep her memory alive, the industrialist got a statue of her installed in the newly built house. The 15-20 kg statue was made at Gombe Mane in Bengaluru, using silicon, rubber and imported materials by sculptor Sridhar Murthy in a duration of one year.  Gupta said his children were very happy having the statue of their mother at home. It gives me contentment, he adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/idolising-ones-wife-koppal-man-shows-the-way-872175.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kannada actor's car filled with wrong fuel||Popular Kannada film actor Vijay Raghavendra was in a state of shock when the staff of fuel station on Sagar road in the city filled diesel instead of petrol into the actor's Benz car on Monday evening. The incident came to light on Tuesday. Sources in the fuel station stated that the actor who was returning from Jog Falls in Sagar taluk stopped at the fuel station for petrol. The excited staff who saw the actor filled 37 litre of diesel by mistake. Later, the actor came out of the car and told him that it was a petrol car and not the variant of diesel. The owner of the fuel station intervened and called for towing service to ferry the car to the showroom in Bengaluru. The actor and his family members were sent back to Bengaluru in another car. The actor was upset with the incident. Speaking to DH, towing service staff Zameer Ahmed said he dropped the car at Akshaya motors in Bengaluru on Tuesday morning. The actor's driver Pandu also travelled with him from Shivamogga to Bengaluru. "I left Shivamogga at 10:00 pm on Monday and reached Bengaluru at 6:00 am on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-actors-car-filled-with-wrong-fuel-872192.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka celebrates World Elephant Day||Even as August 12, Wednesday, is celebrated as World Elephant Day, officials of the Forest department in the region, are elated, as Nagarahole is home to the highest number of pachyderms in India. As per the Elephant Census of 2017, there were 27,312 elephants across India and 11,960 of them were in South India alone. Among southern states, Karnataka tops in elephant population, with almost 50% of the — 6,049 — found here. Karnataka is followed by Assam (5,715) and Kerala (3,054). Among the forests in Karnataka, the density of elephants is the highest in Nagarahole, with nearly 1,500 in an area of 843 square km. Elephants are also found in Bandipur, B R Hills and Dandeli forests, in huge numbers. As per 2017 statistics, there is an average of two elephants per square km of Nagarahole forests, highest density in India, said Nagarahole Project Tiger Director Mahesh Kumar. Elephant Census is held once in three years. This year, it could not be held, due to the Covid-19 crisis. However, the officials claim that the population of elephants would have increased to 1,700, in Nagarahole forests. The officials said, Taraka and Kabini dams, that abut Nagarahole forests, are an advantage and elephants roam around from Sathyamangala to Bramhagiri in an area of 12,000 square km of the Nilagiri Biosphere. Elephants usually travel a minimum of 10 km per day, in their regular paths, called corridors. In view of protection and conservation, there are 54 anti-poaching camps across Nagarahole forests and personnel work in shifts, throughout the day. Besides, man-animal conflict is effectively reduced, resulting in 100% reduction in either poaching or killing of wild animals, said Mahesh Kumar. He said, "Erection of used rail track elephant barricade is under progress on a total stretch of 156 km, to check man-animal conflict. A stretch of 44 km is completed and another seven km stretch will be added soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-celebrates-world-elephant-day-872195.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC: Hassan slips to 9th slot from top position||Hassan district, which topped the state in 2019 in SSLC results, has to be content with the 9th slot and 'A' grade, this year. Last year, Hassan got 89.33% pass percentage. This year, it is disappointment for the Education department and people. The taluks that were able to get 'A' grade are Alur, Arsikere, Channarayapatna, Holenarasipur and Sakleshpur, as their students were able to score good marks. However, Arkalgud, Belur and Hassan taluks have got 'B' grade. Four students of the district have bagged 623 marks and seven students 622. In all, 21,010 students had appeared for the exams from 522 schools in Hassan district. M S Deepak of Sri Basaveshwara Swamy High School, Channarayapatna taluk, Harsha S Kaundinya of Malnad Olympiad High School of Buthanuru Kaval, N Sritej Bhat of Royal Apollo International School and Poornachandra of United High School, Hassan have secured 623 marks and stand second in the state. Fathima Saima of Anugraha High School, Arehalli, Belur taluk; D Anusha of Poornaprajna High School; A S Satvik, Himanshul, K S Hanika of Royal Apollo School, Hassan; M V Kishan of Nagashri English Medium School of Channarayapatna; and S Y Sahitya of Vijaya School, Chikkahonnenahalli have secured 622 marks, and stand in the fourth place in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-hassan-slips-to-9th-slot-from-top-position-872196.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||This organisation serves lunch to pregnant women||A rural development organisation of Mandya district, which started with an one-day gesture of distributing sweets (ellu, bella) on Sankranti festival, on January 15, started distributing lunch to patients and their relatives on the premises of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) Hospital, especially the Maternity division. Mangala Yogish of Parisara Rural Development Society said, “When we distributed sweets on the festival on January 15, we realised that most of the patients and their care-takers were without food. We felt bad and thought of serving lunch to needy persons, visiting the Maternity division of MIMS Hospital. Thus, we floated ‘Mamatheya Madilu’, meaning ‘lap of an affectionate mother’. Now, we have crossed 200 days, without a break, with the support of donors and philanthropists.” K P Aruna Kumari of the society said, “We created a WhatsApp group of like-minded people. Now, most of the members do not celebrate their birthdays, lavishly. Instead, they donate money to mark their own or their loved one’s birthdays. Besides, people donate money to mark special occasions like house warming ceremony, death anniversary and festivals.” Yogish said, “Initially, we planned to serve lunch for 100 people every day. But, due to the support of donors, we extended to 300 members daily. Sometimes, donors themselves join us to serve food. Some of them add sweets to regular food.” Aruna Kumari said, “I myself experienced that food is not served to all patients, when I was an inpatient in MIMS Hospital. Not all people can afford medical expenses, even though MIMS Hospital is a government institution. Besides, they have to bear travel expenses. Thus, some of them forego food. But, food is vital for good health. So, we thought of this initiative, with the help of donors.” Yogish said, "Many people want to help the needy. They only need a platform. If people get a credible and reliable platform, they volunteer to do their mite. When we started, we wished to channelise left-over food from functions like marriages. But, left-over food used to reach us beyond lunch time." "Besides, the quality of food from weddings was not suitable for patients and pregnant women. Thus, we prepare food in our own kitchen, to suit the needs of pregnant women,” he said. Doctors and officials of the hospital said, “As MIMS Hospital is a government institution, free food and milk is provided to patients and pregnant women of certain sections of the society. Food cannot be provided to all inpatients. Help by organisations to help the needy is welcome.” Parisara Rural Development Society also encourages blood donation and recognises the service of blood donors, by presenting saplings of a variety of plants and trees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-organisation-serves-lunch-to-pregnant-women-872202.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Talacauvery priest's body traced 2.5 km from landslide site||The body of Talacauvery chief priest Narayana Achar (80) was traced on Tuesday, six days after he and three others were killed in a landslide.  His body was spotted in a trench at Nagatheertha, 2.5 km away from the site of the landslide at Talacauvery and was in a decomposed state. Narayana Achar’s brother Anandateertha’s body was traced on August 8. Bodies of Achar’s wife Shantha and assistant priests Ravikiran Bhat and Srinivas are yet to be traced. Personnel of the NDRF, SDRF, local police and the fire and emergency services continued searches for the bodies of the others amid rain and foggy weather. Achar used to sleep on the attic of the house daily. The intensity of the landslide was such that he was dragged 2.5 km from his house. When the search was carried out at Nagateertha, toes of the chief priest’s body were spotted and soon, the body was unearthed. After an autopsy at Bhagamandala hospital, the body was handed over to the family members. The last rites were performed on the family-owned land on Tuesday evening. Achar’s daughters Sharada, Namitha, grandchildren and other family members were inconsolable.  Mangled remains of two cars and a scooter have also been found, along with the carcass of the family’s pet dog. Achar’s car driver Jayanth recalled that the former was an agriculturist and had three pieces of land, where he grew cardamom and pepper. Spices worth lakhs of rupees were stocked in the house. What driver says Jayanth said he had advised Achar to shift to a safer place as the rains had intensified. But the priest did not agree. He might have been concerned about the safety of the agricultural produce and other valuables, he said. The driver recalled that the tiles of the house were blown away by winds the previous day of the incident and that he had put them back in their place. District in-charge minister V Somanna said there is no question of discontinuing the search operations. The search will go on till the bodies of all those who went missing are traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/talacauvery-priests-body-traced-25-km-from-landslide-site-872207.html
11-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLA Dr Nimbalkar demands government apology for removal of Shivaji Maharaj’s statue||Khanapur MLA Dr Anjali Nimbalkar’s demands to reinstall the statue of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Mangutti village in Hukkeri taluk and an apology from the state government for the act has earned the ire of Kannada activists. Dr Nimbalkar made these demands in a Tweet on August 9 which went viral by Tuesday. She called the removal Shivaji Maharaj's statue an insult to the national icon. She demanded an apology from the government and asked that the statue be reinstalled immediately. She also demanded action against officials responsible for taking down the statue. She posted photos of the statue on the controversial site and marked it with dates. Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee president Ashok Chandargi opposed the stand taken by Dr Nimbalkar who is a member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. Chandargi said, earlier in the legislative session held in Belagavi, Dr Nimbalkar had demanded that government documents be made available in Marathi for Marathi- speaking people. Now to woo Marathi-speaking voters, political leaders, who do not utter a word regarding Rani Channamma speak of Shivaji Maharaj. He said, "We support the decision taken by the people, but the Tweet against the state by MLA Dr Nimbalkar was unacceptable." Dr Nimbalkar told DH that she stands by her tweet regarding Shivaji Maharaj’s statue as he was a national icon and that insult should not be meted out to him. “As an MLA from the district, I have raised my voice against the statue being removed after it was installed.” Regarding KPCC working president and MLA Satish Jarkiholi stating that it was a local issue and others should not interfere in it, she said she was unaware of the statement and the reference to outsiders could have meant those from Maharashtra. "I have demanded action against concerned officials and people who removed the statue as people who removed the statue as per the initial reports," she stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mla-dr-nimbalkar-demands-government-apology-for-removal-of-shivaji-maharaj-s-statue-872070.html
11-08-2020||National||New IISc director wants to build world-class research infrastructure||What changes are on the horizon for the institution under you? The plan is to create a rich intellectual environment and administrative infrastructure that would enable faculty and students to push the boundaries of their research areas or, even better, create new research areas. However, it is premature to comment on specific changes that are being planned.  You chaired the Division of Interdisciplinary Research. What did the division pursue? I have worked in several interdisciplinary areas ranging from non-linear dynamics and chaos to computational neuroscience.  IISc has always encouraged researchers from diverse backgrounds to work together. The Division of Interdisciplinary Research was formed in 2014 to channelise interdisciplinary research on critical areas such as energy, water, healthcare and nanotechnology. This division comprises 10 departments and centres that focus on diverse interdisciplinary areas, drawing in expertise from faculty members in various departments. The goal is to break down department barriers to facilitate novel research that may not be possible within the confines of a particular discipline. Specific areas of research include bioengineering, urban transportation, nano science and technology, energy research, water research, cyberphysical systems, computational and data sciences, management research, public policy and more.  IISc was previously focused on nanotech and other material science projects. Given the Covid-19 pandemic now, will you prioritise research in biological sciences and infectious diseases? Research at IISc has always been, and continues to be, diverse, spanning all areas of science and engineering. Even before the pandemic, research on infectious diseases and related areas was already going on at the Centre for Infectious Diseases Research as well as in other departments in the Division of Biological Sciences.  Oxford University in the UK has created a buzz with news that it is farthest along on a Covid-19 vaccine. Are there plans for IISc to collaborate with other scientific institutions to develop a vaccine?   At IISc, there is already a team actively working on developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with an IISc-incubated start-up called Mynvax. This is a recombinant sub-unit vaccine based on the spike protein of the Novel Coronavirus.  At the start of the epidemic in India, many IISc researchers kick-started projects ranging from ventilators to mobile vans to mathematical modelling of the outbreak to drug repurposing. Can we expect further projects to materialise? Our faculty members are continuing to work on these and other related projects. The focus now is on working closely with industry and government agencies to rapidly deploy these solutions.  The previous director, Professor Anurag Kumar introduced several initiatives to modernise IISc’s administration and infrastructure. Some student facilities are said to be particularly run-down. Internet infrastructure is also said to be outdated. Are there plans to upgrade infrastructure? All the initiatives that were introduced by Prof Anurag Kumar will be continued and strengthened. Two new ladies hostel blocks and a ‘makery’ for students have recently been built with generous support from corporate and philanthropic donors. A state-of-the-art undergraduate learning centre and additional modern hostels for both domestic and international students are being planned. Internet infrastructure is in the process of being upgraded. In particular, we are in the process of enabling wi-fi access in all student hostels.  How much funding is required to sustain the institute annually? In recent years, IISc has benefited immensely from generous contributions made by corporates, philanthropists and alumni. We will continue to expand our outreach programmes to engage more closely with them. Our current annual expenditure is approximately Rs 1,000 crore.  With social distancing regulations now becoming a part of routine life, how will teaching be carried out at the institute? Is remote teaching technology being considered? Discussion is still underway about how to conduct classes, although they are also likely to be conducted remotely. We are planning to use state-of-the-art online teaching aids and software to ensure that remote teaching does not compromise on the quality of instruction.   You have headed alumni outreach programmes and fundraising projects previously at IISc. Are there any plans to scale up such outreach programmes?  Alumni, industry partners and philanthropists are important stakeholders in the Institute’s advancement. While continued funding from the government is critical for IISc’s operations, support from non-government sources also plays an important role. Endowments and grants from donors allow us to provide sustained funding to strengthen our education programmes, facilitate research in new and emerging areas and upgrade infrastructure.  What will be the updated safety protocols at the labs? Detailed SOPs and protocols for reopening and running labs have already been drafted and put in place by the Office of Lab Safety and Environmental Health (OLSEH) at IISc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-iisc-director-wants-to-build-world-class-research-infrastructure-871917.html
11-08-2020||National||Mumbai put female figures on traffic signals, but some women are not impressed||At one of the most prominent street crossings in Mumbai, the little people in the signal lights have swapped their straight-legged trousers for triangular frocks. The government “is ensuring gender equality with a simple idea — the signals now have women, too,” wrote Aaditya Thackeray, the tourism and environment minister for Maharashtra state, of which Mumbai is the capital. But critics called the move a superficial token that would do little to fix entrenched issues of gender inequality in India. While women have occupied powerful positions in the country — Indira Gandhi became India’s first female prime minister — instances of high-profile violence against women in public have left many reluctant to leave home unaccompanied after dark. And domestic abuse and sexual assault are the most common crimes against women and girls, according to government statistics. Women in India also face obstacles in education and employment. For every 100 boys in the country, only 73 girls are enrolled in secondary schools, according to government statistics. And women work fewer paid hours than men, bearing the brunt of unpaid domestic labor. “It’s a gesture, but a tacky one,” said Pooja Sastry, a 32-year-old urban planner from Bangalore. “Those stick figures don’t make us feel any safer on the road.” “It means nothing for the average Indian woman, or a female construction worker crossing the road for her daily wage job,” she added. “The crime rate isn’t going to come down. Domestic violence isn’t going to come down.” A brutal gang rape on a Delhi bus in 2012 shook the country, setting off protests and discussions of women’s safety in cities. It also led to stricter punishment for crimes against women, including the death penalty for rape. But sexual assault, harassment and domestic violence have remained persistent. The country — which was found to be the most dangerous place for women when it comes to sexual violence and harassment, according to a 2018 Thomson Reuters Foundation poll of 550 global experts — reported 33,356 rapes and 89,097 assaults against women that year, according to government statistics. When Thackeray tried in January to introduce more night cafes and 24-hour gyms and movie theaters in Mumbai in an attempt to add vitality to city life, his political rivals from the Bharatiya Janata Party opposed the plan because they said it would make women more vulnerable to rape. “If culture of alcohol gets popular, it will lead to an increase in crime against women,” one party leader was quoted as saying at the time. India’s rollout of the new traffic icons followed similar decisions in other countries. Germany and Australia added dresses to pedestrian-crossing signs. Vienna swapped its solo figures for same-sex couples ahead of the Eurovision Song Contest in 2015 and kept them based on popular demand. In Geneva in February, officials not only replaced half the pedestrian-crossing signs with images of women — in a mix of pants and dresses — they also added silhouettes of a pregnant woman, an older woman, a woman with an Afro and two women holding hands. In Australia, when Melbourne added female figures to traffic lights in 2017, some residents contended it was regressive and heteronormative to assume the figure in pants was male while a figure in a dress was female, CNN reported. Other Indian cities have taken steps to try to increase safety for female travelers. Delhi, the capital, made public transportation free for women last year, a program that officials say has increased the number of female riders and added to their sense of security. “Safety is produced by more women in these spaces,” said Sneha Visakha, a legal researcher. Vijayshree Peddnekar, an urban planner and co-founder of the Urban Project, said on Twitter that she had suggested the idea to Kiran Dighavkar, an assistant commissioner. Dighavkar, who confirmed the idea came from the urban planning organization employed by his municipal office, told The Free Press Journal that the figures in dresses were intended to make people aware of their unconscious bias that assumes men as the default. “In subtle ways, the ‘man’ becomes the representation for everything around us,” he said. In response to criticism that the installation of traffic lights does not go far enough to improve the safety of women, Dighavkar said in an interview that it didn’t invalidate the intentions behind the signals. “It’s a small gesture towards gender equality and woman empowerment,” he said. “It’s a sign of how this city thinks. It depicts the character of the city.” Shilpa Phadke, a sociologist and co-author of “Why Loiter? Women and Risk on Mumbai Streets,” said that such symbols, when adopted widely, could play a valuable role in reinforcing women’s right to exist in public spaces, especially late at night. “If you have a number of such lights across the city, it sends a subliminal message that women belong there,” she said. Phadke and Sastry said that, ultimately, street lamps and well-lit women’s public toilets were more important than traffic icons wearing dresses. Visakha, the legal researcher, agreed that symbolism without larger change was not meaningful. She said she had laughed at the photos of the traffic lights because they indicated a lack of understanding of the real needs of women in cities.“We finally have a figure in a traffic signal so now women are equal to men,” she said of the stunt. “It’s so patronizing.”“If the cities continue to be hostile,” she added, “am I supposed to congratulate someone for pointing out that I belong to the city as well?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-put-female-figures-on-traffic-signals-but-some-women-are-not-impressed-871924.html
11-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 11||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 22 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 23,18,297 as of August 11 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  46,062   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-11-871931.html
11-08-2020||National||In a 1st, Indian tricolour to be hoisted at iconic Times Square in New York||A leading diaspora group in the US will hoist India’s National Flag at the Times Square this week, the first time the Indian tricolour will be unfurled at the iconic New York City destination. The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) of the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut said in a statement that it “will be creating history” on August 15, 2020 by “hosting the first ever flag hoisting ceremony at Times Square” to commemorate India’s Independence Day. “It will be the first time ever that India’s tricolour will be unfurled at the iconic venue in all its glory,” the organisation said, adding that Consul General of India in New York Randhir Jaiswal will be the Guest of Honour at the event. The FIA said this year’s Independence Day celebrations will include the flag-hoisting ceremony at Times Square and the annual tradition of illuminating the Empire State Building in hues of the tricolour - orange, white and green. The Empire State lighting ceremony will be held on August 14. “The Times Square flag hoisting ceremony is a testament to the Indian-American community’s growing patriotism and is a fitting tribute to the FIA which is celebrating its golden jubilee year,” the organisation said. Established in 1970, the FIA is among the largest umbrella diaspora organisations. In July, Ankur Vaidya was appointed the FIA Chairman, succeeding prominent Indian-American community leader Ramesh Patel who passed away due to complications from coronavirus. Vaidya, 40, has been long associated with the FIA and was the President of the umbrella diaspora organisation for the year 2014. He is the youngest member of the Board and the youngest to be chosen as its chairman. The Consulate General of India in New York will host a virtual Independence Day celebration on August 15 in which it has invited "members of the Indian community and friends of India" for the commemoration that will be live streamed. The FIA annually organises its flagship event - the India Day Parade to mark India’s Independence Day in August. Top US political leaders, lawmakers as well as prominent members of the Indian-American community and celebrities from India have participated in the annual parade that draws a crowd of thousands in the heart of Manhattan each year. This year, however, the parade will not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-1st-indian-tricolour-to-be-hoisted-at-iconic-times-square-in-new-york-871958.html
11-08-2020||National||Single-day Covid-19 cases dip below 55,000, recovery rate rises to 69.8%||Covid-19 cases in India dipped below 55,000 in a single day on Tuesday after the country recorded over 60,000 cases daily for four days on the trot, according to the Union Health Ministry data. With the fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 22.68 lakh, while the recoveries have surged to  15,83,489, pushing the recovery rate to 69.80 per cent. The total coronavirus cases in the country have increased to 22,68,675 with 53,601 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 45,257 with 871 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The case fatality rate dropped below 2 per cent and was recorded at 1.99 per cent as on date. India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. There are 6,39,929 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which comprise 28.21 per cent of the total caseload in the country. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,45,83,558 samples have been tested up to August 9, with 4,77,023 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-covid-19-cases-dip-below-55000-recovery-rate-rises-to-698-871961.html
11-08-2020||National||Necessary to implement MGNREGA, NYAY; will boost economy: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said it is necessary to implement a scheme like MGNREGA and the party-proposed minimum income guarantee scheme NYAY to help those suffering due to unemployment in cities and the poor across the country. The Congress has been urging the government to scale up the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and expand its scope to meet the growing work demand in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Gandhi asserted that implementing the two schemes would also be beneficial for the economy. "It is necessary to implement a scheme like MGNREGA for those suffering due to unemployment in cities, and the NYAY scheme for the poor people across the country," the former Congress chief tweeted. It will also be very beneficial for the economy, he said. "Will the suit-boot-loot government be able to understand the pain of the poor?" Gandhi said. He also shared a graph showing an increase in MGNREGA demand. During the lockdown period in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the Congress repeatedly demanded that the government should deposit a sum of Rs 7,500 in all Jan Dhan accounts, all pension accounts and all PM-Kisan accounts to help the poor and vulnerable tide over the crisis. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress had proposed, and promised to implement the NYAY (Nyuntam Aay Yojana) scheme if voted to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/necessary-to-implement-mgnrega-nyay-will-boost-economy-rahul-gandhi-871966.html
11-08-2020||National||Expert committee on Covid-19 vaccine administration to meet on Wednesday||An expert committee under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul will meet on Wednesday to consider the logistics and ethical aspects of procuring and administering the Covid-19 vaccine, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The committee on vaccine administration will engage with all the stakeholders including state governments and vaccine manufacturers, the ministry said in a tweet. The committee would chalk out strategies on the aspects of prioritisation of the vaccine administration once it is developed, rollout and cold chain logistics and training of the people who would be administering it. "The Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration under the chairmanship of Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog will meet on 12th August to consider logistics & ethical aspects of procurement & administration of Covid-19 vaccine," the ministry tweeted. The phase-1 human clinical trials of the two Covid-19 vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and Zydus Cadila Ltd, have been completed and the trials have moved to phase 2, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said last Tuesday. The Serum Institute of India, Pune has also been permitted for conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Oxford University-developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country. India's Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 22,68,675 while the death-toll mounted to 45,257, according to the Health ministry data updated at 8 am on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-committee-on-covid-19-vaccine-administration-to-meet-on-wednesday-871969.html
11-08-2020||National||DGCA suspends two senior executives of AirAsia India over safety violations||Aviation regulator DGCA has suspended two senior executives of AirAsia India for a period of three months over "safety violations", said a senior official on Tuesday. The suspension was carried out a week ago, the official said. In June this year, one of the AirAsia India's former pilots -- who runs a YouTube channel called Flying Beast -- alleged violations of safety norms by the low-cost airline. "We had issued a show cause notice to two AirAsia India executives -- Head of Operations Manish Uppal and Head of Flight Safety Mukesh Nema -- in June only. It has been decided now to suspend them for a period of three months," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) official said. AirAsia India did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. Captain Gaurav Taneja, a popular Youtuber, tweeted on June 14 that he has been suspended by AirAsia India "for standing up for safe operations of an aircraft and its passengers". On June 15, he posted a detailed video on YouTube titled "Reasons behind suspension from my pilot job". Taneja alleged in the video that the airline has asked its pilots to do 98 per cent of landings in "Flap 3" mode, which allows it to save fuel. He said if a pilot does not do 98 per cent of landings in "Flap 3" mode, the airline considers it a violation of its standard operating procedure (SOP). Flaps are part of wings of an aircraft and they are engaged to create a drag during a landing or a take-off. Taneja gave the example of the Imphal airport, where the plane descends more steeply as compared to other airports when approaching for landing. He said when an aircraft is coming down steeply, it needs to have a drag so that it remains slow, and in these circumstances a pilot has to do a "Flap full" landing. “In order to achieve targets, what would people do? They will do Flap 3 landings without giving consideration whether it is safe or unsafe. This directly impacts the passenger safety," he had claimed in his YouTube video. "If something happens during a Flap 3 landing, then the question would be asked to the pilot if he or she cares more about saving fuel or 180 passengers'' lives, Taneja had said. On June 15, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Twitter that it had taken note of the concerns raised by some stakeholders "against a particular airline and its approach to safety". "DGCA has already started an investigation into the issues flagged and shall take appropriate action based on the outcome of the said investigation," it added. Senior DGCA officials had confirmed on June 15 itself that AirAsia India was under investigation after Taneja's allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-suspends-two-senior-executives-of-airasia-india-over-safety-violations-871972.html
11-08-2020||National||4G ban to be lifted in Jammu and Kashmir after August 15 on trial basis: Centre to SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that 4G internet services can be allowed on a trial basis in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions after August 15. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted before a bench, presided over by Justice N V Ramana, that the central committee would review the outcome of trial after a two-month period. The impact would also be examined by the state level committees periodically, at least once in seven working days. He, however, clarified that any opening on the trial basis should not be in any area adjoining the International Border or Line of Control. "The area should have low intensity of terrorist activities and minimum spillover effect on neighbouring areas," he said.  Taking his submission into consideration, the bench closed a contempt petition against the top officials of the Union government and the Jammu and Kashmir administration. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for the NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' submitted that the decision is a step forward. He, however, insisted on making public the decision of the review committee. The court asked the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration to file its reply within two weeks, including that on a plea to review the decision every five days. An affidavit filed by the Union government in the contempt petition pointed out that the special committee, which held its meeting on August 10, concluded that given the current security scenario, both in Jammu and Kashmir and in neighbouring areas, "the overall situation is still not conducive to lifting the limited restrictions on high speed internet through mobile devices while allowing broadband and 2G across the board". However, the Special Committee was of the view that the present situation would permit a "carefully calibrated easing of some restrictions in limited and specified geographical areas which are comparatively less sensitive from national, internal, and border security and public order standpoint, subject to strict monitoring and periodical review". The government also maintained that internet speed-related restrictions were not posing any hindrance to Covid control measures, access to education programmes and business activities. "There is adequate access to internet through broadband services available over landline to business and health care institutions," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4g-ban-to-be-lifted-in-jammu-and-kashmir-after-august-15-on-trial-basis-centre-to-sc-871973.html
11-08-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind lauds M Venkaiah Naidu for completing three years as Vice-President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday complimented Venkaiah Naidu on completing three years of the vice presidency, saying his public conduct is always guided by an innate impulse to reach out to the last person in the queue to build an inclusive and stronger India. Naidu was sworn in as the Vice President on this day in 2017. "As Vice President, you have already emerged as an inspiration for posterity to learn from your ability to transform a mix of wisdom, energy and spirited enthusiasm into creative solutions for sustained nation building," Kovind said in a letter to Naidu. He said Naidu, as chairman of the Rajya Sabha, has set the record of conducting legislative business on an unprecedented scale. It is a tribute to your genius and bipartisanship, the President said. "Your profound understanding of law and the Constitution has enabled you to take a righteous approach in public service. Your public conduct is always guided by an innate impulse to reach out to the last person in the queue, to build and inclusive and stronger India," Kovind said in the letter, a copy of which was tweeted by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. "On the completion of the third year of your Vice-Presidency, I pray for your good health and convey my best wishes to you and your family," the President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-lauds-m-venkaiah-naidu-for-completing-three-years-as-vice-president-871982.html
11-08-2020||National||Users in India can now create virtual business cards on Google Search||Google on Tuesday (August 11) launched a new feature that allows users in India to create 'People Cards', which are like virtual visiting cards, making it easier for them to build an online presence and discover others. The India-first feature, which has been in testing for a couple of years, will allow users to create a virtual visiting card on Google Search, and highlight their existing website or social profiles and information that they would like others to know, Google Search Product Manager Lauren Clark said. "The new feature is aimed at helping the millions of individuals, influencers, entrepreneurs, prospective employees, self-employed people, freelancers, or anyone else out there who wants to be discovered and help the world find them. Starting today, users across India can discover the People Cards on their mobile phones, in English," she said. When a user searches for someone's name and a Card is available, they will see a module with the name, profession, and location and then tap on the Card, she said. For people who share the same name, the Search will show multiple modules, and unique information can help users distinguish between different individuals to find accurate information. Clark said Google has put together a variety of protections and controls to maintain the quality of information on People Cards. "The safeguards include mechanisms to protect against abusive or offensive content, and limiting the experience with only one People Card allowed per Google Account. For every new card, the user must authenticate the account with a unique mobile number," she said adding that in some cases, additional information may be required for verification. Clark said People Card creators must comply with content policies, and the company uses a combination of human reviews and automated techniques to flag policy-violating content. "We have strict impersonation policies and People Cards are tied to a user's Google account and phone number which is an effective deterrent to many spammers," she said. Besides, the feedback button can be used to identify and report low-quality information or a Card that they believe was created by an impersonator. Users will have complete control over the information to be included on the Card and can opt-out of the feature, following which their details will stop appearing in search. She said users are reminded that the information shared is public when these cards are being created or updated. To create a People Card, users need to log into your Google Account, search for their name, or 'add me to Search' on their mobile phones and tap the prompt that appears. To start building their People Card, users can choose to include the image from their respective Google account, add a description of themselves, links to their website or social profiles, and a phone number or email address. Both creations of the Card and display of results will be available only on mobile phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/users-in-india-can-now-create-virtual-business-cards-on-google-search-871990.html
11-08-2020||National||Daughters have equal rights over parental property under the amended Hindu Succession Act: SC||In an important judgment, the Supreme Court on Tuesday held that daughters would have equal rights to inherit ancestral property as sons in a Hindu Undivided Family, saying the amendment in law in 2005 would have retrospective effect. It said the daughters would have coparcenary rights in joint Hindu family property even if the father died before the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act 2005. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah said the provisions contained in substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 conferred the status of coparcener on the daughter born before or after amendment in the same manner as a son with the same rights and liabilities. Pronouncing the judgment, Justice Mishra said, "once a daughter always a daughter and a son is a son till he is married. The daughter shall remain coparcener throughout life irrespective of the fact whether the father is alive or not." Coparcener is a person who assumed a legal right in parental property by birth only. The bench said, "the rights can be claimed by the daughter born earlier with effect from September 9, 2005...Since the right in coparcenary is by birth, it is not necessary that father coparcener should be living as on September 9, 2005." The court said the amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 granting equal rights to daughters to inherit ancestral property would have retrospective effect. The court directed that the appeals on the issue were pending before different High Courts and subordinate courts, already delayed due to legal imbroglio caused by conflicting decisions, should be decided within a period of six months. The judgment by the three-judge bench came on a reference by conflicting verdicts rendered by two division bench of the court. The Union government, led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, submitted the daughters have been given the right of a coparcener, to bring equality with sons, and the exclusion of daughter from coparcenary was discriminatory and led to oppression and negation of fundamental rights. "The Amendment Act, 2005, is not retrospective but retroactive in operation since it enables the daughters to exercise their coparcenary rights on the commencement of the Amendment Act," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daughters-have-equal-rights-over-parental-property-under-the-amended-hindu-succession-act-sc-872000.html
11-08-2020||National||Poet Rahat Indori tests positive for coronavirus, hospitalised||Noted poet and lyricist Rahat Indori on Tuesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. He is admitted in the ICU of a hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, an official said. "After initial symptoms of COVID-19, my corona test was done yesterday which came out positive. Pray that I defeat this disease as soon as possible," Indori, 70, tweeted.   कोविड के शरुआती लक्षण दिखाई देने पर कल मेरा कोरोना टेस्ट किया गया, जिसकी रिपोर्ट पॉज़िटिव आयी है.ऑरबिंदो हॉस्पिटल में एडमिट हूँदुआ कीजिये जल्द से जल्द इस बीमारी को हरा दूँ एक और इल्तेजा है, मुझे या घर के लोगों को फ़ोन ना करें, मेरी ख़ैरियत ट्विटर और फेसबुक पर आपको मिलती रहेगी. He is undergoing treatment in Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences, where the chest department head Dr Ravi Dosi told PTI that the poet has pneumonia and is being given oxygen. Indori's son said his father is suffering from chronic ailments like heart disease and diabetes. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a tweet wished Indori a speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poet-rahat-indori-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-hospitalised-872003.html
11-08-2020||National||SC raps lawyer for questioning commission probing Vikas Dubey encounter||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rapped an advocate for questioning sanctity of Justice B S Chauhan-headed Inquiry Commission, formed by the Uttar Pradesh government to probe gangster Vikas Dubey encounter case. The advocate had raised concerns about the fairness of the probe as brother of former top court's judge is an MLC of the ruling BJP party. A bench presided over by Chief Justice said there are judges whose relatives are in Parliament. Are they not fair? There are judges whose father is an MP. They are not fair judges? Is belonging to a political party an illegal act, the bench asked advocate petitioner Ghanshyam Upadhyay. The lawyer pointed out several articles, raising doubts about fairness of the inquiry commission headed by Justice Chauhan. "We will not cast aspersion on a former judge of this court on the basis of a newspaper report," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, contended that the plea contained derogatory materials. The counsel then pointed out Uttar Pradesh was fast becoming a state of encounters. They were upsetting the entire legal system. There was an encounter of one Rakesh Pandey a few days ago, he said. On this, the bench said these were irrelevant materials as thousand of crime would happen in a state, questioned what it had to do with the present matter on setting up the inquiry commission. The court, however, asked the counsel to give suggestions in writings and reserved its order. On July 22, the top court had approved a proposal by Uttar Pradesh government to allow Justice Chauhan to head the inquiry panel to probe into incidents of July 2 leading to killings of eight policemen in Kanpur and subsequent encounter of gangster Dubey, who faced 64 criminal cases, and his henchmen till July 10. On a suggestion by the court, the state government had then reconstituted the previously-formed panel headed by former judge of Allahabad High Court, Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal. It had also included former DGP K L Gupta in the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-raps-lawyer-for-questioning-commission-probing-vikas-dubey-encounter-872012.html
11-08-2020||National||NEP’s proposal will not address issue of rote learning: Manish Sisodia||The proposal in the new National Education Policy (NEP) to make board exams easy will not address the issue of rote learning because the education system will continue to be a slave of the evaluation system, according to Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Sisodia, who is also Delhi's education minister, said the policy fails to address the need of improving the public education system and focuses on private education, and some of the reforms outlined are part of "wishful thinking". "Our education system has always been a slave of our evaluation system, and it will continue to be so. The plan to make board exams easy is not going to address the root cause of the problem which is the focus on rote learning. The emphasis will still be on year-end exams, the need is to do away with the concept of evaluating students at the end of the session, be it easy or difficult," Sisodia told PTI in an interview. "By saying that board exams will be easy, we are not moving towards focus on knowledge application. The policy fails to address this issue. Some of the reforms proposed are good too and in fact, we have already been working on them, but some of them are just part of a wishful thinking," he added. Asserting that the policy, which has been revised after decades, does not focus on government schools, Sisodia said, "There is no mention at all about what can be done or what will be done to improve the state of public schools in the country. Does that mean all initiatives will be successfully implemented in private schools and colleges and that is the only way out?" "The policy says philanthropic participation will be encouraged. Almost all big chains of schools and even higher educational institutions are based on a philanthropic model only, which the Supreme Court has already referred to as 'teaching shops'. So are we going to encourage that only? Why did we need a new policy then," he asked. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet last month replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in schools and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Teaching up to Class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions, except for law and medical colleges, and common entrance tests for universities are part of the sweeping reforms in the new NEP. Replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping M.Phil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions are among other salient features of the new policy. "The policy is bringing wishful thinking that six per cent of GDP should be implemented. If we do not have a plan to implement what has been proposed, then words are just words. I have raised multiple times that there should be a law mandating the states as well as the central government about a fixed GDP percentage allocation for education, but even the policy fails to address to that,” Sisodia said. Asked about teaching in mother tongue or regional languages proposed by the NEP, Sisodia said, "I totally agree that the medium of instruction should be the home language in the initial years so that the foundation is strong, but I believe it should be limited to the foundation years or the pre-primary stage. Taking it up to Class 5 is not a good idea." Sisodia also came down heavily on the proposal of a common entrance exam for universities to be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). "Why do we need this duplication? We already have so much focus on board exams and immediately after that we will have another exam? The focus only on exams will in no way take the emphasis away from rote learning. In my view, it has to be either of the exams," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-s-proposal-will-not-address-issue-of-rote-learning-manish-sisodia-872021.html
11-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's condition worsens, on ventilator support post surgery: Army hospital||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has worsened and he remains on ventilator support, the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent brain surgery. Mukherjee, 84, has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened, the Army Research and Referral Hospital said in a statement. “He remains on ventilatory support,” the statement said. A medical examination revealed a large brain clot for which he underwent an emergency life-saving surgery. “Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s health continues to remain critical at the Army Hospital (R&R) Delhi Cantt,” the statement said. Mukherjee, the 13th President of India, had tweeted on Monday, before going into surgery, that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and asked all who came in contact with him to self-isolate and get tested. Mukherjee demitted office in 2017 and maintains an active public life, attending occasional public events, and advising the government through statements, the latest being on the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-condition-worsens-on-ventilator-support-post-surgery-army-hospital-872026.html
11-08-2020||National||India sending more relief, humanitarian materials to Lebanon||India is sending more relief and humanitarian materials, including medicines and foodstuff, to Lebanon after a massive explosion last week devastated parts of Beirut, killing more than 160 people and injuring 6,000 others. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti offered deep condolences on behalf of the Government and people of India to Lebanon on “this terrible human tragedy". "We are shocked by the loss of human lives and the widespread destruction this has caused in Beirut. We pray for strength to families to overcome their great loss,” Tirumurti said on Monday at a briefing on the humanitarian situation in Lebanon. Tirumurti said India just recently sent Lebanon essential medical items to combat Covid-19. “We are immediately sending more relief and humanitarian material of medicines, foodstuff and other essential items to do whatever we can to alleviate the difficulties on the ground. We are discussing with the Government of Lebanon on how we can contribute further,” he said. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres also paid condolences to the families and loved ones of at least 160 people who were killed, and wished a full recovery to about 6,000 others injured in the explosion on August 4, which sent shockwaves across the bustling city of Beirut, bursting  out windows and shaking buildings. Tirumurti recalled that he had paid an official visit to the “beautiful city of Beirut” last year, and said it is difficult for him to imagine that this vibrant and bustling city has been affected by the blast. “I admire the resilience of the people and the dedication of the rescue workers to cope with this tragedy,” he said. India has had traditionally close and historical relations with Lebanon, including through Indian peacekeepers in the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), Tirumurti said, adding that “I would like to express our solidarity with Lebanon at this juncture.” Guterres said almost a week after the blast, many people remain missing. Buildings were damaged for miles around the city of Beirut after 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilisers, stored at the port for six years, reportedly caused the explosion. A plane carrying 20 tonnes of World Health Organisation health supplies landed in Beirut on Wednesday to cover 1,000 trauma interventions and 1,000 surgical interventions for people suffering from injuries and burns as a result of the blast. Further, within hours of the blast, the Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon released USD 9 million from the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund to address immediate needs. Last Friday, the Emergency Relief Coordinator released a further USD 6 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund. UN General Assembly President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande said the devastating impact of last week’s tragedy makes it imperative for the international community to stand beside the people of Lebanon who have generously hosted thousands of refugees for years. "We must respond by providing the necessary humanitarian assistance to alleviate the immediate suffering and to support the Lebanese people as they embark on the road to recovery. The needs are enormous and great.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sending-more-relief-humanitarian-materials-to-lebanon-872040.html
11-08-2020||National||Cricketer Jadeja's wife caught without mask, argues with cops||Wife of cricketer Ravindra Jadeja entered into an argument with a police constable in Gujarat's Rajkot after the latter asked her the reason for not wearing a mask, police said on Tuesday. The cricketer was driving the car at the time of the incident on Monday night. While he was wearing a mask, his wife Rivaba wasn't, a senior officer said. The cricketer's wife had a heated argument with head constable Sonal Gosai when the latter stopped her car at Kisanpara Chowk after noticing that she was not wearing a mask, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Manoharsinh Jadeja told PTI. "Our primary investigation has revealed that Rivaba Jadeja was not wearing a mask. While it is a matter of investigation why the issue escalated, we have learnt that both the parties entered into a verbal spat," the DCP said. Following the argument, Gosai complained of uneasiness and was taken to a nearby hospital, he said. She was discharged after half an hour and is fine now, the officer said, adding that no FIR has been lodged as yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cricketer-jadejas-wife-caught-without-mask-argues-with-cops-872047.html
11-08-2020||National||Indian, Pakistani civil societies urge PMs to free fishermen, women prisoners on eve of Independence Day||Various civil society organizations and prominent citizens of India and Pakistan have jointly urged both PMs to release and repatriate all arrested fish workers and women prisoners of the other country from their custody on the eve of Independence Day. Fish workers get arrested for entering into other country's water ‘inadvertently’. The bodies have asked both the PMs to release them on ‘humanitarian grounds’. A letter requesting this was signed by prominent organizations like Pakistan-India Peoples’ Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD); South Asian Partnership (SAP); Legal Aid Office, Karachi; Edhi Foundation; Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum; Aman ki Asha; National Fishworkers’ Forum, Aaghaz-e-Dosti etc. The prominent persons include Admiral (R) L Ramdas, IA Rehman, Faisal Edhi, Syeda Hamid, Beena Sarwar, Anjum Rajabali, Teesta Setalvad, Tahseen, Karamat Ali, Haya Zahid, Anis Haroon, Tapan Bose, Vijayan MJ, Jatin Desai among others. The letter says, "Both countries regularly repatriate prisoners as a gesture of goodwill during Independent Day celebrations, or on the eve of major religious celebrations. Given the humanitarian crisis posed by Covid-19, we urge you to repatriate these prisoners so that they can reunite with their families.” Time and again both countries have accepted that these fishermen are innocent and they are never been involved in any illegal activities. Once arrested, they have to spend around two years in another country’s prison. They suffer and so do their families. The scenario of coastal villages is depressing as women wait for their husbands, brothers or son-in-laws to return. The lists exchanged by India and Pakistan on 1st July says 270 Indian fishermen and 54 civilian prisoners are in Pakistan's prisons. While 97 Pakistani fishermen and 265 Pakistani civilian prisoners are in various Indian prisons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-pakistani-civil-societies-urge-pms-to-free-fishermen-women-prisoners-on-eve-of-independence-day-872061.html
11-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate nears 70%, case fatality rate falls below 2%: Govt||Successful implementation of containment strategy, aggressive testing coupled with the standardized clinical management of critical patients have resulted in the rise of Covid-19 recovery rate to nearly 70 per cent while the case fatality rate has fallen below 2 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. With more patients recuperating and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have jumped to 15,83,489 with 47,746 patients getting discharged in a span of 24 hours, it said. The national recovery rate has risen to 69.80 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. The actual caseload of the country is the active cases (6,39,929) which is only 28.21 per cent of the total positive cases and they all are under active medical supervision, the ministry said. "With a consistent and sustained increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has reached nearly 9.5 lakh. India's test, track and treat strategy is showing the desired result - the gap between the percentage of recoveries and percentage of active cases of Covid-19 is growing every day," the ministry said. Focus on improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, use of non-invasive, improved and coordinated services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have resulted in seamless efficient patient management of Covid-19 patients, it said. "As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) has been low when compared to the global average. It has fallen below 2 per cent on Tuesday and currently stands at 1.99 per cent," the ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 22,68,675 with 53,601 new infections being reported in a day, while the death-toll climbed to 45,257 with 871 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the Health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-nears-70-case-fatality-rate-falls-below-2-govt-872067.html
11-08-2020||National||Civil society organisations urge PM Modi, Imran Khan to free fishermen and women prisoners on the eve of Independence Day||Various civil society organisations and prominent citizens of India and Pakistan have jointly urged Indian and Pakistani PMs to release and repatriate all arrested fish workers and women prisoners of each other's country from their custody coinciding with Independence Day. The fish workers get arrested for entering into other country's water ‘inadvertently’. They have asked both the PMs to release them on ‘humanitarian grounds’ on the occasion of their Independence Days. The letter is signed by prominent organizations like Pakistan-India Peoples’ Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD); South Asian Partnership (SAP); Legal Aid Office, Karachi; Edhi Foundation; Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum; Aman ki Asha; National Fishworkers’ Forum, Aaghaz-e-Dosti, etc. The prominent persons include Admiral (R) L Ramdas, IA Rehman, Faisal Edhi, Syeda Hamid, Beena Sarwar, Anjum Rajabali, Teesta Setalvad, Tahseen, Karamat Ali, Haya Zahid, Anis Haroon, Tapan Bose, Vijayan MJ, Jatin Desai among others. The letter says,” Both countries regularly repatriate prisoners as a gesture of goodwill during Independent Day celebrations, or on the eve of major religious celebrations. Given the humanitarian crisis posed by Covid-19, we urge you to repatriate these prisoners so that they can reunite with their families.” Time and again both the countries have accepted that these fishermen are innocents and they are never involved in any illegal activities. Once arrested, they have to spend around two years in another country’s prison. They suffer and so their families. The scenario of coastal villages is depressing as women wait for their husband, brother-in-law or son-in-law to return. The lists exchanged by India and Pakistan on 1st July says 270 Indian fishermen and 54 civilian prisoners are in Pakistan's prisons. While 97 Pakistani fishermen and 265 Pakistani civilian prisoners are in various Indian prisons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-society-organisations-urge-pm-modi-imran-khan-to-free-fishermen-and-women-prisoners-on-the-eve-of-independence-day-872069.html
11-08-2020||National||Floods, coronavirus dents India's tea output in first half in 2020||India's tea production in the first half of 2020 fell 26.4% from a year ago to 348.26 million kilograms (kg) as heavy floods and coronavirus movement restrictions curbed output in the main producing region, the state-run Tea Board said in a statement. Tea growing areas, notably Assam - which accounts for more than half the country's production - suffered flooding in May, June and July. Domestic prices have risen to a record high as a result, which may limit exports by the world's second-biggest producer, potentially enabling Kenya and Sri Lanka to ship more, multiple trade sources said. In June, India produced 138.52 million kilograms of tea, down 8% from a year ago as plucking was affected by floods in the north-eastern state of Assam, the Tea Board said. Sujit Patra, secretary at Indian Tea Association said a recovery in the crop was unlikely in the second half of the year. In July, weekly auction prices jumped to a record of 232.60 rupees ($3.12) per kg, up 57% from a year ago, according to the Tea Board. India's tea exports in the first five months of 2020 fell 26.6% from a year ago to 74.40 million kilograms, it said. The country exports CTC (crush-tear-curl) grade mainly to Egypt, Pakistan and the United Kingdom, with the orthodox variety shipped to Iraq, Iran and Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floods-coronavirus-dents-indias-tea-output-in-first-half-in-2020-872087.html
11-08-2020||National||Renowned Urdu poet Rahat Indori dies in Indore hospital||Famous Urdu poet Rahat Indori, who was being treated for COVID-19, died of a heart attack at the Aurobindo Hospital here on Tuesday, his son Satlaj Indori said. He was 70. The poet had been admitted to the hospital on Tuesday morning after he tested positive for the disease. "He was admitted for coronavirus treatment but passed away after suffering a heart attack," Satlaj Indori told PTI. In the morning, the lyricist-poet tweeted about his confirmed COVID-19 report and said he will keep everyone updated through social media. "After initial symptoms of COVID-19, my corona test was done yesterday which came out positive. Pray that I defeat this disease as soon as possible," Indori said in his last post. With a 50-year career in poetry, Indori was known for the lyrics of songs like "M Bole to" from Munnabhai MBBS (2003), and "Neend Churai Mei" from Ishq (1997). Earlier this year, his poem "Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi" went viral on social media, rendering him a sensation among the youth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renowned-urdu-poet-rahat-indori-dies-in-indore-hospital-872091.html
11-08-2020||National||States should give doorstep delivery of PDS ration in flood-hit areas: Paswan||Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Tuesday said state governments should adopt doorstep delivery of PDS ration to beneficiaries in flood-affected areas. Floods have caused havoc in some states like Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Kerala. Several parts of the country have received heavy rains and many rivers are flowing above the danger mark, aggravating an already dangerous situation. "Wherever there is a flood-like situation and people are leaving for safer places, the state governments should provide doorstep delivery of PDS ration," Paswan told PTI. The beneficiaries in flood-hit states are not able to access ration from the Public Distribution System (PDS). Such states should at least ensure doorstep delivery of ration in these difficult times, he said. The Central government provides 5 kg foodgrains at an highly subsidised rate of Rs 1-3 per kg to more than 81 crore beneficiaries across India under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). It is also supplying additional 5 kg foodgrains to each NFSA beneficiary and 1 kg pulses per family at free of cost under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGAY) till November to tide over the economic hardship created in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. "Poor beneficiaries in states facing flood-kind of situation should not be deprived of their basic ration. The states should take immediate steps in this regard," Paswan said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of widespread and very heavy rainfall in western Himalayan region, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan on Tuesday and Wednesday. There is a forecast for heavy rains till Friday in Gujarat and parts of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-should-give-doorstep-delivery-of-pds-ration-in-flood-hit-areas-paswan-872092.html
11-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Russia launches world's first Covid-19 vaccine; Modi sets 72-hour target to trace Covid-19 patients' contacts||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced that his country has developed first vaccine that “works quite effectively" and "forms a stable immunity" against Covid-19; Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a 72-hour target to trace and test people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 infected person and BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde stirs up another controversy by calling BSNL employees 'traitors'.  Here are the top news of today, Tuesday: August 11, 2020: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday announced that his country has developed the first vaccine that “works quite effectively" and "forms a stable immunity" against COVID-19 as he disclosed that one of his daughters has already been vaccinated. Putin made the claim during a government meeting where he described it as "a very important step for the world", the Sputniknews reported. He said that one of his daughters took part in the experiment and she was vaccinated against the coronavirus. "After the first vaccination, she had a body temperature of 38 degrees Celsius, while the following day it was slightly over 37 degrees Celsius, that's it. After the second injection, the second vaccination, her temperature also rose a little, and then everything cleared up, she feels good and the [antibody] titers are high,” Putin said. “It works quite effectively" and "forms a stable immunity," he said. Putin thanked everyone who worked on the first-ever vaccine against the coronavirus and hoped that Russia will be able to start mass production of this medication in the near future.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday set a 72-hour target to trace and test people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 infected person while emphasising that the country could emerge victorious in the fight against the pandemic if we could defeat the virus in 10 states that account for 80% of the cases. Modi's comments came during his video conference with Chief Ministers from nine states -- Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka which was represented by Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan. The Prime Minister noted that the number of daily tests, which has reached seven lakh now, is increasing continuously and this has helped in early identification and containment. He also noted that the percentage of active cases was reducing while the recovery rate is increasing. "These steps have boosted the confidence of people. The target of bringing down the fatality rate below 1% can be achieved soon," he told the Chief Ministers even as he emphasised the "urgent" need to ramp up testing in Bihar Bihar, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Telangana. Quoting experts, Modi said if the cases are identified in 72 hours, then the spread of the virus can be slowed down and emphasised the need to trace and test all those who had come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours.   Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has said that a 'deep and prolonged' economic slowdown in India due to the coronavirus pandemic is 'inevitable', and offered three steps to help fight the crisis, during an interview to the BBC. In the interview, Manmohan Singh said the government should "ensure people's livelihoods are protected and they have spending power through a significant direct cash assistance". He also said that adequate capital should be made available for businesses through "government-backed credit guarantee programmes", and the financial sector should be fixed through "institutional autonomy and processes". These three steps, he said, would help bring normalcy to the country in the coming years. "This economic slowdown is caused by a humanitarian crisis. It is important to see this from the prism of sentiments in our society and not mere economic numbers," Manmohan Singh said.   BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde stirred up another controversy, by calling BSNL employees 'traitors' who weren't willing to work to develop the beleaguered firm. More than 88,000 employees will be fired from the public sector unit (PSU), as government will privatise the company, he said. In a video of an event held Monday at Kumta in Uttara Kannada district, Hegde is heard saying, "BSNL has a system filled with traitors. I am using accurate words to describe them." He further says that even the Narendra Modi-led government was unable to address the problems faced by the PSU.  "The government has given money, people require services and there is infrastructure. Yet, they (BSNL employees) don't work. PM talks of Digital India, has provided funds and technology. Yet, they are not willing to work," he said, adding that the central government will repair the firm by privatising it. BSNL has become a black mark for the entire country and we will finish it. The central government will introduce disinvestment policy and close BSNL and the space will be occupied by private parties in the coming days, he added.   The Centre has told the Supreme Court that high speed 4G internet services can be allowed on a trial basis in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions after August 15. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted before a bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana that central committee would review the outcome of trial after two months period. The impact would also be examined by the state level committees periodically, at least once in seven working days. He, however, clarified that any opening on the trial basis should not be in any area adjoining the international border or line of control. "The area should have low intensity of terrorist activities and minimum spillover effect on neighbouring areas," he said. Taking his submission into consideration, the bench closed a contempt petition against the top officials of the Union government and the Jammu and Kashmir administration. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' submitted that the decision is a step forward. He, however, insisted for making public decision of the review committee. The court asked the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration to file its reply within two weeks, including on a plea to review the decision every five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-russia-launches-worlds-first-covid-19-vaccine-modi-sets-72-hour-target-to-trace-covid-19-patients-contacts-872099.html
11-08-2020||National||Government plans to promote renewable energy for public transport||The Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy is working on a proposal to powering city public transport from renewable sources. As per the plan, the Ministry will select few cities where tender will be floated to generate renewable energy through solar, wind, or hybrid, and using that to make hydrogen fuel or charging batteries to power the city transport buses. To begin with, the Ministry will select one or two cities for a pilot project with one for hydrogen another for recharging batteries. In the selected cities entire public transport system will run on renewable energy, said an official in the Ministry. The ministry is looking for per kilometer cost of city transport in renewable energy should be equal to or less than the present per kilometer cost of diesel-driven buses said an official in the Ministry. "The ministry will tie-up with state government and select cities for the pilot project. Running public transport using renewable energy would not only reduce the cost of operation but also helps reduce pollution," said the official.  At present some cities do operate some battery or alternative fuel buses in their public transport network,  which supplied under the Centrally sponsored Centre  Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid and) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India). The scheme launched in April 2015  to promote green vehicles in the public transport system. The government spent Rs 343 crore under Phase-I of FAME scheme launched 2015 and under Phase-II of FAME, which started April 1, 2019, the government plans to spend Rs 10,000 crore for a three-year period. In Phase-II,  the government aims to support through subsidies 7,000 e-Buses, five lakh electric three-wheelers, 55,000 electric four-wheeler passenger cars, and 10 lakh electric two-wheelers. India is aggressively pushing for renewable energy as the country aims to have around 60 % of its installed electricity generation capacity from clean sources by 2030. In September last year at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced increasing the renewable energy target to 450 GW by 2030 from 175 GW by 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-plans-to-promote-renewable-energy-for-public-transport-872100.html
11-08-2020||National||Covid-19 pandemic hits sale of national flag ahead of Independence Day||August 15 is near, but the sales of the tricolour at a `khadi' store here are yet to pick up amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Khadi Gramodyog Bhawan or `Khadi Bhandar' in Aurangabad sells national flags apart from various other products. "Every year the sales of flags go up to Rs 7-9 lakh rupees in August," said store manager Ramji Sawant. "But this year the sales have not yet reached even Rs one lakh yet," he told PTI on Tuesday. The manufacturing faced a hurdle when the supply chain was hit by lockdown, he said. The khadi cloth from which the flags are made is sourced from the Marathwada Khadi Gramodyog Samiti, the parent organisation of the khadi store, at Udgir in Latur district. Coloring is done in Ahmadabad, Gujarat, while stitching is done in Nanded, he said. This year the manufacturing came to a halt due to lockdown. Transportation too was an issue, Sawant said. "So we brought 700 flags in the beginning of this month against 1,500 last year. But so far we have sold only 40 pieces. "Last year we had sold around 1,200-1,300 flags in the run-up to Independence Day," he added. Overall sales of the outlet too have fallen to Rs 20,000 per day as compared to Rs 50,000 before lockdown, he said. "Customers are not buying clothes. They are buying only Ayurveda products (which also the shop sells) such as soap, shampoo, face wash and items of daily need," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-hits-sale-of-national-flag-ahead-of-independence-day-872106.html
11-08-2020||National||Bihar lacks jurisdiction in Sushant Singh Rajput death case, Maharashtra government tells SC||Bihar Police lacks jurisdiction in Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide case, the Maharashtra government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, while the late actor's father claimed that Mumbai Police was not probing the matter "in the right direction". The Bihar government told the top court that the FIR lodged in Patna in the case is legal and valid and alleged that there is non-cooperation from Maharashtra. It said that even Rajput's postmortem report was not given to Patna Police by Mumbai Police, and refuted the allegation of political pressure in the case. Reserving verdict on actress Rhea Chakraborty's plea, seeking transfer to Mumbai of the FIR lodged in Patna against her for allegedly abetting the suicide, the top court asked the parties concerned to file their written submissions, not more than two pages each, by August 13 in the case. During the nearly 3-hour hearing, a bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy was told by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Maharashtra, that there was complete lack of jurisdiction of Bihar in the case. Singhvi further said that he has never seen such sensationalisation being attached to a transfer petition and no complaint has been made out by Rajput’s father who has filed the FIR against Rhea in Patna. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Rajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh, said that his matter is only about proper investigation of the case and according to him Mumbai Police was not investigating in the right direction. He said the mark on Rajput's neck does not appear to be of hanging and it appears to be of a belt. Singh said the family of the deceased has not seen the body hanging and what they had seen was his body lying on the bed.   Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that no FIR has been lodged in Mumbai and unless an FIR is lodged under section 154 of CrPC and the concerned magistrate is intimated, there cannot be any investigation. He said that in the absence of any investigation pending in Maharashtra, there is no question of transfer of investigation. Mehta said the Enforcement Directorate was also probing certain matter in the case. At the outset, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Chakraborty, told the bench that the FIR lodged by Rajput's father has absolutely no connection with any offence in Patna.   He said there appears to be considerable amount of state interference, influence and therefore apprehension of bias.   Divan referred to the timeline in the case and said that there was considerable delay of over 38 days in lodging of the FIR at Patna. He referred to the complaint made by Rajput’s father to police in Patna and said that all averments mentioned in the complaint are relatable to Mumbai. The senior lawyer said that Mumbai Police had recorded statements of 56 persons in the case and the probe has proceeded quite substantially. Divan said that a huge parallel media trial is going on in the case. The bench told Divan that in Chakraborty's petition, there is a request related to the CBI investigation. “It is another aspect how the CBI will come in,” it said. Divan said he wanted a fair investigation by a fair investigating agency. He said there are considerable issues on how Bihar had recommended for a CBI probe and how subsequent orders were issued. "I (Rhea) stand by what I have stated in my petition and my additional affidavit,” he said. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for Bihar, told the bench that no FIR has been lodged in Mumbai yet with regard to Rajput's death and refuted the allegation of political pressure, bias and influence made by the actress. He strongly refuted the allegation that FIR was lodged at Patna at the behest of Bihar Chief minister. He also referred to quarantining of a senior police officer from Bihar in Mumbai.   On August 5, the top court had said that the truth behind the “unfortunate” death of the "gifted and talented artist" should come out. The Centre had apprised it of having accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe in the matter. The top court had directed Rajput’s father as also Bihar and Maharashtra to respond within three days to the plea of the Bollywood actress.   Mumbai Police, which has recorded the statements of 56 persons so far in the case, will have to apprise the top court about the progress made by it in the investigation. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles.  The police has recorded the statements of 56 persons including Bollywood directors like Aditya Chopra, Mahesh Bhatt and Sanjay Leela Bhansali. The FIR in Patna has been registered against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-lacks-jurisdiction-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-maharashtra-government-tells-sc-872111.html
11-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Mitu Singh appears before ED||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday recorded the statement of Mitu Singh, the sister of  Sushant Singh Rajput. The family of the late actor has levelled charges of money laundering against his live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her family members. This is for the first time, anyone from Sushant's family joined the ED probe. Mitu Singh stays in Mumbai and she was the only one from the family to rush to the duplex-flat at Bandra, in which Sushant was found dead. The ED had so far recorded the statements of Rhea, her brother Showik, their father Indrajit Chakraborty, ex-manager Shruti Mody, her chartered accountant Ritesh Shah,  and Sushant's flatmate Siddharth Pithani, house manager Samuel Miranda, chartered accountant Sandeep Shridhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajputs-sister-mitu-singh-appears-before-ed-872114.html
11-08-2020||National||Covid-19 hospital, where eight killed, didn't have fire NOC, fire alarm, says FIR||Police said that the FIR is based on investigation reports submitted by the fire department and forensic experts which have revealed that a short circuit in an electronic appliance caused the fire and gross negligence led to the tragic deaths. The reports, as mentioned in the FIR, has found that the hospital authority violated several fire safety norms and didn't have a fire NOC. The move came a day after a report on the fire was submitted by a two-member committee comprising Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban) Mukesh Puri on Monday. Meanwhile, the chief minister Vijay Rupani has also ordered a judicial probe into the incident by a retired Gujarat High Court judge. The FIR states that the hospital named "Shrey" didn't have a fire NOC and, therefore, the fire department couldn't do the hospital's fire audit or inspection. "Had these norms been followed, the anomaly in the fire fighting system could have been rectified but due to gross negligence of hospital administrators it couldn't be done which resulted in the loss of eight innocent lives," says the FIR registered on a complaint made by Assistant Commissioner of Police L B Jhala. According to the FIR, the hospital didn't have a fire alarm system due to which the staff couldn't get the information about fire in time. It was found that there were nearly two dozen fire extinguishers in the ICCU ward but the doctors and paramedical staff on duty couldn't use them as they didn't know how to use them. The FIR says, "such lacking also shows gross negligence on the part of the administrator." The FIR states, "despite such a serious incident, neither staff, supervisor or even manager of the hospital informed police or fire brigade in time." It says that "the information of the incident was given to police and fire brigade by the patients which again is grave negligence on part of the administrator." According to the FIR, "The windows on two walls each facing north and south directions had been affixed with screws for unknown reasons which blocked the ventilation. Due to fire and suffocation, as there was not enough ventilation, eight patients died in the ICCU ward." On August 6 early morning, eight of the coronavirus patients Arif Mansuri, Narendra Shah, Navneet Shah, Manu Rami, Leelvati Shah, Jyoti Sindhi, Manu Rami and Ayesha Tirmizi died in the incident at Shrey Hospital. Mahant has been booked under Indian Penal Code's section 304A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), section 336 (negligent or rash act to endanger lives), section 337, causing hurt to person by doing a rash or negligent act that endangers human life and section 338, causing grievous hurt by act endangering human life. Reports suggest that Mahant is associated with the BJP, however, he doesn't hold any official post. His father Vijaydas Mahant was ex-President of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hospital-where-eight-killed-didnt-have-fire-noc-fire-alarm-says-fir-872118.html
11-08-2020||National||Covid-19: 31 employees of ONGC's offshore facility test positive||As many as 31 of 91 employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) working at its offshore facility near Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus, a civic body official said on Tuesday. "These 31 employees had spent 15 days at the facility. They were found positive in the Covid-19 test conducted at a hospital in Mahim," said Assistant Municipal Commissioner, G North ward, Kiran Dighavkar. The ONGC has an offshore oilfield Mumbai High, which is located in the Arabian Sea, approximately 160 kms off the Mumbai coast. Dighavkar said the BMC has added these 31 staff members of the ONGC in the tally of cases from suburban Mahim as per the guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). G North ward has reported 6,613 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 1,908 patients are from Mahim and the rest from Dadar and Dharavi areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-31-employees-of-ongcs-offshore-facility-test-positive-872119.html
11-08-2020||National||SSR death case: SC reserves judgement on Rhea's plea to shift probe from Patna to Mumbai||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its judgement on a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty to transfer an FIR lodged by Patna police in the case of Sushant Singh Rajput's death after a three-hour-long high-pitched argument, with Bihar, Maharashtra and the Union government joining the legal battle. Sushant's father KK Singh, who lodged the FIR with the Patna police on July 25, accusing Rhea of cheating and swindling off money, questioned the Mumbai police's failure to even formally register a case. On his behalf, senior advocate Vikas Singh said, "A larger picture is I lost my son. Mumbai Police doesn't listen to me and take investigations to a completely different direction. On the fateful date, my daughter could enter into son's room after the body was reportedly brought down. Nobody in the family has seen his body hanging." He said the Mumbai Police summoned everyone else but not the real suspects or accused. The dead body itself will show marks on the neck, which could be of a belt. It has to be she who controlled everything and she had to be investigated but Mumbai Police was doing something else. Rhea' counsel senior advocate Shyam Divan said the FIR in Patna was lodged due to political bias and at the instance of Bihar Chief Minister, so there was a serious apprehension on the fairness of probe. He sought a direction to shift the investigation to Mumbai. He also asked the court's intervention to stop a media trial. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, representing the Maharashtra government, said the state was sought to be given a bad name in the entire episode. Principles of federalism will take a hit if the argument for lodging the FIR in Patna was accepted. "It is all about politics since Bihar has to go to elections, all this is happening," he said. Questioning the recommendation for a CBI probe, he said the consent by the state was mandatory for it. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for Bihar government, submitted that political pressure was working in Maharashtra in this case, so no FIR was registered till date. "Mumbai Police didn't cooperate with Bihar Police. It is they who have to hide several things," he said, referring to the forceful quarantine of IPS officer Vinay Tiwari. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta questioned the Mumbai police for recording statement of 56 witnesses without registering an FIR. He said the Enforcement Directorate was already investigating the matter. Once one central agency has registered a case, another central agency, CBI should be engaged. "The affidavit by Mumbai Police shows a foregone conclusion that it was a suicide. Truth has to be elicited. Investigations must take place in a manner which is fair, extensive and truth-eliciting," Mehta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-death-case-sc-reserves-judgement-on-rheas-plea-to-shift-probe-from-patna-to-mumbai-872132.html
11-08-2020||National||Indian Railways suspends all regular passenger train services indefinitely||The Railways has stated that all regular passenger train services will remain suspended till further notice, but 230 special trains will continue to be in service. “This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that as decided and informed earlier as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice," a statement from the Railways said. “It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. Local trains in Mumbai, which are presently being run on limited basis only on the requisition of state government, will also continue to run,” it said. The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis and additional special trains may be run based on the requirement, the national carrier said. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before the lockdown will remain suspended for the time being, it said. All special trains — 12 pairs running on the Rajdhani routes since May 12 and 100 pairs operating since June 1 — will continue. The limited special suburban services which began recently in Mumbai to ferry essential services personnel identified by the local authorities will also continue to run, officials said. Earlier, the national transporter had suspended all services till August 12. With the suspension of passenger trains indefinitely, Indian Railways has estimated a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in its passenger business for this fiscal. The extension of the suspension comes at a time when active Covid-19 cases in India stand at 6,39,929, while 15,83,489 people have recovered, according to the Union Health Ministry. On Tuesday, a single day spike of 53,601 Covid-19 cases pushed India's virus caseload to 22,68,675 with the death toll climbing to 45,257.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-suspends-all-regular-passenger-train-services-indefinitely-872136.html
11-08-2020||National||Why should Andhra need three capital cities, when UP has only one, asks Ram Madhav||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav on Tuesday wondered why three capital cities were needed for Andhra Pradesh when a state like Uttar Pradesh, four times more in population, had only one. He warned that the three capitals should not become a means for "triple corruption" and exhorted the BJP rank and file in AP to fight against corruption and also be in the forefront of the fight to protect the interests of Amaravati farmers who gave up their land for the capital city development. Madhav maintained that the Centres role in the capitals issue was only limited. "Even now if the state wants to take some decision on the capital, the Centres role in that will only be limited. But it doesnt mean..if they want to build three capitals, it should not be questioned," he said, addressing a BJP event in Vijayawada on Tuesday. He observed that the three capitals issue was now sub-judice (under judicial consideration). The Union Ministry of Home Affairs filed a counter-affidavit in the High Court last week on the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy governments decision to establish three capitals for the state Executive in Visakhapatnam, Legislative in Amaravati and Judicial in Kurnool. "The Centres stand is a constitutional response. Lets see what the courts decide," Madhav said. The BJP general secretary recalled that Hyderabad was supposed to be the joint capital (of AP and Telangana, post-bifurcation in 2014) for 10 years but the previous Chief Minister (Chandrababu Naidu) "came running" to Vijayawada. "The government functioned from rented offices. Did the Centre interfere? The CM functioned from a bus, did the Centre interfere? When Amaravati was declared as the capital, did the Centre say no," Madhav asked. Rather, the Centre gave Rs 2,500 crore to AP to build the (new) capital. "It was no interference from the Centre.It only fulfilled its responsibilities," he pointed out. "Which Indian state has three capitals? UP has four times more population than AP but has only one capital, Lucknow. Is not the administration there running smoothly," he asked. But if the three capitals idea was mooted against the so-called corruption (by the previous government) in Amaravati, BJP should fight against the corruption in the three capitals as well, he said. "This should not become a tool for triple corruption.BJP should be in the forefront in the fight to protect the interests of Amaravati farmers (who gave up their lands). The three capitals should not lead to corruption," he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-should-andhra-need-three-capital-cities-when-up-has-only-one-asks-ram-madhav-872140.html
11-08-2020||National||Who should get Covid-19 vaccine first? Panel of health experts to meet today||As Russia rolled out its first coronavirus vaccine on Tuesday, a panel of top Indian health experts is scheduled to meet on Wednesday to chart out guidelines on who should get the first injections and how to ensure adequate stocks of the vaccines. The National Expert Group of Vaccine Administration, chaired by V K Paul, member of Niti Ayog, is scheduled to deliberate upon suitable vaccines for India and how to procure them and ensure logistics for making it available throughout the country. “The terms of reference of the expert group include selecting a suitable vaccine, its delivery, prioritising groups that should receive it,” Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters here. He said the expert group has also been mandated to identify financial resources for procurement of the vaccine, issues related to equity of access and logistics such as cold chain and related matters. The expert group will hold discussions with state governments and vaccine manufacturers in this regard, Bhushan said. All over the world, experts are battling the dilemma of “equitable, fair and transparent” methods to allocate vaccines. Expert panels have been set up to decide on whether healthcare workers or most vulnerable populations should get the first shot at vaccination. Bhushan said the better clinical management of Covid-19 patients has resulted in an increase in the recovery rate to nearly 70% and a fall in the case fatality rate below 2%.  “The case fatality rate (CFR) currently stands at 1.99%,” he said. The CFR was more than 3% in June. In India, two vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and Zydus Cadila Ltd, have been phase I trials and have moved to phase II, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said last week. The Oxford vaccine, expected to be manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has received approvals for Phase II and III trials. Russian President Vladimir Putin has launched a Covid-19 vaccine, touted as the world's first such vaccine with one of his two daughters receiving the first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-should-get-covid-19-vaccine-first-panel-of-health-experts-to-meet-today-872144.html
11-08-2020||National||Indian child workers' deaths spur anti-trafficking push||Rajasthan state is mounting a major campaign to stop children being trafficked across its borders after three child victims who were rescued from factories died from malnutrition. Extra checkpoints are being set up to stop traffickers and authorities have told police to conduct monthly drives against child labour, according to an order from the Rajasthan government seen by the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The state is known for its handicraft industry and authorities are concerned about a rise in child labour as coronavirus restrictions are eased and work restarts. "We have been continuously rescuing children in the last few weeks and unfortunately three of them died because of malnourishment," said a police officer who asked not to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media. "The factory owner would tell people the child workers were family, but was obviously not feeding them or treating them properly during the lockdown. Two owners have been arrested but there are more, who just see children as cheap labour." It is illegal to employ anyone under 15 in India, but children are permitted to support family businesses outside of school hours. This provision is widely exploited by employers and human traffickers, child rights campaigners say, with thousands of children born into poverty being trafficked to work as slaves in factories and farms. Police and transport officials have been told to verify the movement of every child to prevent the trafficking of child workers from poor states such as Bihar in eastern India. The drive will last through August, said Ravi Prakash Meharda, the police officer in charge of civil rights and anti-trafficking in the state. The southern state of Tamil Nadu has taken similar measures after more than 100 adolescents were rescued from a spinning mill following a tip-off to staff at Childline, a toll-free helpline for children. Child welfare committee officials said conditions at the mill "were not proper and they were not properly paid". Tamil Nadu's highest court said last week that child labour was "rampant" in the state, calling the spinning mill case "only the tip of the iceberg". It directed police, labour and child welfare officials to be vigilant and conduct frequent raids. India has launched multiple campaigns to check child labour in recent years, cracking down on factories where children are hired to make bangles and shoes or sew on sequins. About 175,000 children in India have been removed or rescued from work and given support since 2016, government data shows. "The campaigns have not been totally successful and the problem continues because there is demand and there is impunity for violators," said Suresh Kumar, executive director of the Bihar-based child protection charity Centre DIRECT. "In one of the recent Rajasthan deaths, the child's family in Bihar could not even afford to bring the body back and requested that he be cremated there only. The state didn't step up either to send the body home. It tells you a lot."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-child-workers-deaths-spur-anti-trafficking-push-872152.html
11-08-2020||National||MoD-DAC approves deals worth Rs 8,722 crore, IAF to buy 106 basic trainer aircraft from HAL||The Defence Ministry on Tuesday approved military procurement worth Rs 8,722 crore including the purchase of 106 HTT-40 Basic Trainer Aircraft developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, giving a push to the indigenous programme. The Defence Acquisition Council, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh cleared a Rs 7,600 crore deal to purchase the homemade trainer aircraft, which was virtually written off till a few years ago. The turn-around moment for the indigenous plane came five years after Indian Air Force was all set to order more Swiss origin Pilatus basic trainer aircraft – currently used by the IAF to train rookie pilots – due to a disappointing development history of HTT-40. But as the BJP-led government rooted for domestic manufacturing in the defence sector, the IAF changed its course to support the indigenous trainer. Last November Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flew in the indigenous trainer for an hour, giving a moral boost to the programme. As per the plan, the HAL would initially supply 70 such aircraft, post-certification, while the remaining 36 would come after operationalisation of the HTT-40 fleet in the IAF, said a defence ministry official. The initial certification for HTT-40, sources said, was planned by the year-end. The company claims that HTT-40 has completed all major test points and meets the Preliminary Staff Qualitative Requirements issued by Air Headquarters for the BTA programme. It has successfully completed stalls, engine relights, inverted flying, acrobatic flying, and systems testing. The shortage of basic and intermediate trainer aircraft remains a major concern for the IAF training programme as HAL failed to deliver on both counts in a time-bound manner. The DAC also approved upgrading the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle in which an effort would be made to arm the existing Heron UAVs. The panel also gave its nod to speed up procurement of Kalashnikov (AK-203) assault rifle that would be manufactured at an ordnance factory at Korwa. India and Russia had signed an agreement on that last year. To improve the firepower of the Indian Navy, the DAC approved the procurement of an upgraded version of Super Rapid Gun Mount, which is fitted as the main gun on-board Navy and Indian Coast Guard warships. The upgraded version of SRGM has enhanced capability to perform against fast maneuvering targets like missiles and Fast Attack Crafts and increase the maximum engagement range. The DAC also approved the procurement of 125 mm APFSDS (Armour Piercing Fin Stabilized Discarding Sabot) ammunition for the Indian Army as a ‘Design and Development Case’. The ammunition being procured will have a 70% indigenous content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mod-dac-approves-deals-worth-rs-8722-crore-iaf-to-buy-106-basic-trainer-aircraft-from-hal-872157.html
11-08-2020||National||Govt releases Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states||The Centre on Tuesday released Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states as the monthly instalment of post-devolution revenue deficit grant. “The government on August 11, 2020, released Rs 6,195.08 crore to 14 states as the fifth equated monthly instalment of the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. This would provide them additional resources during the Corona crisis,” the Office of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. The Finance Commission provides a mechanism for the Centre to compensate for any revenue loss incurred by states, which is referred to as the post-devolution revenue deficit grant. The 14 states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. A similar amount was released as grant in April-July period of the current financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-releases-rs-6195-crore-to-14-states-872163.html
11-08-2020||National||Air India pilot unions demand removal of DGCA chief Arun Kumar over Kozhikode plane crash comments||Two leading pilot unions of Air India on Tuesday said DGCA chief Arun Kumar must be immediately replaced with a suitable candidate with substantial knowledge of the aviation sector and operational experience as his comments on news channels reveal a total lack of technical know-how and an "amateurish view" of the Kozhikode plane crash. According to the Indian Commercial Pilots' Union (ICPA) and Indian Pilots' Guild (IPG), Kumar said during one of the televised interviews that the plane's "landing was not smooth". On another news channel, Kumar stated that the "two fellows are dead...and the landing it seems was not appropriate", according to a letter jointly written by the two unions to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday.  Pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, 58, and co-pilot Captain Akhilesh Kumar, 32, were the ones operating the Air India Express flight with 190 that overshot the runway and crashed at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night. Both pilots, along with 16 other people on board, died in the accident. Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India. The two deceased pilots were not part of either of the two aforementioned unions. The unions noted, "Whether a landing technique is appropriate or a contributory factor to a mishap can only be ascertained after a thorough, evidence-backed investigation and not by speculative, casual remarks." The above remarks of Kumar on news channels only go to reveal his "total lack of technical knowledge and amateurish view of the unfortunate accident", the letter noted. It is an established scientific fact that so-called “smooth” touchdowns may be counterproductive in certain adverse weather conditions and may pose a significant risk to safety, it stated. Puri, when he visited Kozhikode a day after the accident, told reporters that both the pilots were very experienced and "there is absolutely no doubt over their competence". Puri said that Sathe, a former wing commander of the Air Force, was one of the most-experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Kozhikode airport. Kumar had a total flying experience of 1,723 hours. The unions requested Puri that "Arun Kumar IAS is immediately replaced with a suitable candidate with substantial aviation knowledge and operational experience, to serve the country as the Director General of Civil Aviation". Air India Express on Tuesday said 74 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospital after "obtaining complete fitness". PTI DSP SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-pilot-unions-demand-removal-of-dgca-chief-arun-kumar-over-kozhikode-plane-crash-comments-872170.html
11-08-2020||National||Fake sanitiser laced with methanol causes death of 16 people: Andhra police, ten held||Spurious sanitiser blended with methanol caused the death of at least 16 people who consumed it in lieu of liquor in Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh late last month, and ten people involved in its illicit distribution have been arrested, police said on Tuesday. The victims, who were habitual tipplers, consumed hand sanitiser as an alternative to liquor, as regular shops were closed due to Covid-19-imposed lockdown, in Kurichedu in Prakasam district on different dates last month and died. A special investigation team of the district police found that a particular sanitiser named 'Perfect Gold' caused the deaths as it was made of toxic methanol instead of ethanol, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said on Tuesday. A person named Sale Srinivas alias Jajula of Vikarabad district in Telangana made the sanitiser illegally, along with his brother Siva Kumar, from a rented room in Hyderabad city and started selling it through various channels, he said. Another person Kesav Agarwal took up distribution of the spurious product as the profits were high, the SP told reporters in Ongole,adding that Md Dawood and Md Hazi Sab of Jeedimetla in Hyderabad supplied the methanol and other material for sanitiser manufacturing to Srinivas. "Our SIT arrested these five persons.Later, owners of five medical shops in Kurichedu were also arrested for selling the spurious sanitiser, exhibiting culpable negligence," Kaushal said. In fact, eight brands of sanitiser were consumed by rickshaw pullers, some beggars and other poor people in Kurichedu who were otherwise addicted to liquor. The SP said seven other brands were also tested during the course of the investigation and they were found to be "okay."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-sanitiser-laced-with-methanol-causes-death-of-16-people-andhra-police-ten-held-872181.html
11-08-2020||National||Congress credits Rahul for Rajasthan peace; non-committal on Ashok Gehlot||Congress on Tuesday credited Rahul Gandhi for ending Sachin Pilot’s rebellion in Rajasthan but remained non-committal on whether Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot would complete his tenure in office. After a month-long stay in the national capital, Pilot and MLAs supporting him reached Jaipur, where the former deputy chief minister said he was hurt at certain personal remarks made by Gehlot and had expected him to resolve disputes and take everyone along. As Pilot reached Jaipur, Gehlot made his way to Jaisalmer where MLAs supporting him were ensconced in a luxury hotel, indicating that the truce reached between them was clearly uneasy. Gehlot reiterated his remarks that he would give the rebels a “warm hug” if the party high command had decided to forgive them. At the AICC briefing, chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala appeared non-committal to questions on whether Gehlot would remain as chief minister for the remaining term of three-and-a-half-years. “We are proud of Congress MLAs, Independent MLAs and those of friendly parties and we will unitedly run the Congress party government for three-and-a-half-years,” Surjewala said. As Pilot reached Jaipur, he was mobbed by his supporters who raised slogans in his favour. Speaking to reporters, Pilot insisted that he had not sought any post from the party. “I have not demanded any post from the party but have said that MLAs have raised issues and there should be no vendetta politics against them,” he told reporters at his residence. He said differences can be ideological, on functioning or thoughts but in politics, there is no space for vendetta. Congress was all set to project the Rajasthan peace deal as Rahul’s success in dealing with factional fights within the party. “Rahul Gandhi’s vision and resolve to take everyone along and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s support bore results. The solution could be found because of the maturity shown by Ashok Gehlot and inherent commitment of Sachin Pilot,” Surjewala told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-credits-rahul-for-rajasthan-peace-non-committal-on-ashok-gehlot-872182.html
11-08-2020||National||Fact-check: Can Kadha boost immunity against Covid-19?||The Ministry of AYUSH presents 'AYUSH KWATH' formulation as an immunity-enhancing measure for the public. The recommended formulation of the AYUSH Kwath (also known as kadha) comprises of: As many people started concocting their own versions of this kadha, the herbal market produced and sold various generic products of AYUSH Kwath. A drug manufacturer Nutriley labelled its AYUSH Kwath upfront with ‘Covid-19’ on its bottle.  Natural plants or herbs can boost the immune system to prevent infections AYUSH Kwath (kadha) herbal formulation boosts immunity against Covid-19 The herbs of AYUSH Kwath boost immunity against Covid-19 AYUSH Kwath has no side effects of prolonged use   False Immunity suppression, not boosting, is used to treat certain severe cases of Covid-19 infection What does it mean to ‘boost’ our immune system against infections? ‘Immunity booster’ is not a medical term. It is often used in common parlance for foods that have antioxidant properties. But these are a part of a balanced diet which maintain our immune system and general health and do not enhance it beyond what our body innately has to justify the term ‘immunity booster.’ A healthy immune system can only be achieved with adequate sleep, a balanced diet, exercise and adequate sunlight or vitamin D, unless the patient is suffering from an immune system disease such as AIDS, bone marrow cancer or is undergoing other immune-modulatory treatments like chemotherapy or steroids Allergies and autoimmune diseases are caused by a hyperactive immune system The blanket call for ‘boosting’ the immune system stems from a myopic view of the immune system as a defence system that always protects us from infections. But an otherwise well functioning immune system capable of fighting off infections can also cause a variety of disorders grouped under the term ‘hypersensitivity’. In hypersensitivity disorders, our immune system is over-activated which harms our own body. Examples of these disorders are allergic reactions which are immediate hypersensitivity reactions against substances that are not supposed to cause reactions in healthy patients like nuts, pollens, dust particles and a variety of autoimmune disorders like psoriasis, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, etc. Suppression of the immune system, not ‘boosting’ is required for certain severe Covid-19 cases In some patients with severe Covid-19 infection, there is a ‘cytokine storm’ which has been the cause of death in many young and healthy people with no comorbidities like high blood pressure and diabetes. Cytokines are protein signalling molecules that mediate and regulate immunity and inflammation. But in various infectious and non-infectious diseases, there is a ‘storm’ of excessive cytokines released in the blood circulation. In Covid-19, this cytokine storm is followed by the immune system attacking the body, which causes ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) and multiple organ failure. In such severe cases, the treatment is geared towards suppressing this overactive immune system to save the patient. Thus, the use of steroids like Dexamethasone to suppress the immune system is recommended at the right time to save the patient from death due to Covid-19. Most Covid-19 patients recover on their own and no amount of immunity-boosting can prevent the death of those who succumb While most of the Covid-19 patients recover on their own and would not benefit from formulations claiming to be ‘immunity boosters,’ many severe cases of Covid-19 need suppression (instead of a boost) of the immune system through established drugs like dexamethasone. While there is no clinical proof of the efficacy of Kadha/AYUSH Kwath, it is not desirable to boost the immune system of severe Covid-19 patients, many of whom die of an overactive immune system. Can herbs boost our immune system specifically against Covid-19? Only the adaptive immune system can be specific towards a pathogen. Therefore, the immune system can be theoretically enhanced against Covid-19 only from an active method like a vaccine against Covid-19 or a passive method like plasma with antibodies of seropositive patients, i.e. blood component of previously infected and recovered from Covid-19 who have demonstrated Covid-19 antibodies in their blood. Thus natural foods/herbs, or even synthetic antiviral drugs, do not equip our immune system with the ability to prevent Covid-19 disease. AYUSH Kwath (kadha) cannot boost immunity against Covid-19 There are no research studies on the AYUSH Kwath formulation. Therefore, there is no empirical proof, i.e. based on a scientifically validated observation, and not mere theory, of its efficacy against Covid-19. The individual herbs Ayush Kwath or any other herbs do not boost immunity against Covid-19 Let us look at any available evidence from previous clinical trials related to these herbs for their efficacy in immunomodulation (boosting or suppression) against viral infections. Immunomodulation refers to any process in which an immune response is altered to the desired level, and this may involve suppression of an overactive immune response or vice versa. Holy basil Cinnamon Black pepper There are no clinical trials that evaluate the efficacy of black pepper against any infection or any immunomodulatory effect. Also, WHO has debunked the claim of using pepper to prevent Covid-19 infection. (see infographic)  Dry ginger There are no clinical trials demonstrating the efficacy of dry ginger in viral infections. Thus, there is no observational validity to deduce that any of these drug components even given as an independent dose will help the Covid-19 patients in any form. Moreover, the dosage of these herbs or the active ingredient concentration that achieves this modulation of immune proteins has not been studied thoroughly. Since there is no clinical study done for AYUSH Kwath formulation, the interactions possible among its various active ingredients are unknown. Let us look at a few examples of side effects associated with the individual herbs. Cinnamon Dry ginger Black pepper Holy basil Therefore, these herbs can cause side effects and interact with synthetic/modern medicines, especially since the ministry recommends them for long-term use with no need for consultation with a doctor. While a healthy diet and lifestyle help in maintaining the immunity that we innately possess, there is no way to pop a pill or drink kadha and ‘boost’ the immune system. The term ‘immunity booster’ has no basis in medical science, and yet it remains widely used by the Ministry of AYUSH and the media alike. The market is flooded with ‘immunity boosters’ with everything from khakhra and bread to shirts and beddings claiming to boost our immunity against Covid-19. They divert attention from the harder but proven preventive measures such as social distancing and consistently using masks and washing hands. AYUSH ministry has encouraged mass production of formulations like AYUSH Kwath without testing it for efficacy or safety in humans. It seems to be unaware of the potential dangers of ‘boosting’ the immune system in diseases like Covid-19, where an overactive immune system kills patients. The long-term use of AYUAH Kwath could cause various side-effects in healthy individuals as well. Thus, there is a lack of clarity in immune-boosting or suppression achievable through the intake of these herbs. The research on individual drugs has not shown any proof that it will affect Covid-19 patients or protect healthy people from getting infected. Moreover, since ‘immune-boosting’ should not be achieved theoretically in patients of Covid-19, the claims of immune-boosting via AYUSH Kwath or kadha may harm infected patients. Since, there is no proof that the concoction will help the patients, kwath or kadha may serve as a ‘feel-good’ warm drink during a sore throat, which is better categorised as a placebo relief. References Ulbricht, C., Seamon, E., Windsor, R. C., Armbruester, N., Bryan, J. K., Costa, D., … & Grimes Serrano, J. M. (2011). An evidence-based systematic review of cinnamon (Cinnamomum spp.) by the Natural Standard Research Collaboration. Journal of dietary supplements, 8(4), 378-454. Trabace, L., Tucci, P., Ciuffreda, L., Matteo, M., Fortunato, F., Campolongo, P., … & Cuomo, V. (2015). “Natural” relief of pregnancy-related symptoms and neonatal outcomes: above all do no harm. Journal of ethnopharmacology, 174, 396-402. Suzuki, Y., Yamazaki, Y., Hashizume, H., Oyama, T., Horiguchi, N., Sato, K., … & Yamada, M. (2015). Drug-induced liver injury caused by a dietary supplement (Kin-toki Shoga (®)) made from ginger. Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai zasshi= The Japanese journal of gastro-enterology, 112(1), 108-114. Velpandian, T., Jasuja, R., Bhardwaj, R. K., Jaiswal, J., & Gupta, S. K. (2001). Piperine in food: interference in the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin. European journal of drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, 26(4), 241–247. Singh, S., Rehan, H. M. S., & Majumdar, D. K. (2001). Effect of Ocimum sanctum fixed oil on blood pressure, blood clotting time and pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time. Journal of ethnopharmacology, 78(2-3), 139-143. Gholap, S., & Kar, A. (2004). Hypoglycaemic effects of some plant extracts are possibly mediated through inhibition in corticosteroid concentration. Die Pharmazie, 59(11), 876–878. Hajimonfarednejad, M., Ostovar, M., Raee, M. J., Hashempur, M. H., Mayer, J. G., & Heydari, M. (2019). Cinnamon: a systematic review of adverse events. Clinical Nutrition, 38(2), 594-602. Mondal, S., Varma, S., Bamola, V. D., Naik, S. N., Mirdha, B. R., Padhi, M. M., … & Mahapatra, S. C. (2011). Double-blinded randomized controlled trial for immunomodulatory effects of Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum Linn.) leaf extract on healthy volunteers. Journal of ethnopharmacology, 136(3), 452-456. Srinivasan, K. (2007). Black pepper and its pungent principle-piperine: a review of diverse physiological effects. Critical reviews in food science and nutrition, 47(8), 735-748 Stefano, D. A., Grabnar, I., Verardo, R., Enio, K., Marchionni, L. L., Eddie, L. I., … & Voinovich, D. (2019). Combined extracts of Echinacea angustifolia DC. and Zingiber officinale Roscoe softgel capsules: Pharmacokinetics and immunomodulatory effects assessed by gene expression profiling. Khanal, P., Duyu, T., Dey, Y. N., Patil, B. M., Pasha, I., & Wanjari, M. (2020). Network pharmacology of AYUSH recommended immune-boosting medicinal plants against COVID-19. Rajalakshmi, S., Sivanandam, G., & Veluchamy, G. (1986). Role of Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum Linn.) in the management of Manjal Kamalai (viral hepatitis). Journal of Research in Ayurveda and Siddha, 9(3-4), 118-123. Das, S., Chandra, A., Agarwal, S., & Singh, N. (1983). Ocimum sanctum (tulsi) in the treatment of viral encephalitis (A preliminary clinical trial). Antiseptic, 80, 323-327.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-can-kadha-boost-immunity-against-covid-19-872186.html
11-08-2020||National||SC gives Allahabad High Court 15 days to decide on plea for release of Dr Kafeel Khan||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Allahabad High Court to decide on habeas corpus plea for release of Dr. Kafeel Khan, within a period of 15 days. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "Personal liberty was something that we have prioritised at all times, even during hard times." Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for Kafeel's mother Nuzhat Perween, contended the stringent National Security Act was imposed on him after he was granted bail by Aligarh court on February 10 in connection with his inflammatory speech during the anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest. She submitted that the plea challenging the detention was not coming up for consideration before the High Court. "We request the High Court to dispose of the matter peremptorily as early as possible, having regard to the fact that it involves the liberty of the applicant, within a period of fifteen days from the date the parties appear before it," the bench said. Dr. Khan presently lodged at Mathura jail, was a lecturer at the Department of Paediatrics at B R D Medical College in Gorakhpur, where over 60 children had died due to Japanese encephalitis and many for want of oxygen whose supply was disrupted after bills were not paid to the vendor. He was then arrested for his alleged negligent role and suspended from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-allahabad-high-court-15-days-to-decide-on-plea-for-release-of-dr-kafeel-khan-872188.html
11-08-2020||National||India enhances diplomatic strength at its UN mission as it readies to sit at UNSC high-table||The diplomatic strength at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations (PMI) is being enhanced as India readies to sit in the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member beginning January 1, 2021. Sources said four diplomats will join India’s Permanent Mission over the course of the next 2-3 months, in time as India begins its two year-term at the Council from January 1, 2021. The diplomats who will join the PMI team, under the leadership of India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, are R Ravindra (IFS: 1999), who is currently Joint Secretary (Central and West Africa Division), Pratik Mathur (IFS 2007), currently posted as Deputy Secretary, Prime Minister’s Office, Ashish Sharma (IFS 2009) and Rajesh Parihar (IFS 2009), who is First Secretary (Economic & Commerce) at the Indian Embassy in Beijing. India’s Permanent Mission to the UN currently has 14 diplomats. Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu is the Deputy Permanent Representative. The endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, India won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections in June for five non-permanent seats of the Security Council, the world organization’s most powerful organ. In 2021, India, Norway, Ireland, Kenya and Mexico will sit in the Security Council along with five permanent members China, France, Russia, UK and the US as well as non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam. Previously, India has been elected as a non-permanent member of the Council for the years 1950—1951, 1967—1968, 1972—1973, 1977—1978, 1984—1985, 1991—1992 and most recently in 2011—2012. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the Security Council saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the Council, which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st Century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-enhances-diplomatic-strength-at-its-un-mission-as-it-readies-to-sit-at-unsc-high-table-872217.html
11-08-2020||National||I-T department raids premises of Chinese entities||The Income Tax Department Tuesday conducted searches at over 20 premises of Chinese entities in Delhi, Gurugram and Ghaziabad. The team found incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering and also held a Chinese individual with fake Indian passport, allegedly representing multiple Chinese firms in India. The searches also revealed a subsidiary of Chinese company took over Rs 1,000 crore "bogus advances from shell entities for opening business and retail showrooms in India", the income tax department said, adding it also unearthed documents related to hawala transactions. The raids revealed that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were running a money laundering racket worth Rs 1,000 crore. They were involved in hawala transactions through a series of shell entities, the tax department said, adding it found that over 40 bank accounts were created through dummy entities in which the money was credited. "Search operation revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period," the tax department said. The tax department has found the links to money laundering involving bank employees and chartered accountants. "Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants have been found as a result of the search action," the CBDT said adding evidences of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed. Further investigations are under progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-department-raids-premises-of-chinese-entities-872220.html
11-08-2020||National||India to tread cautiously on cooperation with Russia over new Covid-19 vaccine||Moscow is willing to discuss with New Delhi about the prospects of a bilateral cooperation on the new Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine that Russian President Vladimir Putin announced on Tuesday. New Delhi, however, is likely to tread cautiously, as it has taken note of the scepticism around the world over the Russian President’s announcement. Sources told the DH that Moscow has already indicated to New Delhi its willingness to discuss terms of cooperation on the new coronavirus vaccine, including its production and distribution in India. “Compliments to the Russian scientists who worked on the development of the first #COVID19 vaccine that was registered today! It is a big contribution to the global fight against the pandemic. A proud moment!” Russia’s ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev, posted on Twitter. India, however, is likely to take a call only after assessing the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Randeep Guleria, the Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said that New Delhi should exercise caution to first check the safety and efficacy of the vaccine developed by Russia before producing and distributing it in India.  He, however, said that India had the capacity for large-scale production of the vaccine. India is also discussing with China, Russia, Brazil and South Africa a proposal to set up a BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-tread-cautiously-on-cooperation-with-russia-over-new-covid-19-vaccine-872228.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||'Welcome back': Cong leaders hail Rajasthan crisis 'resolution' after Pilot-Rahul meet||Several Congress leaders "welcomed back" Sachin Pilot on Tuesday after the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister's meeting with Rahul Gandhi, signalling an "amicable resolution" of nearly a month-long political crisis in the state. Soon after his patch-up talks with senior Congress leaders, Pilot on Monday night said he has never hankered after posts. "Welcome back Sachin. A constructive and enjoyable phase of Rajasthan building awaits," senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi tweeted after the party issued a statement saying Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three-member committee to "address the issues raised by Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof". Singhvi also congratulated Rahul Gandhi and his tireless team, including KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken, and added, "not to forget political instincts of (Ashok) Gehlot which rarely fail him". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The political crisis in Rajasthan Congress stands resolved amicably by the intervention of none other than Rahul Gandhi himself." "This is reflective of steadfast unity in Congress party and the commitment of Congress legislators to never fall prey to BJP's evil designs to defeat democracy," he told PTI. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said he was very happy that finally, the efforts of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi "resolved the dispute of Rajasthan Congress". "Now everyone should fulfil the promises made to the people of Rajasthan," he said. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the path of reconciliation is the best for Pilot and "for all of us". Hailing Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi for their efforts, Congress leader Jitin Prasada said, "We have managed to keep one of our own, Sachin Pilot, with us." "This is the democratic spirit of our party @INCIndia where there is room for dissent and debate," said Prasada, who is considered a leader of the party's young brigade. Congress spokesperson and another young leader Jaiveer Shergill said at the end of the day, all is well for the Congress and "all in the well for BJP". Reacting to the development, Haryana Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi said he was extremely heartened to hear the news. "India needs good people with good hearts and good intentions in government. Let’s do our bit," he said on Twitter, adding, “We are stronger together." Delhi Congress vice president Abhishek Dutt thanked Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken for the development. "Sachin Pilot bhai had made it very clear from Day 1 that he was never joining BJP," he said. After his meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, the party said Pilot will "work in the interest" of the Congress and its government in Rajasthan. The meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Pilot at the former party chief's residence, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present, lasted two hours during which they had a "frank, open and conclusive" discussion, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/welcome-back-cong-leaders-hail-rajasthan-crisis-resolution-after-pilot-rahul-meet-871894.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | No possibility of leadership change in Rajasthan, says state Congress chief||Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Monday ruled out any possibility of a leadership change in the state, saying it is merely a rumour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-no-possibility-of-leadership-change-in-rajasthan-says-state-congress-chief-871928.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Six Manipur Cong MLAs give up Assembly membership and also resign from party||Six Congress MLAs in Manipur have submitted their resignation from the Legislative Assembly and also quit the party on Tuesday. The six legislators who had handed over resignation letters to Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh the previous night formally informed the Congress office here about leaving the party. "Six Cong MLAs of Manipur have submitted their resignation letters to the Congress office," Hareshwar Goshwami, General Secretary, Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, told PTI. The six are among the eight Congress legislators who had defied a party whip on Monday and skipped the one-day session of the assembly, in which the BJP-led N Biren Singh government had comfortably won the confidence vote. Those giving up their assembly membership as well as saying goodbye to the party included Okram Henry Singh, nephew of Congress Legislature Party leader, Okram Ibobi Singh. Other legislators are - Oinam Lukhoi, Md Abdul Nasir, Paonam Brojen, Ngamthang Haokip and Ginsuanhau. Secretary of the Manipur Assembly M Ramani Devi told PTI that the speaker has accepted the resignation of five of them and their assembly seats have been declared as vacant. The disqualification case of the sixth MLA P Brojen is already pending with the Speaker's Tribunal, which would be taken up on August 14, she said. About reasons for resigning, Henry Singh said they all have cited lack of trust in the leadership of Ibobi Singh because of whom the Congress failed to form the government even when it was the single largest party in the state after polls in 2017. The rest two of the eight, who had stayed away from the day-long special session of the house the previous day are - Md Fazur Rahman and Yamthong Haokip. The speaker said in the House on Monday that the two had informed that they were in home quarantine. Sources said that Fazur Rahman, who represents the Wabagai assembly seat, has tested positive for the virus and has been admitted to a hospital here Tuesday. On receiving resignation letters, they were summoned by the speaker after the assembly session on Monday night to get it verified, Henry Singh said. Though the government's victory in the vote of confidence was a foregone conclusion, the absence of the eight Congress MLAs from the crucial session showed smart political move by the chief minister. The 60-member house has an effective strength of 53, including the speaker, who had the casting vote he could have used in the event of a tie. Four members had been disqualified earlier and three of the BJP resigned sometime back. The ruling coalition had 29 MLAs, including the speaker, while the Congress had 24, of whom eight abstained. With this victory, Biren Singh, jolted by a string of desertions in the party mid-June, appeared to have consolidated his grip on the ruling coalition which has 18 BJP MLAs, four each of the NPP and the NPF, one each of the TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent. After a failed attempt to unseat Biren Singh from the power in the wake of the resignation of nine ruling coalition legislators on June 17, the grand old party had aimed at putting the BJP-led ruling coalition on the mat during the trust vote, but it too could not come true for them. The Congress which had won a total of 28 seats to emerge as the single largest party in the 60-member Manipur house after the 2017 polls saw members leaving it from time to time. Soon after the election, one of its legislator Thounaojam Shyamkumar was disqualified under the anti-defection law for joining the BJP. Further, three Congress MLAs - Kshetrimayum Biren Singh, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh and Sanasam Bira Singh - were disqualified from membership of Manipur Legislative Assembly by the speaker. And now six have resigned from the assembly and also given up membership of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/six-manipur-cong-mlas-give-up-assembly-membership-and-also-resign-from-party-871974.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Trace, test contacts of Covid-19 positive people within 72 hours: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday set a 72-hour target to trace and test people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 infected person while emphasising that the country could emerge victorious in the fight against the pandemic if we could defeat the virus in 10 states that account for 80% of the cases. Modi's comments came during his video conference with Chief Ministers from nine states -- Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka which was represented by Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan. The Prime Minister noted that the number of daily tests, which has reached seven lakh now, is increasing continuously and this has helped in early identification and containment. He also noted that the percentage of active cases was reducing while the recovery rate is increasing. "These steps have boosted the confidence of people. The target of bringing down the fatality rate below 1% can be achieved soon," he told the Chief Ministers even as he emphasised the "urgent" need to ramp up testing in Bihar Bihar, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Telangana. Quoting experts, Modi said if the cases are identified in 72 hours, then the spread of the virus can be slowed down and emphasised the need to trace and test all those who had come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. "This should be followed like a mantra, with the same earnestness as washing hands, maintaining do gaz doori, wearing masks, etc," he said. Underlining that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons in the battle against Covid-19, he said people have become aware and are ably assisting these efforts, as a result of which, we have been successful in using home quarantine so effectively.  Almost 80% of active cases are from the participating 10 states,  and if the virus is defeated in these ten states, the entire country will emerge victorious in the battle against Covid-19, he added. Modi also referred to the strategy adopted in Delhi and nearby areas under the leadership of Home Minister Amit Shah and said the main pillars of the strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening, especially of those in the high-risk category. The results of these steps are there for all to see, he said, adding that steps like better management in hospitals and increasing ICU beds also proved very helpful, he said. During the meeting, the Chief Ministers briefed the Prime Minister about the steps taken by their states in handling the pandemic while demanding more funds. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told the Prime Minister that both central and state tax revenue will fall short of the budget estimates. To make up for the shortfall, Tamil Nadu may be allocated Rs 9,000 crore special grant to combat Covid-19 and its after-effects on the state’s economy. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh sought a liberal financial package to fill the revenue collection gap caused by the pandemic, saying the state has seen 50% decline in revenue for the first quarter of the current financial year. Narayan tweeted the Prime Minister assured all necessary assistance to the state's efforts to control the pandemic. "He further advised us on adopting additional precautionary measures in the interest of the safety of Karnataka's citizens," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trace-test-contacts-of-covid-19-positive-people-within-72-hours-pm-narendra-modi-872020.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Parties using ‘idol politics’ to woo Brahmins: Uttar Pradesh deputy CM||Those who disrespected Brahmins earlier are now trying to gain their favour through “idol politics”, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said as he slammed the SP and BSP’s efforts to woo the community by promising to build statues of Parshuram in the state. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati had on Sunday promised to build a statue and hospitals in the name of Parshuram and saints revered by other communities if voted to power in the 2022 assembly polls days after the Samajwadi Party said that it will build statues of Parshuram, the sixth incarnation of Lord Vishnu. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Sharma said people cannot be misguided by such promises as they have not yet forgotten the slogan-- 'Tilak, Tarazu Aur Talwar, Inko Maaro Joote Char” (reject Brahmins, Vaishyas, Thakurs/Jaats etc) which was allegedly coined by the BSP. The maximum number of images of Parashuram were damaged during Samajwadi Party regime, he claimed, highlighting that four idols of Parashuram were broken in Ferozabad under the Akhilesh Yadav regime in the state. "If those who used to break idols are now talking about installing them, they know which community is supporting which party," he said referring to Brahmins who are seen as traditional voters of the BJP in the state. The parties that were opposing reservation given to those belonging to General category by the Union and state governments have done a volte face now, Sharma said. The fact is that these parties have realised that their base is eroding and are using new gimmicks to attract voters, Sharma said, adding that the people, however, have rejected them several times since they are aware of their real face. The SP and BSP thrive on caste politics and the Congress, at times has been playing a supportive role, the deputy chief minister said. On allegations levelled by Mayawati that President Ram Nath Kovind was not invited to the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya since he is a Dalit, Sharma said Kameshwar Chaupal, who placed the first brick of the temple, is a Dalit too. The BJP or Vishva Hindu Parishad does not play caste politics, the deputy chief minister said. Since BJP is working for every class of society, custodians of caste politics, ultimately will not succeed in their evil design, he firmly stated. Asked about the state’s law order situation, he said, deterrent action is being taken in 10 districts of the state and a favourable outcome will reflect shortly. On the COVID-19 situation in the state, Sharma said people should not panic due to the spurt in cases since the recovery rate is above 86 per cent in the state while the situation in Agra and Mathura has improved. He had earlier said that entry of devotees to temples on Janmashtami will be barred due to COVID-19, while temples would be richly decorated and their sanctity maintained. Since Janmashtami of Mathura is famous all over the world, live telecast of the main function will give the devotees an opportunity to pay their obeisance to deity. But people will have to celebrate the festival in their homes this year, he concluded. Sharma further said that there was no change in the private schools’ fee structure declared by the state government. “Quarterly fee charging system has been replaced with monthly fee charging system,” Sharma said, adding that no school will be allowed to hike its fee as notified earlier. PTI COR RHL||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parties-using-idol-politics-to-woo-brahmins-uttar-pradesh-deputy-cm-872030.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan BJP postpones legislature party meeting||Amid the political developments in Rajasthan, the state BJP unit on Tuesday postponed its legislature party meeting planned for the day. The BJP asked its legislators to come to its Jaipur party headquarters on Thursday instead. The party had convened the meeting in the view of Assembly session set to begin on August 14. It was to be held at a hotel here in the evening. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria issued a statement, saying the programme of the BJP legislature party meeting has been amended, and party MLAs have now been asked to reach the party office on August 13 at 11 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bjp-postpones-legislature-party-meeting-872031.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Sachin Pilot back in Jaipur, says there shouldn't be any vendetta politics||Congress leader Sachin Pilot here on Tuesday said he has not demanded any post from the party and there should not be any vendetta politics as he returned to Jaipur nearly a month after his revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. On Monday, a meeting between Sachin Pilot and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had signalled an "amicable resolution" of nearly a month-long Rajasthan political crisis ahead of the crucial assembly session beginning August 14. The Congress leader told reporters that he did not make any statement against the party and had gone to discuss issues with the Congress high command in Delhi. I have not demanded any post from the party, he added. Pilot, however, said he was shocked at statements made against him. "I am sad, shocked and hurt due to the kind of words used against me," Pilot said. He said there should not be any space for “personal ill-feelings” in politics and there should not be any vendetta politics. A large number of his supporters gathered outside his residence to welcome him as he drove down to Jaipur from New Delhi in his car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sachin-pilot-back-in-jaipur-says-there-shouldnt-be-any-vendetta-politics-872121.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Don't bask in Modi's glory, but work to grab power in 2024, Ram Madhav tells Andhra Pradesh BJP unit||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav on Tuesday warned his party leaders in Andhra Pradesh not to bask in the glory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but work with a killer instinct to grab power in the state in 2024. "Don't try to go into the battle placing the gun on Modi's shoulders. If you do it, you will remain in that one per cent (BJP's vote share in 2019 assembly election). Modi will be Prime Minister for the next 10-15 years. We will derive benefit from his good governance and people-oriented programmes but that is not sufficient. The aim is to grow as a potent force," Madhav said. Madhav addressed an event where MLC Somu Veerraju assumed responsibilities as the new BJP state unit president. He observed that BJP was in politics "not for charity." As any political party, it aimed to come to power and serve the people and develop the state. The national general secretary said there was a vacuum in the opposition position in AP. "We have to fill that vacuum and work with a killer instinct so that we grab power in 2024," he exhorted. Madhav chided the party state leadership for seeking the BJP high commands intervention on every issue. "Don't call Delhi (leadership) all the time and seek action. Delhi will do whatever needs to be done but the local party should travel the hard way and fight for the people," he said. "For long, the BJP had been a junior partner in the state, we developed that mindset. Today we have to grow into a dominant party. For that, we have to change our mindset. We have to come on to the streets and fight in a democratic way," Madhav, who hails from the state, stressed. Noting that there was "no strong opposition voice" in AP, Madhav said the BJP should build it. "Be it TRS (in neighbouring Telangana) or YSR Congress...they would want no opposition. We are observing the YSRC government's attitude towards opposition parties. We have to confront that as well. This is not a smooth ride," he remarked. When people in power were abusing it, the BJP should be geared up to fight it, he added. He wanted the BJP in the state to be like a constructive opposition, a critical friend. Veerraju took over as the party state president from his predecessor Kanna Lakshminarayana. Former Union Minister Daggubati Purandeswari, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan national vice-president Vishnuvardhan Reddy, BJP state in-charge Sunil Deodhar, MLC P V N Madhav and other senior leaders attended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-bask-in-modis-glory-but-work-to-grab-power-in-2024-ram-madhav-tells-andhra-pradesh-bjp-unit-872126.html
11-08-2020||National Politics||Every worker wants Rahul Gandhi to head party: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said every party worker wants Rahul Gandhi to be its president and hoped that good things will happen in future. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Rahul has shown the courage and mettle to take on the government by "pointing out and criticising every anti-people policy". He said "not 99 percent, but 100 percent of Congressmen and women across India, those who belong to Congress ideology, those who have faith in the Congress philosophy and those who have sacrificed their self to tread the path of the Congress party want Rahul Gandhi to be the Congress president". This is not because he is Rahul Gandhi, but, because he is the person who has always shown the courage and the mettle to take on the government by pointing out and criticising every anti-people policy, he said at a virtual press conference. Asked whether Rahul was reluctant to assume the role, Surjewala denied so saying he resigned on a moral ground taking moral accountability of the party's rout in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.  "What will happen in the future is not for me to comment upon. I am certain, good things will happen in future," he told reporters. Many Congressmen, especially the young brigade, have been demanding that Rahul takes over as the party chief. His mother Sonia Gandhi is currently holding the charge of interim president of the Congress party since a year. Rahul refused to take back his resignation despite repeated requests from party leaders. The CWC entrusted the charge to Sonia saying she will continue as party chief till a regular president is appointed and ratified at the AICC plenary session. The chorus for his taking over as Congress chief has once again gained momentum after he played a pivotal role in stopping rebel leader Sachin Pilot from quitting the party and bringing him back into the fold, while assuring that his grievances, as well as that of other rebel MLAs, would be amicably resolved in a time-bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/every-worker-wants-rahul-gandhi-to-head-party-congress-872227.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Three suspected militants arrested in Jammu & Kashmir's Kupwara||The Army has apprehended three suspected militants during a search operation in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Tuesday. A joint search operation was launched by the security forces on the inputs of Jammu and Kashmir Police in Lalpora area of Kupwara on Monday, an army official said. He said three suspects were apprehended and some arms and ammunition recovered during the operation. "One AK assault rifle, two pistols and some ammunition were recovered," the official said, adding the operation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-suspected-militants-arrested-in-jammu-kashmirs-kupwara-871956.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||BJP functionary shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Baghpat||A Bharatiya Janata Party functionary was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Baghpat district on Tuesday morning, police said. Sanjay Khokhar, a former district unit president of the BJP, was out for a morning walk when the incident took place, the police said. The body has been sent for post-mortem and a Fist Information Report (FIR) has been registered at the local Chhaprauli police station, according to officials. Further details were awaited, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-functionary-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradeshs-baghpat-871986.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Will address grievances of MLAs, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said it was his responsibility to address the grievances of MLAs. But why did the MLAs go and what promises were made to them, only they know it, Gehlot said. "If any MLA is annoyed with me, then it is my responsibility to address that. I have kept doing this in the past and will do this now also," Gehlot told reporters before leaving for Jaisalmer. Gehlot's announcement comes after rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Monday night that signalled an "amicable resolution" of nearly a month-long political crisis in the state. Pilot revolted against Gehlot a month ago and told reporters on Monday that he and the other MLAs had raised organisational issues, the case of sedition filed by the SOG and the style of governance in the state, and expressed the hope that these will be addressed soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-address-grievances-of-mlas-says-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-871998.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Mulayam Singh Yadav's condition improving, says hospital||Samajwadi Party founder and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav's health is improving, the hospital where he is admitted to said on Tuesday. Yadav was admitted to Medanta Hospital here last Friday following an infection in the urinary tract. His test results for coronavirus were negative. "His condition is improving. He is much better (now)," Medanta Hospital Director Rakesh Kapoor told PTI on Tuesday. Kapoor had earlier said the 80-year-old SP leader also underwent ultrasound, blood and urine tests. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary had said on Saturday that party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his wife Dimple Yadav had visited the hospital on Friday night to enquire about the condition of the party patriarch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mulayam-singh-yadavs-condition-improving-says-hospital-872014.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's aide Bal Govind Dubey arrested in Chitrakoot||An aide of gangster Vikas Dubey has been arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh Police from Chitrakoot district, officials said on Tuesday. The arrested aide, Bal Govind Dubey alias Lalu, carried a reward of 50,000. He was an associate of key accused of Bikru case gangster Vikas Dubey, an STF spokesman said on Tuesday. Lalu is a resident of Bikru in Chaubepur police station of Kanpur, the spokesman said, adding he was arrested from Parikrama turn under Karvi police station area of Chitrakoot on Monday. There were inputs that Lalu concealed his identity and was living in disguise, the spokesman said. During interrogation he has confessed that he was in Vikas Dubey's gang which had attacked the police party leading to the killing of 8 personnel last month, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-aide-bal-govind-dubey-arrested-in-chitrakoot-872032.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Released Rs 98.35 cr to NrDMC for teachers' salary, Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi High court was informed by the Delhi government that it has released Rs 98.35 crore to North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) for paying salaries to 9,000 teachers, engaged by the civic body, for July and August. The Delhi government also said it has permitted the NrDMC to utilise the unspent balance of Rs 1,807.10 lakh of previous year for the purpose of paying salaries of the teachers. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was hearing a suo motu PIL initiated by the high court with regard to the disbursement of unpaid salaries of teachers employed in schools run by the NrDMC. The high court had initiated the PIL in June after hearing the petition filed on behalf of NrDMC teachers by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, seeking direction to the authorities to pay the salaries which were due since March, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed. As Rs 98.35 crore has been released by the Delhi government in favour of NrDMC under the scheme of Primary Education, the civic body shall ensure that salary dues of the teachers from May onwards shall be cleared at the earliest, the bench said. “Besides the Grant-in-Aid received from the Delhi Government, NrDMC shall also chip in by making funds available for paying the salaries of teachers teaching in schools being run by it,” the bench said and directed the civic authority to file a fresh status report within two weeks. The court listed the matter for further hearing on September 1. The court was earlier informed by the NrDMC that it had paid salaries to all 9,000 teachers engaged by the civic body till March and 5,406 teachers, who are put on Covid-19 duty, have been given their dues for April. The NrDMC had blamed the Delhi government for not releasing Grant-In-Aid to the civic body due to which it is unable to pay the salaries of its employees. The Delhi government had said that the Grant-In-Aid payable by it to the NrDMC for release of salaries to its teachers was Rs 147 crore for the first quarter, April to June, and it has been released in three monthly tranches. While initiating the PIL on June 26, the bench had remarked that teachers deployed on Covid-19 duty can be equated to corona warriors and was displeased that their salaries have not been paid since March. The bench, on June 18, had directed the NrDMC to pay arrears of salaries within a week, saying the teachers cannot be made to run from pillar to post for their lawful dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/released-rs-9835-cr-to-nrdmc-for-teachers-salary-delhi-govt-tells-hc-872035.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||No meaningful action taken for cleaning Ganga tributary, says National Green Tribunal||Hindon, a tributary of Ganga, is one of the polluted river stretches and no meaningful action has been being taken to clean it, the National Green Tribunal said Tuesday while directing the UP chief secretary to ensure coordination for rejuvenation of the waterbody. The green panel said instead of shifting of blame from one department to another, steps should be taken for the restoration of water quality of Hindon. "The river is practically dead and needs to be restored in the interest of the environment and public health. Meaningful progress must be achieved by the concerned departments including the Urban Development, Irrigation, Jal Nigam, and the Environment," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. The tribunal said all drains joining Kali, Krishna and Hindon should have in-situ remediation and plan for connectivity with the identified sewage treatment plant. In-situ remediation is the process by which contaminated soil or water is treated without removing the pollution or other hazardous waste from its sub-surface. The bench said "the Chief Secretary may ensure that there is coordination among all the concerned Departments in accordance with the action plan prepared by a committee headed by former high court judge, Justice S U Khan." The tribunal said that environment compensation from violators has to be recovered if deadlines are not adhered to. It directed the UP chief secretary to file a consolidated reply before February 2, 2021. The committee told the NGT that chief Secretary assured in his written report that till pipe water supply is provided, water will be provided by tankers. However, it has not been done till date, the committee added. "These are issues which could easily have been monitored in the monthly monitoring meeting of the chief secretary as envisaged in the monitoring framework submitted by the State to the NGT. Chief Secretary should hold the monthly monitoring meeting regularly so that such issues get sorted out regularly," the committee said. The committee also told the tribunal there has been no physical progress in installation of any of three sewage treatment plants proposed in the last one year. "No action has been taken against any negligent officer despite directions of NGT. Performance Guarantee of Rs five Crore directed by NGT has yet to be deposited. Not a single village has been provided water through tankers," it said. The NGT had earlier ordered "intensive survey" of the Kali, Krishna and the Hindon river in western Uttar Pradesh and directed the inspection of 316 industries which are allegedly polluting the water bodies. The NGO, Doaba Paryavaran Samiti headed by C V Singh, a retired scientist of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, had alleged that due to the consumption of contaminated groundwater more than 50 villagers have died of cancer in western UP. It was alleged by the petitioner that groundwater in Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Meerut, Bagpath and Ghaziabad districts was being polluted as a result of effluent being released underground by reverse boring by the industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-meaningful-action-taken-for-cleaning-ganga-tributary-says-national-green-tribunal-872057.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Tea vendor's daughter studying in US dies in accident after bikers harass her||Around two years back, twenty-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati, daughter of a tea vendor, secured a scholarship to study in the United States. She topped the 12th standard exams, that too hailing from a place in western Uttar Pradesh where the girls are stopped from going to the schools owing to harassment. Little did she imagine back then, that one day she herself would become a victim of harassment. On Monday, Sudeeksha was going to her maternal grandparents' home in Bulandshahar on the bike. On the way, she fell from the bike after being allegedly hit by a motorbike driven by two youths, who had been harassing her. She died from the injuries sustained. Sudeeksha, who was a student at the prestigious Babson College in Massachusetts, had returned to India after educational institutions were closed in the US owing to the coronavirus pandemic. ''We were going to meet our relatives in Bulandshahar....two youths on a bullet motorcycle started following us after a while...they would overtake us and then again slowed down...they also passed lewd comments...suddenly they overtook us and braked...I also braked there was a collision...Sudeeksha fell on the hard ground....she died on the spot,'' her uncle Satendra Bhati, who was driving the bike, said. Sudeeksha's younger brother, who was also with them, suffered minor injuries. Police, however, contested the family's claim saying that the bike on which Sudeeksha was travelling was driven by her minor brother and that her uncle was not with them. The police also refuted the harassment claim and said that it appeared to be a case of a road accident.  There appeared to be conflict in the police version with the district police chief saying that a case was lodged while the state police chief terming it a road accident. A pall of gloom descended at Suddeksha's village in Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar district and the locals made a beeline before her house to condole her death. Hailing from a poor tea vendor's family, the girl overcame many difficulties to complete her intermediate. ''She walked 40 kilometers to reach her school,'' said a family member. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the incident reflected that the women were not safe in UP. BSP supremo Mayawati also slammed the UP government for failing to ensure the safety of the women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-tea-vendors-daughter-studying-in-us-dies-in-accident-after-bikers-harass-her-872058.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||BJP names Jai Prakash Nishad as its candidate for UP Rajya Sabha by-election||The BJP on Tuesday fielded Jai Prakash Nishad as its candidate for the by-election to a Rajya Sabha seat from Uttar Pradesh. The by-election is scheduled to be held on August 24. It was necessitated following the demise of Samajwadi Party MP Beni Prasad Verma. Nishad is a former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA who joined the BJP a few years ago. He looks after the party work in Gorakhpur, the home district of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-names-jai-prakash-nishad-as-its-candidate-for-up-rajya-sabha-by-election-872063.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||All Assam Students' Union releases confidential report on Clause 6 of Assam Accord||The All Assam Students' Union (AASU), which was a part of the Centre's high-level committee on Clause 6 of Assam Accord, on Tuesday released the confidential report, saying that the public has the right to know the contents. The AASU and another committee member Nilay Dutta, who is the advocate general of Arunachal Pradesh, addressed a press conference and said they were releasing it only because the "government is just sitting idle". "It has been more than five months since we submitted the report but there is simply no action from the government. People are asking us daily what happened to it. We have finally decided to release it as the people have the right to know," AASU chief advisor Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya said. As per Clause 6, Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. The bone of contention since the signing of the Accord was the definition of Assamese people, which the committee tried to address. On February 25, the high-level committee on the implementation of Clause 6, headed by Justice (retd) B K Sharma, had submitted the report to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for handing it over to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The chairman of the committee had submitted the report to the chief minister in the presence of the entire state cabinet, top government officials and journalists. "We do not know where the report is. Is it in the chief minister's almirah or somewhere? Has it been sent to Delhi? It is not acceptable to neglect the report this way," Bhattacharya said. The report sought to implement the Assam Accord in letter and spirit, and also asked the government for prompt measures to seal the India-Bangladesh border. It also suggested reservation of 80-100 percent in Parliament seats from the state, while recommended creation of an Upper House in Assam. When asked if there will be any legal implication for making the report public, senior advocate Dutta said it will not have any repercussion. The Union Home Ministry had in January last year formed the committee headed by retired Union Secretary M P Bezbaruah, but six of the nine members declined to be part of it, following which the panel was reconstituted on July 16, 2019 with 14 members and justice Sharma as its chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-assam-students-union-releases-confidential-report-on-clause-6-of-assam-accord-872064.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj gets death threat from Pakistan number||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj has given a written complaint to the police claiming that he has received calls from a Pakistani number threatening to kill him in a bomb blast. In the complaint to inspector in-charge of Sadar Kotwali, Dinesh Chandra Mishra, the MP from Unnao said that he got two phone calls from some terrorist organisation of Pakistan threatening to blow him up along with his residence. According to the letter, the caller claimed that Kashmir would soon become a part of Pakistan and he also used foul language for the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony at Ayodhya. The caller said that he and his mujahideens were keeping an eye on him round the clock, the MP said in the letter, adding that he also abused Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The MP has demanded that immediate steps be taken to save his life and property. Acting on the complaint, Superintendent of Police Rohan P Kanay directed circle officer Yadvendra Yadav and Kotwali in-charge to probe the matter and take help of surveillance teams. The SP said that a report has been registered. The MP has Y category security and police is also deployed at his residence but the security would be reviewed in the light of of the threat call, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-sakshi-maharaj-gets-death-threat-from-pakistan-number-872071.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Cop issuing challans for not wearing masks fined as he himself was without one||A police officer issuing challans to people for not wearing masks here, even as he himself did not have one on, got a taste of his own medicine when the superintendent of police pulled him up for it. The incident took place on Monday when Baundi police station SHO Subhash Chandra Singh was handing out challans to villagers, cyclists and pedestrians and also advising them to wear masks. Some villagers claimed they were fined even though they had their faces covered with 'angocha' towels. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra got to know that the SHO was issuing challans for not wearing masks, while a photograph showed him without one himself. The SHO was, subsequently, fined Rs 500, officials said. "Wearing a face mask protects a person, his family members and the public (from the disease). If our officials do not adhere to these basic points, then what message we are going to give to the society," Mishra said on Tuesday. "Through this challan, we have tried to send a message to all police officials and personnel in the district that they are not above the public. If we commit any fault, then we should also come within the ambit of the same law," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-issuing-challans-for-not-wearing-masks-fined-as-he-himself-was-without-one-872074.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||191 jail inmates test Covid-19 positive in Uttar Pradesh's Basti||As many as 191 inmates of the district jail here were found Covid-19 positive, a senior official said on Tuesday. According to ADM Ramesh Chandra, 374 inmates of the jail were tested through rapid antigen tests in a camp organised here on Monday, and of these 191 were found positive though they did not show any symptoms. The camp was organised on the directives of the district administration, Chandra said, adding that all those found positive have been shifted to an isolation ward set up in barrack number 9 of the jail. Eight of the inmates with other diseases have been shifted to hospital and anyone else developing symptoms will also be sent to the medical facility, the official said. District magistrate (incharge) Sarneet Kaur Broca said strict vigil is being maintained in the district after the 191 inmates were found positive for coronavirus. The inmates have been isolated and given two masks each. The sanitization of the entire jail is being carried out and a team of doctors has been posted there which is carrying out regular check-ups, the official said. The jail superintendent has been asked to probe into the reasons leading to infections and submit the report in 24 hours, Broca said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/191-jail-inmates-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttar-pradeshs-basti-872098.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||No entry to devotees in Mathura temples on Janmashtami||Janmashtami festival in Krishna Janmasthan here will be observed on Wednesday with all the rituals, but the devotees will not be allowed entry to the temple due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a temple official said. However, arrangements have been made to live stream the 'puja' for devotees. The Bhagwat Bhavan Temple, the sanctum sanctorum of the Janmasthan, will be given the shape of a 'Purnendu Kunj', sparkling with gems like pearls, diamonds and ruby. Also, local and imported flowers will be used to decorate the shrine, said Kapil Sharma, the secretary at the Sri Krishna Janmasthan. A heavy police force will be posted at the entrance of main temples to prevent the entry of devotees, District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said. The auspicious day of Janmashtami would begin with the playing of clarinet and the thunderous sound of drums followed by a 'Mangala Aarati' amidst chanting of devotional music, Sharma said. The main programme, according to Sharma, will begin at 11.00 pm on Wednesday with obeisance to 'Navagrah' (nine planets), followed by blowing of the conch, beating of cymbals and drums at midnight. Normally after 'Abhishekam', 'Charnamrit' (a mixture of milk, curd, khansari, ghee and honey) is distributed among devotees in the Radha Raman Temple, Radha Damodar Temple and Shah Ji Temple. However, there will be no distribution of 'Charnamrit' in Radha Damodar and Shah Ji temples this year since priests have expressed their inability to control crowds. With the help of police to maintain social distancing, the 'Charnamrit' will be distributed in an open area in front of the Radha Raman Temple in Vrindaban, Padmanabha Goswami, the secretary of the shrine, said. Devotees not wearing masks or not observing social distancing will be denied 'Charnamrit', he said. 'Dadhikana', an annual ritual to mark the arrival of Krishna in Gokul on the next day after Janmashtami, has been cancelled this year owing to spread of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-entry-to-devotees-in-mathura-temples-on-janmashtami-872153.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan High Court allows Asaram Bapu food from outside jail once a day||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday allowed self-styled godman Asaram Bapu to have food from outside the Jodhpur Central Jail once a day. Asaram Bapu is currently serving life term for the sexual assault of a minor girl. The court, however, said the jail authorities will first thoroughly check food brought from outside before permitting Asaram to consume it. The court has also sought an undertaking from the self-styled godman, asking him to take the responsibility of any possible adverse impact on his health due to the consumption of privately procured food. According to the court order, the person who will supply food once a day to him will have to submit an affidavit to the jail authorities, mentioning his details. Identification documents will have to be annexed with the affidavit. Asaram Bapu had moved an application in the court praying that he be allowed special food, fit for his consumption, from outside the jail due his old age and medical condition. His counsel J S Choudahry argued that the food being provided in the jail was not palatable and likely to affect his health adversely. “We also argued that during the trial of the case, he was allowed to have food from private sources and urged that the same liberty be provided to him in view of the safety and security measures as per the Rajasthan Prison Rules 1951,” said Choudhary. A prescription from a government ayurvedic hospital was also submitted with his age mentioned as 83 years. After hearing arguments, Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Prabha Sharma said, “After looking at the food items prescribed by the doctor, this court is duly satisfied that it would be difficult for the jail authorities to provide the same to the applicant on a regular basis.” Referring to the similar permission given to him during the trial, the court observed that the same permission could be granted again and allowed him food from a private source outside the jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-high-court-allows-asaram-bapu-food-from-outside-jail-once-a-day-872160.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 8 deaths due to Covid-19, lowest in over 2 months||The national capital recorded 1,257 fresh coronavirus cases, and eight deaths, the lowest in over two months, in the last 24 hours, authorities said on Tuesday. This is the first time in over two months that the daily number of deaths has dropped below 10, according to the Delhi government's health bulletin.  On August 5, Delhi had recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths, indicating a significant improvement in the situation in the city. The city has so far recorded a total of 1,47,391 cases, of which 1,32,384 people have recovered, been discharged or have migrated.  There are 10,868 active cases, of which 5,523 are under home isolation.  The death toll due to the disease is 4,139, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. As many as 5,356 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and 14,084 rapid-antigen tests were conducted. A total of 12,23,845 tests have been conducted till date -- 64,412 tests per million population, it said. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by less than one per cent everyday. The recovery rate has increased to more than 90 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-8-deaths-due-to-covid-19-lowest-in-over-2-months-872162.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Don't know when Gehlot-Pilot 'drama' begins again: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati on Tuesday said the Rajasthan governor should take note of the “serious political situation" in the state so that the people can get rid of the political uncertainty. She also said that though the Congress government in Rajasthan has survived a recent rebellion by some of its MLAs, no one knows when the "drama" between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot begins again. In a statement, she said due to a long power tussle between Gehlot and Pilot, the state’s fight against coronavirus and other works of public importance have suffered. "Under such a situation, keeping in mind the various problems of the people, the governor should fulfil his constitutional responsibility by taking note of the serious political situation -- it is our request," she said. On other issues, Mayawati cited media reports to note that the BJP has said that if needed, its government will build a grand statue of Lord Parshuram. She said the BSP won't oppose it, but welcome it instead. The BJP should not delay the move and also declare his birthday a public holiday, she said. If the BJP does not do both the things, the BSP will do them when it comes to power, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-know-when-gehlot-pilot-drama-begins-again-mayawati-872191.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Punjabi attitude of 'koyi gal nahin' delaying Covid-19 testing: CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said Tuesday the Punjabi attitude of 'koyi gal nahin' was causing people to delay their Covid-19 testing until it became inevitable, warning them it could prove detrimental in some cases. Singh blamed the attitude for the higher-than-Haryana mortality rate in Punjab. While this was a nice attitude, he said, it could prove detrimental in some cases. He said he had conveyed this to Prime Minister Narendra Modi too earlier Tuesday. "The concern at present, however, was the rising number of Covid cases in the state, with the Punjabi spirit of 'koyi gal nahin' (no worries) causing people to delay going for testing and treatment," said Singh. He was addressing a virtual meeting with industry leaders, including Hindustan Unilever Ltd CMD Sanjiv Mehta, Biocon's Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw and Tech Mahindra MD C P Gurnani. Earlier during a video conference with Prime Minister Modi to review the COVID-19 situation, the chief minister said the cases in the state have reached 24,891 with 604 deaths. Singh said the state had seen cases go up from 500 to 1,000 in two weeks, with the positivity rate of the last five days at 8.73 per cent. The majority of cases were being reported from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala, though they were increasing in all districts, he said. Micro-containment zones were being increased in high incidence districts like Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabi-attitude-of-koyi-gal-nahin-delaying-covid-19-testing-cm-amarinder-singh-872193.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court allows six MLAs to withdraw plea seeking transfer of case from High Court||The Supreme Court Thursday allowed the withdrawal of petition filed by six Rajasthan MLAs seeking transfer of the plea pending against them in the high court to the apex court. These six legislators, who were elected to the assembly on BSP ticket and later merged with the Congress Party, had requested the apex court to transfer to itself the BJP MLA Madan Dilawar’s plea, seeking their disqualification for allegedly violating the party whip, which is pending in the Rajasthan High Court. A counsel appearing for them told a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that he has instruction to withdraw the plea. Taking note of the submission by the counsel, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said “the counsel appearing for the petitioner (s) has prayed for withdrawal of this transfer petition. The transfer petition is, accordingly, dismissed as withdrawn, as prayed for.” The apex court also dealt with the separate petition filed by Dilawar who has challenged the high court’s order which had refused to stay the functioning of these six MLAs as Congress legislators. At the outset, the bench asked the lawyers appearing in the matter as to when the single-judge bench of the high court would hear the matter pending there. The bench was told that the high court was scheduled to hear the matter today itself. “As the high court is hearing the matter today and the parties have assured us that they are going to argue the matter, let the matter be argued before the high court,” the bench said in its order and listed the matter on August 13. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, said that the matter can go on before the high court but the issue is what is to be done in the meantime. Salve, while referring to the September last year order of merger passed by the Speaker, said there is a “curious situation” as the BSP is saying that they have not merged. He said that the apex court should stay the Speaker's order of September last year. "Please stay the order of September 18. Speaker is supposed to be independent. Look at what he has done. It is contrary to Supreme Court's judgements," Salve said. Senior advocate S C Mishra, appearing for BSP, said the six MLAs had went to the speaker saying they want to merge and the Speaker "straight away" passed order of merger. He said in the Rajasthan assembly also, these MLAs are not following the whip of BSP. He said that BSP is a national party and spilt, if any, has to be at the national level. The bench said, "why should we hear this today? The high court is hearing the matter today". The bench has posted the matter for hearing on August 13. Dilawar has challenged in the apex court the August 6 order of a division bench of high court which had disposed of his plea against the order of a single judge, who had refused to stay the functioning of these six MLAs as Congress legislators. The single judge of high court had earlier not granted any interim relief and refused to put a stay on the participation of six MLAs in the proceedings of the House as Congress legislators. On July 30, the high court had sought response of the Assembly Speaker and its secretary on the pleas challenging the induction of the six MLAs into the Congress. Two petitions have been filed in the high court, one by Dilawar and the other by BSP National Secretary S C Mishra. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha contested and won the 2018 assembly election on a BSP ticket but they defected to Congress in September 2019. They had submitted an application for the merger on September 16 last year and the Speaker allowed their induction into the Congress two days later. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of the Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200. Dilawar has challenged the merger of the BSP MLAs into Congress, questioning Assembly Speaker CP Joshi's order dismissing his complaint without allowing him to have his say. Mishra has challenged in the high court the defection of the MLAs, but these legislators had not sought transfer of his plea to the Supreme Court. PTI ABA MNL ABA RKS RKS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-allows-six-mlas-to-withdraw-plea-seeking-transfer-of-case-from-high-court-872215.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Only few students availing CSC services for open book DU exams||The common service centres facilitating the Delhi University's online open-book exams here said only a handful of students are availing the service and most of them faced issues while uploading their answer sheets. The common service centres (CSCs) have been set up to help students who do not have the proper infrastructure to give online exams. The CSE Academy, engaged by the Ministry of Electronics and Technology, has an agreement with the Delhi University for conducting the open book exams, being held for the first time in view of the coronavirus pandemic. An official from the southwest district said most of the students have smartphones and they are filing it from their respective homes. "Around seven to eight students have come. If they face difficulty in uploading the answer sheet, the option of mail is there,” he added. In Shahdara, only 10 students visited three-four CSCs on Monday, the first day of the exams, an official said. He said they have learnt that students faced issues in uploading their answer sheets on the portal. The CSC official said that the centres are opened before 7.30 am when the first exam shift starts. "We are getting the exams conducted and even getting queries from students who want to visit the CSC for taking their exams. The students faced issues while uploading answer sheets and we helped them in emailing them," he added. Amid opposition from students and teachers who have been demanding that exams are scrapped and students are evaluated on the basis of their performance in previous semesters and internal assessments, the varsity began the online exams on August 10. The first day of the exams was marred with complaints of technical glitches and problems faced by students in uploading their answer sheets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-few-students-availing-csc-services-for-open-book-du-exams-872218.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Case filed against ASHA workers, CTU members for holding unauthorised protest at Jantar Mantar||The Delhi Police have registered a case against ASHA workers and members of Central Trade Unions who had gathered for an unauthorised protest at Jantar Mantar here in violation of Unlock-3 guidelines, officials said on Tuesday. According to police, there were around 100 protestors, mostly women, who did not have permission to hold the protest. The protest took place on Sunday. No social or political gathering is allowed at Jantar Mantar in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and the protestors were also not following social distancing norms, a senior police officer said. "An FIR has been registered against unauthorised protest by Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and members of Central Trade Unions who had gathered at Jantar Mantar in violation of Unlock-3 guidelines in force related to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Any public gathering is strictly prohibited at Jantar Mantar due to the coronavirus situation," Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said. "FIR registered against unauthorised protesters of Asha Workers and Central Trade Unions who gathered at Jantar Mantar in violation of Unlock guidelines. Protests are strictly banned at Jantar Mantar. Such gatherings can worsen the Covid-19 situation @CPDelhi @LtGovDelhi @PMOIndia," Singhal, who is also the Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi), tweeted. Police requested the people to follow the Unlock-3 guidelines. "We request people not to come outside unnecessarily as the protests at Jantar Mantar is strictly banned. We also request them to follow the Unlock-3 guidelines otherwise we will have to take action against them," Singhal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-filed-against-asha-workers-ctu-members-for-holding-unauthorised-protest-at-jantar-mantar-872222.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Lord Hanuman idol desecrated in Muzaffarnagar temple||Unidentified people desecrated an idol of Lord Hanuman at a temple in this western Uttar Pradesh district, following which extra police force was deployed in the area, officials said on Tuesday. They said the incident happened at a Shiv temple in Saidpura Kala village under Charthawal Police Station early morning. The temple also had an idol of lord Hanuman. Station House Officer Sube Singh said a case has been registered against unidentified miscreants on the complaint of priest Pandit Balbir. He said devotees began a protest after they saw the broken idol. They relented after the police assured them that a new idol will be installed soon and the culprits in the desecration case arrested, the officer said. As a precautionary measure, extra police force has been deployed in the area and the situation is fully under control, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lord-hanuman-idol-desecrated-in-muzaffarnagar-temple-872231.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Bihar reports highest single-day spike of 4,071 Covid-19 cases; 15 more fatalities push death toll to 465||Bihar reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as 4,071 more people tested positive for the infection, while 15 more fatalities pushed its coronavirus death toll to 465, a health bulletin said. The fresh cases have taken the state's Covid-19 tally to 86,812, of which 29,307 cases are active, it said. Also, a record 83,314 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. Vaishali district reported the highest number of fresh fatalities at three, followed by two each in Bhagalpur, Samastipur and Patna and one each in Bhojpur, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Rohtas, Saran and Supaul, it said. Patna district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 552, followed by Begusarai (225), East Champaran (208), Bhagalpur (195), Gaya (172), Katihar (164) and Buxar (162). Nine other districts reported more than 100 cases each. Patna, the worst-affected among the state's 38 districts, has so far reported the highest number of cases (14,446), fatalities (90), active cases (4,045) and recoveries (10,311). Bhagalpur, the second worst-hit district, has registered 3,719 cases and 39 fatalities. Other districts with high numbers of cases are Muzaffarpur (3,600), Nalanda (3,293), Begusarai (3,219), Rohtas (3,195) and Gaya (3,137). Only three districts -- Arwal, Kaimur and Sheohar -- are left with tallies under 1,000. Districts with high numbers of fatalities, after Patna and Bhagalpur, are Gaya (29), Rohtas (24), Munger (23), Nalanda (22), Muzaffarpur (18) and Vaishali (17). A total of 11.80 lakh tests have been conducted in the state so far. Meanwhile, distressing tales of social ostracism faced by Covid-19 patients and their families continue to pour in from various parts of the state. The latest instance has been reported from Muzaffarpur district where a 60-year-old man died on Saturday, barely a few days after his wife tested positive for the infection. According to Saraiya Block Development Officer B N Singh, the woman's test report came out on Wednesday and even though the sample of her husband, collected on the same day, tested negative for the infection, villagers refused to allow cremation.  The deceased belonged to Anandpur Gangaulia village. He had a son who lives in Jaipur but even his two sons-in-law who lived nearby refused to attend the funeral for fear of catching the contagion, the official said. "The ambulance carrying the body, with the bereaved wife waiting beside, remained stranded outside the village for close to seven hours. We, thereafter, arranged for getting the widow admitted to a hospital," he said. "Since residents of the village were adamant that they would not allow cremation, we arranged for burial inside a deep trench dug with the help of an earthmover. "Some token rituals were conducted with the help of the brother of the deceased while a brother of his wife lent his hand in the burial. Villagers refused to part with a shovel. The body had to be covered with mud gathered through hands," the BDO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-4071-covid-19-cases-15-more-fatalities-push-death-toll-to-465-872239.html
11-08-2020||North and Central||Congress targets Delhi Police, Centre over FIR against leaders for allegedly violating social distancing||The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at the Delhi Police and the BJP government at the Centre over an FIR filed against its leaders for allegedly violating social distancing norm during an event to mark the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement. The event was attended by the Congress's Delhi unit president Anil Chaudhary and former MP J P Agarwal, among others. The Narendra Modi government "behaved like the British rulers in trying to crush the voice of freedom and democracy by filing FIRs against the Congress leaders for hoisting the national flag at Hauz Qazi Chowk, Chandni Chowk, to mark the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement," Chaudhary said in a press conference. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana hit back at him, saying the Congress was playing the "victim card". "If you break the law, hold an event without prior permission and violate social distancing at the time of pandemic, you will be booked. Same happened with Congress leaders although they are now talking about democracy and freedom," Khurana said. The Delhi Police, which comes under the central government, registered a case at the Hauz Qazi Police station for the event under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). “They applied for the permission of the programme, but it was denied. Despite not having the permission, they organised the event and violated the social distancing norm in view of the ongoing COVID-19 situation," according to the FIR. Chaudhary also alleged that Delhi Police used different yardsticks in dealing with the Congress and the ruling parties -- the BJP at the Centre and the AAP in Delhi. He said that it was a "shocking experience" for the Congress leaders when the FIR was filed against them for hoisting the national flag. "BJP held a 'Bijli Jan Andolan' demonstration in violation of all lockdown guidelines, but the police did not file any FIR," said Agarwal. A senior Delhi Police officer denied the charge. "We take action as per the law. There is action against anyone who breaks the law without any discrimination," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-targets-delhi-police-centre-over-fir-against-leaders-for-allegedly-violating-social-distancing-872244.html
11-08-2020||Opinion||Why we need to re-evaluate our independence||“As soon as the last British soldier sailed from Bombay or Karachi, India would become the battlefield of antagonistic forces…[and] the peaceful and progressive civilisation, which Great Britain has slowly but surely brought into India, would shrivel up in a night,” wrote J E Welldon, former Bishop of Calcutta, in 1915.  If newly independent India were to be floated as a startup, few would have invested in it. From its territorial enormity to its linguistic and cultural variety to communal differences that dismembered it in two even before it could be free, the challenges India faced on August 15, 1947, were unparalleled. Simply put, India stood on the verge of the greatest socio-political experiment in modern history.  British imperialism had reduced India’s share of the world economy from close to 25 percent in the 18th Century to a little more than four percent in 1947. However, in spite of being born as an impoverished republic, India did not go in the direction of so many of her contemporaries in the so-called third world, which squandered the promise of autonomy at the altar of political dictatorship and economic stagnation. Independence was not merely obtained, but also operationalised in India. The meaning of celebration What does it really mean to celebrate independence?  A lot is wrong in India today, but in order to address these wrongs, it is important to recall what we have done right and re-evaluate our independence in the light of it.  Re-evaluating principles  What was it that made India independent? Yes, there were the unforgettable contributions of the freedom fighters, the coincidence of monumental events like the World War II with the freedom struggle, the ebbing of the imperialist vision; but above all, there was an unflinching commitment to principles, which, though never promulgated on pamphlets, emerged organically from the forces that shaped India. Given where we are right now, it is these principles that need to be re-evaluated to see if we are true to them if we are to continue celebrating the Indian legacy for another seven decades and more. The first of these principles is reconciliation, the ability to put differences aside in order to drive forward towards a common goal. Not only was reconciliation pivotal to the mass movements championed by the likes of Mahatma Gandhi, it was instrumental in persuading the numerous princely states to accede to the Indian Union shortly after independence. The principle of reconciliation is based on the ancient Indian value of acceptance, which is much more than the normative concept of tolerance popularised by Western secularism. Speaking at Chicago’s Parliament of World Religions in 1893, Swami Vivekananda had described how tolerance can be a patronising idea, as it believes that the tolerant possess the truth while indulging the tolerated in their right to be wrong. On the other hand, acceptance regards the accepted to be as much the possessors of the truth as the accepting, and it is out of this reciprocity between two different truths that reconciliation can emerge.  India needs such a reconciliation more than ever in Kashmir, which has been engulfed in a web of lockdowns. Kashmiris have been given reason to feel that the current government of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is not interested in Kashmir’s idea of truth and Kashmir’s idea of identity.  If India is to seriously address the Kashmir problem, it has to reconcile its ambitions with those of the locals, engage in sympathetic communication and not brazen political manoeuvres like the sudden abrogation of Article 370. In the absence of reconciliation, there will simply remain two antagonistic truths that serve neither of its believers.  The second principle behind independence that requires re-evaluation is that of dissent, the touchstone of any well-functioning democracy. The echo-chambers we inhabit today have made it difficult to debate and discuss without descending into derision. Name-calling, toxic labels such as “bhakt” and “sickular”, and a mainstream media more interested in noise than news have compounded the Indian mindscape where free thought, speech, and expression is increasingly becoming anathema for those in the corridors of power.  Had the freedom movement not allowed scope for dissent, Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Bose could never have taken such divergent paths to swaraj and self-reliance. It was the principle of dissent that allowed Gandhian non-violence and Netaji’s belligerence to create two fronts of opposition to imperialism, a principle India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru was well aware of. It is impossible to imagine our current prime minister emulating Nehru in writing an anonymous critique of his own actions in order to fuel discourse, but it is imperative to expect India’s political parties and its common men and women to realise that they need to listen to contrasting opinions without opprobrium and encourage varying views. Finally, the third principle in this axis of re-evaluation is one which is the hardest to define or articulate. In some ways, it is less a principle and more a philosophy, a way of looking at life. It is the peculiar power of hope.  Starting from the build-up to India’s first general elections in 1951-52, premature obituaries have been written for independent India time and again. It was the same before 1947, when, successively, the failure of the First War of Independence, the suppression of assertive nationalists like Bal Gangadhar Tilak, the calling off of the Non-Cooperation Movement, among others, had been pinpointed as the nadir of the freedom movement, the final nail in the coffin.  Post-independence, the humiliation at the hands of the Chinese in 1962, the death of Jawaharlal Nehru, the Emergency of 1975, the communal riots of the 1990s, had all been designated (by the rest of the world, particularly the Western commentariat) as the tipping points beyond which India would begin to disintegrate. And yet, on every single occasion, India did not crumble under the weight of these grim predictions. Forging a way through collective hope, it managed to not only survive, but thrive. If one were to read the forecasts currently made by much of the world, it would be easy to believe that India, at the mercy of a Hindu nationalist government, is beyond recovery – its flagging economy, its corrupt conversation, and its undermined pluralism being hallmarks of this great decay.  But all this should make Indians cautious, not cynical. For whatever our ideology, whatever our faith, whatever our culture, we belong to a land whose fabric has been woven through realising the inconceivable, conquering the unscalable, and dreaming the impossible.  Back in 1947, few would have given India a chance. Now, in 2020, with circumstances perilously poised, all of us must give India a chance; the India where a lot is wrong, but where a lot can still go right. The India where hope truly springs eternal. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-we-need-to-re-evaluate-our-independence-871997.html
11-08-2020||Opinion||Would a new Iran deal be tougher than the one Trump left?||Speaking at a fundraiser in California over the weekend, President Donald Trump predicted that he would have a new nuclear deal within four weeks if re-elected in November. In one sense, this is typical bluster from a president who has recently mused that his face should be carved on Mount Rushmore. At the same time, it highlights both a risk about a second Trump term and a truth about the Iranian regime his administration has pressured since taking office. First, consider the risk. Trump has always explained his maximum pressure campaign as an effort to coerce Tehran to submit to better terms. By itself, there is nothing wrong with that. The 2015 nuclear deal forged by Trump’s predecessor was weak. Key limitations on the technology and scale of Iran’s enrichment program expired over time. And Trump’s campaign has steadily increased pressure on the regime. The remaining loopholes in US sanctions against Iran have been closed, and Iran’s most important general has been killed. Meanwhile, the US is planning to introduce a UN Security Council resolution to extend an arms embargo on Iran set to expire in October. But Trump is also prone to flattery, and has expressed desperation for a diplomatic win. As former National Security Adviser John Bolton wrote in his memoir this year, the president was interested in “making a deal he could characterize as a huge success, even if it was badly flawed.” Now consider the truth about the Iranian regime. Veterans of former President Barack Obama’s administration and America’s European allies have been scathing about Trump’s maximum pressure policy. In part they defend the 2015 deal, but they also say Trump’s current policy is not the way to get a better deal with Iran. Nonetheless, this is exactly the approach that Obama took against Iran — although he did not call it a “maximum pressure” campaign. After discovering a hidden uranium enrichment facility in 2009, the administration and Congress increased sanctions over time in a gambit to bring the Iranians to negotiations. When the first preliminary deal was struck in 2013, only some of those sanctions were lifted. Economic warfare was waged to get a better deal. Presidential elections are, of course, a binary choice. If you are worried about what kind of deal Trump may negotiate with Iran, then you might also be concerned that former Vice President Joe Biden would simply re-enter the one that Trump exited. But Biden has been more cautious than one might expect. The Biden campaign has not pledged, for example, to re-enter the deal unconditionally. “If Iran moves back into compliance with its nuclear obligations,” Biden told the New York Times last spring, the US would re-enter the 2015 agreement. He also added that this would be a “starting point to work alongside our allies in Europe and other world powers to extend the deal’s nuclear constraints.” For voters who have supported Trump’s tough line on Iran, this presents a dilemma. Who would make a better deal with Iran: a mercurial president who has shown little interest in details and policy, or a former vice president whose administration negotiated a weak one in the first place? Put another way: Do you go with the devil you know, or the devil you once knew?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/would-a-new-iran-deal-be-tougher-than-the-one-trump-left-872022.html
11-08-2020||Panorama||Will Saudi nuclear programme lead to bomb effort?||US intelligence agencies are scrutinizing efforts by Saudi Arabia to build up its ability to produce nuclear fuel that could put the kingdom on a path to developing nuclear weapons. Spy agencies in recent weeks circulated a classified analysis about the efforts underway inside Saudi Arabia, working with China, to build industrial capacity to produce nuclear fuel. The analysis has raised alarms that there might be secret Saudi-Chinese efforts to process raw uranium into a form that could later be enriched into weapons fuel, according to US officials. As part of the study, they have identified a newly completed structure near a solar-panel production area near Riyadh, the Saudi capital, that some government analysts and outside experts suspect could be one of a number of undeclared nuclear sites. US officials said that the Saudi efforts were still in an early stage, and that intelligence analysts had yet to draw firm conclusions about some of the sites under scrutiny. Even if the kingdom has decided to pursue a military nuclear program, they said, it would be years before it could have the ability to produce a single nuclear warhead. Saudi officials have made no secret of their determination to keep pace with Iran, which has accelerated since President Donald Trump abandoned the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman pledged in 2018 that his kingdom would try to develop or acquire nuclear weapons if Iran continued its work toward a bomb. Last week, the House Intelligence Committee, led by Rep. Adam B. Schiff, D-Calif., included a provision in the intelligence budget authorization bill requiring the administration to submit a report about Saudi efforts since 2015 to develop a nuclear program, a clear indication that the committee suspects that some undeclared nuclear activity is going on. The report, the provision stated, should include an assessment of “the state of nuclear cooperation between Saudi Arabia and any other country other than the United States, such as the People’s Republic of China or the Russian Federation.” An article in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday said that Western officials were concerned about a different facility in Saudi Arabia, in the country’s northwest desert. The Journal said it was part of a program with the Chinese to extract uranium yellowcake from uranium ore. That is a necessary first step in the process of obtaining uranium for later enrichment, either for use in a civilian nuclear reactor or, enriched to much higher levels, a nuclear weapon. Saudi Arabia and China have publicly announced a number of joint nuclear projects in the kingdom — including one to extract uranium from seawater — with the stated goal of helping the world’s largest oil producer develop a nuclear energy program or become a uranium exporter. Intelligence officials have searched for decades for evidence that the Saudis are seeking to become a nuclear weapons power, fearful that any such move could result in a broader, destabilizing nuclear arms race in the Middle East. So far, Israel is the only nuclear weapons state in the region, a status it has never officially confirmed. In the 1990s, the Saudis helped bankroll Pakistan’s successful effort to produce a bomb. But it has never been clear whether Riyadh has a claim on a Pakistani weapon, or its technology. And 75 years after the detonation of the first nuclear weapon used in war — the anniversary of the Hiroshima blast is Thursday — only nine nations possess nuclear weapons. But ever since the debacle of the Iraq invasion in 2003, based on faulty assessments that Saddam Hussein was restarting the country’s once-robust nuclear program, intelligence agencies have been far more reluctant to warn of nuclear progress for fear of repeating a colossal mistake. At the White House, Trump administration officials seem relatively unperturbed by the Saudi effort. They say that until the Iranian nuclear program is permanently terminated, the Saudis will most likely keep the option open to produce their own fuel, leaving open a pathway to a weapon. But now the administration is in the uncomfortable position of declaring it could not tolerate any nuclear production ability in Iran, while seeming to remain silent about its close allies, the Saudis, for whom it has forgiven human rights abuses and military adventurism. Trump and his top aides have built close ties to the Saudi leadership, playing down the killing of the journalist and Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi and enlisting the crown prince in so-far fruitless Middle East peace efforts. It also comes at a time when the Trump administration is aggressively taking on China on numerous fronts, like its handling of the novel coronavirus and its efforts to crack down on freedoms in Hong Kong. So far, the White House has said nothing about China’s array of nuclear deals with the Saudis. Spokespeople for the National Security Council and the CIA declined to comment. A spokesman for the Saudi Embassy in Washington did not respond to a message seeking comment. Late Wednesday, the State Department said in a statement to The New York Times that while it would not comment on intelligence findings, “we routinely warn all our partners about the dangers of engagement with the P.R.C.’s civil nuclear business,” referring to the People’s Republic of China, “including the threats it presents of strategic manipulation and coercion, as well as technology theft. We strongly encourage all partners to work only with trusted suppliers who have strong nonproliferation standards.” The statement also said that “we oppose the spread of enrichment and reprocessing,” and that the United States would “attach great importance” to continued compliance by the Saudis to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. It urged Saudi Arabia to conclude an agreement with the United States “with strong nonproliferation protections that will enable Saudi and US nuclear industries to cooperate.” Saudi Arabia’s work with the Chinese suggests that the Saudis may have now given up on the United States and turned to China instead to begin building the multibillion-dollar infrastructure needed to produce nuclear fuel. China has traditionally not insisted on such strict nonproliferation safeguards, and is eager to lock in Saudi oil supplies. Regional experts say part of the Saudi calculation stems from the view that the kingdom can no longer count on America’s willingness to counter Iran. That view gained more currency in the kingdom after the Obama administration signed the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, known as the JCPOA. It forced Iran to give up 97% of its fuel stockpile, but left open a path to production in the future. “They believe that as a result of the JCPOA they can’t rely on anyone reining in the Iranians, and they are going to have to deter Iran themselves,” said Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a former CIA officer and director of intelligence and counterintelligence at the Energy Department. The irony, Mowatt-Larssen said, is that Saudi Arabia has sought both civilian nuclear partnerships and defense agreements with two powers — Russia and China — that have deep economic ties to Iran. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/will-saudi-nuclear-programme-lead-to-bomb-effort-871918.html
11-08-2020||Panorama||Covid-19: Pulse oximeters, useful tools||This sudden surge in the number of cases puts enormous stress on healthcare services. Governments across India are adopting new measures like home isolation. In this scenario, a small medical device called pulse oximeter has come in handy and useful tool to assess the severity of the disease. A Pulse Oximeter is a small electronic device that shows your heart rate and oxygen saturation level - the percentage of your red blood cells carrying oxygen. It helps determine how effectively oxygen is being transferred to different parts of the body and how often the heart is beating. This attaches painlessly to your fingertip, sending two wavelengths (red light and infrared light waves) of light through the finger to measure your pulse rate and how much oxygen is in the red blood cells travelling through the blood vessels under your skin.  Pulse oximeter test can be done on fingers or toes. The finger clip pulse oximeter is designed to fit on the tip of the fingers. It is important to ensure that the red light inside the device passes through fingers and wait for at least 10-15 seconds until the pulse waveform is regular and rhythmic. Pulse oximetry was first developed by Japanese scientists in the 1970’s. Nowadays it forms a part of the minimum standards of monitoring during anaesthesia and Intensive care.  Readings can be inaccurate when the hands are dirty or extremely cold and in the presence of bright ambient / fluorescent light. Nail polishes especially pink & black can give wrong readings because it affects the absorption of light by the sensors in the device. An SpO2 reading of 95% or greater is generally considered to be a normal oxygen level. However, an SpO2 reading of 92% or less suggests that your blood is poorly saturated. If the number drops to 92% or lower, that’s a cause for concern.  The term for low blood oxygen levels is hypoxemia. In this condition, your body’s organs may not work right. Severe cases can interfere with heart or brain function. Covid-19 can cause what’s called Covid pneumonia — an infection in which the lung’s air sacs (alveoli) fill with fluid or pus. The disease “kills by silently causing a decrease in oxygen levels in the blood”. Sometimes even without experiencing any difficulty in breathing. This was first reported by doctors working in New York City. This is being termed as ‘Happy Hypoxia’.  Like mountain climbers, the patients had grown accustomed to gradually decreasing levels of oxygen and didn’t realize they were hypoxemic. When patients seek medical help late in the disease, there can be mortality. In modern medical science,  early recognition and earlier treatment lead to better results, And that’s true of Covid-19, as well. In such cases, a pulse oximeter might signal that you’re in trouble before you realize it.  In the midst of a pandemic, when one is self-monitoring, one needs a simple and objective way to assess whether they can safely stay at home or there is a need to access advanced medical help.  If you have symptoms of Covid-19, like weakness, muscle aches or fever, you could use the device to measure blood oxygen levels. The value of  92% (or lower) is a sign that “you should get evaluated”. Because there can be rapid deterioration beyond this point. This reading along with your other symptoms such as shortness of breath, fever, fatigue, chest pain can act as a trigger to seek advanced help.” However, there is a small risk that people make decision more based on readings than on other symptoms. People could be falsely reassured by good numbers into thinking they’re not very sick.  It makes sense to have a pulse oximeter at home – just like you might have a thermometer, BP apparatus and glucometer to track fevers, blood pressure and blood glucose levels.  In times of such pandemic, this small, affordable and powerful device can prove to be a very handy tool to monitor your health from home and a lifesaver for some people infected with the coronavirus.  (The writer is a Senior Consultant Anaesthetist, Aster RV Hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-pulse-oximeters-useful-tools-871919.html
11-08-2020||Second Edit||Karnataka needs a more lasting solution||Unlike the past, the official machinery appears to be well-prepared this time despite the constraints, but the intensity of rains is such that no amount of advance groundwork would have sufficed to meet the challenge. Given that heavy rains and floods are a recurring feature, the government should evolve a plan to permanently relocate low-lying villages to the highlands to prevent loss of life and property year after year. A classic example is that of Bagalkot, where the entire population was shifted to a modern township before it was submerged under the backwaters of Almatti dam. While this would no doubt face the issue of funds as well as people’s resistance to relocating to a new place, it is high time the government thought of this more lasting solution than doling out monetary compensation every year, which only serves a temporary purpose. Another issue that needs immediate resolution is poor dam management. There has been criticism for long that in the absence of a scientific protocol, engineers do not release water periodically but wait for the dam to fill to the brim and suddenly open the crest gates without adequate warning, leading to flooding and devastation downstream. This also causes swelling of the backwaters of the reservoir and flooding of agricultural lands. In addition, the government should also take steps to protect ecologically fragile districts like Kodagu, where construction activity on hilltops and slopes have been blamed for the massive landslides that have occurred for the third year in a row. While rescue and relief operations are progressing across the state, mainly based on previous experience of the officers concerned, the state government would do well to evolve an updated disaster management policy so that the administration is better geared to handle any natural calamity and minimise the loss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/karnataka-needs-a-more-lasting-solution-871914.html
11-08-2020||South||Covid-19 clouds demand for Sabarimala 'melsanthi' post||This year, only 55 applications were received for the Sabarimala 'melsanthi' post and 34 for the 'melsanthi' post of the adjacent Malikapuram Devi Temple, which is the lowest number in recent times. During the last three years, the number of applicants for 'melshanthi' posts of the two temples were 72 and 61 in 2019, 101 and 74 in 2018 and 82 and 51 in 2017 respectively. The number of applicants were comparatively low this time, and the Covid-19 scenario could be one probable factor for this, said N Vasu, president of Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple. Apart from the profile of being the head priest of Sabarimala and Malikapuram temples, the post also has much financial attraction in terms of 'dakshina' (offering) from lakhs of devotees who visit the temple annually. However, owing to the pandemic scenario, there is serious uncertainty over the turnout of devotees in the upcoming year, especially the annual pilgrimage from November to January. The term of 'melsanthi' of the two temples is for one year from the pilgrimage season and they need to remain in the temple premises round the year, which is referred to as 'purapedasanthi'. Malayali Brahmins in the 35-60 age group and having ten continuous years of experience as head priest of any major temples can apply for the post. A person selected once will not be considered again for the next ten years. This time the selection of the head priest is also getting delayed owing to the pandemic. The TDB vigilance wing needs to carry out detailed verification of candidates before the interview. The final selection would be through a meticulous draw of lots at the temple premises.The scrutiny of the applications is getting delayed as some of the applicants are now serving in temples outside Kerala and hence the vigilance officials are not able to conduct the verification owing to Covid-19. Vasu said that the selection of 'melsanthis' could be possibly held in October when the temple opens for monthly poojas. Those who serve as 'melsanthi of Sabarimala and Malikapuram would also be much sought after for conducting poojas in other places after their tenure at Sabarimala and Malikapuram ends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-clouds-demand-for-sabarimala-melsanthi-post-872028.html
11-08-2020||South||Covid-19: 'Focused testing' strategy paying dividends, says AP CM||A "focused testing" strategy to detect Covid-19 cases early was paying dividends as Andhra Pradesh succeeded in keeping the peak positivity rate below 20 per cent, while "rigorous clinical management" ensured the mortality rate remained below one per cent, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Community-based targeted testing, testing of every primary and secondary contact of positive cases and testing of all high-risk category patients in containment zones have been the governments focus in combating the pandemic, he noted. Addressing a videoconference Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted with Chief Ministers of various states on Tuesday, Jagan said the state's ultimate objective at any point in time was to save lives by providing correct and high quality care and treatment. "We are not only doing more tests but are doing more focused testing. We are testing in areas and groups where we feel there is a chance of higher positive cases being detected. Our aim at any point in time continues to be to identify cases early on, decrease stigma, provide correct and high quality care and treatment and save lives," the Chief Minister said. Referring to the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, Jagan said, "it has been captured by increased testing." "In the past few weeks, many of our districts are facing their peak. Through testing, early detection, contact tracing and continuous involvement of more than two lakh volunteers at the ground level, along with rigorous clinical management, we have succeeded in keeping the mortality less than 1.5 per cent in every district in the last two months and below 1 per cent overall in the state through the course of the pandemic," he added. The Chief Minister said the state used the coronavirus lockdown period to embark on a massive medical infrastructure improvement drive, from village clinics to medical colleges. "We see the pandemic not just as the biggest challenge of our times but also an opportunity to increase spending and focus on public health, to enhance primary health infrastructure at the grassroots level and tertiary medical infrastructure across our districts," he pointed out. Jagan remarked that in the spirit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', all districts and the state as a whole have become self-reliant, more resilient to this pandemic and the medical challenges of the future. "From zero in March, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, our present lab capacity alone is the highest in the country at 35,000-plustests per day. Number of tests conducted per million (population) is greater than 45,000, and is more than 2.5 times the national average," Jagan said. The state now has 37,189 beds in 138 hospitals (government and private) for Covid-19 patients, including 4,320 ICU and 17,228 with oxygen supply facilities. The Chief Minister said apart from filling vacant posts in hospitals, 5,000 additional posts have been created to run the health facilities even after the pandemic ended. He summed up saying the statemade a concerted effort towards de-stigmatization (of coronavirus) through a communication strategy that also included dissemination of epidemic literacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-focused-testing-strategy-paying-dividends-says-ap-cm-872081.html
11-08-2020||South||Let's not equate Hindi with nationalism, says S M Krishna on Kanimozhi episode||"Not knowing Hindi will not make you less Indian", veteran politician and former External Affairs Minister, S M Krishna said as he expressed dismay over what DMK MP Kanimozhi faced at the Chennai airport. Hindi is another Indian language and nothing more, the BJP leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister said on Tuesday. "Let's not equate Hindi with nationalism", added the former Maharashtra Governor. Kanimozhi had said she was asked whether or not she was an Indian after she told a CISF official at the airport to speak in Tamil or English as she did not understand Hindi. Krishna said he was dismayed at the way Kanimozhi was treated at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lets-not-equate-hindi-with-nationalism-says-s-m-krishna-on-kanimozhi-episode-872085.html
11-08-2020||South||Neighbour gives funeral land for Air India Express crash victim||While there is a general perception that all NRIs are having well to do background, a victim of the Air India Express flight crash in Kozhikode did not have inadequate land for the funeral. Janaky Kunnoth, 55, of Kottoor, about 35 kilometers from Kozhikode, was one among the 18 persons killed in the flight crash on Friday. She was eking out a living for herself and her family by working as a maid for a Malayali family in UAE for nearly two years. Owing to the financial crisis due to Covid-19, her employer was forced to terminate her job and Janaky was returning home in uncertainty when the flight crash took her life. With her house situated in hardly four cents land, she got from government's aid for Dalit families, it was difficult to conduct the funeral even as her children wished that their mother's funeral be conducted near the house itself. Subsequently her neighbour Sobhana offered that the funeral may be performed at her land. Kottur grama panchayat president Sheeja M P said that Janaky had been struggling to take care of her family by doing all sorts of casual jobs like housemaid and road works. She was a well-accepted lady of the locality and hence her neighbour had no concerns in allowing funeral at her land. Her husband left her and she brought up of her son and daughter. Like Janaky, around 50 persons in the AIE flight were either returning owing to job loss or expiry of the visa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neighbour-gives-funeral-land-for-air-india-express-crash-victim-872089.html
11-08-2020||South||Women draw rangoli to protest against draft EIA notification||As the last date for submitting feedback to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification ended on Tuesday, several people in Tamil Nadu drew rangolis outside their homes to express opposition to the draft rules that they feel would bring much danger to the environment than doing good. “Scrap EIA 2020” and “We do not want EIA 2020” are some of the words that found prominent in the kolams (rangolis) that people drew outside their homes as a mark of protests. EIA notification has turned into a major political issue in Tamil Nadu with the general public, politicians and even actors coming out to oppose the draft rules which they say, “rewards violators and rewards regulatory lethargy.” Actor Karthi and his brother Suriya came out with a detailed response on the issue asking people to oppose the EIA notification. Separately, over 100 organizations that are fighting to protect environment wrote to all Members of Parliament in the country on Tuesday to press the government to withdraw the Draft EIA-2020 and to strengthen India’s environmental laws in consultation with the people, for preserving the ecology and natural resources of our country for the present and future generations. “As an aware, law-abiding, and influential political representative of India and a Member of Parliament, we appeal to you to take a stand against the injustice that will be unleashed by the Draft EIA Notification 2020,” the organizations said in the letter. Allowing post-facto approvals, expanding the list of projects exempted from the public consultation, including modernization of irrigation projects, increasing the validity period of clearance granted to project or activity in its construction phase, and lacking a post-clearance compliance and monitoring strategy are some of the issues that have been flagged by them “At a time when our country is already suffering a grave environmental crisis, these proposed changes will have severe consequences on public health and safety, forest, coast, and farm-based livelihoods rights, and climate change,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-draw-rangoli-to-protest-against-draft-eia-notification-872115.html
11-08-2020||South||DGCA stops wide-bodied aircraft operation at Kozhikode; political tension brews||Despite safety concerns, the fresh decision of DGCA to suspend the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at Kozhikode international airport has triggered political resentment in Kerala. It was indeed following strong political pressure that permission was granted in 2018 for resuming operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the airport despite safety concerns. Some veteran aviation experts had expressed serious concerns over the move. Apart from the strong Gulf connection of Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, Kozhikode airport is also the hub of the Hajj pilgrimage from Kerala. IUML MP of Ponnani in Malappuram district E T Mohammed Basheer said that the present decision of DGCA seemed to be only a temporary measure. Many airlines like Saudi Airlines were only having wide-bodied aircraft and hence stopping service of wide-bodied aircraft from Kozhikode would badly hit the people and cargo movements from the region. He also said that wide-bodied aircraft service resumed at the airport in 2018 after safety clearance by DGCA as well as the respective airline as well. Congress MP of Kozhikode M K Raghavan also said that there would be no justification for stopping wide-bodied aircraft to the airport. It was in 2015 May that operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the airport was stopped citing runway re-carpeting. Concerns about the tabletop run was raised following the Mangalore crash also. Air India, Saudi Airlines, and Emirates airlines was then operating. But even after the recarpeting was over, DGCA refused to allow wide-bodied aircraft citing safety concerns. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the state Assembly in March 2017 that the state government was pressing for the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at Karippur airport. The civil aviation authorities were pressing for increasing the length of the runway to 3,400 metres from 2,850 metres as well as to increase the area of Runway End Safety Area. But the state was pressing to operate wide-bodied aircraft with the existing runway, which was possible, Vijayan had then said. In 2018 then Civil Aviation Minister Suresh Prabhu announced the resumption of permission for wide-bodies aircraft. "Calicut airport to become operational soon. DGCA has given the final approval today on commencing operations of A330 and B-777 wide-body aircraft of Saudi Arabian airlines in strict compliance with the mitigation measures to ensure the safety of operations," he had then tweeted. However, the length of the runway had to be later reduced to 2,700 metre for expanding the Runway End Safety Area. Even then wide-bodies aircraft continued to operate to Kozhikode. A veteran wing commander had even written to the Civil Aviation Ministry last year expressing serious safety concerns on allowing wide-bodies aircraft at Kozhikode. He said in the letter that political pressure should not compromise with flight security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dgca-stops-wide-bodied-aircraft-operation-at-kozhikode-political-tension-brews-872123.html
11-08-2020||South||11 children engaged as labourers rescued in Telangana; three held for trafficking||Three persons were arrested here for allegedly trafficking 11 children from Uttar Pradesh and engaging them in work, police said on Tuesday. Acting on credible information that some children were detained and exploited for work in two POP units at Hayathnagar on the city outskirts, police teams on Monday conducted raids and rescued 11 child labourers, they said. All the 11 children were trafficked by the owners of the two companies and detained in sheds located within the premises of the units, Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat said. In both companies, the accused persons manufacture the interior Plaster of Paris (POP) sheets which are used for ceiling in the construction of all buildings, police said. The accused after paying an informal amount to their parents brought the children from Uttar Pradesh and got them engaged in the units where they were allegedly forced to work for 14 hours daily besides they were served rotten and stinky food, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-children-engaged-as-labourers-rescued-in-telangana-three-held-for-trafficking-872127.html
11-08-2020||South||Toll in Idukki landslide rises to 52 as three more bodies of victims recovered||The toll in the landslip in Pettimudi in the high range Idukki district rose to 52 with three more bodies being recovered from the debris as rescue operations continued on Tuesday to trace those missing. The bodies of two men and a woman were recovered, officials said. Personnel of NDRF, Fire, Forest and police departments have expanded their search operations to the downstream of a river in their efforts to trace 19 more people who were still missing in the August 7 tragedy near Rajamala, they said. Search is also being carried out at the site of the disaster to trace those feared trapped in the debris, the officials said. Meanwhile, the water level at Mullaperiyar reservoir in Idukki district reached 136.85 feet on Tuesday. The Idukki district Collector had held discussions with the Collector of Theni in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with regard to the release of water through the tunnel to Vaigai dam when the water level touched the 136-feet mark. The Kerala government had on Saturday asked the Tamil Nadu government to release water from Mullaperiyar to Vaigai Dam in a phased manner when the water level reached 136 feet in view of heavy rains in Idukki. With a let-up in the rains, water receded in many low-lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. There was no red alert warning in any of the state's 14 districts as the intensity of rains had decreased and the affected areas had started limping back to normalcy. A 151-year-old chapel of a CSI Church collapsed in the wee hours Tuesday due to the forceful inflow of the water following the breach of bunds in Pallathuruthy in Alappuzha district. Built in 1869, the chapel was used by some 30 families for conducting their religious rituals, a report from Alappuzha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/toll-in-idukki-landslide-rises-to-52-as-three-more-bodies-of-victims-recovered-872130.html
11-08-2020||South||Former ISRO scientist given Rs 1.3 crore compensation||ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayanan was paid a compensation of Rs. 1.3 crore by Kerala government on Tuesday. Narayanan was earlier implicated by the police in an espionage case, which was later proved false. A local court-ordered compensation to Narayanan and the amount was fixed at Rs. 1.3 crore following a settlement initiated by the state government. He was earlier paid a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh as per an order of the Supreme Court and another Rs. 10 lakh as per National Human Rights Commission recommendation. The ISRO spy case that surfaced in 1994 pertained to allegations that certain official secrets and documents of ISRO were leaked out by some scientists through two Maldivian women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-isro-scientist-given-rs-13-crore-compensation-872159.html
11-08-2020||South||AIADMK leader junks colleague's 'MLAs will pick CM' after 2021 polls line, roots for Palaniswami||AIADMK leader and Tamil Nadu Minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji on Tuesday strongly pitched for projecting incumbent K Palaniswami as the party's chief ministerial candidate in the 2021 assembly elections, contradicting the stand of a cabinet colleague. Madurai-based party leader and Minister for Cooperation Sellur K Raju had on Monday said elected MLAs would choose the Chief Minister following the assembly elections next year if the ruling party was voted to power. Bhalaji, Minister for Milk and Dairy Development, Bhalaji, from Virudhunagar district neighbouring Madurai and known for his sharp remarks on many issues, threw his weight behind Palaniswami. "Edappadiyar (a reverential reference to the Chief Minister, addressing him by the name of his native) Endrum Mudalvar (is the Chief Minister for ever)," he said. On his twitter handle, Bhalaji asked party leaders and workers to face the poll battle after fixing the target. "Let us face the elections by projecting Edappadiyar (as Chief Minister)," he said and also wanted to build the campaign around the persona of the incumbent. "Let us succeed. 2021 is ours," he said. Raju had said AIADMK was being led by both Coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam and Co-coordinator and Chief Minister K Palaniswami. "Both are our leaders and they are leading the party. As regards our policy, only the person chosen by the party MLAs can be the chief minister," he said. "There is no second opinion about this," Raju, whose remarks on several matters had led to criticism told reporters at Madurai. Asserting that "no confusion can be created in AIADMK," on any such matter, the Cooperation Minister said the party continued to be "very robust and the achievements of the government" has been reaching the people. Party sources, seeking to downplay the episode,said both Raju and Bhalaji wereknown for airing their views without inhibitions. While Raju,one of the party district secretaries in Madurairegion in southern Tamil Nadu, is relatively high on the pecking order in the party, Bhalaji is also influential. Bhalaji was relieved of the post of Virudhunagar district secretary in March but made a comeback last month getting back the key post. The action against him was taken earlier after his remark that "if DMK continues its support to Islamic terrorism, nobody can stop Hindu terrorism". The factions led by Palaniswami and Panneerselvam joined hands in 2017 August after ousting V K Sasikala, aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa and her kin including TTV Dhinakaran from the party. Panneerelvam holds the numero uno position of coordinator in the party and Palaniswami is the co-coordinator, the second in command and all party decisions are taken jointly by them. The government is led by Palaniswami as Chief Minister and Panneerselvam comes next as his deputy. The AIADMK, after the death of Jayalalithaa in December 2016 was in a disarray till the two feuding factions came together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-leader-junks-colleagues-mlas-will-pick-cm-after-2021-polls-line-roots-for-palaniswami-872161.html
11-08-2020||South||Air India Express plane crash: A salute in honour of good samaritans lands Kerala cop in trouble||A salute by a police officer to groups of volunteerswho helped in evacuating the Air India Express plane crash victims here has landed him in trouble with an enquiry being ordered into his conduct. Nizar A, a senior civil police officer of the control room here, had saluted the young volunteers, who had participated in the rescue operations on Friday and are now in quarantine at Kondotty here. A photograph of the police officer's gesture has gone viral on social media. Malappuram District police chief U Abdul Kareem said the policeman, who was deployed at the airport to ensure public do not crowd at the place of the mishap site, visited two quarantine centres on his own. An enquiry has been ordered and a report expected in two days' time.But there was no possibilityof taking any stringent action against Nizar, he told PTI. "There is no protocol as to who all a policeman can and cannot salute. Hence, the act of the police personnel cannot be regarded as illegal," the SP said. Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan has also said the policeman's act should be condoned. Many netizens also have also come out in support of Nizar. Those involved in the rescue work after the Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board crashed at the Karipur airport here have been advised to go on quarantine after samples of one of the passenger who died tested positive for Covid-19. The volunteers had rushed to the accident spot unmindful of the heavy rains and Covid-19 fears and the injured were taken immediately to various hospitals, thus saving many lives, drawing praise from various quarters, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Air India Express has also acknowledged their role in evacuating the passengers. "We at Air India Express take a bow to the people of Malappuram who have risked their own lives to save many. WE OWE YOU!" the airline had tweeted. Eighteen people, including the pilot andco-pilot, were killed and 100 odd injured in the mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-plane-crash-a-salute-in-honour-of-good-samaritans-lands-kerala-cop-in-trouble-872230.html
11-08-2020||State||36 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||Thirty-six fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kodagu district on Monday. Among these, 7 had ILI symptoms. The infected are - a 46-year-old man with a travel history to Bengaluru and a native of Chikkanna extension, Gondibasavanahalli, Kushalanagar; a two-year-old boy from Shanivarasanthe, a one-year-old baby boy from KEB road in Suntikoppa, Somwarpet; a 29-year-old female health care worker from Health quarters, Mathur, Virajpet and a 37-year-old male health care worker from  BM Road, Kushalnagar. The remaining were the primary contacts of the already infected persons, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. The total Covid-19 cases in the district stand at 741. With 436 patients discharged after recovery, 62% of the total cases in the district have been discharged till Sunday evening, she added. The district administration has notified 10 containment zones at Chikkanna Extension and near Maruthi school, Balamuri temple road in Kushalnagar; Subhash Nagar, Gonikoppa road, Virajpet; Nalkeri village in Virajpet taluk, Health quarters, Mathur, Virajpet; near OLV convent school in Somwarpet; Madarahosalli, Shanivarasanthe, Somwarpet; near Bank of India, B M Road, Kushalnagar; Ningegowda extension in Kushalnagar and near ITI building, Madikeri. On the other hand, the authorities have denotified Dechuru near a water tank in Madikeri after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/36-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-871895.html
11-08-2020||State||Prayers to resume at Talacauvery Kshetra||As the daily prayers in Talacauvery Kshetra have been affected due to landslide in the region, a meeting was convened by the District In-charge Minister V Somanna on restarting prayers in the Kshetra. During the meeting held in the auditorium in Hotel Mayura in Bhagamandala on Monday, it was decided to resume the prayers after the road connectivity to Talacauvery was reestablished. The pooja will be performed by the priest of Bhagandeshwara temple. Speaking on the occasion, Bhagandeshwara - Talacauvery Temple Managing Committee Chairman B S Thammaiah said that the landslide in the region was unfortunate. The prayers in Talacauvery Kshetra have been stopped. Religious rituals will be carried out to compensate the same, as per the advice of the Tantri of the Kshetra. Takka Head Kodi Motaiah said this was the first instance when the prayers at the Kshetra had come to a halt. The road connectivity to Talacauvery is lost due to the landslide and as a result, prayers have been stopped from the last one week. Respecting the sentiments of the devotees, the prayers should be resumed, he added. Somanna too, agreeing to implement the idea, said that the prayers should resume in Talacauvery. The family members of Talacauvery temple Chief Priest Narayana Achar, too agreed to the same. Managing Committee member Sannuvanda Dr Kaverappa said that a deformed idol of Sage Agasthyeshwara has remained in the temple. The deformed idol had to be disposed-off with proper rituals. But, the ritual could not be carried out as a case in this regard is lying in the court. He meanwhile said that the project on UGD connections in Bhagamandala town has come to a standstill. The work should be completed before the flyover work. Also, there is a need to complete the works at the Pinda Pradana site, before the next Theerthodbhava. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that the tender work for the UGD work was in progress. Meanwhile, Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah objected to the media reports which said that the landslide occurred on Brahmagiri hills. The MLA corrected that the spot of the landslide was located on Gajagiri hills. MP Prathap Simha, MLC Sunil Subramani, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra and Bhagamandala-Talacauvery temple Chief Executive Officer Jagadish were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prayers-to-resume-at-talacauvery-kshetra-871897.html
11-08-2020||State||Remarkable six score 625/625 in SSLC||Six students have scored 625 out of 625 in the SSLC examination, results of which were announced on Monday, while the pass percentage dipped to 71.80% from 73.70% the previous year. The Primary and Secondary Education department announced the results of the examination that was held in June-July.  Out of the 8,11,050 students, 5,82,316 students have cleared the exam, while 18,067 candidates remained absent due to the pandemic. In a remarkable feat, six students scored full marks. They are: Sannidhi Mahabaleshwar Hegde of Marikamba PU College, Sirsi, Chirayu KS of Schoenstatt St Mary’s High School, Nikhilesh N Murali of Poorna Prajna Education Centre, Dheeraj Reddy MP of Sri Sathyasai Saraswathi English Medium Boys’ School, Mandya, Anush AL from Kumaraswamy English Medium High School in Subramanya, DK, and Thanmayi P of St Joseph’s Convent Girls High School, Chikkamagaluru. For these six, the lockdown turned out to be a blessing in disguise, as it provided them time to prepare and take mock tests to improve on their writing skills. “Teachers helped us in utilising the lockdown period effectively to prepare for the exams. They created a WhatsApp group and shared study materials and model question papers which helped correct our mistakes and focus on writing,” explained Nikhilesh. Another student Anush said, “The announcement of lockdown and subsequent rumours about the exams did confuse me. But our teachers instilled confidence and helped preparing for the exams.” Dheeraj Reddy studied in a government school until 8th standard and joined a residential school later. He had to change the exam centre and chose one close to his hometown due to the pandemic. The Primary and Secondary Education Department attributed the drop in pass percentage to the confusion created during the lockdown about conducting exams. Education experts also revealed that the government’s decision to go ahead with the exams did exert pressure on children and parents. Announcing the results, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “There was a lot of confusion created even during the last minute of the examinations. Everyone was saying it was difficult to get even 60% results this year. We got 71%, which is good.” This year, the department introduced a grading system instead of rankings for districts. In the new system, 10 districts, including Chikkaballapura and Bengaluru Rural, received A grade, 20 districts got B grade and four districts C grade. Like every year, girls outshined boys with a pass percentage of 77.74% compared to 66.41% for boys. Rural students have fared better than their urban counterparts with 77.18% as against 73.41% by urban students. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board said it would issue provisional marks cards from Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/remarkable-six-score-625/625-in-sslc-871905.html
11-08-2020||State||Hard work, self-confidence: SSLC toppers in Dakshina Kannada share their mantra for success||The SSLC toppers from Dakshina Kannada district attributed their success to studying regularly, hard work and self-confidence. Anush A L of Kumaraswamy English Medium High School, Subramanya in Dakshina Kannada who shared the top slot with five others, was on cloud nine after the results were announced. “Hard work and consistency in studies helped me to excel in the SSLC exam by securing full marks. I was expecting above 620 marks but am elated on having scored a perfect score of 625. I had studied well and my teachers and parents guided me throughout,” he told DH. “I never counted how many hours I studied for. I used to revise the lessons daily. The homework in each subject helped me to revise lessons daily. I want to take up PCMB in my PU,” he added. He hails from Balpa village in Sullia taluk. Nidhi Rao of Canara High School, Dongerkery, said, “I am overwhelmed with my results. I lost one mark in English. I was expecting 620 and above.”  Daughter of bankers, Nidhi said, “I understood the concepts and revised my studies. The long vacation due to Covid-19 lockdown helped me calm down and study without any stress. I prepared for the exam from day one.” She said she wants to enter either the medical field or go into research in future. Sumukha of Sri Satya Sai Lokaseva High School, Alike, said the lockdown helped him to prepare well for the exam. “Further, the support of teachers, parents and blessings of God helped me to score well. The conducive environment in the hostel helped,” he added. His parents hail from Kadatoka in Honnavar but are presently staying at Theerthahalli for work. “I am interested in physics and computer science and want to take up research in the field. I did not waste my time during the lockdown and instead learnt web designing, coding and blogging,” he said. Kannada medium Prakrutipriya of Alva’s Kannada Medium High School in Moodbidri scored 622 marks. “I am very happy. The atmosphere in the hostel helped us to study. Teachers guided us throughout the year,” she said. Prakrutipriya hails from Ramdurg taluk in Belagavi and is the daughter of a high school teacher. She said she will take up the science stream in her PU and wishes to become an IAS officer by cracking the UPSC exam in the future. Sammed Mahaveer Hanje, a farmer’s son from Alagawadi in Raybagh in Belagavi studied at Alva’s Kannada Medium School in Moodbidri and scored 622 marks. “Teachers and Alva’s Education Trust Chairman Dr M Mohan Alva inspired us to excel in our studies. The lockdown period was utilised effectively for studies. Along with studies, I used to play cricket as well in the hostel, which gave me a break from the monotonous study,” he said. Other toppers in the district from government schools are Shaivi B (620), Government High School in Koyyur; Akash Madivalayya Hirematha (618) of Morarji Desai Residential School, Macchina; Shwetha (612) of Government Junior College, Venur and Sowmya Sangayya Malimath (612) of Morarji Desai Residential School, Mulki.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hard-work-self-confidence-sslc-toppers-in-dakshina-kannada-share-their-mantra-for-success-871946.html
11-08-2020||State||Karnataka Brahmin Development Board urges state govt to pass order on reservation for EWS||Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board has urged the State Government to issue an order to implement the 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in the state also. "The Union Government, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Jarkhand governments have already implemented EWS in its schools and jobs, and the same should be done in the state also. It would help 144 economically weaker castes," said board director M B Nathu. "The government has provided Rs 28 crore to the board now, and we demand Rs 100 crore per year from next year," Nathu said. "The board has prepared a 14-point programme to be implemented from November, which includes scholarship, education loan, help for those who study Vedas and Sanskrit, talent honour for meritorious students, free coaching for competitive examinations, construction of hostels and old age homes, self-employment training, help for agriculture and dairy farming, help for girls who marry farmers, poor and priests, and organising mass marriages and upanayanas."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-brahmin-development-board-urges-state-govt-to-pass-order-on-reservation-for-ews-872052.html
11-08-2020||State||SC notice to Karnataka government on plea by retired IAS officer in disproportionate assets case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by a retired IAS officer, Syed Zameer Pasha, challenging the validity of the High Court's order rejecting his plea for discharge in a disproportionate assets case. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran sought a response from the state government on the officer's plea questioning the trial court's decision to take cognisance of the offence without a prior sanction as mandated under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Lokayukta police had lodged an FIR against Pasha on June 21, 2012. Just nine days before his retirement, raids were conducted at various places and it was alleged he had amassed wealth to the tune of 272% of his known sources of income. After a lapse of six years, the Lokayukta police filed a charge sheet on May 29, 2018, reducing the tune of disproportionate assets to meager 13.4%, which was approximately Rs 19 lakh. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Nishanth Patil, appearing for Pasha, contended that the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, came into force on July 26, 2018, mandating sanction for prosecution. The provision of the amended law made it clear that no court shall take cognizance of the offences, except with the previous sanction of the authorities. However, the High Court had in "wholly erroneous" and "legally unsustainable" order on January 30, 2020, upheld the trial court's decision of August 14, 2019, rejecting his plea for discharge on account of the absence of sanction. Among other grounds, the petitioner claimed the Lokayukta police made the case out of "surmises and conjectures" by wrongly calculating his adult children's expenditures into his account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-notice-to-karnataka-government-on-plea-by-retired-ias-officer-in-disproportionate-assets-case-872097.html
11-08-2020||State||Rural, govt school students excel with big dreams||Private schools with good infrastructure always make all-out efforts to make their students get higher ranks in SSLC examinations every year, and students in urban areas have a natural advantage also. But, the rural students from government schools have also excelled with hard work and dedication, even with limited resources and financial crisis. In the government school category, Rekha Gurayyanavar who studied at Hireharkuni, a nondescript village in Kundgol taluk, has stood first to Dharwad district, by securing 98.08% of marks. Her father Shidlingayya is a small farmer. Even amid financial problems, and opting Kannada medium education in a government school at her small village, Rekha has scored well.  "My parents extended good support, and teachers took extra classes. Though I was a bit nervous when the examinations were postponed due to Covid-19 situation, I did not stop studying. I want to take up science, and become an IAS officer to serve the country," Rekha said. Due to financial problem of her family, Srushti Sogalad of Narendra village in Dharwad taluk, chose education at Morarji Desai Residential School at Anchatageri in Hubballi rural taluk. Today, she stands second to the district in SSLC examinations in government school category, with 97.76% of marks. She also wants to become an IAS officer. Doctor dream Agricultural labourer Yallappa's daughter Tejaswini Joteppanavar of Kotabagi village in Dharwad taluk has scored 97.6% of marks, securing the third position to the district in government school category. She studied at the Government Adarsha Vidyalaya in Dharwad, as her family could not afford the fee of private schools. Tejaswini has a different dream. She has seen the villagers with health problems in the absence of a hospital in the village. Therefore, she wants to become a doctor and serve the villagers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rural-govt-school-students-excel-with-big-dreams-872166.html
11-08-2020||State||Corruption: Yadgir DHO Dr M S Patil in ACB net||Sleuths from the Anti-Corruption Bureau, on Tuesday, raided the Health department and caught District Health and Family Welfare officer Dr M S Patil red-handed while accepting a bribe. According to sources, Dr Patil had demanded Rs 30,000 for the appointment of nurses on contract basis in the Health Department. While accepting a bribe of Rs 25,000, the ACB officials caught him red-handed. Under the guidance of ACB Superintendent of Police Nyamagowda, DSP Gurunath Mathoor, inspectors Guru Biradar and Raghavendra raided the DHO office and took the accused, Patil into custody and examined the related documents. Later, they went to Patil's residence and conducted a few inquiries. The health check-up of the accused has been conducted and he has been remanded in judicial custody. The ACB officials will take further action, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/corruption-yadgir-dho-dr-m-s-patil-in-acb-net-872204.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Come clean on caste census: HC to Karnataka||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the state government to make its stand clear whether it wants to make use of the caste census conducted by the previous government. The bench also asked the government if it wishes to publish the survey report. The caste census was conducted in April 2015 by the Siddaramaiah- led Congress government. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed the direction on the batch of pending PILs filed challenging the caste census. The bench said that the matter can be closed if the state government does not want to rely on the data or report of the census. The counsel appearing for the Union government informed the court that the state government has no power to conduct the caste-based survey. He said only the Centre can take up such exercise.   The petitions were filed by Shivaraj Kanshetty and others. The petitions contended that the caste census was in violation of Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/come-clean-on-caste-census-hc-to-karnataka-871907.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt issues revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patients||Covid-19 patients under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset or date of sampling, and no fever for three days, as per the revised guidelines for home care issued by the government of Karnataka. Thereafter, the patient shall be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for further 7 days, it said adding there is no need for testing after the isolation period is over. The state government in a circular on Monday said, in view of evolving situation of Covid-19 in the state and recent revision of guidelines from Government of lndia, the revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 cases are issued. According to the guidelines, only those who are asymptomatic or mild symptomatic shall be allowed to be in home care. Health team from district health authority or authorised private institution or agency shall visit the house and assess the suitability of house for home isolation and also do medical triage of the person, it said, alternatively, telephonic medical triage shall be done through an empanelled agency. Dedicated tele-monitoring link shall be established for daily follow-up of the person during the entire period of home isolation or home care, it added. Noting that the person shall be clinically assigned as asymptomatic or mild case through telephonic triage or by the health staff, medical officer, the guideline said, such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and for quarantining the family contacts. A caregiver should be available to provide care on a 24 X 7 basis, and a regular communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a pre-requisite for the entire duration of home isolation, it added. Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung, liver, kidney disease etc shall be allowed home isolation only after proper clinical evaluation. It further said home isolation shall not be applicable for pregnant women 2 weeks before the expected date of delivery (EDD), however it shall be allowed for lactating mothers after clinical evaluation by a medical officer or family doctor. On the management of waste for those under home isolation, it said the used facemasks, gloves, toiletries or swabs contaminated with blood or body fluids of Covid-19 patients, including used syringes, if any generated should be treated as biomedical waste and collected in separate yellow bag. These yellow bags should be handed over to authorised waste collectors or deposited at designated deposition centres. Masks and gloves used by caregivers and other family members shall be kept in a paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior to its disposal as general waste after cutting the same to prevent reuse, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-issues-revised-guidelines-for-home-isolation-of-covid-19-patients-871971.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pandavapura sugar factory resumes crushing after 4 years||By lighting the boiler, crushing of sugarcane was started at Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkhane (PSSK), which has been taken on lease by MLA Murugesh Nirani here on Tuesday. With this, the sugar factory, closed for four years, resumed its activities. A groundbreaking ceremony for the expansion of the factory to increase the capacity of crushing was also held. Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami, Nirmalanandanatha Swami of Adichunchanagiri mutt, Siddalinga Swami of Siddaganga mutt, MP A Sumalatha and District in-charge Minister Narayana Gowda participated. The 54th birthday of Nirani Sugars chairperson Murugesh Nirani was also celebrated on the occasion. Nirani said, "PSSK has been taken on a bid, in a transparent manner through e-tender at a cost of Rs 405 crore, for a period of 40 years. In the next five years, a co-generation power unit of 40 MW, able to crush 10,000 tonnes, units for byproducts like ethanol, spirit, fertiliser and sanitiser will be established". "Along with the progress of the factory, we will ensure that the farmers are benefited. Our sugar company is already running six factories and has given employment to 70,000 families. We have a record of maximum crushing of sugarcane and production of byproducts. We have a goal to supply ethanol produced from sugarcane to jet planes," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pandavapura-sugar-factory-resumes-crushing-after-4-years-872173.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Won't withdraw statements on Kashi, Mathura: KSE||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said he would not withdraw his statement that temples at Kashi and Mathura should be liberated from mosques, even if he has to spend his whole life in jail. Speaking to media persons here, he said mosques have been constructed at Mathura and Kashi by demolishing temples. They were the religious centres of Hindus. Those, who visit these places, experience the feeling of slavery even today. So, temples have to be constructed there, he said. He said India has thousands of mosques for Muslims to offer prayers. "We are not opposing them. But mosques have been constructed in both the places by demolishing temples. Muslims must respect the emotions of Hindus." The proposed Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh has united the emotions of Indians, he said. He said the real freedom of India is not based on constructing roads, buildings but liberating religious centres from non-Hindu culture. This is the opinion of not just BJP workers but also workers of Hindu religion in Congress and JD(S). Many Hindus have sacrificed their lives for the survival of Hindu culture. RSS always respects such emotions, he claimed. Referring to MP Asaduddin Owaisi's remark, Eshwarapa said, "Owaisi is known for opposing BJP and RSS. KPCC president D K Shivakumar is opposing my statements to appease Muslims. But Congress will not survive in politics." He also made it clear that Shivakumar's desire to dethrone him from the post of the minister or arrest him will never become true.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wont-withdraw-statements-on-kashi-mathura-kse-872176.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Indebted to all who made SSLC happen: CM Yediyurappa||“My good wishes to all students who rose above the panic to write the exam,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. “Students who fell behind in the results need not feel disheartened. I wish they gain self-confidence and prepare for the supplementary exams.”  Yediyurappa said he will be indebted to everyone who kept faith in the government on conducting the SSLC exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state government took up an untiring exercise and made the entire country look towards Karnataka,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/indebted-to-all-who-made-sslc-happen-cm-yediyurappa-872197.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pleas filed in Karnataka HC to postpone Comed-K exam||The petition has been filed by advocate Abdulla Mannan Khan and is likely to come up for hearing this week. The petitioner stated that approximately 70,000-80,000 students will appear for the examination and that the conduct of the examination will worsen the situation of Covid-19. The petitioner also stated that other professional exams have also been postponed. He said the examinations, like All India Bar Examination scheduled to be held on August 16, the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) examination 2020, which was to be held on August 22, have been postponed indefinitely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/petition-filed-in-karnataka-hc-to-postpone-comed-k-exam-872201.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Civil services exam: Govt proposes rise in quota for disabled to 4%||The state government has proposed increasing reservation by one percentage point for Group 'A' or 'B' to candidates who are ‘persons with benchmark disability’.  The government has published a draft of the amendment it proposes to make to the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules, 1977. The draft is open to public feedback.  At present, the rules provide 3% reservation for the disabled during direct recruitment to Group 'A' or 'B' posts. The quota is 5% for the disabled in Group 'C' or 'D' posts.  The draft also proposes to replace the term ‘physically handicapped’ with ‘person with benchmark disability’. Persons with benchmark disabilities are those certified to have 40% of any of the disabilities specified in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/civil-services-exam-govt-proposes-rise-in-quota-for-disabled-to-4-872203.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka rain damages: 16 dead, over 3,000 people displaced||As many as 16 people have died and four are still missing in floods and landslides that have affected parts of Karnataka due to torrential rains that started earlier this month. According to official data, at least 12 districts have been affected and of the 16 deaths, four each have been reported from Chikmagalur and Dakshina Kannada since August 1. Kodagu has reported two deaths while Dharwad, Hassan, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Haveri have one each. The number of relief camps has gone up to 108 that house 3,244 people who have been displaced. Several parts of Malnad, coastal and interior Karnataka have been smashed by rains, affecting lives and property. While 85 houses are completely damaged, 3,080 have suffered partial damages. Also, agriculture crops in about 33,477 ha and horticulture crops in over 34,791 ha have been affected. The government has said that the estimated losses are Rs 4,000 crore as per the preliminary assessment. Earlier this week, during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the state government sought special assistance of Rs 4,000 crore and an advance of Rs 395 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). In some respite, rains appear to be subsiding in some places, especially in northern interior parts, while showers continued in coastal and malnad regions. While water levels have slightly receded in some places, some parts of Uttara Kannada and Belagavi remain inundated. The meteorological department has forecast heavy rainfall likely to occur at isolated places over coastal Karnataka and ghat areas of south interior Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rain-damages-16-dead-over-3000-people-displaced-872219.html
11-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 1 lakh Covid-19 patients discharged so far in Karnataka, 6,257 new infections||Over one lakh Covid-19 patients have been discharged so far after recovery in Karnataka,as the state on Tuesday reported 6,257 new cases and 86 fatalities. The total number of infections now stood at 1,88,611 and death toll was 3,398, the health department said. Recoveries overtook the number of cases reported on Tuesday, with 6,473 patients being discharged. Out of 6,257 fresh cases reported, 1,610 were from Bengaluru urban. As of August 11 evening, cumulatively 1,88,611 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 3,398 deaths and 1,05,599 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of 79,606 active cases, 78,907 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 699 are in Intensive Care Units. Seventeen of the 86 deaths reported on Tuesday were from Bengaluru urban, Mysuru (11), Dharwad and Dakshina Kannada (9 each), Ballari, Belagavi and Davangere (4 each), Koppal, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Haveri (3 each), Raichur, Mandya, Vijayapura, Gadag, Bidar and Chikkaballapura (2 each), and Kalaburagi, Bagalkote, Tumakuru and Chamarajanagara (1 each). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,610, Ballari 736, Belagavi 575, Dharwad 276, Dakshina Kannada 243, Mysuru 238, Udupi 219, Raichur 201, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases with 77,038 infections, followed by Ballari 11,360 and Mysuru 7,923, the bulletin said. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with 42,674 discharges, followed by Ballari 5,851 and Kalaburagi 4,992. A total of 17,72,991 samples have been tested so far, out of which 43,924 were tested on Tuesday. Among the samples tested today 20,139 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-1-lakh-covid-19-patients-discharged-so-far-in-karnataka-6257-new-infections-872221.html
11-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Boy who passed SSLC exam in third class felicitated in Belagavi||It is common to see toppers of examinations, be it in the district or state, being felicitated. However, in a rare incident, a boy who passed SSLC examination with third class was felicitated at Bhandur Galli here on Monday night. The video of the felicitation is being circulated on social media. People, under the banner of Margai Group, displayed the picture and marks of the boy, Samarth Govilkar, who passed the examination in third class. While his score was 48.64%, the 64-figure was highlighted in the video. 'Gulal' was smeared on the boy's face and his achievement in the SSLC examination was hailed and a shawl was presented to him.   Margai Group members said that they had not anticipated that Samarth will pass the SSLC examination as he could clear it during the previous academic year as he was poor in academics. As he passed, they decided to celebrate and felicitate him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/boy-who-passed-sslc-exam-in-third-class-felicitated-in-belagavi-871963.html
11-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to accord state funeral to Captain Deepak Sathe||The Maharashtra government has decided to accord a state funeral to Captain Deepak Sathe, pilot-in-command of the ill-fated Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's Office said on Tuesday. The funeral of Captain Sathe, 58, who was a resident of Chandivali in Mumbai, will be held here later in the day. Lauding Sathe, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said his life shall inspire young pilots to achieve the 'Sword of Honour'. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including both pilots. "The State has decided to accord a state funeral to the late Wing Commander (Retd) Captain DV Sathe. His life has been one that shall inspire many more young pilots to achieve the Sword of Honour and command over the skies," the CMO tweeted. After the plane crash, his Captain Sathe's wife Sushma and one of their sons had gone to Kerala to collect his mortal remains, which were brought here in a flight on Sunday. The body was then kept at the Air India facility near Terminal 2 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji international airport here for some time before being taken to Bhabha Hospital. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force's flight testing establishment. He survived an air crash in the early 1990s when he was in the Air Force and was hospitalised for six months, his cousin earlier said. Sathe had suffered multiple injuries on his skull in that incident, but due to his strong will power and passion he cleared the test and started flying again, he said. Captain Sathe's father Brigadier Vasant Sathe (retired) and his wife live in Nagpur. The body of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday in the presence of his family members and officials of Air India and Air India Express at his hometown Mathura. The airline on Sunday said the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-accord-state-funeral-to-captain-deepak-sathe-871959.html
11-08-2020||West||Shiv Sena questions BJP's 'silence' over Shivaji statue removal||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the "silence" of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's devotees in Maharashtra BJP over the removal of his statue in Karnataka is worrying, and asked what is the use of such "fake devotion". An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded Shivaji Maharaj in his speech after he performed the 'bhoomi pujan' for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya on August 5. Shivaji Maharaj's statue at Mangutti village in Belgaum district of the BJP-ruled Karnataka was, however, removed "as if the Babri mosque was brought down", it said, and termed the BJPs love for the warrior king as pretentious. It also recalled that Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis earlier this year called for the then Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Naths apology after a bust of the legendary Maratha king was removed in Chhindwara district. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is not even being condemned, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "The episode of removal of Shivaji Maharajs statue overnight is worrying. More worrying is the silence of Shivbhakts (devotees of Shivaji Maharaj) in the Maharashtra BJP," it said. The Shiv Sena said the BJP would have caused chaos in Maharashtras Sangli or Satara (located near Karnataka) in case such an incident had taken place in Karnataka under Congresss watch. "But see how silent they are now! What is the use of this fake devotion of Shivaji Maharaj? it asked. The Shiv Sena charged former ally BJP with using names of iconic figures only for political interest. The BJP had claimed blessings of Shivaji Maharaj in the previous elections in Maharashtra, but not a single brick was laid during its rule when it came to the construction of the Maratha kings memorial in the Arabian Sea, it said. Referring to the August 5 ceremony at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, the Shiv Sena said Modi remembered Shivaji Maharaj that day from the bottom of his heart. "The prime minister bows before Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. But his supporters in Karnataka removed Shivaji Maharajs statue during the night. What to make out of this? it asked. "A ceremony was held in Ayodhya to take Lord Ram in the temple from a tent. But a Ravana-style ceremony of removing Shivaji Maharajs statue was held in Karnataka, the Marathi daily alleged. Without taking any name, the Shiv Sena said the BJP inducted Shivaji Maharaj's descendant into its fold last year and tom tommed about it for political gains. How come the NDA constituent is keeping quiet now when the warrior king has been "insulted", it added. Notably, Rajya Sabha member Udayanraje Bhosale, who is a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, joined the BJP last year after quitting the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-questions-bjps-silence-over-shivaji-statue-removal-872004.html
11-08-2020||West||Ex-professor Saibaba seeks parole, HC issues notice to Maharashtra govt||The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Maharashtra government on an application filed by Delhi University's former professor G N Saibaba for emergency parole to attend the post funeral rituals of his late mother. Saibaba, who is serving life term in the Nagpur Central Prison for links with Maoists, lost his ailing mother on August 1 even as his lawyers were seeking to arrange a video conference between the two. Last week, the prison authorities rejected Saibaba's application seeking parole for attending the last rites of his 74-year-old mother, who died in Hyderabad. He had earlier also sought parole from the prison authorities to meet his mother in Hyderabad, but it was rejected. In his latest plea, Saibaba sought to be released from jail on parole to attend the post funeral rituals of his mother. The high court on Tuesday directed the state government to respond to the plea by August 18. Last month, the high court rejected his bail plea in which he sought to be released for 45 days on medial grounds so that he could get treatment outside and also meet his mother. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound with over 90 per cent physical disability, and four others were convicted by a sessions court in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district in March 2017 for Maoist links and engaging in activities amounting to "waging war against the country". The court held Saibaba and others, including a journalist and a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student, guilty under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-professor-saibaba-seeks-parole-hc-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-govt-872007.html
11-08-2020||West||Marine biodiversity to get boost as Angria Bank to be notified as 'designated area'||In what would give a major boost to marine biodiversity, the Maharashtra government has decided to notify the Angria Bank, located in the Arabian Sea as a "designated area". At the 15th meeting of the State Board of Wildlife, presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, held last week, it was decided to recommend to the Centre to notify Angria Plateau or Angria Bank as a "designated area" under Maritime Zones Act, 1976. If the Centre gives approval, it will be the first such marine protected zone in India located in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ). The Angria Bank is a submerged plateau situated 105 km off the Sindhudurg district in the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra. This 2,011 sq km region ranges from depths of 20 m to 400 m. It supports a large extent of coral reefs and algal habitats, spanning 650 sq km that harbours a high diversity of associated flora and fauna. The reefs also host diverse functional groups that are necessary for a stable ecosystem representing a resilient reef. This unique ecosystem makes it among the last strongholds of marine diversity in the northern Indian Ocean, according to a statement of Wildlife Conservation Society-India. In order to explore the region, in December 2019, a 10-day joint expedition was conducted by the Centre for Marine Living Resources and Ecology (CMLRE), Wildlife Conservation Society-India (WCS-India) and Mangrove Foundation along with partner institutes using the Fishery Oceanographic Research Vessel (FORV) Sagar Sampada, commissioned under the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES). During this expedition experienced marine biologists and trained professional SCUBA dive instructors surveyed a total area of 3500 square meters by conducting 66 individual dives at 12 sites. In particular, the team employed coral reef monitoring protocols and collected data on enthic composition, coral community structure, abundance and diversity of reef fish and invertebrates. During the expedition, the team recorded exceptional diversity of reef fish with representation from all functional groups that are essential for a stable ecosystem. The Bank is not only a stronghold for marine life within the Northern Indian Ocean but also bears an immense potential to act as a source habitat for populations for several ecologically important marine species. India is signatory to Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and is thus committed to achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Target 11, which prescribes conservation of 10% of coastal and marine areas. Once the Centre approves it as a "designated area", Angria Bank will not only help India in achieving its international commitments, but also help in conserving the unique marine biodiversity occurring in its open ocean and deep seas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marine-biodiversity-to-get-boost-as-angria-bank-to-be-notified-as-designated-area-872008.html
11-08-2020||West||Pilot Deepak Sathe cremated; Maharashtra government accords state funeral||Wing Commander Deepak Sathe (Retd), pilot-in-command of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week, was cremated here on Tuesday with state honours. Hundreds of mourners lined up the road as the funeral procession started from his residence in Chandivli and concluded at Vikhroli's Tagorenagar crematorium, where the last rites were performed. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Government decided to accord a state funeral to the pilot, and said his life shall inspire young pilots. The flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. Sathe's body was flown here on Sunday and was kept at the Air India facility near Terminal 2 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji international airport for some time before being taken to Bhabha Hospital in Bandra. On Tuesday morning, the body was brought from the hospital to the family home in Chandivli. Residents in the housing complex paid tributes to the pilot. Some of them were seen saluting him from their balconies. The pilot's father, Colonel Vasant Sathe (Retd), 87 and mother Neela, 83, were present at the Chandivli residence. They reside in Nagpur and reached Mumbai on Monday. The pilot's US-based elder son Shantanu also reached Mumbai on Monday for the last rites. He, along with his mother Sushma and younger brother Dhananjay, were in tears as the last rites were performed at the crematorium shortly after noon. A wreath was placed on behalf of the Indian Air Force, where Sathe was a test pilot before joining Air India. Pilots from different airlines, cabin crew and others in the aviation sector participated in the final journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pilot-deepak-sathe-cremated-maharashtra-government-accords-state-funeral-872018.html
11-08-2020||West||Gujarat government orders judicial probe in fire at Covid-19 hospital||The Gujarat government on Tuesday said a judicial inquiry will be conducted by a retired judge of the high court into the fire at Shrey Hospital here in which eight Covid-19 patients were killed. The decision was taken after a Gujarat government- appointed two-member inquiry committee, comprising senior IAS officers, submitted its report to the state government on Monday. "Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has decided that a retired high court judge will probe the fire incident at Shrey Hospital so that no person responsible for it goes scot-free, a release issued by the state government said. The retired judge for the probe will be appointed at a later stage, it said. Rupani earlier ordered a preliminary inquiry in the case by a two-member committee, comprising state Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban Development) Mukesh Puri. In their report submitted on Monday, they said the primary cause of the fire was short-circuit in a medical equipment, which spread in the hospital's Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in next three minutes. The report said this was an accidental case of fire. On August 6, eight patients died in the blaze in the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura area of the city. The fire broke out around 3.30 am on the top floor of the four-storey hospital, a designated facility for treatment of Covid-19 patients. A para-medical staff member of the hospital was injured in the incident. Shrey Hospital was one of the 60-odd private medical facilities authorised by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to admit and treat coronavirus patients. After the incident, nearly 40 Covid-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment in the hospital's general ward, were shifted to the civic-run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-orders-judicial-probe-in-fire-at-covid-19-hospital-872019.html
11-08-2020||West||Man escapes Covid-19 facility, found dead on road in Maharashtra's Jalgaon||Hours after he escaped from a Covid-19 centre in Amalner in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district on August 10, a 32-year-old man was found dead on road, police said on Tuesday. The patient, a resident of Wawade village in the north Maharashtra district, located over 400 kms from here, was admitted in the facility in Amalner tehsil on Monday morning, an official said. He said doctors and hospital staff realised that the man had gone missing on Monday as there was a heavy rush at the facility on Sunday when he had tested positive for coronavirus. His body was found in front of the Amalner municipal council building on Monday evening, the official said. "About 40 patients were being treated at the hospital while its actual capacity is of 20 beds," he said, adding that the hospital head filed a police complaint about the missing patient. A local BJP leader alleged that it was not an isolated incident in Amalner. A Covid-19 patient had run away from Amalner rural healthcare centre and later killed in a road accident, the leader claimed and demanded deployment of more number of police personnel at the facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-escapes-covid-19-facility-found-dead-on-road-in-maharashtras-jalgaon-872045.html
11-08-2020||West||Shankarrao Gadakh Patil joins Shiv Sena||In a significant political development, Maharashtra's Soil and Water Conservation Minister Shankarrao Gadakh Patil joined the Shiv Sena on Tuesday. Gadakh was tied the 'Shiv-Bandhan' on his wrist by Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar was also present. Gadakh is an Independent MLA from Nevasa in Ahmednagar district, and the first to support the Shiv Sena after the 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls.  Till now, he was also the only Independent MLA in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, that comprises of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. With this, the Shiv Sena's strength has increased to  57 in the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The entry of Gadakh (50), a two-time MLA into Shiv Sena would have an effect on the politics of Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. Gadakh began as a campaigner of Youth Congress, and in 2017 he founded the party Krantikari Shetkari Paksha and fought local elections. Krantikari Shetkari Paksha now has 5 Ahmednagar Zilla Parishad members, 12 Nevasa Panchayat Samiti members and 9 Nagarsevaks in Nevasa. He is also known as "Panidar Aamdar" by his constituency for his good work during drought-like conditions in Newasa constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shankarrao-gadakh-patil-joins-shiv-sena-872056.html
11-08-2020||West||Aditya Thackeray seeks exclusion of Marki-Mangli II from coal block auction||Maharashtra Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray has written to Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi requesting his intervention in halting the Marki-Mangli-II coal block auction. The block falls in the which falls in the tiger corridor of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS). He has urged the Union Minister to drop the auction of this mine as it could cause irreparable losses to the entire forest zone ecosystem and the wildlife that has been depending on it. The Marki-Mangli-II coal block auction threatens the wildlife in the region since it falls in the corridor of TATR-TWS. The segment where the mine block is proposed also falls under the area of approved Tiger Conservation Plan (TCP) of Tadoba. About 250 hectares of the proposed mining area, which account for almost 50% of this project, is on reserve forestland in the Mukutban range of Yavatmal district. News reports suggest that while in 2015, the MoEF&CC had mentioned this proposed mine to be in "inviolate areas", the 2018 communication from the MoEF&CC does not mention so, Thackeray has pointed out. Highlighting the concerns of the potential destruction of precious conservation zones, Thackeray said, "Our thriving tigers in the region will not only lose their natural habitat but would have to face a massive level of disturbances due to the mining activity and increased presence of humans in the region." Thackeray also thanked the Union Minister for his intervention in the Bandar Coal Mine issue last month. He said that by dropping it from the auction list, an extremely sensitive eco-zone of tigers and invaluable biodiversity has been saved from destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aditya-thackeray-seeks-exclusion-of-marki-mangli-ii-from-coal-block-auction-872082.html
11-08-2020||West||Efforts on to prevent second wave of Covid-19, says Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government is striving to see there is no second wave of Covid-19 in the state, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday during a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thackeray also said hospitals will be set up in all districts of the state to control the epidemic, according to an official statement. The chief minister said Maharashtra did not hide a single Covid-19 case and death due to the disease and shared information with transparency. Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing to review measures taken to tackle Covid-19. During the meeting, the prime minister talked about the need to bring Covid-19 mortality rate down to less than one per cent, the statement said. "Mortality rate in the state is being reduced and praise is being heaped for controlling the situation in Dharavi and Worli in Mumbai. "But the battle is still not over. Efforts are on to see there is no second wave of Covid-19 in the state," the statement quoted Thackeray as saying. The chief minister said it has been observed that after recovering from Covid-19, patients contracted some other diseases, and called for setting up a mechanism to treat such individuals. He also expressed the need to conduct research into how and why different types of virus originate. Thackeray also reiterated the demand for not holding the final year examinations for students of non-professional courses to ensure their lives are not risked in view of the current situation. He made a strong pitch for declaring students as passed by giving them aggregate marks, and called for taking a decision on it at the national-level. A decision needs to be taken in the case of final year medical education students also, he added. Thackeray also said there are 3.5 lakh beds equipped with ventilators and other facilities in the state.           With no Covid-19 vaccine available so far, use of masks and observing social distancing are the only ways to tackle the disease, he added.   During the meeting, Modi said 80 per cent of the Covid-19 cases in the country are from these 10 states.   He said the country will emerge victorious in its fight against the pandemic if the novel coronavirus is defeated in these states, the statement said.   Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman and Harsh Vardhan took part in the meeting.   Maharashtra Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope also participated in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/efforts-on-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-872095.html
11-08-2020||West||Heavy rains likely in parts of Mumbai, coastal areas: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday predicted that heavy rainfall was likely in isolated places of coastal Maharashtra, including Mumbai, till August 15. While Mumbai is expected to receive light to moderate showers, neighbouring districts of Thane, Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri may witness heavy rains at isolated places, an IMD official said. "A similar forecast has been issued for Pune, Kolhapur and Satara districts as well till August 15. However, districts in North Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha may receive light to moderate rainfall in the same period," the official said. Deputy director-general of Mumbai IMD office K S Hosalikar said, "Coastal areas, as well as ghat sections of Maharashtra, have shown dense clouds. These areas and Madhya Maharashtra are expected to receive a medium to heavy rainfall in next the 24 to 48 hours."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-likely-in-parts-of-mumbai-coastal-areas-imd-872109.html
11-08-2020||West||Fire at Ahmedabad Covid-19 hospital: Case against administrator||Days after eight coronavirus patients died in a fire at a private hospital here, the police has registered a case of alleged negligence against its main administrator, an official said. The First Information Report (FIR) states that hospital had no fire alarm system, no fire audit had been done, and the staff had no training in fire-fighting. The fire broke out at the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital in the wee hours of August 6. On Monday, an FIR under IPC section 304 (A) (causing death by the negligent or rash act) was registered against the hospital's main administrator Bharat Mahant (57). He has not been arrested yet, said Assistant Commissioner of Police L B Zala. Shrey Hospital was one of the 60-odd private hospitals authorised by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to treat coronavirus patients. As per the FIR, the fire started in the fourth-floor ICU ward around 3 am due to a short circuit. While some of the patients died due to burn injuries, others died due to suffocation, it said. There had been no fire safety audit of the hospital prior to the incident which amounted to "grave negligence" on the accused's part, the FIR said. Nor was there any fire alarm system; and though there were fire extinguishers in the ward, they were not used because the staff had not been given training in fire-fighting and emergency rescue, the FIR alleged. On Tuesday, the Gujarat government also ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident by a retired high court judge after a two-member inquiry committee of senior IAS officers submitted its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-ahmedabad-covid-19-hospital-case-against-administrator-872129.html
11-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man sentenced to life for raping minor cousin||A district court here on Tuesday sentenced a 22-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping his minor cousin in Jalna district of Maharashtra. District and sessions court judge Sunil Vedpathak awarded life sentence to the accused, who was charged under relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000. According to assistant government pleader Walmiki Ghuge, the accused, a resident of Ghotna village in Badnapur tehsil, used to harass his 14-year-old cousin, demanding sexual favours from her. In February 2019, the accused raped the victim in the absence of her parents, following which a complaint was lodged at Badnapur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-sentenced-to-life-for-raping-minor-cousin-872151.html
11-08-2020||West||Three rape teenage girl in moving car in Mumbai; arrested||Three men have been arrested for allegedly abducting and raping a 15-year-old girl in a moving car here last month, police said on Tuesday. The alleged incident had occurred on July 29 morning when the girl was walking alone on the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road, an official said. "A car had pulled over near her while she was walking and three of its occupants pulled her inside and drove off," he said, adding that the trio took turns to rape her. After committing the crime, they dropped her near the Eastern Express Highway, the official said. An FIR was registered by Mankhurd police last week. Police traced the trio to Mankhurd-Shivaji Nagar locality and arrested them on August 8. They have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for rape and abduction, and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said. Two of the accused work as electrician and driver while the third is unemployed. "The car used in the crime has a Taxi permit. The trio are in police custody till August 15. Further investigation is underway," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Zone 6, Shashikumar Meena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-rape-teenage-girl-in-moving-car-in-mumbai-arrested-872169.html
11-08-2020||West||No human pyramids this Janmashtami, Dahi-handi groups in Maharashtra decide||With coronavirus casting its grim shadow, several `Dahi-handi' groups in Maharashtra have decided to celebrate the Janmashtami festival on Wednesday in a low-key manner and without human pyramids. Dahi-handi -- earthen pitchers of curd or buttermilk -- will be broken only symbolically, said Bala Padalkar, chief of the Dahi-handi Utsav Samnavay Samiti, an umbrella body of over 950 `mandals' (groups) in the state. In normal times, the highlight of the festival is multi-level human pyramids of `Govindas' reaching for the Dahi handi, strung high up on a rope. Padalkar said that members of the Samiti decided that no human pyramids will be formed this year, in keeping with the social distancing norms. The handi will be broken in a symbolic manner, taking all precautions with participants wearing face masks, he said. "The enthusiasm won't be the same this year," he told PTI. "But all of us have agreed not to celebrate the festival in the usual manner. Considering the brave fight the Covid-19 warriors are putting up, we will be helping them in every way possible. We will avoid big gatherings," he said. Troupes of Govindas will not move from one spot to another to build pyramids, but will perform puja in their own areas, he said. As few people as possible will take part in the celebrations, he added. Mandals will also organise blood donation camps and other activities considering the health crisis, Padalkar said. Sandeep Dhawale, coach of the city-based Jai Jawan Govinda Pathak (troupe), echoed him. "Youngsters are disappointed. But it is in the interest of our collective health to observe social distancing," Dhawale said. His mandal will organise a plastic waste collection drive on Wednesday, he said. "We will collect plastic and recycle it. The fund raised through it will be used for the education of the needy. We will follow the government's norms," Dhawale added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-human-pyramids-this-janmashtami-dahi-handi-groups-in-maharashtra-decide-872199.html
11-08-2020||West||PM Modi asks Gujarat to increase Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed on the need to increase coronavirus testing in Gujarat in view of the "high positivity rate" prevailing in the state. The PM made the suggestion during his virtual interaction with chief ministers of 10 states, including Gujarat's Vijay Rupani, on the latest Covid-19 situation. "Testing needs to be ramped up especially in those states where the testing rate is low and the positivity rate is high. These states are Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana. "This suggestion to increase testing in these states emerged during this review meeting," said Modi in his address. After taking part in the virtual meet from Gandhinagar, chief minister Rupani, in a statement, said he had informed the PM that Gujarat's daily testing average is 456 tests per million. "Gujarat has 34 government-run and 59 private laboratories to conduct such a high number of tests. In addition, rapid antigen tests are being conducted in each district and in major cities," said the statement. Rupani added that around 47,000 Covid-19 beds and 2,300 ventilators are currently available in the state. Maintaining that Gujarat's patient recovery rate is more than 76 per cent, Rupani informed the PM that there are about 14,000 active cases in the state at present, while around 55,000 patients have been discharged till now. Rupani also said Gujarat's mortality rate due to coronavirus has gone down from 7.8 per cent to 2.1 per cent. The chief minister expressed confidence that the country will defeat the pandemic with Modi's continuous guidance, the release said. Till August 11, Gujarat has recorded 73,238 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-asks-gujarat-to-increase-covid-19-testing-872225.html
11-08-2020||West||Woman held for molesting her niece in Maharashtra||A 28-year-old woman and her male partner have been arrested for allegedly molesting her minor niece here in Maharashtra, police said on Tuesday. An FIR was lodged at Kondhwa police station recently under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, an officer said. The alleged incident occurred in March this year when the 16-year-old victim was staying with the accused woman, who is her maternal aunt, along with her three siblings, the officer said. "After returning to her mother in July, the girl told her about the sexual abuse she was subjected to by her maternal aunt and her male partner," he said. The accused allegedly forced the victim to watch pornographic material, the officer said. The duo have been shifted to a COVID care facility, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-held-for-molesting-her-niece-in-maharashtra-872248.html
