12-08-2020||Comment||Implementing NEP 2020||The government unveiled the New Education Policy on July 30 with the objective of bringing in wide-ranging transformations in school and higher education sectors and make India a vibrant knowledge society. The mandate of NEP is to make the current education system holistic, flexible and multidisciplinary to fulfil the promise of a ‘New India’. However, while the nationwide excitement about NEP continues, it is time for us to understand what factors shape and impact its implementation across the country. Before I delve into more serious factors, I see unmistakably many good ingredients in this NEP: the problem and goals are well-elucidated, it is evidence-based and is backed by the stakeholders, with wide-ranging support. This is a propitious beginning. However, NEP is multi-faceted and multi-levelled. Therefore, let us see now what approaches we should consider making NEP operational. Policies often fall short of getting implemented due to several pitfalls. The first is the lack of communication with the stakeholders. Any policy should first be well understood by the stakeholders through effective communication. Fortunately, to the credit of the persons behind NEP, there were large-scale consultations with the stakeholders on the draft NEP well before it was announced. The feedback and suggestions received on the draft NEP were effectively deliberated through a truly democratic process, resulting in collaborative policymaking. Second, policies fail due to a lack of ownership by the stakeholders. Since the NEP has been announced, there have been widespread debate and discussion across the country by those who are involved in education on what NEP is set to achieve. A number of webinars are being conducted to discuss NEP and education experts are writing in the media very positively about NEP. This visibly suggests that effective communication about NEP has led to a sense of ownership by stakeholders. Ownership of policy also leads to a sense of responsibility. Third, policies often fail due to conflicting goals and a complete disconnect with previous policies. The new NEP is a major departure from the previous education policies and addresses their most critical limitations and fault lines. But there is visible continuity in terms of realising universal access to quality education to enable citizens to make India a developed country and a major economy in the world. This continuity, built into the new NEP, is certainly a great advantage for its successful execution. Next, setting the right priorities is another important step of successful implementation of any policy. There are two key players in the implementation of NEP – the Ministry of Education at the Centre and the stakeholders, which includes state governments, schools and academic institutions. Ministry of Education will play a pivotal role in the implementation of NEP from the point of providing direction, funding, governance, regulation and review. Both the players have to set the priorities right and these priorities should be based on both the short-term and long-term needs of educational institutes, funding requirements and realistic deadlines for achieving the set goals. It must be kept in mind that not all goals in NEP require funding. Many of the changes that NEP sets out to achieve require attitudinal changes by adopting effective teaching-learning processes, academic and administrative procedures. Educational institutes have ample autonomy in NEP to make the education holistic and multi-disciplinary by merely incorporating changes in the institutional functioning without a nudge from anyone. Duplication and overlap of efforts must be eschewed by distinctly outlining the chain of command for implementation. People who are tasked with implementing NEP should be technically savvy, decisive, open-minded and committed. The leadership role is paramount here as they should also be good team players and risk-takers.  These leaders need to be self-driven with enthusiasm and high integrity. Absence of such people in policy implementation will be a sure recipe for failure. Since the NEP is long-term in nature, we need to build support mechanisms as the first priority. The idea of support mechanism is already built into NEP through the establishment of Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) with its four verticals with distinct functions for regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard-setting. The Ministry of Education and HECI need to work in tandem with the states and the educational institutes by collaboratively setting realistic and achievable targets and by tracking progress against critical policy priorities. But this tracking requires collection, categorisation and analysis of good quality performance data. A robust system should be in place with an integrated and unified database by linking records across states and union territories and all educational institutes. We need to define the key performance indicators, both for the officials in the Ministry of Education mandated to work on NEP implementation and also the stakeholders. It is vital that there is a periodic review of their performance indicators with a view to plug inefficient processes that impede the policy from being turned into results in a time-bound manner. The need to have a well-thought-out plan with well laid-out long-term goals, its stepwise implementation through short-term goals and periodic evaluation and data-driven review cannot be undervalued in the effective implementation of NEP. Speaking at the “Conclave on transformational reforms in higher education under National Education Policy (NEP)” on August 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: “To implement the National Education Policy, we all have to work together determinedly. A new round of dialogue and coordination with universities, colleges, school education boards, different states and different stakeholders is about to start from here.” I couldn’t agree more. A mammoth task as big as implementing the New Education Policy across India can indeed be realised only through effective collaboration between the central and state-level institutions and the Ministry of Education. (The writer is Vice-Chancellor, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/implementing-nep-2020-872280.html
12-08-2020||Comment||Political will and military power||Military history often knocks on contemporary doors. Galwan, Kongka La, and Pangong Tso that were areas of military contestations in 1962, with Depsang also thrown in, are emblematic of the present Sino-Indian border crisis. It was HG Wells who said, “If you fell down yesterday, stand up today.” India doesn’t seem to have learnt this lesson. In its signature style, China has used military power to grab control of unoccupied areas and called it as an act of self-defence. Framing the background to China’s military machinations in Ladakh is a narrative of strategic communications that echoes – “We are too strong and you cannot fight us.” Arrogance derived from an assumed notion of military supremacy is aimed at winning the war without fighting, a la Sun Tzu. No fighting was required to change the status quo, for patrolling was permitted through political agreements. All it required was to violate trust, seize territory and spin the story that India was the aggressor and China’s action is purely one of self-defence. The Chinese official and quasi-official media then calibrated its message to portray China’s readiness to fight, deftly revealing its mobilisation of theatre reserves as a threat in being. It left the rest to the Indian government and the media. It calculated that the government would play the issue down and the media imagination would run wild trying to find reasons for China’s actions. An overarching theme that echoed loudly was – “China’s GDP is five times that of India and China is militarily too powerful.” It seemed to suggest that GDP will do the fighting in Ladakh. A crisis short of war was being conflated with war itself, because military power, like all other forms of power, is a relational variable. The ability of power to coerce is a matter of context. China can exercise its authoritarian power against the Uighurs and Tibetans but when it exercises its power against another nation, it cannot expect the same advantage. Likewise, China cannot expect to exercise naval power in the Indian Ocean with similar effectiveness that it can in the South China Sea. For power, especially military power, context has the utmost value. China has promoted the concept of Comprehensive National Power (CNP). Its purpose was to look at CNP as an aggregate of multiple factors and move beyond the standard power assessment parameters developed in the West. The underlying objective was to use it as a tool for psychological influence to embellish political, diplomatic and military power. With China’s impressive progress in the economic, technological and military arena, CNP has been a handy tool to display strength. China’s use of CNP as a psychological tool for coercion runs into the wall of the political will of the adversary. If CNP was a major determinant in the use of military force, why did the US lose its wars in Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan? Because those contexts had adversaries, who despite being outclassed in all parameters of CNP -- technologically, economically and militarily -- denied victory to the more powerful opponent.  In the military context of Ladakh or anywhere on the Sino-Indian border, when metal meets flesh, China’s CNP has no significance. Militarily, with limited mobilisation on both sides, in a short and intense conflict, India’s military should be able to hold its own. China’s capacity has to overcome the tyranny of altitude and terrain that is coupled with the Indian Army and Air Force’s capability. Even if they capture territory, they simply don’t have sufficient infantry to hold ground. But military nuances are often lost in the narrative of China being strong. Rationally speaking, let alone the nuclear factor, neither India nor China can bring their entire military capacities against each other, and China certainly has more fronts to cater to. In the political context, it could have significance, if the military situation becomes a long drawn out war, the outcome could finally depend on the balance of interests, power and political will. But both countries being nuclear powers, an all-out war certainly poses its own extremely grave dangers. Therefore, when China’s CNP is cited to convey strength that demands respect and obedience, it is, in the main, an informational tool that has by itself little power in the context it is being cited in. What has relevance in terms of CNP as a relational variable cannot be measured, for it lies in the realm of the intangible and is related to human agency. If the present strategic situation is weighed in the scale of balance of interests, India cannot afford to accept that some territory has been occupied and Sino-Indian relations can remain unaffected. China cannot afford to be seen to have faced resistance and backed down. Weighed in the balance of power, as long as India is willing to defend any further attempts to change the territorial status quo, the odds are even and works to China’s disadvantage. India’s political leadership should exhibit and deploy the political will to resist China’s attempts of using its informational tool to coerce India’s strategic behaviour in the context of China’s struggle against the US. Going forward, even if the present issue is resolved, China can be expected to continue to create and exert pressure to keep India from being a spoiler in Beijing’s dream of being the number one global power. China’s dream may find fulfillment when measured in a self-constructed notion of power that is mistakenly expected to find natural value without reference to the context. This is China’s grand delusion that will sooner or later stand exposed. India’s opportunity in the Himalayas is that it can play a significant role in exposing China’s grand deception. Therefore, it is not India’s military capability that is under test but its political will. Unlike post-Doklam, can the government be different this time around? (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/political-will-and-military-power-872598.html
12-08-2020||First Edit||Sachin Pilot and Congress, both diminished||The return of former Rajasthan Congress president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to the party after a month-long stand-off may have saved the party’s government led by Ashok Gehlot for the time being and brought some relief to the party, but it may have weakened and diminished it. Pilot and his supporters had all but gone over to the BJP camp,but had not made a public declaration of it only for tactical reasons. He may only have been waiting formore deserters to join him, which did not happen. He may have realised that the rewards for defection may not be as big as he had thought or had been promised. He also may only be taking a step back and waiting for a better opportunity in future. More probably, the BJP may have found that while they might gain something by Pilot’s entry, there would be loss also, which could be more than the gain. Pilot is clearly not as welcome and acceptable in the Rajasthan party as Jyotiraditya Scindia was in Madhya Pradesh. The Congress’ position is worse. The party can rightly be blamed for the desertion of one of its brightest young leaders, and can equally rightly be blamed for welcoming him back. The spectacle of exit and re-entry of leaders in true Aya Ram Gaya Ram style in such a short time has not been witnessed frequently, and the political and moral turpitude of the players involved in the situation is all too clear. The Pilot who returns to Jaipur is not the Pilot who left for Manesar over a month ago. He is tainted and diminished and has a credibility deficit, and the party will also be the poorer for it, especially if he is rewarded with important positions. He will also be under scrutiny and suspicion because there will be a strong impression that he may only be biding time to strike again. Gehlot and his camp will not be happy with the prodigal’s return, however indulgently the central leadership may view it.   It is not known what transpired between the party’s leadership and Pilot, and what the terms and conditions of his return are. It seems both have surrendered to each other, but the surrender of an organisation to an individual is worse than its reverse. Pilot did not have any credible reason to leave the party, but the party should still think why leaders and workers are leaving it. It is also in the unenviable predicament of having to welcome such leaders back into its fold. The only person who evokes some admiration through the entire drama is Chief Minister Gehlot, who made a fight of it, without giving up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sachin-pilot-and-congress-both-diminished-872283.html
12-08-2020||First Edit||An underwhelming Sputnik moment||If the vaccine does prove to be effective, it would be a major and exciting breakthrough in the world’s fight against Covid-19. Since the pandemic’s outbreak, researchers around the world have been working to develop a vaccine against it. Over 165 vaccines are under development, some 30 of them in human trials. If Sputnik-V proves effective, it would be a huge victory for Russian scientific achievement. Since the disintegration of the Soviet Union, Russia’s stature has declined in almost every field; a successful vaccine would give its global image a boost.   That few in the world are convinced by Putin’s claims lays bare the little credibility that he and his establishment evoke in the eyes of the world. The rush to win the global vaccine race appears to have prompted him to jump the gun and announce the vaccine to the world without following due procedure. Other countries, India and the US included, have sought to push their national medical authorities to advance vaccine-related announcements to meet political timetables. This is irresponsible. If Sputnik-V is not the vaccine it is touted to be, Putin will be risking the lives of millions of people, in Russia and around the world. We may have a bigger tsunami of Covid-19 infections, as well as a vaccine that might be not just ineffective but also harmful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/an-underwhelming-sputnik-moment-872599.html
12-08-2020||In Perspective||Are we still where Ambedkar left us?||The recent political crisis in Rajasthan and the impasse between the Rajasthan Governor and the elected government has brought to fore questions on constitutional machinery in the country. This instance of a tussle with the Governor is one among many recent instances where the need for the office of the Governor itself has been questioned. While that is a debatable issue in itself, this piece seeks to analyse the development of democracy in India since Independence in 1947 in light of the warnings and exhortations of BR Ambedkar, the father of the Constitution. Ambedkar had advised us to use constitutional methods to achieve social, economic and political goals. At the same time, Ambedkar was mindful of the Indian ways. He had cautioned us that if we fail, it would be only because of the quality of the people implementing the Constitution and not because of the Constitution itself. The Constitution, he said, is only as good as the people implementing it. He urged everyone to develop a culture of compliance with the Constitution, which he referred to as ‘constitutional morality,’ perhaps the first one to do so in the Indian context. In his opinion, constitutional morality was “a paramount reverence for the forms of the Constitution, enforcing obedience to authority and acting under and within these forms, yet combined with the habit of open speech, of action subject only to definite legal control, and unrestrained censure of those very authorities as to all their public acts combined, too, with perfect confidence in the bosom of every citizen amidst the bitterness of party contest that the forms of Constitution will not be less sacred in the eyes of his opponents than his own.” Ambedkar reminded us that democracy was merely top-dressing on an India whose ways were essentially undemocratic. He also cautioned us that if we failed, we would have no one to blame but ourselves.   Binding on Governor In a parliamentary democracy such as India’s, the President and the Governors act on the ‘aid and advice’ of the elected government even though all government functions are carried out in their name. Under Article 174 of the Constitution, the Governor of a state is empowered to summon each House of the Legislature to meet at such time and place ‘as he thinks fit’. While this may seem to confer a discretion on the Governor, a five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Nabam Rebia and Bamang Felix vs Deputy Speaker and Ors had authoritatively settled that the Governor is bound to act on the ‘aid and advice’ of the elected government. The Governor cannot refuse to call the House of the Legislature to meet when ‘aided and advised’ by the elected government. The only limited discretion that the Governor has is in calling the House of the Legislature, without the ‘aid and advice’ of the elected government, to order a floor test when it might appear that the elected government has lost majority. In the context of Rajasthan, the state witnessed a desperate attempt to topple the elected government. The elected government, through its Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister, ‘aided and advised’ the Governor of Rajasthan to summon the Legislature. However, the Governor refused to summon the House on grounds of Covid-19 pandemic situation and demanded that a 21-day prior notice be given by the elected government to the Governor before asking him to summon the Legislature. The actions of the Governor are in complete violation of the law laid down by the Supreme Court. It was alleged that the Governor had refused to summon the House to prevent the elected government from calling a floor test and determining the defection of a few legislators. Hence, the Governor is involved in political activities, which the Supreme Court had condemned in Nabam Rebia and Bamang Felix vs Deputy Speaker and Ors. “The Governor must remain aloof from any disagreement, discontent or dissension, within political parties… The Governor must keep clear of any political horse-trading, and even unsavoury political manipulations”. The principles of constitutional democracy demand that the Governor follow the law of the land as laid down by the Supreme Court and act in a manner befitting the high constitutional office that he holds. It is evident that while the law is quite clear and unambiguous, the Governor of Rajasthan has failed to comply with it. Constitutional ways of achieving political goals have not been adopted and unconstitutional means are still in use – the recent actions of Governors in Karnataka, Maharashtra, and now Rajasthan, have been criticised. Constitutional machinery has failed in the aforesaid instances, not because there was no procedure laid down in the Constitution but because the concerned constitutional functionary chose not to comply with it. It seems that the constitutional functionaries have failed to cultivate and imbibe the ‘constitutional morality’ that Ambedkar asked us to cultivate, despite the fact that India has been a constitutional democracy for over 70 years now. In such a state of affairs, it is but obvious to question if India is still where Ambedkar and the Constituent Assembly left it, having gifted us a Constitution and having warned us that it was only as good as the people who would be called upon to work it. It is imperative that a conscious attempt is made to follow the Constitution by everyone alike, be it a citizen or a constitutional functionary as high as the Governor himself. (The writer is a student at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/are-we-still-where-ambedkar-left-us-872281.html
12-08-2020||In Perspective||When tree planting does more harm than good||Monsoon has set in. The landscape is turning green everywhere. There is a spree to plant trees by environmental groups and environmentalists. A noble campaign to increase the green cover of the country. Tree planting is seen as one of the easiest ways to participate in environmental protection, halt rising global temperatures, and as a solution to various natural disasters. All done with good intentions but a few points are important to ponder over. I came across a picture recently on a social media platform that caught my attention-- it was a tree planting activity that involved a popular Sandalwood comedian and an urban environmentalist. The environmentalist touted it as “an amazing effort by joining hands with the department”, and said they were “trying to green the entire mountain range”. From the pictures, it looked like a well-known bank supported the drive, possibly under their Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, and the event was organised by a local, well-intentioned environmental group. There were four important players--a celebrity, a well-known environmentalist, a corporate sponsor and an environmental group. I am not sure who initiated this activity but the key issue is about the location of this activity.  I wonder if the people involved in this activity realised that the area where the tree planting was undertaken is a threatened, natural habitat called woodland savannah. Due to geo-climatic reasons, such habitats will have sparse, stunted tree growth and a lot of open space filled with local grass species. Endemic flora and fauna that survive in such habitats will, unfortunately, disappear if such areas are transformed as forests due to afforestation activities. The area where this tree plantation drive was undertaken also hosts an endemic, threatened cycad plant species called Cycas swamyi, named after the famed botanist B G L Swamy and son of the noted Kannada writer D V Gundappa. This ancient plant species, that survived from the days of dinosaurs, exists only in woodland savannahs and if those habitats are turned into forests the plant species will disappear. In Karnataka, such woodland savannahs that host these cycad species now exist in small pockets in a few rain shadow districts including Mandya, Mysore, Tumkur, Ramanagara, Chamarajanagara, Gadag, Bellary, Koppal and others. Similarly, our research from several areas in Karnataka shows that these woodland savannahs, most of which are outside the ambit of protected area system, are the stronghold of the four-horned antelope. Four-horned antelope is a habitat specialist and we could lose them if all these hillocks are turned into forests. We have already seen the disappearance of the Great Indian Bustard from Ranibennur Wildlife Sanctuary due to tree planting. Maidenahally, a wonderful rolling grassland habitat in the 1980s, hosted Indian grey wolves, and my sighting of the biggest pack of wolves of six individuals was in this area in August 1994. Unfortunately, our camera trapping exercise in this area did not document any wolves in the last four years. But interestingly we documented leopards. The area now has tree cover, which was non-existent earlier. I am not sure if we didn’t find wolves merely due to seasonal variation or if leopards, the larger carnivore, has excluded wolves from the area. I wish that the former is true. Another activity that’s threatening natural habitats these days is ‘seed ball bombing’. Seed balls consist of seeds of a tree species rolled within a ball of clay and compost. These seed balls are thrown in areas of interest as an afforestation drive. However, the unintended threat of the seed balls is the invasive plant species. There is no understanding of where the soil for making these seed balls come from. The soil could already be holding seeds of invasive plant species like lantana, parthenium, mesquite, Mexican devil or chromolaena, any of which will be detrimental to the entire ecosystem if spread through the seed balls. The well-intentioned activity of the enthusiasts could itself turn into a nightmare for the natural ecosystem. Many of the plant species propagated may not even be native to the place where it will be disbursed. Merely because banyan is native to India does not mean it is native to certain habitats, hence it shouldn’t be planted everywhere. Similarly, seed bombing in woodland savannah would destroy the natural habitat and replace it with close canopy forests, which is certainly not desirable. Though woodland savannahs look dry and open during summer and can make an untrained eye think that it needs tree planting, such natural habitats have their unique flora and fauna and no afforestation should be carried out. Another natural habitat that’s seriously threatened is the scrubland. Recently a new species of fan-throated lizard Sitana dharwarensis was discovered by three young researchers. These open scrublands where the lizard was found is generally termed as wasteland and tree-planting drives are carried out but at the cost of such lesser-known wildlife species. Many a time they would be gone even before they are known to the outside world. Planting of trees is a wonderful initiative to involve citizens in environmental protection. But it needs a basic understanding of ecology especially when carried out in natural habitats. A bit of common sense and guidance from an ecologist, or those who have a sound grasp of the issues will help such well-intended activities. More importantly, it can halt the destruction of nature in the name of ‘greening’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/when-tree-planting-does-more-harm-than-good-872597.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||5,054 students passed in SSLC in Kodagu||Out of 6,499 candidates who enrolled for 2019-20 SSLC exams, 6,255 attended the exams and 5,054 have passed. Deputy Director of Public Instruction P S Machado said the district had achieved 81% results. The district stands in the 18th position in the state. As per the new norms issued by the Education department, Kodagu has secured ‘B’ grade. In Madikeri taluk, 1,808 students from 43 schools took the examination and 1,476 of them have passed, thereby bringing 81.64% results to the taluk. As many as 22 schools have secured ‘A’ grade, seven schools have secured ‘B’ grade and 14 schools have received ‘C’ grade. Somwarpet taluk has secured 78.68% results. As many as 2,482 students from 64 schools had attended the exam out of whom 1,953 have passed. As many as 23 schools have received ‘A’ grade, 17 schools have secured ‘B’ grade and 24 schools have secured ‘C’ grade. In Virajpet taluk, 1,965 students from 57 schools have attended SSLC exams and 1,625 have passed. The pass percentage of taluk is 82.70%. As many as 21 schools have been awarded ‘A’ grade, 19 schools ‘B’ grade and 17 schools ‘C’ grade. Top 10 students The top 10 toppers in the distirct are: Jagath Poovaiah from Fatima Convent, Kushalnagar (620 marks); Gana from Sandeepani High School, Somwarpet (618 marks); Vijay M D, Morarji Desai School, Koodige (618); Anusha Ponnamma K S, Lions School, Kalathmadu (617); Hritvika H S, Fatima Convent, Kushalnagar (616); Shrivatsa M K from Rajarajeshwari School, Kotturu (616) and Rasha Shareen, Sri Krishna Vidya Mandira, Siddapura (615 marks). Supplementary exams will be held in the month of September for the students who could not make it to the exams and those who have not availed pass marks. Such students may contact the Headmasters of their respective schools for registrations, the DDPI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5054-students-passed-in-sslc-in-kodagu-872256.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||19 news cases of Covid-19 in Kodagu||Nineteen fresh cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the district on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. She said 16 reports were obtained through Rapid Antigen Tests and the rest through RT-PCR tests. The infected include two police personnel from Belagavi deputed in Kodagu. The persons who tested positive are: A 36-year-old man from V Badaga, Virajpet; a 30-year-old man from Nathangala, Virajpet; a 23-year-old man from Aruvattoklu, Virajpet; a 24-year-old man and a 22-year-old man from Kaveri Layout, Madikeri; the a-22-year old man and a 23-year-old man, both from the police department, Belagavi; a 21-year-old man and a 23-year-old man from Azad Nagar, Madikeri; two 24-year-old men from Gandhadakote, Kushalnagar; a 45-year-old woman from Koodige, Kushalanagar; a 38-year-old man from Muttappa temple locality in Madikeri; a 75-year-old woman from Bekkesodluru, Virajpet; a 43-year-old man who is a native of Bengaluru; a 19-year-old woman from Napoklu, Madikeri; a 35-year-old woman from Madikeri Gaddige; a 30-year-old woman from Azad Nagar, Madikeri and a 40-year-old man fromKEB quarters, Gonikoppa, Virajpet. Nine more containment zones have been notified in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-news-cases-of-covid-19-in-kodagu-872257.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||304 houses damaged due to heavy rain in district||A total of 304 houses are damaged due to heavy rain in Kodagu district. Among the damaged houses, 65 are in Madikeri, 133 in Somwarpet and 106 houses in Virajpet taluks. Also, agricultural crops on 3,200 hectares of land and Horticulture crops on 32,500 hectares have been damaged. Roads damaged Damages have also been caused to 35.80 kms of state highway, 26.78 kms of district main roads, 260.37 kms of rural roads and 47 kms of urban roads. That apart, 20 bridges, 2,012 electricity poles,  25,650 km of electricity cables, 75 transformers, 74 school buildings, 13 Anganwadi centres, 1 community hall, 32 minor irrigation lakes, 48 water supply and sanitation units, 18 retaining walls and one government building have also been damaged. A total of 585 people have been rescued during the floods in the district. The details of people rescued at various places is as follows: Napoklu - 13, Hodawada - 13, Nelyahudikeri - 96, Kadagadalu - 150, Balamuri - 7, Kottamudi - 29, Cheriyaparambu - 7, Balegundi village - 6, Nalvattekre - 12, Bettageri - 8, Bottlappa paisari and Kadagadalu - 51, Kaimadu - 5, Neerukolli -  43, Maithadi - 40, Kondangeri -  8, Siddapura -  8, Thannimani - 50, Bettadakadu - 10, Atturu Nalluru Kottageri paisari -  10, Balele - 2 and Chamiyala - 17 Relief centres The district administration has opened 9 relief centres in the district, providing shelter to 506 people from 217 families. A total of 232 flood-affected people are staying in three relief centres in Madikeri taluk while 274 people from 113 families are sheltered in six relief centres in Virajpet. In  Madikeri taluk - 102 victims from 50 families are accommodated at Kashi Mutt in Bhagamandala hobli of Madikeri taluk, 95 victims from 39 families are sheltered in KVG College, Bhagamandala and 35 victims from 15 families are accommodated in Government Composite PU College, Kadagadalu. In Virajpet taluk, 41 people from 21 families are sheltered in Government Model Primary School in Kadagadalu; 27 persons from 8 families are accommodated in Government High School, Kondangeri; 36 people from 19 families are sheltered in Basaveshwara community hall in Karadigodu; 112 people from 36 flood-affected families are accommodated in Government Model Higher Primary School in Hudikeri; 16 people from 5 families are sheltered in Government Model Primary School in Balyamunduru and 42 people from 24 families are staying in the relief centre opened at Government Model Primary School in Chikkapet, Virajpet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/304-houses-damaged-due-to-heavy-rain-in-district-872258.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘CM Yediyurappa briefed about development in Talacauvery’||Five people had gone missing during the landslide at Gajagiri hills in Talacauvery. Among them, bodies of Anandatheertha Achar and Talacauvery Chief Priest Narayana Achar have been recovered, District In-charge Minister V Somanna announced on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons in a press conference at Hotel Mayura in Bhagamandala on Tuesday, he said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was briefed about the developments in Talacauvery. “As several household materials were found two km away from the site of the landslide on Monday, the rescue teams were told to carry out operations at the very place. When searched, the body of Narayana Achar was found on Tuesday”, he said. The minister meanwhile lauded the efforts of NDRF, SDRF, police, forest and fire and emergency services personnel, who carried out the operation. The search is on to find the other three persons, he added. Somanna said that the road leading to Talacauvery temple was being repaired. The daily prayers will be restarted under the guidance of the Tantri of Talacauvery Kshetra from Friday, he added. The minister offered prayers at Bhagandeshwara Temple in Bhagamandala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-yediyurappa-briefed-about-development-in-talacauvery-872259.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||5 charred to death as Bengaluru-bound bus catches fire ||Five passengers including three children who were heading towards Bengaluru from Vijayappura in a private bus were charred to death when the bus caught fire near K R Halli in Hiryur taluk in the wee hours of Wednesday.  Vijayapura Superintendent of Police Anupam Agarwal said the deceased have been identified as Sheela Ravi (33), Sparsha (8), Samruddha (5), Kavitha Vinayak (29) and Nishchita (3). The bus bearing the registration number KA 51-D 7449 was heading towards Bengaluru ferrying more than 35 passengers. When the bus caught fire, passengers attempted to come out of the vehicle but some sustained severe injuries. According to ANI, 27 persons have been injured. They are undergoing treatment in general hospital in Hiryur town.    On hearing the news, police and firefighting staff rushed to the spot and attempted to douse the flame. According to one of the passengers, the bus left Vijayapura at 11:00 pm on Tuesday and ran for five hours without any stop. All the passengers were asleep. The engine might have caught fire that led to the mishap, he alleged.  "When the bus caught fire, the driver parked the vehicle and fled the spot. When we were awake, there was no space to get down from the bus. So we came out of the bus by breaking windows," the passenger said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-charred-to-death-as-bengaluru-bound-bus-catches-fire-872322.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three youths among 11 succumb to Covid-19||Three persons below 24 years succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the district on Wednesday. The district recorded 11 deaths and 544 fresh cases. While two are 23-year-old youths, one is 18-year-old. Another 45-year-old woman died of infection. All the 11 deceased were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The district witnessed 668 discharges and 544 fresh cases on Wednesday. With this, the district has a total of 3,424 active cases. While total positive cases are 8,467, 4,781 persons recovered and discharged so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-youths-among-11-succumb-to-covid-19-872555.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Raitha Sangha to observe Black Day on I-Day||Members of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene (KRRS and HS) have decided to observe ‘Black Day’ on August 15, to protest against the anti-farmer policies of the state government. Addressing a media conference here, on Wednesday, Manju Kiran, state core committee member of KRRS and HS, said, “A protest rally, lead by Chukki Nanjundaswamy, will be taken out from the Deputy Commissioner’s office, up to the bust of Mahatma Gandhi, near the District Court Complex, on August 15, Saturday.” A dharana would be staged in front of the Gandhi bust to protest against the amendment to the Land Reforms Act, Manju Kiran said. He said, “The victims of the last year flood are yet to get compensation. “This year, again people are suffering, due to floods. But, the government is still giving assurances. It has failed to get funds from the Centre.” Raghu Himmavu and Shivaprasad were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raitha-sangha-to-observe-black-day-on-i-day-872562.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||60 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in Kodagu||Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that 60 fresh Covid-19 have been recorded in Kodagu district on Wednesday. A total of 39 cases were confirmed through RTPCR and 21 through rapid antigen test. Out of the 60 new positive cases, 17 were diagnosed with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) symptoms. The infected include a front-line worker of the municipal administration in Kushalnagar. The infected are undergoing treatment at the designated hospital and at the Covid-19 Care Centres in the district. Precaution maintained According to the state Covid-19 war room, the cases of Covid-19 may shoot up in the next few days. Therefore, the district administration is prepared to contain further spread of virus, the deputy commissioner said.  More tests will be conducted to confirm Covid-19 cases. Suspected cases are under surveillance. A total of 250 beds are arranged in the designated Covid-19 Hospital to treat the infected. Out of these, 155 beds will have centralised oxygen supply. An Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with 56 beds is also ready. Two separate beds have been reserved for the patients who need dialysis. Six beds are reserved for the Covid-19 infected newborns and children. A separate operation theatre meant for Covid-19 infected has also been readied.  There are 35 ventilators with Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences (KoIMS). Among these, 26 ventilators are reserved for the treatment of Covid-19 victims and two ventilators are reserved for the newborn and children infected with Covid-19. Containment zones Following fresh cases, 26 more containment zones have been opened at -- Thathi Bane Haleri grama; Duddagallu Hangal village; Venkateshwara block; behind anganwadi near Gowda Samaj; Gandhinagar Mariamma temple; Gundurao Badavane; Mailapura; Kooguru Gowdalli Somwarpet; Hangal Yaddooru Gowdalli Somwarpet; Ankanahalli village and post Somwarpet; Bhagavathi Nagar, Hoskeri Layout Ponnampet; K Badaga Virajpet; near Chopi Mane Vijaynagar, Virajpet; Valmiki Bhavan Arji Perumbadi Virajpet; Behind Red Fern Hotel, Brahmins Valley, Madikeri; next to Ambedkar Bhavan, Sudarshan Circle, Madikeri; third block Mukunda Layout, Gonikoppa, Virajpet; Hanathur village, Murnad; Kottamudi Napoklu; opposite masjid, Mahadevpet, Madikeri; near Jammi Masjid, Mahadevpet Madikeri; V Badaga Kattundi post; Mallikarjun Nagar, Madikeri; Hardur village, Suntikoppa, Somwarpet; Harangi Road, Bolluru village; and behind Yemmemadu school, Yemmemadu, Napoklu. While seven containment zones -- behind ITI in Madikeri, A V School in Mahadevpet, Bethri in Kakotuperambu, Chennangoli in Gonikoppa, Chikka Aluvara in Somwarpet, Kukkuru in Virajpet and near masjid in Yemmemadu, have been opened for public after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/60-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-kodagu-872631.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||'World Elephant Day' celebrated at Mattigodu camp||‘World Elephant Day’ was celebrated at Mattigodu elephant camp of Nagarahole wildlife division on Wednesday. Mahouts and kavadis cleaned the camp and after giving bath to 18 elephants in the camp, decorated them with colours and flower garlands. Elephants were served a sumptuous meal. The family members of kavadis and mahouts, too had meals together. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director and DCF D Mahesh Kumar felicitated the mahouts and kavadis on the occasion. He said that the job of the mahouts and kavadis is a tough one. However, they have to be careful at all times even though the elephants are tamed. Ganesh, Mahendra and Srikantha were awarded with prizes for taming elephants in a less duration and looking after them well. DCF A V Satish, veterinarian Dr Muzbur Rehman and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/world-elephant-day-celebrated-at-mattigodu-camp-872633.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nikhil Kumaraswamy talks in support of flood victims||Visiting the flood-hit areas of Karadigodu, state youth JD(S) president Nikhil Kumaraswamy listened to the woes of the flood victims. Accompanied by JD(S) workers, he paid a visit to the families situated on the river banks in Nellyahudikeri gram panchayat limits. The flood victims said that they lost their houses during floods two years ago and they are still not provided with a rehabilitation facility by the government. There is uncertainty in their lives and they are spending each monsoon in fear, they said. Some of them complained that even though the land has been identified by the district administration in Arekadu limits for the floods victims, a procrastinating attitude is being followed in handing over to the land to the eligible. Speaking on the occasion, Nikhil Kumaraswamy said that a majority of the people in the flood-affected Karadigodu region comprise labourers. The government should fulfil its promises by providing permanent houses for the flood victims, he said. He said that rain has caused extensive damage in Karadigodu. The government should compensate the victims. He meanwhile recalled that in 2018, the then Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy had sanctioned the construction of houses for flood victims. Nellyahudikeri gram panchayat former vice president Safiya Muhammed, JD(S) district president K M Ganesh, leaders Denni Borose, Shivadas, Manjunath, Jayamma, C L Vishwa, Isaac and Kiran were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nikhil-kumaraswamy-talks-in-support-of-flood-victims-872635.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru Police had to resort to firing to control violence, says Basavaraj Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the police had to resort to firing as a last step to bring the violence under control at DJ Halli and KG Halli limits. Now, the situation is under control. The priority before the state government now is to maintain law and order, he told mediapersons in Udupi. He said three persons have lost their lives in the violence Bengaluru. Already, 110 people involved in the violence have been arrested. Few more people will be arrested, he added. Six additional CRPF platoons have been called from Hyderabad and Chennai to Bengaluru. Rapid action force, Garuda commandoes have also been deployed. “Probe is in progress on those involved in the violence. CCTV footage near D G Halli station has captured the footage of the violence. On the outside it looks like a call was given on Facebook for the attack. It is a conspiracy to destabilise law and order,” Bommai felt. “I will hold meetings with the senior officials as soon as I reach Bengaluru and the course of action will be decided,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-police-had-to-resort-to-firing-to-control-violence-says-basavaraj-bommai-872377.html
12-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru riot: Was Yediyurappa government sleeping, asks Congress||The Congress, on Wednesday, targeted the state government over the violence in Bengaluru, accusing it of failing to maintain law and order. “It is a complete failure of law and order machinery and rule of law. Was Yediyurappa government sleeping or waiting for the violence to happen?” Randeep Singh Surjewala, chief Congress spokesman. said. Surjewala also termed the riots and arson as “reprehensible, condemnable and unacceptable”. “Why did police not act in time? Who is responsible for three deaths?” Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said those who had incited and perpetrated the riots must be found, arrested and given exemplary punishment. “But they are not to be equated with an entire community any more than thugs & vigilantes represent all Hindus,” Tharoor said.   Senior BJP leader B L Santosh hit back at the Congress, accusing it of practising the policy of appeasement of a particular community and failing to come out in support of its own MLA, whose house was attacked by the mob. “Instead of condemning the riots, coming out openly against attack & loot of the house of a Dalit MLA who belongs to Karnataka Congress, why this beating around the bush...? He is one among you. Support him. Stop hypocrisy,” B L Santhosh, BJP general secretary (organisation), said.   “We strongly condemn this act. Hooligans wanted to go scotfree & attacked brave media personnel. Why are ‘selective free speech proponents’ silent,” BJP spokesman G V L Narasimha Rao asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-riot-was-yediyurappa-government-sleeping-asks-congress-872540.html
12-08-2020||National||Jairam Ramesh writes to Javadekar, says Draft EIA Notification flawed||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has accused Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar of "misrepresenting" the implications of the Draft EIA Notification on the country's environmental regulatory framework and its impact on the environment. In a letter to Javadekar, Ramesh reiterated his strong objections and said the notification is "fundamentally flawed". Ramesh, a former environment minister, said the Standing Committee met on August 7 and was apprised by officials on the Draft EIA Notification 2020. "I am compelled to say that you are misrepresenting the implications of the Draft EIA Notification, 2020, on our country's environmental regulatory framework and its impact on the environment," Ramesh said, adding that he has read his reply in conjunction with the presentation made by the officials, along with the feedback received from various stakeholders. "The notification is fundamentally flawed and makes a mockery of the prime minister's many statements on the need to protect the environment and India's leadership in this regard," he said. The Congress leader asked how can subordinate legislation override the parent Act from which it is derived like the Draft EIA Notification 2020 does vis-à-vis the Environment Protection Act, 1986. "Your claim that the clearance is not an ex post facto one as 'it is prospective in nature, and previous actions will be penalized' is contrary to how it will play out in reality. "If the clearance permits the illegally constructed portion of the project to remain or the illegal operating part of the project to continue, and there is no direction for the demolition of the illegal portion or reduction of the illegally enhanced capacity – then it is not a prospective clearance. It is being granted ex post facto, and it is regularizing the illegality committed by the project proponent," he said in his letter to Javadekar. He said it is unclear what is meant by the objective of bringing all violators "under the regulatory regime". It appears from the processes proposed in Clause 22 of the Draft Notification that the government's objective is to allow all the violators to regularize their illegal activities," he alleged. "First and foremost, the government must punish the violators. The punishment must not only be proportionate to the damage caused to the environment, but it must also deter future violations by making breach of law an extremely costly proposition for the project proponent – not just financially but also due loss of reputation, and inability to get future regulatory clearances," he alleged. Ramesh said the companies violating the law most certainly cannot be allowed to remain in "perpetual unregulated status" – but that could mean simply ensuring they are shut down and the violation brought to an end along with other penal action! "It does not require these violations to be condoned by the government," he said. The former environment minister said given the glaring problems and the deep concern caused by the Draft EIA Notification among the people across the country, "I reiterate that the Notification is kept in abeyance until the Standing Committee has examined the Draft Notification in detail, a role you have been good enough to acknowledge in your communication on July 26."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jairam-ramesh-writes-to-javadekar-says-draft-eia-notification-flawed-872253.html
12-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 12||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 23 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  23,88,625 as of August 12 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):     47,065   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 13,78,106  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-12-872291.html
12-08-2020||National||Covid-19 lockdown threatens efforts to stop spikes in child marriage||When the police knocked on the door as 15-year-old Muskaan prepared to head to the temple in their village in northern India, the bride-to-be was distraught. With a sick father and unemployed brother, Muskaan believed that getting married to a distant relative's son would alleviate the financial burden on her family and offer a better future. Yet a tip-off to the authorities in June by local activists concerned about a spike in early marriages during India's coronavirus lockdown led to Muskaan's wedding being called off, while her parents were charged under child marriage legislation. "When my father fixed my marriage, I agreed," Muskaan, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, said by phone from her village in Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh. Yet she said she would have preferred to go to school if possible. "There is no food. We live in one room. My father was worried for me and was crying," she said. "My marriage would have taken care of everything. Now they say I will have to wait for three years (until the legal age of marriage in India)." After the Covid-19 pandemic brought industry to a halt and shut schools in March, activists and officials in parts of India from the southern state of Tamil Nadu to western Maharashtra observed an unexpected trend: child marriages were on the rise. Before the outbreak, many early marriages revolved around public celebrations and huge dowries paid by the bride's family. Yet India's lockdown's restrictions mean many jobless and struggling families are performing ceremonies on the cheap and forgoing payments as they seek to ease their economic hardship. With schools closed and weddings taking place discreetly, officials fear that children - especially girls - are harder to reach, educate, and save from marriages that limit their future. Early marriage makes it more likely that girls will drop out of school, and campaigners say it also increases the risks of slavery, domestic and sexual violence, and death in childbirth. Of 223 million women and girls in India who were married off as children, almost half were wed before turning 15, according to statistics by the United Nations children's agency (UNICEF). UNICEF data from 2018 found that about 27% of girls get married before they turn 18, down from 47% a decade earlier. Yet advocates fear that progress may be at risk across rural India. Thameem Unisa, a social welfare officer in Tamil Nadu, said the number of child marriages in two of the state's districts rose to 27 in June from 5 in March. Her team managed to prevent 50 marriages in this period but 24 still went ahead, she added. "This is how it used to be 10 years ago," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "We have given so much education and awareness ... the movement (for girl child empowerment) is going backwards." Trafficking Threat Officials at Childline, a toll-free emergency helpline for children funded by the federal government, said they had stopped 5,200 child marriages between March and May. They said it was not possible to compare data with previous years at this time. India's child protection commission said there was no data to suggest a spike in child marriages during lockdown, but it had asked state governments to be more vigilant to the threat. The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act imposes a fine of 100,000 Indian rupees ($1,535) and two years in prison for parents caught trying to marry off their underage children. "Child marriage is a potential concern. We consider it as trafficking," said Priyank Kanoongo, chairman of the child rights commission. "Those who are vulnerable ... should be mapped to link them to available government welfare schemes." The federal women and children's ministry did not respond to repeated requests for data and comment. Millions of internal migrant workers have lost their jobs in recent months and returned home to villages from cities, vying for limited work and struggling to provide for their families. Activists fear this may drive some men to capitalise on cheap weddings as a way to traffic girls for sex and labour. Rolee Singh of the Dr Shambunath Singh Research Foundation in Uttar Pradesh - who had tipped off the police in Muskaan's case - said she had seen more families in villages not being asked for dowry, some even offering money to the girl's parents. "Conflict at homes has gone up, daughters are not getting any attention, and schools and colleges are closed," she said. "(Girls) do not know right from wrong and are willing to leave on the promise of marriage. We fear a rise in trafficking." School's Out The closure of schools across India since March has not only disrupted education but also advocacy around child marriage. "A lot of work (on child marriage) was always a combination of keeping schools up and running and keeping girls in schools," said Puja Marwaha, head of the non-profit Child Rights and You. She said more parents had stopped marrying off their girls provided they were in school, which they saw as a "safe space". The number of out-of-school girls across India aged 11-14 dropped to less than 5% in 2018 compared with about 10% a decade ago, according to a survey by the education non-profit Pratham. Maharashtra is considering reopening residential schools to tackle an "unexpected" rise in child marriage, an official said. Authorities in the state stopped more than 100 such weddings from April to July but fear that many others went unreported. But education can only go so far, according to activists who said poverty exacerbated by the pandemic may make it more and more difficult for families to avoid marrying off their girls. Muskaan's father knows this only too well. "This village is not good ... we fear for her safety ... we have no money to feed her," said the 65-year-old, who has not been named in order to protect his daughter's identity. His daughter's wedding would have been performed without a dowry, a rare opportunity for the family to avoid taking out loans to pay the groom's parents and then falling into debt. "We are among the poorest here, nobody looks at us," he added. "What if I die? My daughter will be left on the road."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-threatens-efforts-to-stop-spikes-in-child-marriage-872318.html
12-08-2020||National||Amid heavy monsoon, UN to provide humanitarian support to most vulnerable, affected communities in India||The United Nations stands ready to provide humanitarian support to the most vulnerable and affected communities in India, a spokesperson for the UN Secretary General has said amid heavy monsoon in the region. “In neighbouring India, the monsoon there has reportedly claimed more than 770 lives. According to authorities, more than 500,000 people have been evacuated. The UN stands ready to provide humanitarian support to the most vulnerable and affected communities in India,” Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General António Guterres said. Giving an update from UN humanitarian colleagues on flooding in Asia, Dujarric said in Bangladesh, people are experiencing the worst and longest monsoon flooding in years, with a quarter of the country being inundated. At least 5.4 million people have been affected by severe flooding, with 11,000 households displaced and 135 people killed, he added. Humanitarian partners are working with the Government of Bangladesh to provide food, shelter, clean water, hygiene supplies and other supplies. A $40 million response plan has been launched to help the more than one million of the people most in need in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-heavy-monsoon-un-to-provide-humanitarian-support-to-most-vulnerable-affected-communities-in-india-872324.html
12-08-2020||National||Kamala Harris never forgot her roots, even today calls me 'chithi': Aunt recounts Biden VP pick's childhood||“We are very thrilled and happy. She has always been courageous, outgoing, and progressive,” said Dr Sarala Gopalan of her niece Kamala Harris, who is now the running mate of presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden. In a conversation with DH hours after Biden made his decision known to the world through a tweet, Dr Sarala Gopalan and her brother G Balachandran spoke about Kamala Harris’ childhood, her caring nature, daunting courage, and her love for South Indian cuisine. Dr Sarala Gopalan and Balachandran are the sister and brother of Dr Shyamala Gopalan, the US Senator’s mother. Roots in Chennai Kamala Harris’ grandfather P V Gopalan was an Indian diplomat and the US Senator had herself recalled how the former had shaped her life and served as the greatest inspiration besides her mother Dr Shyamala Gopalan, who migrated to the US as a teenager to study medicine and rose to become a breast cancer specialist. Dr Shyamala Gopalan married a Jamaican Donald Harris and the couple had two daughters Kamala Harris and Maya Harris, a lawyer by profession. Kamala Harris and her sister would accompany Dr Shyamala Gopalan to Chennai often to meet their grandparents at their home in upscale Besant Nagar. Gopalan would take them for a walk on Elliot's Beach in Besant Nagar and the children’s love for India and the South Indian cuisine began here. “She (Kamala Harris) is a person who never forgets her roots and believes in family values. Even today, she calls me chithi (mother’s younger sister) and she has always been a caring person. Obviously, we are thrilled and happy. We hope she achieves whatever she wants to,” Dr Sarala Gopalan, a gynecologist and obstetrician, said. Her mother inspired her deeply While Dr Sarala Gopalan lives in Chennai, her brother Balachandran was a consultant at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) in New Delhi and another sister is based in Canada. “No doubt it is a proud moment for the whole family. We are quite happy that Kamala is the running mate of Joe Biden who hopes to be the US President,” Balachandran told DH from New Delhi, taking pride in the fact that her sister Dr Shyamala Gopalan taught them how to fight against the odds to achieve one’s goal. Dr Sarala Gopalan said: “I certainly feel it is my sister’s upbringing and the values she taught Kamala since her childhood that has brought her where she is today. Her achievement makes all of us feel happy and proud. My sister herself was very progressive and brave. She went to the US alone 60 years ago to pursue her studies and made a name for herself.” Balachandran said Kamala would be able to face any kind of challenge as their mother had taught them to deal with the world. “Kamala knows how to overcome challenges and make herself heard. My sister has taught her to be brave and she has imbibed all the good qualities of my sister,” Balachandran added. 'Will always be with her she needs us' Dr Sarala said her sister Dr Shyamala had raised her daughters – Kamala Harris and Maya – with “good values and views”  which ensured they stuck to their roots. When Dr Shyamala Gopalan died in 2009, Kamala Harris flew down to Chennai to immerse her ashes in the Bay of Bengal and had remained in touch with her mother’s family. The US vice-presidential hopeful had herself recalled her mother as “smart and fierce.” Since my sister is not alive today, “we will always be available for Kamala and Maya” whenever they need us, Dr Sarala Gopalan said. “For sure. I will be there if she needs me,” she said, when asked whether she would travel to the US to be with her niece, who attempts to write herself into the history. “We do not interfere in their personal lives. If Kamala wants me near her, I will certainly travel,” she said, adding that she flew to the US in 2017 when Harris was sworn-in as a senator. Love for South Indian cuisine On Kamala Harris’ love for South Indian cuisine, Dr Sarala Gopalan said the US Senator would host her aunt based in Canada very often just to for the flabour of authentic Tamil food. “Both Kamala and her husband love Indian cuisine, especially South Indian. My sister would travel to the US to be with me and ensure that they get their share of South Indian food. She loves the cuisine,” Dr Sarala Gopalan said. ‘My mother proved her critics wrong’ Kamala Harris herself has spoken about how her mother deeply inspired her. “My mother, who raised me and my sister, was a proud woman. She was a brown woman. She was a woman with a heavy accent. She was a woman, who many times people would overlook her, or not take her seriously. Or because of her accent, assumed things about her intelligence. Now every time my mother proved them wrong. “Every time she proved them wrong. And because of who mother was, and what she believed, what she had the ability to dream what was possible and then work to make possible, the fact that my mother never asked anyone permission to tell her what was possible is why, within one generation, I stand here as a serious candidate for the President of United States,” she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-never-forgot-her-roots-even-today-calls-me-chithi-aunt-recounts-biden-vp-picks-childhood-872331.html
12-08-2020||National||May God do whatever's best for him and give me strength: Pranab Mukherjee's daughter||Sharmishta Mukherjee, daughter of former President Pranab Mukherjee, who is critical and on ventilator support, tweeted this morning that she hopes God chooses the best path for him and gives her the strength to accept whatever comes ahead. Sharmishtha also recounted how last year around the same time her father was awarded the Bharat Ratna. "Last year 8 August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna. Exactly a year later on 10 Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns" her Tweet said. Last year 8August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna.Exactly a year later on 10Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns🙏 Pranab Mukherjee, 84, is at the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital as he remains critical after he underwent brain surgery. He also tested positive for Covid-19. Mukherjee has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened, according to the latest statement by the hospital on August 11. He continues to remain on ventilation support, the statement added.  Mukherjee had a fall at his residence on Sunday and had experienced dizziness. He was taken to the army hospital on Monday morning. A medical examination revealed a large brain clot for which he underwent an emergency life-saving surgery. Mukherjee, who demitted office in 2017, maintains an active public life, attending occasional public events, and advising the government through statements, the latest being on the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh. (with inputs from Sagar Kulkarni, agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-god-do-whatevers-best-for-him-and-give-me-strength-pranab-mukherjees-daughter-872336.html
12-08-2020||National||SC to hear ex-bureaucrats' plea for inquiry into mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic on August 14||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on August 14 a plea by a group of six former senior bureaucrats for an independent inquiry into Union government's "gross mismanagement" of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat will take up the petition filed by K P Fabian and others through advocate Prashant Bhushan. The petitioners, namely M G Devasahayam, Meena Gupta, Somsundar Burra, Amit Bhaduri and Madhu Bhaduri, contended that the response of the government to the pandemic and the deleterious impact of it on the lives and livelihoods of citizens of the country was a matter of public importance. It warranted the appointment of a Commission under Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, they said in their joint petition. They said a Commission, headed by a former Supreme Court judge and comprising experts from fields of medical science, epidemiology, public health, law and social sciences, should be formed to conduct an independent inquiry into issues of failure to take early measures for containment of the disease, abrupt and arbitrary declaration of lockdown, failure of lockdown to contain transmission of the disease and misery wrought upon ordinary citizens owing to unplanned and the sudden nature of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-ex-bureaucrats-plea-for-inquiry-into-mismanagement-of-covid-19-pandemic-on-august-14-872338.html
12-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to launch platform to honour honest taxpayers on August 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a platform for honouring the country's honest taxpayers on Thursday. The 2020-21 Budget unveiled on February 1, had announced a 'taxpayer charter', which is expected to have statutory status and will empower citizens by ensuring time-bound services by the Income Tax department. "The upcoming launch of the platform for 'Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest' by the Prime Minister will further carry forward the journey of direct tax reforms,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The Ministry said the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has carried out several major tax reforms in direct taxes in recent years. Last year the Corporate Tax rates were reduced from 30 per cent to 22 per cent and for new manufacturing units the rates were reduced to 15 per cent. Dividend distribution Tax was also abolished. "The focus of the tax reforms has been on reduction in tax rates and on simplification of direct tax laws. Several initiatives have been taken by the CBDT for bringing in efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the I-T Department," it said. In the Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that CBDT will adopt a "taxpayer charter" which will ensure trust between a taxpayer and the administration and reduce harassment, as well as increase efficiency of the department. CBDT, which is the apex decision making body in direct tax matters, administers personal income tax and corporate tax. "Wealth creators will be respected in this country," she had said in her 2020-21 Budget speech. "We wish to enshrine in the statutes a "taxpayer charter" through this budget. Our government would like to reassure taxpayers that we remain committed to taking measures so that our citizens are free from harassment of any kind," she had said. To facilitate better taxpayer services, CBDT has lowered the percentage of I-T returns picked up for scrutiny. Income Tax returns (ITRs) picked up for scrutiny has reduced to 0.25 per cent of the total ITRs filed in Assessment Year (AY) 2018-19, from 0.55 per cent in AY 2017-18. The number was 0.71 per cent in AY 2015-16 and 0.40 per cent in AY 2016-17. Taking forward faceless assessment process, the Budget also proposed to bring about "faceless appeal". Currently, most of the functions of the Income Tax Department starting from the filing of return, processing of returns, issuance of refunds and assessment are performed in the electronic mode without any human interface.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-platform-to-honour-honest-taxpayers-on-august-13-872366.html
12-08-2020||National||Reliance Foundation to partner W-GDP, USAID to bridge gender digital divide in India||Reliance Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Wednesday said it has forged a new partnership with US Agency for International Development and W-GDP to bridge the gender digital divide in India. The partnership was announced at a Women's Global Development and Prosperity (W-GDP) event hosted by Deputy Secretary of State of the United States Stephen Biegun and with special guest, Ivanka Trump, Advisor to the President of the United States, and Deputy USAID Administrator Bonnie Glick, it said in a statement. Ivanka Trump said: "The W-GDP Fund was created to source and scale the most innovative programmes to advance women's economic empowerment. We are leveraging the resources and expertise of the US government and the private sector so that activities have enduring, deep effects on the communities they reach." John Barsa, Acting Administrator, USAID, said: "Global prosperity will remain out of reach if we exclude half the population. At the US Agency for International Development (USAID), we believe investment in women is key to unlocking human potential on a transformational scale. The W-GDP Fund at USAID is financing innovative solutions to close the economic gap between women and men and help our partners advance on their Journeys to Self-Reliance." At the event, through a virtual video message, Nita M Ambani, Founder and Chairperson, Reliance Foundation, said, "I am delighted and proud to announce that Reliance Foundation is joining forces with W-GDP, through our partnership with USAID. Together, we shall launch the W-GDP WomenConnect Challenge across India, in the fall of 2020. At the heart of this partnership, is our shared goal to help bridge both the gender divide and the digital divide in India." The W-GDP Women's Connect Challenge (WCC) supports private sector-led approaches that close the gender digital divide, expands business opportunities, and empowers women. As part of programme, W-GDP will partner with the Reliance Foundation to create an India-specific expression of the WCC and incorporate the lessons of previous W-GDP WCC Rounds. In 2016, Reliance launched Jio – a tech ecosystem that has ushered in digital life for 1.3 billion Indians and delivered first-hand a pan-India digital revolution that has transformed lives in ways unimaginable before. Today, Jio is the largest digital services company in India, and the second-largest in the world, the statement said, adding as many as 120 million Jio users are women, and the number is growing rapidly. This year Reliance Foundation is celebrating its 10th anniversary, and over the last decade has impacted the lives of 36 million Indians. "Together, Jio and Reliance Foundation will make a tremendous contribution to the W-GDP Initiative in India to help bridge the gender digital divide," the statement added. In February 2019, the White House established the Women's Global Development and Prosperity (W-GDP) Initiative, the first whole-of-government approach to women's economic empowerment. W-GDP seeks to reach 50 million women in the developing world by 2025 by focusing on three pillars – women prospering in the workforce, women succeeding as entrepreneurs, and women enabled in the economy. W-GDP leverages a new innovative fund, scaling private-public partnerships that address the three pillars. In its first year alone, W-GDP programs reached 12 million women across the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-foundation-to-partner-w-gdp-usaid-to-bridge-gender-digital-divide-in-india-872407.html
12-08-2020||National||Allow usual Ganesha festivities with precautions: Shiv Sena's Karnataka unit||Taking exception from the State Government's decision of prohibiting public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the wake of Covid-19 situation, Shiv Sena Karnataka unit on Wednesday urged the government to allow installation of Ganapati idols on roads and circles as usual, but with Covid-19 precautions. "Public celebrations of the festival has historic and cultural importance, and that tradition should not be disconnected. If the government fails to fulfill our demand, we will convince Ganeshotsava Samithis to celebrate community Ganesh festival at public places as usual this time also," said State Shiv Sena president Kumar Hakari. Permissions have already been given for liquor shops, big shops and market places to function, but with Covid-19 precautions. Community Ganesh festival can also take place likewise. Otherwise, the sentiments of Hindus would be hurt. Community Ganesh festivals can be celebrated in a simple manner, with minimum number of devotees at a time, with masks, social distancing and other precautions, he said. "We will discuss the issue with Gajananotsava Samithigala Mahamandali, and will also submit a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and District In-charge minister Jagadish Shettar," Hakari aded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-usual-ganesha-festivities-with-precautions-shiv-senas-karnataka-unit-872417.html
12-08-2020||National||Covid-19: SC seeks response from Centre on plea to ban disinfection tunnels||The Supreme Court has sought response from the Centre on a PIL seeking an immediate ban on use, installation, production and advertisement of disinfectant tunnels set up to curb the spread of coronavirus. A three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah issued notices to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of Science and Technology and Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare while seeking their replies. "Issue notice to respondent Nos. 1 to 3...Counsel for the petitioner may serve a copy of the petition in the office of the Solicitor General, who may obtain instructions. List the matter after two weeks," the bench said. The top court was hearing a PIL filed by law student Gursimran Singh Narula seeking ban on usage, installation, production, advertisement of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of organic disinfectants for the purposes disinfecting human beings. "However, in the guise of preventing Covid-19 many sanitisation and disinfection devices have emerged which wrongfully claim to be effective in preventing the spread of this virus. "These include disinfection tunnels involving spraying and fumigation of disinfectants and disinfection tunnels exposing human beings to ultra violet rays with a belief of disinfecting them," the plea submitted. According to the plea, the World Health Organization (WHO) and many other scientific authorities across the world have warned about their ineffectiveness and dangerous after effects. The petitioner sought ban on usage, installation, advertisement, production, and sale of such disinfection tunnels which seeks to spray or fumigate disinfectants on human beings or expose human beings to ultra violet rays with a belief to disinfect them. It is submitted before this court that WHO and other health experts across the world have raised alarm that unchecked and mis-informed usage of such disinfection tunnels can have serious physical and psychological consequences on human beings. "The petitioner has approached the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare twice regarding this issue seeking binding guidelines and regulation of these tunnels. "Consequently, on April 18, 2020 an advisory was issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which also fell short in checking the unscrupulous use of these tunnels on human beings," the plea submitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-seeks-response-from-centre-on-plea-to-ban-disinfection-tunnels-872420.html
12-08-2020||National||PIL in SC seeks guidelines for identification of minority groups at state level||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre to formulate guidelines for identifying minority groups at the state level to ensure they get the benefit of the schemes meant for them. The PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay has also challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004, for not only giving unbridled power to the Centre but also being manifestly arbitrary, irrational and offending. The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, said denial of benefits to the "real" minorities and arbitrary and unreasonable disbursements under schemes meant for them to the absolute majority, infringes upon the fundamental right under the Constitution. "Direct and declare that followers of Judaism, Bahaism & Hinduism, who are minorities in Laddakh, Mizoram, Lakshdweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, can establish & administer educational institutions of their choice in spirit of the TMA Pai Ruling," the plea said. The apex court in TMA Pai Foundation case held that the state is well within its rights to introduce a regulatory regime in the “national interest” to provide minority educational institutions with well-qualified teachers in order for them to “achieve excellence in education.” Quoting Article 30 of the Constitution, the plea said that minorities whether based on religion or language shall have the right to establish-administer educational institutions of their choice. "Rational basis of declaring certain religions as minority by Central government as they have less population in the States is contravened when benefits of schemes for minority are acquired by those religious minorities in states where they are in majority and those religious communities who are actually minorities are not been given equal status," the plea said. The petition said that denial of minority rights to actual religious and linguistic minorities is a violation of right of minority enshrined under Articles 14 (equality before the law) and 21 (No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-guidelines-for-identification-of-minority-groups-at-state-level-872433.html
12-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate soars past 70%, record 56,110 recuperate in one day||India's Covid-19 recovery rate soared past 70 per cent on Wednesday with 16,39,599 people having recuperated from the disease so far in the country, while active cases comprise 27.64% of the total caseload, the Union Health Ministry said. The case fatality rate has further declined to 1.98 per cent, it said. The highest single-day recoveries at 56,110 are the result of the successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardised clinical management of the critical patients based on a holistic standard of care approach, the ministry said. The coordinated efforts of the central, state and UT governments have resulted in continuously increasing average daily recoveries, it said. "In the first week of July, the daily average recovered cases were at 15,000 which jumped to more than 50,000 in the first week of August," the health ministry said. "With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have crossed the 16 lakh-mark and recovery rate has reached another high of 70.38 per cent," it added. There are 6,43,948 active cases of coronavirus which is "actual caseload" of Covid-19 in the country and currently comprise 27.64 per cent of the total positive cases. They are under active medical supervision. With a consistent and sustained increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has reached nearly 10 lakh, the ministry stated.  Focus on improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, use of non-invasive, improved and coordinated services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have resulted in seamless efficient patient management of Covid-19 patients. "As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) has been low when compared to the global average. It is currently standing at 1.98 per cent," the ministry said. India's 'test, track, treat' strategy has achieved another peak with 7,33,449 tests done in 24 hours on Tuesday. This has taken the cumulative tests to more than 2.6 crore. The tests per million has jumped to 18,852, it stated. The graded and evolving response has resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing net in the country. To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened which consists of 1,421 labs in the country with 944 labs in the government sector and 477 private labs, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally went past 23 lakh on Wednesday with a single-day increase of 60,963 infections, while 834 new fatalities, reported in a span of 24 hours, pushed the death toll to 46,091, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-soars-past-70-record-56110-recuperate-in-one-day-872458.html
12-08-2020||National||Avoid Red Fort event if you had Covid-19 symptoms in last 2 weeks: Delhi Police||Invitees for the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort here who had any Covid-19 symptom and not got tested should not attend the event, the Delhi Police has said. Those invited to the event at Red Fort where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and address the nation should also follow the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare at all times while they are at the event. "In the event of any invitee experiencing/having a history of any symptoms of Covid-19 within two weeks of the Independence Day 2020, which is yet untested or confirmed positive for Corona (Covid-19) the invitee may consider refraining to attend the event," police said. At the entry gates, marking will be available at an adequate distance and invitees are requested to position/move on these markings while entering the gate. Controlling officers and ushers will be on duty to assist and guide for seating inside the designated enclosures. "Similarly on conclusion of the function at Red Fort, all invitees are requested to remain seated until requested/guided by the controlling officers/ushers of the designated enclosures to proceed to avoid crowding at exit," police said. No cameras, binoculars, remote-controlled car keys, umbrella, handbags, briefcases, transistors, cigarette lighters, tiffin boxes, water bottles and lunch boxes will be permitted at the event. Police have already issued orders prohibiting flying of para-gliders, hand gliders, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), hot air balloons and para-jumping among others in the national capital till August 15. Public has also asked to report about the presence of any suspicious objects while warning them against touching any such objects. A ground-to-air security apparatus has been put in place for the high-profile event, which will be attended by top political and military leadership. Owing to Covid-19, the guest list has been pruned to around 250 from the usual around 1,000. Officials said around 4,000 security personnel,  including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be deployed around the Red Fort alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-red-fort-event-if-you-had-covid-19-symptoms-in-last-2-weeks-delhi-police-872460.html
12-08-2020||National||15 CBI officers awarded prestigious Home Minister's medal for excellence in investigation||Fifteen CBI officers who successfully solved murder cases of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar and BJP leader Yogesh Gowda besides the sensational Muzaffarpur shelter home abuse case are among over 100 police investigators awarded the prestigious 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for 2020. "The 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for the year 2020 has been awarded to 121 Police personnel," a home ministry statement said. With 15 medals, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has topped the tally this year for exemplary investigations, followed by state police of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (10 each), Uttar Pradesh (8), Kerala and West Bengal (7 each), it said. "The Ministry of Home Affairs has initiated this scheme for award of medals to the members of Central Investigating Agencies and State/UT Police Investigating Agencies for excellence in investigation," CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said. The medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers. Among the CBI officers awarded the medal is Subhash Ramrup Singh, ASP, Special Crime Branch, Mumbai. He rummaged through the depths of the Thane creek with the help of high-end equipment and a diving team to find the firearm allegedly used to murder Dabholkar in 2013. The investigation by Singh and his team also provided a clue to three other similar murders of writer and thinker M M Kalburgi, journalist Gauri Lankesh and Leftist politician Govind Pansare. Another recipient of the medal is Inspector Rakesh Ranjan posted in Bengaluru. He solved the murder of BJP worker Yogesh Gowda in Karnataka's Dharwad. A charge sheet was filed against eight people in the case. Inspector Perwez Alam posted in Ranchi, who solved the blind murder of engineering student Jaya Bharti whose body was found in her room in Booty Basti in the city, is also among the recipients. Using dump data of mobile phones operational on the day of the crime, Alam and his team scanned over 300 people, questioned 150, and collected 11 blood samples to zero in on the rapist and murderer who had been arrested by the Lucknow police for mobile theft and was in jail. The accused, a serial molester, was sentenced to death on the basis of the CBI investigation in the student's rape and murder case. Another awardee is Inspector Vibha Kumari who investigated the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home abuse. Kumari developed a watertight case collecting forensic evidence and recording statements of the girls in the presence of experts from NIMHANS which resulted in the conviction of the main accused, Brajesh Thakur, and 11 others. All 12 were sentenced to life imprisonment. Superintendent of Police Cephas Kalyan Pakerla posted at CBI ACB, Hyderabad was also awarded the medal for his investigation in the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. As part of the scam, a large number of gullible investors were allegedly duped in the name of higher returns using Islamic banking methods. Several senior police officials are under the scanner of the agency for protecting the main accused Mansoor Khan. Another awardee, DSP Mukesh Sharma posted at the CBI's famous Special Crime Unit in Delhi solved the rape and murder of a minor girl in a police station in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The girl's body was found hanging from a tree in Nighasan police station in 2011. An Uttar Pradesh Police constable was awarded life sentence in February this year in the case. Inspector Duli Chand Yadav who solved the BITS Pilani paper leak case, Inspector Jyotirmoyee Majhi who solved chit fund cases of Jharkhand, and Shiv Kumar Jha who solved the Vyapam scam related to admissions in Gandhi Medical College, Indore using proxy candidates in 2009 are also among the awardees from the CBI. Other awardees are Rajan Kumar Jha, DSP, Mumbai, and inspectors Vijaya Vaishnavi from Bengaluru, Prashant Kandpal from Dehradun, Parvender Kumar Mathur from Delhi, K Bindhu from Chennai and Ashish Anand from Ranchi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-cbi-officers-awarded-prestigious-home-ministers-medal-for-excellence-in-investigation-872463.html
12-08-2020||National||NCP chief Sharad Pawar snubs grandnephew Parth||In something that is unprecedented, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Wednesday publicly snubbed his grand-nephew Parth Pawar on the latter political stances.Parth is son of Pawar's nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Parth had demanded a CBI probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and hailed the bhoomi poojan of Ram temple in Ayodhya. "We do not give much importance to what he says....he is immature," Pawar said, regarding his grandnephew's demand for a CBI probe and the Maha Vikas Aghadi's opposition to it. It may be recalled, the 29-year-old Parth has lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Maval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-snubs-grandnephew-parth-872465.html
12-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Joe Biden chooses Kamala Harris as his running mate||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, we look at riots in Bengaluru's DJ Halli that killed three, injured over 60 police personnel and led to arrest of over 140. Former US Vice President and presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden chose Senator Kamala Harris to be his running mate in the US Presidential Elections. The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to remain critical.      Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: August 12, 2020: White House hopeful Joe Biden named Kamala Harris, a high-profile black senator from California, as his vice-presidential choice Tuesday, capping a months-long search for a Democratic partner to challenge President Donald Trump in November. The decision, announced in typical 2020 style on social media, is a huge one for Biden as he aims to build a broad coalition of voters to oust Trump from the White House. Taking to Twitter shortly after the announcement, Harris said she was "honoured" to join Biden as nominee for vice president, and would "do what it takes to make him our Commander-in-Chief." The Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka state assembly has "completely recovered", a statement said.   Siddaramaiah was admitted to Manipal Hospital on August 4 after he tested Covid-19 positive. “He had a fever for the first two days only. Thereafter, he had no symptoms,” according to a statement from his office. Scientists have uncovered a new vulnerability in the spike protein of the novel coronavirus, which enables the virus to enter host cells, an advance that may lead to potential treatment pathways against Covid-19 The study, published in the journal ACS Nano, they used simulations of this protein at ultrasmall scales, in the order of nanometres, and discovered a positively charged site -- known as the polybasic cleavage site -- located 10 nanometers from the actual binding site on the spike protein. The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to remain critical, the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Wednesday. Mukherjee, 84, had undergone a brain surgery on August 10 after a medical examination revealed a large clot in his brain. He has not shown any improvement in his health status since the surgery. Curfew has been imposed in Banaswadi Police Sub-Division, in Bengaluru after an irate mob on Tuesday night attacked the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy over a defamatory post against religion. Three persons died and two others were injured in the attack. Many policemen have also been injured in the incident including a couple of senior officers. More than 7-8 vehicles have been set on fire. The mob comprising over 100 people also torched about 15 vehicles, besides pelting stones at the MLA's house and other adjoining houses in Kaval Byrasandra in North-East Bengaluru. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the police had to resort to firing as a last step to bring the violence under control at DJ Halli and KG Halli limits. Now, the situation is under control.The priority before the state government now is to maintain law and order, he told media persons in Udupi. He said three persons have lost their lives in the violence Bengaluru. Already, 110 people involved in the violence have been arrested. He said three persons have lost their lives in the violence Bengaluru. Already, 110 people involved in the violence have been arrested. Few more people will be arrested, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-joe-biden-chooses-kamala-harris-as-his-running-mate-872475.html
12-08-2020||National||SC panel recommends resuming 3 physical courts||A Supreme Court judges panel has recommended for resuming physical functioning in three courts within a period of two weeks.  Following a meeting of a seven-judge Committee with lawyers bodies on Tuesday, it is learned that the panel favoured for resuming the functioning of three courts to take up final hearing matters with all precautions. Lawyers bodies have urged the panel for starting the physical courts after taking views of medical experts.  A virtual meeting of judges panel headed by Justice N V Ramana, the second senior-most judge was held where Presidents of SCBA Dushyant Dave, SC Advocate on Record Association Shivaji M Jadhav and Bar Council of India Chairman Manan Kumar Mishra were present. "We urged the judges to start physical courts at the earliest after taking required measures suggested by medical experts. The judges committee is seriously considering to start at least two-three physical courts from the next week and in the meantime, Registry would take necessary steps to prepare the courts for physical functioning," Jadhav said in a statement. He said the physical courts would be in addition to virtual courts and people would have the option to do virtual hearing as well.  The matters from the final hearing list published before the lockdown would be listed before the physical courts. The final decision would be taken by the judges' committee in a day or two, Jadhav said. Since March, the top court has restricted the number of courts which have been conducting hearing of cases through video conferencing only. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers decided to put a dissent note to the suggestion of their organisation. "We are apprehensive that hurrying to full-fledged physical hearing without deliberating the possibilities of improving video conferencing and e-filing modes, would result in fast spread of the pandemic, in the event of which the entire court may face difficulty in functioning," they said. They said physical hearing should be for a select few cases and not for all. Consent of lawyers appearing on both sides could be a mechanism for listing matters for physical court hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-panel-recommends-resuming-3-physical-courts-872496.html
12-08-2020||National||IAF writes to Censor Board objecting to its 'undue negative' portrayal in movie Gunjan Saxena||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has written a letter to the Censor Board objecting to its "undue negative" portrayal in the movie 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl', said a senior official. The movie was released on streaming platform Netflix on Wednesday. The movie is based on the life of IAF officer Gunjan Saxena who became the first woman pilot to take part in the 1999 Kargil war. It has been produced by Karan Johar's Dharma Productions. "The IAF has written a letter to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) objecting to certain scenes in the movie 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl' wherein it has been portrayed in an undue negative light," the official said. The Defence Ministry had written to the CBFC last month raising strong objections to the depiction of armed forces personnel in some web series, sources said. It had urged that production houses may be advised to obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before telecasting any film, documentary or web series on an Army theme, they added. The ministry had received some complaints raising strong objections about the portrayal of Indian Army personnel and the military uniform in an “insulting manner”, they said. The sources said the communication last month was also sent to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-writes-to-censor-board-objecting-to-its-undue-negative-portrayal-in-movie-gunjan-saxena-872497.html
12-08-2020||National||Vodafone India Foundation launches portal on digital literacy Digisakshar||Vodafone India Foundation, the CSR arm of mobile service provider Vodafone Idea, on Wednesday launched a portal to help marginalised communities become digitally literate and self-reliant. The portal, Digisakshar.org, which has been developed in partnership with IT and business consulting services firm CGI and NASSCOM Foundation, was launched at a virtual event. In addition to offering digital literacy to communities, Vodafone India Foundation said that the self-learning portal also drives them towards better job and entrepreneurship opportunities helping them become self-reliant. The free to use portal provides over 40 courses in both Hindi and English, designed for all age groups and curated to cover basic, intermediate and advanced knowledge on digital skills, it said in a statement. The courses range from basics of computer operations, handling mobile phones, using the internet securely, digital payments, finding jobs and livelihood opportunities, accessing common and government websites and many more. The CGI will be developing self-learning content in multiple languages to augment the digital skills curriculum, it said. NASSCOM Foundation CEO Ashok Pamidi said, "With digital literacy through physical centres taking a huge hit due to the current crisis, Digisakshar hopes to provide a safe online learning environment for Digital Novices to learn new skills."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vodafone-india-foundation-launches-portal-on-digital-literacy-digisakshar-872498.html
12-08-2020||National||India aims to have zero road fatalities by 2030: Nitin Gadkari||India is working to achieve zero road accident fatalities by 2030, said Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday. Addressing the Indo-Australian Chamber of Commerce and Womennovator on Trade Investment and collaborations in Road infrastructure, the minister said, under the Indian Road Safety Assessment Programme 21,000 km roads have been assessed and about 3,000 km road length is under technological upgradation. He said better road engineering and increased public awareness has brought about improvement. It is estimated that these upgradation programmes will bring about a 50% reduction in road accidents. "Our objective is to set out to achieve zero road fatalities by 2030," he said. The ministry has taken a lot of initiatives to reduce road accidents. The World Bank and ADB have committed Rs 7,000 crore each for this campaign, Gadkari said. He said by social awareness and education, improving emergency services, pressing for medical insurance, providing more hospitals, etc the country is inching closer to achieving its road safety targets. Referring to the Motor Vehicle Act 2019, he said it was comprehensive legislation on all aspects of the transport sector in India. India reported the world's highest road accidents in 2018 with 4.67 lakh accidents claiming 1,51,417 lives. Human errors, road environment and poor condition of roads were the main reasons for accidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-aims-to-have-zero-road-fatalities-by-2030-nitin-gadkari-872501.html
12-08-2020||National||Central Industrial Security Force to post more local language versed personnel at airports; rejects Kanimozhi's charges||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will undertake "enhanced efforts" to deploy more personnel at airports who know the local language following an incident where DMK MP Kanimozhi recently alleged that a force personnel questioned her if she was an Indian as the law maker didn't speak Hindi. A senior officer in the airports guarding central paramilitary force rejected the charges made by the MP quoting the women official's preliminary questioning on the incident. He said the lady official who interacted with the Member of Parliament on August 9 at the Chennai international airport told senior officials during inquiry that she "did not utter the words as alleged by the concerned passenger but just said that Hindi is also an Indian or official language." Kanimozhi, the daughter of DMK party patriarch and former Tamil Nadu chief minister K Karunanidhi, had tweeted about the incident. "Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if 'I am an Indian' when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi," the MP from the Thoothukkudi Lok Sabha seat in Tamil Nadu had tweeted with the hashtag 'hindiimposition'.    CISF officials said the lady official posted at the Chennai airport has been "counselled about her conduct and the soft skills and basic language courtesies the force personnel need to extend to the passengers, as taught to them during training." The lady official, they said, hails from a south Indian state and had interacted with Kanimozhi for a routine security process to be followed, in Hindi. "She told the inquiry team that she never questioned the passenger about her being an Indian for not knowing Hindi but just said that Hindi is an Indian or official language," a senior CISF officer said. After Kanimozhi flagged the issue through her Tweet, the CISF had responded through its official handle on the same social media platform and said an inquiry has been ordered into the matter and that "it is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language."  The senior officer said the force will undertake "enhanced efforts to ensure that personnel and officers who know the local language are increasingly deployed at airports keeping in mind administrative and operational issues." That has always been the policy and it is being reiterated again, he said. When a response was sought on the issue from CISF Director General (DG) Rajesh Ranjan, he told PTI: "Our emphasis is on communication that can take place in whatever manner." Another senior official of the force said the CISF regularly conducts soft skills classes and public interaction sessions for its personnel and the recent incident is an "aberration and not a norm." "Everyday, lakhs of passengers travelling to destinations within the country and abroad interact with CISF personnel and such incidents do not take place very often. Whenever such incidents are reported, appropriate action is taken," the officer said.  The CISF is the national civil aviation security force and it provides counter-terrorist and anti-sabotage cover to 64 such facilities in the country at present. PTI NES RHL||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-industrial-security-force-to-post-more-local-language-versed-personnel-at-airports-rejects-kanimozhis-charges-872508.html
12-08-2020||National||Union minister Shripad Naik tests positive for Covid-19, opts for home isolation||Union minister Shripad Y Naik on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus infection and has opted for home isolation.  The minister of state for AYUSH and defence said he opted for self-isolation as he is asymptomatic and added his vitals are within normal limits. Naik took to Twitter to inform he was Covid-19 positive. "I underwent Covid-19 test today & it has turned out asymptomatically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation. Those who have came in contact with me in last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions," he said in his tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-shripad-naik-tests-positive-for-covid-19-opts-for-home-isolation-872537.html
12-08-2020||National||Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi dies of cardiac arrest||Congress spokesman Rajiv Tyagi died here on Wednesday, soon after participating in a debate on a private news channel on the Bengaluru violence. Tyagi suffered a heart attack at his residence in Ghaziabad and was rushed to a private hospital in an unconscious condition where doctors tried to revive him. "Rajiv Tyagi had collapsed at his residence during a TV debate. His family members tried giving him a massage and he was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state 6:30 pm," a doctor at the Yashoda Hospital in Ghaziabad said. The doctor said Tyagi was immediately put on ventilator as attempts were made to revive him, but he crashed after about 45 minutes. "We are deeply saddened by the sudden demise of Shri Rajiv Tyagi. A staunch Congressman & a true patriot. Our thoughts and prayers are with his families & friends in this time of grief," the Congress tweeted. Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to Tyagi's widow and offered their condolences. “Congress has lost a fierce lion today. Rajiv Tyagi’s love for the Congress and inspiration for struggle will always be remembered,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. “The untimely death of Rajiv Tyagi, spokesperson of the Indian National Congress, is a matter of personal sorrow for me and an irreparable loss to everyone,” AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said here. भारतीय राष्ट्रीय कांग्रेस के प्रवक्ता श्री राजीव त्यागी जी की असामयिक मृत्यु मेरे लिए एक व्यक्तिगत दुःख है। हम सबके लिए अपूर्णीय क्षति है। राजीव जी विचारधारा समर्पित योद्धा थे। समस्त यूपी कांग्रेस की ओर से परिजनों को हृदय से संवेदना। Known for his spirited defence of the Congress in news television, Tyagi had participated in a debate on a Hindi news channel at 5:00 p.m. along with BJP spokesman Sambit Patra and two other panelists. Tyagi was seen sipping water and wiping his brow through the nearly hour-long debate. “I am still unable to believe that Congress spokesman and my friend Rajiv Tyagi is no longer with us. We had participated in a television debate at 5:00 p.m.,” Patra said. “One can see Rajiv Tyagi feeling uneasy during the debate… Also it's time the media stops these toxic shouting matches that they call debates...,” Srivatsa, National Campaign in-charge, Youth Congress said. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and scores of Congress leaders condoled the death of Tyagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-rajiv-tyagi-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-872544.html
12-08-2020||National||23 firms keen on operating private passenger trains||Indian Railways' plan to allow private operators to run passenger trains received good response as total 23 big corporate houses shown interest to take part in the project. With the railways holding a second pre-bid meeting on Wednesday, a total of 7 companies' representatives have participated. Earlier in the first pre-bid meeting held in last month, 16 firms had participated. Total 23 firms have shown interest to operate trains in 12 clusters spread across the Indian Railways network, said an official from the national transporter. The companies that attended the meeting are- Medha, Sterlite Power, Bharat Forge, GMR Infrastructure Ltd, I-Board India Pvt Ltd, CAF India Pvt Ltd, ITCTC Limited, BHEL, ALSTOM Transport India Ltd, Hind Rectifiers Limited, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd, JKB Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, Bombardier Transportation India, Titagarh Wagons Limited, Gateway Rail, Jasan Infra Pvt Ltd, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, PSGG Technologies Pvt Ltd, BEML, National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Limited, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, IQS Asia Infrastructure Investments PTE Ltd and Seimens Limited. The railways invited 12 Request for Qualification (RFQ) from private players to run passenger trains on 109 important routes through the introduction of 151 modern rakes. These new trains will be over and above the existing ones operated on the network. This is the first initiative of private investment for running Passenger Trains over Indian Railway Network and investment expected would be around Rs 30,000 crore. As per the plan, the railways' rollout out private trains by March 2023. The private entities for undertaking the projected will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising of Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/23-firms-keen-on-operating-private-passenger-trains-872554.html
12-08-2020||National||Fact check: Did CBI pick Bihar SP to work on Sushant Singh Rajput case?||Bihar police is investigating the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. But the case is also undergoing media trials and overzealous social media vigilance. Around August 9, several social media users tweeted that Tiwari was deputed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after his “forced quarantine” by the BMC. Twitter user @rvaidya2000 tweeted, “Master Stroke by Amit Shah..! Vinay Tiwari sent to CBI on deputation. Yes, that Bihar SP who was by force quarantined by Thackrey’s BMC.:)) RT.” This tweet gained around 3,000 tweets. Master Stroke by Amit Shah..!😳Vinay Tiwari sent to CBI on deputation. Yes, that Bihar SP who was by force quarantined by Thackrey's BMC.:)) RT   Alt News spoke with Tiwari who refuted social media claims regarding his appointment by the CBI. “I am aware that several social media accounts have posted this rumour. I categorically refute these claims,” he said. On August 10 Tiwari tweeted in Hindi, “Since yesterday, certain news is circulating. It is totally false, misleading, and a rumour. Kindly pay no attention to it. कुछ खबरें कल से प्रसारित हो रहीं हैं। वो पूर्णतः गलत, भ्रामक और अफवाह हैं। कृपया उन पर ध्यान ना दें। Thus, social media claims that Panta SP Vinay Tiwari, who is investigating Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, was deputed by CBI is false.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-cbi-pick-bihar-sp-to-work-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-872560.html
12-08-2020||National||CISF to deploy persons with basic knowledge of local language in airports||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that guards all airports in the country will deploy personnel with “basic knowledge” of local language or English to the “extent possible” in areas where the guards come in direct contact with passengers inside the airport. A senior CISF official said the endeavor of the force has always been to help passengers at the airport, while noting that it is not possible to get “100 per cent local deployment” at all such installations in the country. The clarification comes three days after DMK MP Kanimozhi complained that a CISF officer at the Chennai Airport asked if she was an Indian for not knowing Hindi. “As such there is no exact order that 100 per cent deployment would be only on the basis of knowing English or the local language. We used to deploy those personnel who have basic knowledge of English or the local language in places where there is direct interaction with the public. We are always in that practice and we have reiterated that,” Anil Pandey, DIG and Chief Public Relations Officer, CISF, told DH. He added that CISF’s endeavor has been the same and deploying personnel with basic knowledge of local language was not new. “Our endeavor is the same and it has not changed due to any particular incident. And it is true that you cannot get 100 per cent local deployment. We have our internal SOP to ensure people with basic knowledge of the local language to the extent possible,” Pandey said. Kanimozhi’s experience had triggered a debate on whether Hindi is being imposed in offices or installations owned by the Centre in non-Hindi speaking states. “This is not a tirade against any individual or person. The official who accosted me did so because of her lack of appropriate training. This is a larger issue and about the many official positions of authority, who do not know that both English and Hindi are official languages,” Kanimozhi had said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-to-deploy-persons-with-basic-knowledge-of-local-language-in-airports-872561.html
12-08-2020||National||My father is stable now, says Pranab Mukherjee's son||Former President Pranab Mukherjee's son Abhijit Mukherjee assured that his father was haemodynamically stable, on Wednesday. In a tweet, he said, "With All Your Prayers, My Father is haemodynamically stable now. I request everyone to continue with your prayers & good wishes for his speedy recovery. Thank You." Mukherjee, 84, underwent an emergency brain surgery on Monday for removal of a large clot that had formed after he fell at his home on Sunday night. “Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical. Presently, he is haemodynamically stable and on ventilator,” a statement from the Army Research and Referral Hospital said. The former President’s daughter Sharmistha, who stays with him at his 10, Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital, posted an emotional message on Twitter, praying to God that he should do what was best for her father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-father-is-stable-now-says-pranab-mukherjees-son-872569.html
12-08-2020||National||India taking independent steps to procure Covid-19 vaccine, sector to ensure availability||An expert panel on Wednesday advised states against making independent efforts to procure vaccines against Covid-19, saying it planned to leverage the country’s manufacturing facilities for early deliveries in India and other low and middle income countries. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVA), chaired by V K Paul, member Niti Ayog, held its first meeting here and discussed procurement mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccine, both indigenous and international, along with guiding principles for prioritisation of population groups for vaccination. The group also advised all the states not to chart separate pathways of procurement, a Health Ministry statement said. “The expert group discussed that India will leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity and will also engage with all international players for early delivery of vaccines not only in India but also in low and middle income countries,” it added. Indian vaccine manufacturers account for more than 60% of the global vaccine supplies at an affordable price. The group also deliberated on conceptualisation and implementation mechanisms for creation of digital infrastructure for inventory management and delivery mechanism for the vaccine, including tracking the immunization process with particular focus on last-mile delivery. The expert group discussed the financial resources required for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine and various options of financing the same. Also Read: Asymptomatic patients may be key to vaccine development and therapies for Covid-19, say researchers Available options in terms of delivery platforms, cold chain and associated infrastructure for roll out of Covid-19 vaccination also came up for deliberation. “Further, strategy and follow-up action on all possible scenarios to ensure equitable and transparent delivery of vaccine was deliberated upon. Issues related to vaccine safety and surveillance were taken up and strategies for community involvement through transparent information and awareness creation were discussed,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-taking-independent-steps-to-procure-covid-19-vaccine-sector-to-ensure-availability-872574.html
12-08-2020||National||Bengaluru violence reflects 'rising Islamophobia' in India, says Pakistan||A day after a controversial post on Facebook on Islam triggered violence in Bengaluru, Pakistan alleged that the incident reflected “rising Islamophobia” in India. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government stated that it had conveyed to the High Commission of India in Islamabad its “strong condemnation” over the “derogatory” post on social media against Prophet Muhammad by an “extremist” belonging to the majority community in Bengaluru.  “The Indian police instead of preventing this hate crime against Muslims and Islam, used brute force, killed at least three protesters, and injured many more. As an added injustice, the Muslim community in the area is being falsely framed for alleged vandalism and assault on police personnel,” the Pakistan Government alleged in a statement issued in Islamabad.     Pakistan also alleged that the rising incidents of religious hate crime in India were a direct and inescapable consequence of the “extremist Hindutva” ideology of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and its mentor Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in India.  It said that the incident was viewed with concern and the civil society in Pakistan called for justice for the minority community in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-violence-reflects-rising-islamophobia-in-india-says-pakistan-872590.html
12-08-2020||National||32.71 crore PANs linked with Aadhaar, says MyGovIndia||As many as 32.71 crore permanent account numbers (PANs) have been linked with biometric ID Aadhaar, the government said on Wednesday. "Over 32.71 crore PANs linked with the Aadhaar," MyGovIndia said in a tweet. The government has already extended the date for linking of Aadhaar with PAN to March 31, 2021. The total PAN allotment as on June 29 stood at 50.95 crore, as per the tweet.   The 12-digit biometric ID Aadhaar is issued by the Unique Identification Authority of India, or UIDAI, to a resident of India, and PAN is a 10-digit alphanumeric number allotted by the income tax department to a person, firm or entity. PAN will become inoperative if it is not linked with Aadhaar within the stipulated date. In a separate tweet, MyGovIndia also gave a graphic of the income distribution of people who file IT returns. As many as 57 percent of the income tax returns filed is by entities with income below Rs 2.5 lakh. Eighteen percent is of those with an income between Rs 2.5 and Rs 5 lakh; 17 percent is for income between Rs 5 and Rs 10 lakh; and 7 percent is filed by those with income between Rs 10 and Rs 50 lakh. One percent of the IT return filers are of income above Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3271-crore-pans-linked-with-aadhaar-says-mygovindia-872608.html
12-08-2020||National||Serious concerns on the new EIA rules as public feedback process ends||The proposed new Environmental Impact Assessment rules 2020 not only undermines its parent act but also leaves wide scope for violation of the statute, said lawyers and environmentalists expressing their concerns, as the public feedback window on the controversial draft closes. Besides, suggestions made by Parliamentary panels to improve India’s green governance standards were ignored while framing the draft, green activists alleged. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on his part maintained that since it was only a draft, the criticisms were premature because the draft would be finalised after taking into consideration the feedback received, whereas environment secretary R P Gupta said the punishment proposed in the draft corresponded to the offence committed. Punishment provisions are among the contentious ones in the new draft with critics like former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh claiming that such rules would open up what in-effect is an ex-post-facto approval of projects violating the green norms. This, however, has been denied by Javadekar and Gupta who claimed there would be no such approval as the clearance would be prospective with punishment provisions for past action. Both, however, are silent on what would happen to the portion of the project that came up in violation of the rules. "If the clearance permits the illegally constructed portion of the project to remain or the illegal operating part of the project to continue, and there is no direction for the demolition of the illegal portion or reduction of the illegally enhanced capacity, then it is not a prospective clearance. It is being granted ex post facto, and it is regularising the illegality committed by the project proponent," Ramesh said in one of his letters to Javadekar. It appears from the processes proposed in clause-22 of the draft notification that the government's objective is to give all the violators an opportunity to regularize their illegal activities," wrote the former environment minister. Clause 22 and 23 that respectively deal with violation and non-compliance of the rules describe financial penalty for violations."A distinction has been made between violation and non-compliance, which itself is a recipe for violation in perpetuity. Also, there are provisions that would allow the violators to get away after paying some money,” Sanjay Upadhyay, an environmental lawyer told DH. The draft leaves it to the state administrations to take action against project proponents violating the rules. But it does not take into account the reality that state green administration neither has wherewithal nor a good track record in punishing the violators. "The Environment Protection Act, 1986 gives priority to environmental protection, business comes later. This notification is exactly opposite,” said Leo Saldanha from Environment Support Group, a Bengaluru based non-governmental organisation. “The ministry extensively consulted the corporates, but not the civil society groups, academia and most of the state pollution control boards.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serious-concerns-on-the-new-eia-rules-as-public-feedback-process-ends-872612.html
12-08-2020||National||India posts highest single-day Covid-19 recoveries||India on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day recoveries at 56,110, taking the total number of patients having cured of Covid-19 past the 16 lakh mark. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients surged past the 70% with 16,39,599 persons recovering from the infectious disease so far, the health ministry said in a statement. “The record highest single-day recoveries at 56,110 registered in the last 24 hours are the result of the successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with the standardised clinical management of the critical patients based on a holistic standard of care approach,” the ministry said It added that in the first week of July, the daily average recovered cases were at 15,000 which jumped to more than 50,000 in the first week of August. “The actual caseload of the country is the active cases 6,43,948 which is only 27.64% of the total positive cases,” the ministry said. The ministry said focus on improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, use of non-invasive, improved and coordinated services of the ambulances have resulted in seamless efficient patient management of Covid-19 patients. “As a result, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has been low when compared to the global average. It is currently standing at 1.98%,” it said. The CFR in mid-July was 2.49%. India’s ‘test, track, treat’ strategy has achieved another peak with 7,33,449 tests done in 24 hours on Tuesday. This has taken the cumulative tests to more than 2.6 crore. The tests per million has jumped to 18,852, it stated. To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened which consists of 1,421 labs in the country with 944 labs in the government sector and 477 private labs, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-posts-highest-single-day-covid-19-recoveries-872616.html
12-08-2020||National||Universities not to affiliate over 300 colleges with new NEP, says Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal||Universities will not be able to provide affiliation to more than 300 colleges with the new National Education Policy (NEP) proposing granting more autonomy to colleges and phasing out affiliation system, Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Wednesday. "I visited a university recently and when I asked the vice-chancellor how many colleges are affiliated to that university he said 800 degree colleges. I thought I heard him wrong. I asked him again and he said 800. It was a convocation ceremony. I was surprised. Can any VC remember the names of the principals of 800 degree colleges?" the Union education minister asked. He was addressing a virtual session on 'Education post Covid-19'. "Can he or she keep a tab on the quality and functions of such a huge number of colleges? That is why in the NEP we are saying that in a phased manner we will work on this. One university will not affiliate more than 300 colleges and for that if we need to increase the number of universities we will do that," Nishank said. As per the new policy approved by the Union Cabinet last month, the system of affiliation will be phased out over 15 years and a stage-wise mechanism for granting graded autonomy to colleges, through a transparent system of graded accreditation, will be established. Over a period of time, it is envisaged that every college would develop into either an autonomous degree-granting college, or a constituent college of a university. "We have 45,000 degree colleges of which only 8,000 are autonomous. Based on their quality in a phase manner we will improve their grading and as they progress we will grant them a graded autonomy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/universities-not-to-affiliate-over-300-colleges-with-new-nep-says-education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-872628.html
12-08-2020||National||Muted Janmashtami celebration amid Covid-19 restrictions||The massive crowds of devotees in temples, elaborately decorated tableaus and Dahi Handi revelry were all missing this year on Janmashtami, the birthday of Lord Krishna, as celebrations were dampened by Covid-19 restrictions. Amid blowing of conch shells and beating of drums, priests offered prayers since early morning in temples but there were no special religious discourses, 'Krishnalila' dance dramas and community kitchens as the entry of devotees had been either banned or restricted due to the coronavirus pandemic. The rituals were, however, streamed online from some temples. In North India, families usually observe a day-long fast and hold special prayers at midnight. Tight security arrangements were made outside the main temples to ensure that people followed social distancing. The festivities were also relatively low-key in the main temples of Mathura, the birth place of Lord Krishna, Vrindavan, Nandgaon, Mahaban and Baldeo, which are usually visited by lakhs of pilgrims on the occasion. Soaked in religious fervour, devotees would throng decked-up temples and take out colourful processions to mark the birth of Lord Krishna, but like other festivals in Covid-19 times, rituals have been restricted on Janmashtami too in the country. Though the entry of devotees was banned, a large number of people assembled outside the Sri Krishna Janmasthan in Mathura and greeted each other with chants of Lord Krishna. The temples of International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), which celebrate the festival in a grand maner and attract large congregations, also allowed only a limited number of devotees. In the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia prayed at the ISKCON temple in East of Kailash. "This year the devotees were restricted in numbers due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Also, the jhanki (tableau) of Lord Sri Krishna could not be readied due to unavailability of special craftsmen based in Kolkata," a temple spokesman said. Groups which organise Dahi Handi festivities in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra opted for low-key celebration unlike in past years when massive crowds would gather to cheer Govinda squads. These youngsters would move around the city in processions, make human pyramids and break pots filled with butter or curd, which are hung at a considerable height, to win prize money. It is inspired by the tale of Lord Krishna’s boyhood trick of stealing butter from a suspended earthen pot. Adhering to the social distancing guidelines, Dahi Handi mandals did not form human pyramids this year. Instead, they carried out health and social welfare drives, like blood donation camps and removal of plastic, organisers said. Dahi handis were being broken in a symbolic manner with those involved maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Ram Kadam, BJP MLA from Ghatkopar in Mumbai, said in normal times, his mandals Dahi Handi celebration saw five to six lakh footfalls. "Ours was the biggest Dahi Handi celebration in India in normal times. But this year, we celebrated in a very simple manner, observing social distancing given the Covid-19 crisis. “No human pyramid was formed. A child climbed atop a table and broke Dahi Handi to mark the festival in a symbolic manner," Kadam said. "This year, we gave a message of boycotting Chinese products and working for an aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) India," he said. Bala Padalkar, chief of Dahi Handi Utsav Samanvay Samiti, an umbrella body of over 950 mandals (groups) in the state, told PTI that the enthusiasm was not the same this year and members of various mandals agreed not to travel in the city to break dahi handis. In Rajasthan, the famous Khatu Shyam temple was closed after eight people were found infected in the nearby area last night, according to officials. A nearly 350-year-old tradition of 21-gun salute at Rasala Chow will continue, Public Relations Officer of the Srinath temple in Nathdwara, Girish Kumar, said. The idols of Lord Krishna and Radha were adorned with ornaments made of gold and precious stones, collectively worth around Rs eight crore, at a temple in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior. Devotees were not allowed to enter the temple- Gopal Mandir, located in Phool Bagh area of the city- this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, but TVs were installed outside the premises for them to watch the decorated idols. These ornaments, donated by the Scindias, the erstwhile royal family of Gwalior, are brought out only on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami every year to beautify the idols. In Uttar Pradesh, devotees assembled outside the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan in Mathura, and as soon as they heard the drums and sound of clarinet, they greeted each other with oud chants, temple secretary Kapil Sharma said Bathing ceremony of the deity - ‘Abhishekam’ - was performed with milk, curd, honey, ghee and khandsari. Normally after 'Abhishekam', 'Charnamrit' is distributed among devotees in the Radha Raman Temple, Radha Damodar Temple and Shah Ji Temple. However, there was no distribution of 'Charnamrit' in Radha Damodar and Shah Ji temples this year since priests have expressed their inability to control crowds. A large number of devotees, therefore, gathered outside the Radha Raman temple Vrindaban and 'Charnamrit' was distributed among for over one hour, while ensuring that devotees maintain social distancing and wear masks, Padmanabha Goswami, the secretary of the temple, said. A heavy police contingent had been posted at the entrance of main temples in Mathura to prevent the entry of devotees, District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said. 'Dadhikana', an annual ritual to mark the arrival of Krishna in Gokul on the next day after Janmashtami, has been cancelled this year owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The festival was celebrated in some parts of the country on Tuesday. Amid chants of vedic hymns, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath celebrated Janmashtami at the Gorakhnath temple on Tuesday night, temple manager Dwarika Tiwari said. On Wednesday morning, the chief minister visited a cow shelter in the premises of Gorakhnath temple after taking blessings of Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath. Bal Krishna Sajja competition was not organised this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Tiwari added. With people being apprehensive about venturing into markets for festival shopping due to the raging coronavirus pandemic, businesses too have taken a hit. Several artisans who make clay models of Lord Krishna and stitch dresses for the idols incurred losses. Navin Paul, a clay modeller at Kumartuli in Kolkata said, "I made around 40 small idols of Lord Krishna but managed to sell just 10. I don't know what to do with the rest." President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders have greeted the people on Janmashtami. In his message, President Kovind appreciated the efforts of all corona warriors who are at the forefront of the country’s fight against Covid-19, according to an official statement. “Lord Shri Krishna inspires us to establish a society that is just, sensitive and compassionate. His message of Karmayoga is a call to focus on our responsibilities rather than caring for rewards. This spirit has been evident in the working of all our corona warriors who act at the forefront of our fight against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muted-janmashtami-celebration-amid-covid-19-restrictions-872629.html
12-08-2020||National Politics||All is right in Rajasthan and Gehlot is in his heaven, but for how long?||A combination of factors – the inability of Sachin Pilot and the BJP to ramp up numbers, Ashok Gehlot's failure to ensure the stability of his government without the former deputy CM and his supporters, and silence of BJP leader Vasundhara Raje – all combined to ensure that the Congress government in Rajasthan remained intact. The month-long drama came to an end as Pilot met senior Congress leaders in Delhi on Monday. It also became clear that Pilot had failed in his attempt to destabilise the Rajasthan government. The best way out for Pilot was to save his face, and for Gehlot to save his government. 3-member committee Consolation for Pilot was the decision of the party high command to set up a three-member committee, the details of which are not yet known. Gehlot was made to swallow the insult of calling the rebel deputy CM names – nikamma (useless), gaddar (traitor) – but yet having to deal with him in the days to come. Although he had rebelled, Pilot maintained a dignified silence in the face of name-calling by Gehlot. However, it is not known whether the suave Pilot will be back in Gehlot's ministry. The young leader said that he will not in Jaipur on Tuesday. But there is no final word on it yet. Still, there is no denying that he is the face of Congress in the future. He has already shown his ability in bringing the Congress back to power in 2018 as state president of the party. Who gained in the crisis? As the crisis fizzled out, there was no winner in the entire episode. Neither Pilot nor Gehlot. Not BJP either. The Opposition in the desert state was not sure if Pilot would get the numbers to add to its own strength of 73 MLAs in a House of 200. Another factor in the whole drama was the silence of former chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje. Except meeting BJP national president J P Nadda during the crisis, Raje did not utter a word related to the stalemate. The leader, who has confined herself to her Dholpur residence, is said to have the support of over 30 MLAs. Both the central and state leaderships of BJP are wary of the former CM – she never hesitates to take on the party bigwigs, be it Amit Shah at the centre or the state leaders. During the NDA regime at the Centre, as the central leadership imposed a person who was not her choice as state party president, Raje took her loyalist MLAs and paraded them in front of the gates of L K Advani’s house on Prithviraj Marg. Party leadership had to buckle down and accede to her demand. Her ties with Narendra Modi and Shah were never said to be cordial either||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-is-right-in-rajasthan-and-gehlot-is-in-his-heaven-but-for-how-long-872375.html
12-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan is a lesson for BJP, its 'horse-trading' politics defeated: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Wednesday said the resolution of the Rajasthan political crisis has dealt a blow to the BJP's "horse-trading" politics. Describing young leaders such as Sachin Pilot as the future of the party, the veteran Congress MP also hailed the political acumen of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for "beating BJP at its own game". "The Rajasthan episode has destroyed the myth that the BJP and its theatrics cannot be beaten. The horse-trading politics of the BJP has been defeated. "It was a pleasure to watch BJP shifting its MLAs to other states out of fear that they might switch over to the Congress," Chowdhury told PTI. The BJP can be defeated at their own game and Rajasthan is an example of it, he said. "Ashok Gehlot's political acumen forced BJP to call for a retreat. I am really happy that Sachin Pilot has returned to Rajasthan. The development proves that we can solve any crisis amicably. Leaders like Sachin Pilot are future of our party," the member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said. Asked whether the resolution of the political impasse in the western state has bolstered Rahul Gandhi's stature in the party as a leader who can manage crises, Chowdhury said, he had already proved his abilities during the formation of the government in Karnataka in 2018. "Rahul Gandhi doesn't need to prove his leadership skills. He proved it during the 2018 Karnataka government formation when he snatched victory from the jaws of the BJP. It is due to the betrayal of a few people there that we lost power to BJP in 2019," he said. Chowdhury said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also played a crucial role in resolving the Rajasthan crisis. Sachin Pilot returned to Jaipur on Tuesday, nearly a month after he rebelled against Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-is-a-lesson-for-bjp-its-horse-trading-politics-defeated-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-872426.html
12-08-2020||National Politics||Forget and forgive, Ashok Gehlot tells upset MLAs; loyalists shift to Jaipur hotel||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said resentment among the Congress MLAs is “natural” after the return of dissident legislators to the party-fold but asked them to forgive, forget and move on. But with just two days to go before the assembly session, the party is taking no chances, deciding to keep them together at a resort in the state capital. The MLAs in the Gehlot camp were on Wednesday flown back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where they were together at another hotel. They were taken straight from the airport to the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of the city, where they had stayed before being moved to Jaisalmer. The MLAs – mostly from the Congress and some allies – are expected to remain there till the assembly meets on August 14. The Congress crisis in Rajasthan appears to have ended with the intervention of the top leadership of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who met rebel leader Sachin Pilot earlier this week Pilot had openly rebelled against Gehlot last month along with 18 other Congress MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan chief. Meeting reporters in Jaisalmer, Gehlot said he had urged the MLAs to bear with the develoipement, while acknowledging that it was “natural” for them to be upset. “Forget and forgive and move on in the interest of the country, the state, the people of the state and democracy. Democracy in under threat. This was a fight to save democracy, in which our MLAS gave their support,” he said. At earlier Congress Legislature Party meetings, the loyalist MLAs had called for disciplinary action against the dissidents who defied party whips while demanding a change in the leadership in the state. Gehlot had himself called the now sacked PCC president “useless”, using the derogatory Hindi word “nikamma” for Sachin Pilot. "It is natural for them to be upset. The way this episode happened, they had to stay in hotels,” he said Wednesday, in an apparent reference to the previous evening’s Congress Legislature Party meeting in Jaisalmer. “I have exhorted them that in the interest of the country, state, people of the state and for saving democracy, sometimes we have to bear this,” he said. He said that more than 100 MLAs stayed together for such a long time, which is a big thing in itself and had never happened in the history of the country. The chief minister said all MLAs, including those who have “returned” now, will work together to fulfil the commitments made to the people of the state. In Jaipur, as the loyalist MLAs headed to the Fairmont hotel, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas confirmed that they are not happy with the turn of events. “Yes, several MLAs said they are upset and saying this is their right,” he said, while reminding that a decision has already been taken by the party high command. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande, who too came to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, said the MLAs remained united. The Gehlot government will complete its five-year term, he said. “We will also win the next assembly elections in 2023.” Independent MLA Sanyam Lodha said the dissident MLAs have returned unconditionally. Congress deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary called the events a victory of the Congress and the BJP’s defeat. The party had alleged that the BJP was trying to topple the Gehlot government by trying to lure away Congress MLAs. The MLAs in the Ashok Gehlot camp had moved into the Fairmont hotel in Jaipur on July 13 and were shifted to Jaisalmer’s Suryagarh hotel on August 31. Till Wednesday evening, Gehlot and Pilot had not met since the dissident leader’s return to Jaipur. On Tuesday, Gehlot was in Jaisalmer with the MLAs there. He travelled to Jodhpur on Wednesday to condole the death of 11 Pakistani Hindu migrants who died there recently, allegedly after a suicide pact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/forget-and-forgive-ashok-gehlot-tells-upset-mlas-loyalists-shift-to-jaipur-hotel-872489.html
12-08-2020||National Politics||Swadeshi does not necessarily mean boycotting all foreign products: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Swadeshi does not necessarily mean boycotting every foreign product, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Wednesday and asserted that only those technologies or materials may be imported which the country lacks traditionally or are not available locally. Mutual cooperation among self-reliant countries while considering the world as one family and not one market seems to be the economic model required for post-Covid-19 world, Bhagwat said while speaking at a virtual book launch event. Backing the BJP-led NDA government's pitch for a self-reliant India, the RSS chief said swadeshi means to promote and give preference to indigenous products or technologies and not necessarily boycott all foreign items. He made it clear that only those materials or technologies should be imported which are not available locally or India lacks traditionally and these should be modified in an Indian manner. Citing a few examples when traditionally available products and technologies were overlooked for imported ones, Bhagwat emphasised on the need for change in mindset and not considering domestic items as inferior. Noting that even after independence, policymaking in India was influenced by the west and other foreign countries, Bhagwat said as a result many locally available products and technologies were overlooked in favour of foreign items. Describing the recently-announced National Education Policy as a "step in the right direction" to make India self-reliant, he said such policies will help India realise the potential of its people and of traditional wisdom. The concept of swadeshi which talks about promoting local products and restricting inflow of foreign investment and items, features prominently in RSS ideology. Its affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch has been at the forefront of a campaign to boycott Chinese products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/swadeshi-does-not-necessarily-mean-boycotting-all-foreign-products-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-872575.html
12-08-2020||National Politics||Complete failure of law and order machinery: Congress on Bengaluru violence||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the BJP government in Karnataka over the violence in Bengaluru in which three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage irked over a social media post, and said it was a "complete failure of law and order machinery". Scores, including around 50 policemen, were injured in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night and continued till the wee hours of Wednesday, apparently triggered by the online post. Bengaluru violence, riots and arson are "reprehensible, condemnable and unacceptable", Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. "It is a complete failure of law and order machinery and rule of law. Was B S Yediyurappa government sleeping or waiting for violence to happen?" Surjewala said in a tweet. "Why did the police not act in time? Who is responsible for 3 deaths?" he asked. Congress general secretary in-charge organisation, K C Venugopal, said the violence in Bengaluru is "unfortunate and condemnable". "Strict action should be taken against those behind the derogatory post and those who indulged in rioting," he said on Twitter. "Taking law into their hands and destroying public property shouldn't be tolerated. Let peace prevail and let law take its course," Venugopal said. Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in a Bengaluru locality irked over a social media post allegedly put out by a Congress legislator's relative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/complete-failure-of-law-and-order-machinery-congress-on-bengaluru-violence-872642.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||DH Toon | Rajasthan Political Crisis: Ashok Gehlot bowls over Sachin Pilot||Several Congress leaders "welcomed back" Sachin Pilot on Tuesday after the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister's meeting with Rahul Gandhi, signalling an "amicable resolution" of nearly a month-long political crisis in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-rajasthan-political-crisis-ashok-gehlot-bowls-over-sachin-pilot-872297.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Hizbul commander, soldier killed in encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||A commander of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit and a soldier were killed in an encounter between security forces and militants in south Kashmir’s restive Pulwama district on Wednesday. The encounter erupted after security forces launched a search operation in an orchard in Kamrazipora village of Pulwama during the wee hours of Wednesday based on specific information about the presence of militants there, officials said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire, injuring two soldiers, they said and added one of the injured army personnel later succumbed at 92-Base hospital in Srinagar. The slain soldier was identified as Jagjit Singh. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh identified the slain militant as Azaad Lelhari, a self-styled commander of the Hizbul, “who was involved in the killing of a policeman on May 22.” “Six FIRs were registered against him for militant-related killings. Earlier, he was detained under PSA as OGW (over ground worker) but he became active again,” he said. An army spokesperson said one AK47 assault rifle along with grenades, pouches and other war-like stores were recovered from the encounter site. It was the first encounter between the militants and the security forces in Kashmir this month. Security forces have killed nearly 150 militants in Jammu and Kashmir in the first seven months of this year compared to 157 ultras killed in 2019. Among these, only 17 were Pakistani militants which is almost 50% less compared to the last year. Last year, out of 154 slain militants, 32 were Pakistanis. Intelligence inputs suggest 80-100 Pakistani militants are still active in the Valley, with most of them hiding in the upper reaches of north Kashmir. Last week, Dilbagh Singh said that active militants in J&K has been around 200 compared to 350 or 400 earlier. “All the terror organisations are leaderless now and those militants who are recruited as leaders of any group by Pakistan-based handlers are caught or killed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-commander-soldier-killed-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-872312.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||'Operational Lotus' failed in Rajasthan, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday said failure of 'Operation Lotus' in Rajasthan was the defeat of "political perversity", days after a meeting between Congress leaders Sachin Pilot and Rahul Gandhi signalled an amicable resolution of the Rajasthan political crisis. An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot performed "an operation on 'Operation Lotus' and taught the BJP a lesson". 'Operation Lotus' refers to the alleged attempts by the BJP to engineer defections from other parties. "Even in Maharashtra, the early morning operation had failed. At least now, the BJP should learn a lesson. The new date of operation in Maharashtra by some fake doctors is September," the Sena said in sarcastic comments. It was apparently referring to the hush hush early morning ceremony held last year at the Raj Bhavan where BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as chief minister after his party and the Shiv Sena fell out over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. The Shiv Sena later tied-up with the NCP and Congress to form government in Maharashtra. The Shiv Sena alleged that the BJP is busy trying to destabilise governments in states not run by the party, as if all other issues being faced the country do not exist. "The coronavirus pandemic is showing no sign of going away, unemployment is growing and the economy is in shambles. Instead of reviving it, the BJP is busy toppling opposition governments. Isn't this a sign of political mental illness?" it sought to know. "Like Gabbar Singh of (film) 'Sholay', a terror of 'Operation Lotus' has been created. But with the operation failing in Rajasthan, it is the defeat of political perversity," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. With Congress leader Sachin Pilot agreeing to work in the party's interest after meeting Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Gehlot has saved his government after a month long impasse, the Shiv Sena said. It further said Pilot proved to be a "weak player against Gehlot". "Gehlotdid everything to save his government, he used all methods like the BJP when it works to topple other governments," the Marathi daily said. Pilot on Tuesday said he has not demanded any post from the party and there should not be any vendetta politics, as he returned to Jaipur nearly a month after his revolt against Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/operational-lotus-failed-in-rajasthan-says-shiv-sena-872355.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee’s condition continues to remain critical; daughter prays best path for him||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to remain critical after a life saving brain surgery, while his daughter hopes that God chooses the best path for him and gives her the strength to accept whatever comes ahead. Mukherjee, 84, underwent an emergency brain surgery on Monday for removal of a large clot that had formed after he fell at his home on Sunday night. “Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical. Presently, he is haemodynamically stable and on ventilator,” a statement from the Army Research and Referral Hospital said. The former President’s daughter Sharmistha, who stays with him at his 10, Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital, posted an emotional message on Twitter, praying to God that he should do what was best for her father. “Last year August 8 was one of the happiest days for me as my dad received Bharat Ratna. Exactly a year later on August 10, he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best for him and give me the strength to accept both joys and sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all for their concerns,” Sharmistha, who is also the President of the Delhi Mahila Congress, said. Prayers poured in from across the country for Mukherjee’s speedy recovery. Meanwhile, people of Kirnahar in West Bengal's Birbhum district, his ancestral place, have started a 72-hour yajna from Tuesday for his speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjee-s-condition-continues-to-remain-critical-daughter-prays-best-path-for-him-872369.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Projects for essential amenities can go ahead in Taj Trapezium Zone: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has clarified that environmental clearance can be granted to projects within Agra's Taj Trapezium Zone for securing the basic amenities for residents such as drinking water, sewerage treatment, drainage system and waste disposal among others. The green panel agreed with the approach of the Oversight Committee headed by a former high court judge that the Supreme Court has made it clear that projects for essential amenities can go ahead. The tribunal said the top court has stated in its order that "there shall be no impediment for the authorities to consider pending environmental clearances which are necessary to secure essential amenities within TTZ". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that in view of clear orders of the Supreme Court, the authorities may expeditiously take further action in the matter. The tribunal took note of a report filed by the committee that as far as legacy waste remediation is concerned, around 50 per cent has already been remediated, and the remaining is likely to be completed by December 2020. "We are of view that while Bio/Phyto (in-situ) remediation work has commenced on 11 drains and is likely to commence on 57 drains as per above report, total drain being 90, the remaining drains also need to be covered for such work at the earliest, as soon as current monsoon is over," the bench said. The tribunal said further action be taken which may be overseen by the Oversight Committee. The CPCB regional office in Agra may visit the sites and examine whether remediation (bio-mining of legacy waste and in-situ remediation of drains) is being done as per norms and give its report to the NGT before the next date by email, the tribunal said. "The Oversight Committee may furnish its report as on December 31, 2020 before the next date by email.The Oversight Committee may also forward a copy of its report to the Chief Secretary so that monitoring at the level of Chief Secretary will also take place," the bench said. The NGT had earlier expressed dissatisfaction over a report filed by the Uttar Pradesh government on compliance of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in Agra city and said it showed very little progress. It had said there was nothing to show that the gap with regard to treatment capacity of solid waste of 690 tonnes per day has been met, nor has the gap of 156 million litres per day in water supply been addressed. It noted that 61 per cent of untreated sewage was being discharged into the Yamuna river. The tribunal's direction came on a plea filed by Agra resident D K Joshi and NGO Social Action for Forest and Environment (SAFE) seeking compliance of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 and the Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 in the city of Agra as well as the areas coming under the Cantonment Board and the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/projects-for-essential-amenities-can-go-ahead-in-taj-trapezium-zone-ngt-872386.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||J&K govt-run schools see drastic decline in enrolments ||Government-run schools across Jammu and Kashmir saw a drastic decline in enrolment in the last academic year, raising concerns over the quality of education imparted in these institutions.  According to official data there was a decline of nearly 1.75 lakh students last year as compared to the academic year 2017-2018. The decline in enrolment includes nearly 20,000 Out of School Children (OoSC). “Total enrollment decline between the grades is nearly 1.75 lakh including one lakh in elementary classes as compared to academic year 2017-18,” an official document reads. The figures reveal that the total number of OoSC reported is 19,000. The decreasing enrolment has exposed the claims of the successive governments in J&K about the increase in the enrolment in schools over the years. “Public spending on elementary education in J&K may have seen a rise but the poor quality of education being imparted in government schools has led to a large scale migration towards private schools, where enrollment has increased manifold in the recent years,” a senior officer of J&K School Education Department, told DH on the condition of anonymity. Another cause for concern, he said, is the lack of computer-aided learning in schools in J&K at the elementary level. The union territory government has now adopted new approaches for enhancing the effectiveness of the Samagra Shiksha scheme and making it more outcome-oriented. “These new approaches aim to change all administrators, schools, teachers and children in activities which would enable to improve the learning outcomes and also measure the impact and outcome of various components under the scheme,” the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-run-schools-see-drastic-decline-in-enrolments-872389.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Natural for MLAs to be upset, need to bear to save democracy: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said resentment among the Congress MLAs lodged in hotels for a month since the crisis broke out was natural but he has exhorted the legislators to "bear it" to save democracy. In an apparent reference to the return of Sachin Pilot and other rebel MLAs, the chief minister said that he told the MLAs on Tuesday night that they have to bear and work in the interest of people. A meeting between Pilot and Rahul Gandhi on Monday signalled an "amicable resolution" of nearly a month-long Rajasthan crisis ahead of the crucial assembly session from August 14. The Congress had said that the crisis in Rajasthan is a "closed chapter" and all legislators supporting its government will work towards strengthening Rajasthan and fighting COVID-19 and other economic calamities. Before leaving for Jodhpur, Gehlot told reporters, "It is natural for them (MLAs) to be upset. The way this episode happened, they had to stay in hotels...so it was natural to be upset. I have exhorted them that in the interest of the country, state, people of the state and for saving democracy, sometimes we have to bear.” MLAs belonging to the Gehlot camp were lodged in hotels for close to a month as the political crisis in the state played out. “We will work together and our colleagues who have gone have also returned and I hope that all, after settling the complaints and grievances, will work and fulfill our commitment to serve the state,” he said, referring to the rebel MLAs. The chief minister reiterated the allegation that the BJP was trying to topple the state government and said it was fully "exposed". However, it could not succeed in its game...'Satyamev Jayate', Gehlot said. The BJP has in the past denied the allegations levelled by Gehlot The chief minister said that he recently wrote a letter to all the MLAs asking them to listen to the voice of conscience and people to save democracy and stand with the truth. “It was the impact of the letter that BJP booked three charter planes to take their MLAs to Gujarat but only one plane could go,” he said Gehlot maintained that democracy was maintained in the country due to the contribution of Congress leaders and hoped that democracy is sustained in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/natural-for-mlas-to-be-upset-need-to-bear-to-save-democracy-ashok-gehlot-872394.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC seeks police reply on Pinjra Tod member's bail plea||The Delhi High Court has sought the police response on a plea by a member of Pinjra Tod, a women’s collective, seeking bail in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in February. Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice to Delhi Police on the plea challenging a trial court’s order which had dismissed the bail application of JNU student Natasha Narwal. “Issue notice. Amit Mahajan, Special PP accepts notice and seeks ten days time to file a status report. Let the same be filed within the said period with a copy to the counsel for the petitioner (Narwal),” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on August 26. Narwal and another member of the group Devangana Kalita were arrested in the case in May this year by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law - Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a "premeditated conspiracy" in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In all, four cases have been registered against Kalita, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year and violence in old Delhi's Daryaganj area during protests against the CAA in December last year. Natasha is accused in three cases. On June 14, a trial court had dismissed bail pleas of Natasha and Kalita on the ground that there was no merit in the applications and that it was amply clear from the charge sheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also. It had said that considering the investigation so far and the nature of the offence and the role being ascribed to the accused, there were no reasons at all to grant bail. The trial court was informed that the charge sheet has been filed against 10 persons in the case and investigation qua the accused persons was still being done. Kalita has also challenged the trial court’s order denying her bail and the matter is listed for hearing on August 14. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-seeks-police-reply-on-pinjra-tod-members-bail-plea-872399.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Security intensified in Jammu ahead of I-Day, quick response teams deployed||Security has been intensified across the Jammu region with increased checking and patrolling ahead of Independence Day celebrations, a police official said on Wednesday. As a measure of multi-tier security, police have deployed additional Quick Response Teams (QRTs) in Jammu city to deal with any situation, he said. The main function in Jammu will be held at Mini Stadium Parade, which was sealed as part of security arrangements even as the Union Territory administration has decided to allow only a few hundred people to attend the celebration due to a spike in coronavirus cases, the official said. Besides intensifying checking of vehicles, especially along the Jammu-Pathankot and Jammu-Srinagar national highway, officials said the police have also built a mobile app to keep a record of all truck drivers and their helpers moving in and out of the Union Territory to stop ferrying of terrorists and smuggling of weapons. Border grid security has been tightened further and all border roads are being kept under a strict watch, he said. "Police and Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) companies have been deployed and assigned the task of intensified checking and area domination patrolling round-the-clock," the official said. Senior Superintendent of Police, Jammu, Shridhar Patil said adequate security arrangements have been made to ensure that Independence Day passes off peacefully. He said special arrangements have been put in place around the venue of the main function and sought the cooperation of the people in maintaining peace. "The people are appealed to inform police if they find anything suspicious so that timely action is taken," the officer said and asked them to celebrate Independence day at their homes due to Covid-19 pandemic and follow the social distancing norms. Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Sanjeev Verma reviewed the arrangements for Independence Day celebrations with the deputy commissioners concerned, officials said, adding the functions would not include cultural programmes and the number of contingents for march past would also be curtailed in view Covid-19 protocol.  Covid warriors will be felicitated during the functions, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-intensified-in-jammu-ahead-of-i-day-quick-response-teams-deployed-872425.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Mulayam Singh Yadav's condition under control: Hospital||The health condition of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, who was admitted to a hospital here last week, is under control, the medical facility said on Wednesday. Yadav was admitted to Medanta Hospital here on Friday following an infection in the urinary tract. He was tested for Covid-19 and was found negative. "He (Mulayam Singh Yadav) is stable, and treatment is going on. He has not completely recovered. His condition is under control," Medanta Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI. Kapoor had earlier said that the 80-year-old SP leader also underwent ultrasound, blood and urine tests. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary had said on Saturday that party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his wife Dimple Yadav had visited the hospital on Friday night to enquire about Mulayam Singh Yadav's condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mulayam-singh-yadavs-condition-under-control-hospital-872432.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Bulandshahr accident: Over 15 motorcycles brought to police station, owners questioned||Over 15 motorcycles were brought to a police station here on Wednesday and their owners questioned over the death of a 20-year-old woman, who was visiting home from the US, in a Bulandshahr road accident, police said. Information has also been sought on all Bullet motorcycles registered in the district from the assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), they added. The police said 15-20 bike owners were questioned. The woman, Sudiksha Bhati, died Monday morning near Aurangabad when she was riding pillion on a motorcycle with her younger brother. She was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at the Babson College, Massachusetts (US), and was scheduled to go back on August 20. Her family has alleged that the accident happened because two motorcycle-borne men were following her two-wheeler and harassing her. In a purported video that has surfaced on social media, Bhati's brother said, "We were on a motorcycle at a speed of 30 km per hour. The men on the Bullet were riding near us and applied brakes on their vehicle suddenly...The Bullet had 'Jat Boys' inscribed on its number plate and its number started with UP-13." The Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police has constituted a three-member SIT, led by Circle Officer (city) Diksha Singh, to probe the matter. The district police has filed an FIR against two unidentified people on the basis of a complaint by Sudiksha's father Jitendra Bhati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulandshahr-accident-over-15-motorcycles-brought-to-police-station-owners-questioned-872435.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||14 women prisoners found coronavirus positive in MP||Days after they were shifted to Shahdol jail from a prison in Singrauli district in Madhya Pradesh, 14 women inmates have been found to be coronavirus positive, a senior official said on Wednesday. They were shifted to Shahdol Medical College on Tuesday evening, said Shahdol district jail superintendent GK Neti. The women inmates, including 13 undertrials and a convict, were shifted from Baidhan jail on August 9 as it was overcrowded, he said. He said one of the infected prisoners has an 18-month- old child with her, whose samples were taken and report is awaited. "A total of 25 women prisoners are currently lodged in Shahdol Jail but none of them had coronavirus symptoms," the jail superintendent said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-women-prisoners-found-coronavirus-positive-in-mp-872440.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan political crisis: Congress MLAs return to Jaipur from Jaisalmer||Rajasthan Congress MLAs who were staying in Jaisalmer for the past few days arrived in Jaipur on Wednesday. The legislators reached the city by air and are being taken to Hotel Fairmont in Kukas on the Jaipur-Delhi highway. "We are going to Hotel Fairmont, and the next strategy will be decided by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot," Transport Minister Pratap Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-congress-mlas-return-to-jaipur-from-jaisalmer-872449.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||India may offer Kashmiri youth temporary resettling in peaceful parts||India is considering offering young Kashmiri militants an escape from a life of violence by temporarily resettling them in more peaceful parts of the country, according to the top military commander in the Kashmir Valley. Lieutenant General B S Raju revealed the plan for a new scheme to offer a way out of militancy during a telephone interview from his headquarters in Srinagar, Kashmir's main city. He told Reuters, recommendations had been submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government and that the plan, while not finalised, was in an advanced stage. "These are young boys who need to be taken care of for a period of time," Raju said, adding that could involve temporarily settling them outside of Muslim-majority Kashmir. Past efforts to persuade fighters to put down their guns have had mixed success. But Raju said the military had recommended the scheme take a longer-term approach to rehabilitate ex-militants. "The bottom-line is that it will have a structure that will help and give confidence to the people who are opting to surrender," Raju said. More than 50,000 people have died during more than three decades of an insurgency that New Delhi accuses neighbouring Pakistan of fuelling, by using militant groups to wage a proxy-war across the disputed border dividing the Himalayan region. India has flooded the valley with security forces - about 2,00,000 military and paramilitary troops are deployed there. And Raju said militant attacks have dropped by nearly 40 percent compared to last year. AROUND 180 MILITANTS ACTIVE Last August, Prime Minister Modi changed the political landscape by taking away Jammu & Kashmir's status as India's only Muslim majority state, splitting it into two federally-controlled territories and removing the special privileges afforded to Kashmiris. Promising a concerted effort to develop the region economically, Modi said the move was needed to integrate Kashmir more fully with the rest of the country, but critics said it would further alienate Kashmiris. Pakistan, which maintains a long-standing territorial claim on Kashmir though it denies accusations that it materially helps the militants, has denounced Modi's action. Since the start of the year, Indian security forces have killed around 135 militants, most of them recruited locally. The military estimates that there are currently around 180 militants operating with various groups active in the valley, Raju said. Some 70 local Kashmiris are reckoned to have been recruited by these groups since the start of the year, about a dozen less than during the same period a year ago. "We wish that this should drop further, and finally cease altogether," Raju said. Currently, most surrenders are conducted in line with a 2004 policy that provides a lump sum payout of 1,50,000 Indian rupees ($2,000), a small monthly stipend, free vocational training and cash payments for weapons handed over. The New Delhi-based South Asia Terrorism Portal estimated that more than 400 insurgents have surrendered since 2004, but after 2007 the numbers came down to a trickle, with only two dozen men giving up arms in the last three years. Kuldeep Khoda, a former Kashmir police chief, said the scheme had partly failed because the vocational training provided by the government was inadequate. "If you ask me very frankly, there was hardly any training being given. They were just kept there for a few months," he said. "It was just a formality which was being completed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-may-offer-kashmiri-youth-temporary-resettling-in-peaceful-parts-872451.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Indian Railways refunds exceed earning from passengers in Q1: RTI||The freight earnings, however, during the period managed to hold ground, according to the RTI reply provided by the Railways to Chandra Shekhar Gaur, a Madhya Pradesh-based activist. The first three months of this financial year, when the Railways had to suspend all its regular passenger services due to the coronavirus travel restrictions, the national transporter’s revenue was in the negative -- Rs 531.12 crore in April, Rs 145.24 crore in May and Rs 390.6 in June (all in negative), the RTI reply said. "The minus figures are being shown due to the fact that the value of refunds is more than the value of tickets booked,” said Railway spokesperson DJ Narain. An official explained that due to the suspension of services, tickets booked for travel in April, May and June were offered refunds, while fewer tickets were booked during these three months due to the restrictions. The Railways has cancelled all regular passenger services indefinitely. In the first quarter of the 2019-20 fiscal, the Railways had earned Rs 4,345 crore in April, Rs 4,463 crore in May and Rs 4,589 crore in June. The Railways has said that due to the pandemic, it is envisaging a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore this financial year. “Passenger revenues of Railways are naturally expected to be low this year due to suspension of most of the services due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Narain said. However, freight traffic seems to have recovered somewhat since the Railways has been the preferred mode of transportation for ferrying essential during these months. In April 2020, the freight earning was Rs 5,744 crore, in May it was 7,289 crore and in June the number stood at Rs 8,706 crore. In the first quarter of last fiscal year, it earned Rs 9,331 crore in April, Rs 10,032 crore in May and Rs 9,702 crore in June. Narain said the Railways’ freight operations during the last two weeks are higher than the last year's corresponding figures for the same period. “This is a very encouraging and positive sign for the things to come,” he said. A concerted effort by railway officials and better management practices will ensure that revenue lost in passenger segment is significantly offset by an outstanding freight performance, Narain said. The Railways said that it has also suffered losses to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore in the running of the Shramik Special trains which began operations from May 1 to ferry stranded migrant workers home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-railways-refunds-exceed-earning-from-passengers-in-q1-rti-872459.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||The Caravan magazine's 3 scribes assaulted in northeast Delhi||The police on Wednesday said it has received a complaint from a news magazine that three of its journalists, including a woman, were assaulted by a mob in northeast Delhi, where they had gone to report on the riots that had taken place in February. The Caravan magazine alleged that the incident took place on Tuesday afternoon. "We have received complaints from both the sides (magazine and locals) and are looking into them," Joint Commissioner of Police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said. The magazine, in a series of tweets on Tuesday, said, "Today afternoon, in the Subhash Mohalla locality in north-east Delhi, a group of men and women assaulted three staffers of @thecaravanindia @Prabhtalks @shahidtantray and a third staff member— to stop them from reporting." The magazine alleged that the mob physically assaulted the staffers threatened to kill them and also used communal slurs. The three journalists were later rescued by the police and taken to the nearby Bhajanpura police station, the magazine said. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/the-caravan-magazines-3-scribes-assaulted-in-northeast-delhi-872467.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistani migrants' death: Victim in video accuses 'gang' of harassment, police of not acting||Days after the death allegedly by suicide of 11 members of a family of Hindu migrants from Pakistan in a village in Jodhpur district, a video has surfaced in which one of the victims gives a detailed account of the “harassment” they were facing at the hands of their relatives and a purported gang. The one-and-a-half hourslong video was in the mobile phone of Laxmi, one of the victims, that was found in the shack where the bodies were discovered, police said. According to Laxmi’s account in the video that has been viewed by PTI, after the family came to India in 2015 due to fears of religious persecution in the neighbouring country, they got embroiled in a row with their relatives here as well as a “gang” that allegedly tried to control their lives. “We had no idea that we would be subjected to a new ordeal in India not only by others but by our own people,” Laxmi said in the video. She said the family fled Pakistan and came to India on the insistence of Dhandali, the now estranged wife of her brother Kewal Ram who is the lone surviving member of the family. Dhandali’s family was already settled in Jodhpur. “Right after we arrived here, Dhandali shifted to her parents’ house and started harassing us along with her family and others, claiming the custody of her children,” Laxmi said. In the video, Laxmi alleged that there was a racket run by a gang that tried to control the lives of those who came to live in Jodhpur. The gang scared the migrants into following its advise in order to remain safe and protected, she said. “These gang members began harassing us also and had eye on all of us four sisters. One of our sisters died due to their pressures in 2017. They also forcibly managed to get our brother Ravi married to Sharifa, a cousin of Dhandali, who also sided with them to harass us,” Laxmi said in her elaborate account, adding that alleged gang members also wanted the sisters to marry as per their wish. Laxmi and her sister Priya were both qualified nurses, but while Priya had been working in a nearby clinic, Laxmi could not work as her certificate was destroyed by this alleged gang, she said. Laxmi also alleged that the family had approached the police but they did not take any action. She said the family had shifted to Dechu tehsil to work in farms to escape the harassment in Jodhpur but it did not help. She also said she filed a complaint with the Dechu police but the police also allegedly harassed her family. The police cases began with the first case registered by Dhandali in Mandore police station on July 16, 2019 accusing her husband Kewal Ram and his sisters of harassment. This was followed by a series of cases and counter cases from both the sides against each other, Laxmi stated in the video. A police officer from Jodhpur commissionerate said, “The last case was filed by Dhandali again on August 7, which was to be investigated but this incident happened before police could do anything”. SP (Jodhpur Rural) Rahul Barhat said that all the documents related to the case and complaints have been collected and are being investigated. “Kewal Ram has given some names in his FIR and we have been interrogating them in order to get to the bottom of the allegations in the video,” said Barhat. Giving her account in the video, Laxmi also stated that the family had run from pillar to post seeking help from the local administration as well as the government but they were not heard and were ultimately “tired”. The 11 family members, including five children, were found dead on Sunday morning inside the hut they lived in at Lodta village of Dechu area. The autopsies indicated the consumption of a poisonous substance, police had said on Monday, pointing at the possibility of mass suicide. A note found at the spot alleged threats from the relatives of the wives of two members of the family and harassment by police. Kewal Ram, 35, told police that he spent the night in the fields, where he had gone to guard the crops, and came home in the morning to find everyone dead. Based on his complaint, police detained his wife and some other people for interrogation. A preliminary investigation indicated a dispute between the victims and the families of the wives of two brothers — Kewal Ram and Ravi. The family came from Pakistan's Sindh in 2015 on a long-term visa. For the past six months, the family members were living on the farm which they had hired for cultivation. Police had found chemicals and injection vials at the shack, leading to suspicion that some poisonous substance may have been administered to family. Two of the victims, Laxmi and Priya, are said to be nurses, the police had said, adding that their signatures appear on the note. The victims included Budharam Bhil (75), his wife Antara Devi, their son Ravi (31) and daughters Jiya (25) and Suman (22). Another 40-year-old woman and five children were also among the dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-migrants-death-victim-in-video-accuses-gang-of-harassment-police-of-not-acting-872473.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi police Assistant Sub Inspector dies, constable injured as building roof collapses||A 49-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector of Delhi Police died and his colleague was injured when the roof of a building in north Delhi where they had gone as part of a tenant verification drive collapsed, officials said on Wednesday. Ahead of Independence Day, the police are conducting a tenant verification drive across the city. ASI Zakir Hussain along with constable Debu (42), who is posted in Bara Hindu Rao police station, had gone to Ram Bagh road in connection with the drive. Around 10.20 am, they reached a building and noticed illegal construction being carried out on its third floor. When Hussain and Debu climbed up to the third floor to ascertain details and take photographs of illegal construction work, the third floor, which was a terrace and on which they were standing, caved in. While the ASI fell on the ground floor, Debu fell on the second floor and sustained minor injuries. With the help of local people, Hussain was shifted to Aruna Asaf Ali hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. The second floor of the building was not occupied by tenants so no one else was injured in the incident. The building was in a poor condition, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said, "We have registered a case under section 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code." ASI Hussain joined Delhi Police in 1993. He hailed from Ganwara village in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh. He was staying in Wazirabad here with his wife, two sons and a daughter, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-assistant-sub-inspector-dies-constable-injured-as-building-roof-collapses-872478.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Old man battered to death by son over snoring in Uttar Pradesh||A 65-year old man was beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district, about 300 kilometres from here, by his son allegedly following an argument over the former's snoring habit. According to police sources, sexagenarian Ram Swaroop, a resident of Soudha village, was hit repeatedly with a stick by his son. He died on the way to the hospital on Tuesday evening. Sources said that Ram Swaroop, who was a marginal farmer, snores a lot and his elder son, Naveen Kumar often argued with the former over his habit saying that he could not sleep. On Tuesday, when Naveen's mother and younger brother had gone to some relative's house, the father-son duo again had an argument. Naveen got so enraged that he picked up a stick and hit the old man repeatedly. The locals, who reached their house on hearing Swaroop's cries rushed him to the district hospital. Naveen managed to escape after perpetrating the crime, police said, adding that a hunt had been launched to nab him. A case has been registered in this regard. Police said that initial investigation revealed that Naveen had an argument with his father over the latter's snoring habit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/old-man-battered-to-death-by-son-over-snoring-in-uttar-pradesh-872480.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Congress may project a 'Brahmin' CM face in UP||To outsmart the opposition parties amid the race to install the statue of 'Bhagwan Parashuram', the most important 'Brahmin' icon, Congress is mulling to project a 'Brahmin' as its chief ministerial face in the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. According to a senior UP Congress leader here, a 'serious' debate was on within the grand old party on the issue. ''There is a very strong possibility that a Brahmin will be projected as the CM face,'' the leader told DH on Wednesday. The Congress has already launched a 'Brahmin Chetna Yatra' in the state, which was being led by one of its senior 'Brahmin' leaders and former Union minister Jitin Prasada. Prasada, who has accused the ruling BJP of 'persecuting' the community in the state, also met the 'Brahmin' families, whose members had been murdered in the past few months. Congress leaders said around a dozen members of the community were ''murdered'' in the past few months and in almost all the cases the culprits were yet to be apprehended. The leaders felt that there was ''huge resentment'' in the community over being allegedly 'neglected' by the BJP regime. ''There is a need to tap this anger,'' the leader said. ''Ours is the only party, which has given six Brahmin chief ministers to UP....we have always taken care of its interests...the other parties have only cheated the community,'' he added. In 2017 Assembly polls also the Congress had declared former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dixit as its CM face for UP. The grand old party had roped in poll strategist Prashant Kishore and organised a series of meetings in different parts of the state. Things, however, changed completely after Congress entered into an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP). The alliance failed to click and the Congress could secure only seven seats. ''The Brahmins did not support us in 2017 owing to our alliance with the SP...we paid a heavy price,'' the leader remarked. The Congress has already declared that it will not ally with any party in the next UP assembly polls, which are due in 2022. 'Brahmins' who formed around 10% of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-may-project-a-brahmin-cm-face-in-up-872484.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Our tie-up in Bihar is with the BJP, not LJP: JD (U)||With the Election Commission making it clear that the Assembly polls in Bihar will be held as per scheduled, the battle lines are being hurriedly drawn for October-November election. However, the ruling JD (U), in a snub to its NDA ally - the LJP, has made it clear that it was in alliance with the BJP in Bihar, not the LJP. “Be it 2005, 2010 or 2015, we have never contested any Assembly election in alliance with the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Our pact has been with the BJP for more than two decades, barring a brief period. The bond with the saffron camp remains strong on all issues, be it seat-sharing, campaigning or leadership,” said JD (U) principal general secretary K C Tyagi. The JD (U) leader angst against the LJP stems for the fact that Chirag Paswan, the parliamentarian son of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, recently wondered “what has changed in Bihar in the last 15 years?” Chirag was also on the same page with RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav who demanded that the Assembly polls in Bihar be deferred due to Covid-19 pandemic. Chirag, who is now the LJP president, rubbed the JD (U) wrong way when he questioned Nitish on the issue of handling migrants’ crisis, asked the Bihar CM to take a leaf out of his UP counterpart Yogi’s book and put the Bihar government on the mat on the issue of distribution of ration cards. “When top BJP leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda have reiterated that Nitish Kumar remains the undisputed leader of the alliance in Bihar, who is the LJP leader to raise an accusing finger? Is he bigger than Modi or Shah?,” wondered Tyagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-tie-up-in-bihar-is-with-the-bjp-not-ljp-jd-u-872493.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Krishna idol adorned with ornaments worth crores in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior||The idols of Lord Krishna and Radha were adorned with ornaments made of gold and precious stones, collectively worth around Rs eight crore, at a temple in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior amid tight security on the occasion of Janmashtami, an official said. Devotees, however, were not allowed to enter this temple- Gopal Mandir, located in Phool Bagh area of the city- this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, but TVs were installed outside the premises for them to watch the decorated idols, he said. These ornaments, donated by the Scindias, the erstwhile royal family of Gwalior, are generally kept in the bank lockers and are brought out only on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami every year to beautify the idols. The Gwalior Municipal Corporation (GMC) is the custodian of these ornaments. GMC commissioner Sandeep Makin said these ornaments, and silver utensils were brought out from the bank locker on Wednesday morning under police protection. "After worshipping, the idols of Radha and Krishna were adorned with these ornaments and jewellery of gold and precious stones. The estimated cost of these ornaments and utensils is worth Rs eight crore," he said. These ornaments included necklaces of pearls and emeralds besides a crown studded with topaz and ruby weighing around three kgs, among others. CCTV cameras and police force were deployed to protect the temple in view of this annual ritual, Makin said. "These ornaments and other valuables will be kept in the district treasury after 1 am, during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday after midnight prayers at the temple," Makin said. In the morning, these ornaments will again be deposited in the bank locker, he said. According to Makin, due to the coronavirus, the devotees are not allowed to enter the temple this year, but the live streaming of the adorned idols is available on Facebook.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/krishna-idol-adorned-with-ornaments-worth-crores-in-madhya-pradeshs-gwalior-872546.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Will ensure better security for those facing militant threats: J&K L-G||Amid rising attacks by militants against panchayat members and the BJP workers, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday said they will ensure better security arrangements for those facing threats. Some measures to protect panchayat representatives and political workers have already been taken, but we will ensure better security arrangements for them in the days ahead,” he said during an official function, here. Sinha said the administration needs to be cautious while framing the future security strategy for the panchayat representatives and political workers. Nearly two dozen BJP workers in Kashmir have resigned from the party following recent attacks on village-level leaders by militants, which prompted the party to suggest “hostel-type” secure accommodation for its members and their families in each district in the Valley. The L-G Sinha said they will start consultations soon to create a better atmosphere and to ensure a peaceful and dignified life for the people of J&K. “We will ensure J&K’s development without any disparity. This is what Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed for. He told me that I should work for the speedy development of J&K. The development has taken place but I feel there is a need to speed up the process on the ground level,” he said. The L-G said J&K Panchayati Raj Act is stronger than other states and Union Territories. “When we talk about change, we need to change ourselves first,” he said and added that democracy will flourish in J&K and “all of us will have to work towards that.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-ensure-better-security-for-those-facing-militant-threats-jk-l-g-872548.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Treat degrees in vocational subjects on par with other bachelor degrees: Delhi govt to Centre||The Bachelor of Vocational (BVoc) degrees need to be treated on par with other bachelor degrees and the graduates should be eligible to appear for civil services examination, the Delhi government has told the Centre. According to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, the government has also raised the issue of universities like Delhi University not treating students who studied vocational subjects in class 12 on par with students who did not. "The new National Education Policy (NEP) has talked about giving a push to vocational education but how can we have results when our system does not respect those with skill education. Students with vocational subjects or skill-based subjects in class 12 face a disadvantage in admissions in universities like DU," Sisodia told PTI. "Similarly, students who pursue Bachelor of Vocational (BVoc) courses are not treated on par with other graduates. They do not get similar opportunities in higher education or in jobs, they are also not eligible for appearing for civil services exams. How can we push vocational education then?" he asked. Sisodia, who is also Delhi's Education Minister, said, "We have raised the issue with the Centre that we need to treat the vocational students on par with those who pursue other subjects. They somewhat agree that this is an issue but ultimately this is a decision they need to take." The new education policy which was approved by the Cabinet last month has noted that the vocational education is perceived to be inferior to mainstream education and meant largely for students who are unable to cope with the latter. "This is a perception that affects the choices students make. It is a serious concern that can only be dealt with by a complete re-imagination of how vocational education is offered to students in the future. The policy aims to overcome the social status hierarchy associated with vocational education and requires integration of vocational education programmes into mainstream education in all education institutions in a phased manner," the new NEP said. "Beginning with vocational exposure at early ages in middle and secondary school, quality vocational education will be integrated smoothly into higher education. It will ensure that every child learns at least one vocation and is exposed to several more. This would lead to emphasising the dignity of labour and importance of various vocations involving Indian arts and artisanship," it added. The policy has proposed that by 2025, at least 50 pc of learners through the school and higher education system shall have exposure to vocational education, for which a clear action plan with targets and timelines will be developed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/treat-degrees-in-vocational-subjects-on-par-with-other-bachelor-degrees-delhi-govt-to-centre-872551.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||I-T raids on Chinese individuals, Indian contacts continue for second day regarding money laundering worth Rs 1,000 crore||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday continued its raids against some Chinese individuals and their local associates in connection with its probe into a Rs 1,000 crore worth cross-border money laundering racket using shell or dubious firms, officials said. The department, official sources said, has seized a number of documents and computer peripherals and has recovered about Rs 60-70 lakh cash from multiple premises in the Delhi-NCR region till now. The tax sleuths raided at least two dozen premises in Delhi, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad on Tuesday as part of the action under which it covered the Chinese, some of their Indian associates and bank officials, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had said in a statement. The department is questioning several people and is in the process to freeze a number of bank accounts linked to the accused and some dubious companies floated and operated by them, the sources said. The department has detained a 42-year-old Chinese man, identified as Charlie Peng, alleged to be the kingpin of the racket and few other nationals of that country on a work visa in India are on its radar. Charlie is allegedly holding a fake Indian passport and officials said he created a "web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China" in the past two-three years. They said his front or showcase business was import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items. Charlie, the sources said, was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in September 2018 on charges of fraud and forgery and was allegedly running an illegal money changer. It is alleged that Peng got a fake Indian passport from Manipur after marrying a woman from that state. The tax officials have shared the information of alleged possession of fake Indian passport with police authorities who are expected to book the Chinese man for violation of the Passport Act. Meanwhile, when asked for a reaction on the raids, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman in Beijing said he was not aware of the details. "But I can tell you that the Chinese government requires Chinese companies to observe international rules, local laws and regulations while doing business overseas," he said. "We are committed to safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies and nationals," the spokesperson said. The CBDT in its statement, without taking any names, had said that the "subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India". It said the searches were launched based on "credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities." "Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period," the CBDT had said. "Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with the active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants have been found as a result of the search action," it said. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed, the CBDT said. India recently banned 59 Chinese apps (Internet-based mobile applications) in the aftermath of a continuing standoff between the militaries of the two countries in Ladakh. New Delhi has also amended the General Financial Rules, 2017, imposing restrictions on public procurement from bidders of countries that share a land border with India, a move that will directly affect Chinese entities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-raids-on-chinese-individuals-indian-contacts-continue-for-second-day-regarding-money-laundering-worth-rs-1000-crore-872564.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||1,100 kgs of poppy seized from 3 Punjab-bound vehicles in Jammu and Kashmir||Police on Wednesday seized nearly 1,100 kgs of poppy straw from two Punjab-bound vehicles in Udhampur and Samba districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Two drivers and a helper, all residents of Punjab, were arrested as their attempt to smuggle the narcotic substance from Kashmir was scuttled, a police official said. He said a police party seized 708.4 kgs of poppy straw from a truck while checking it at Motorshed near Chenani along Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Udhampur district. Driver Satnam Singh and his helper Sohan Lal, both residents of Hoshiarpur in Punjab, were arrested and a case under NDPS Act was lodged against them, he said. Earlier during the day, the official said the police also recovered 391 kgs of poppy straw from a Punjab-bound vehicle on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and arrested a suspected narcotics smuggler. Nirmal Singh, a resident of Malpur village of Hoshiarpur, was allegedly smuggling the contraband from Kashmir to Punjab in a dumper when the vehicle was intercepted by a police party at Balole near Bari Brahmana along the highway, the official said. Terming Singh's arrest as a "major breakthrough" in the war against drugs, the official said 20 bags of poppy straw weighing 391.5 kgs were seized. Singh too was booked under the NDPS Act and further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1100-kgs-of-poppy-seized-from-3-punjab-bound-vehicles-in-jammu-and-kashmir-872570.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Katra-Delhi road to be completed by 2023, will reduce travel time to 6.5 hours: Jitendra Singh||The work has started on the Katra-Delhi Express road corridor and once completed it will reduce the travel time between the two destinations to around six and half hours, Union minister Jitendra Singh said Wednesday. He said the project will be completed by 2023, and when it is operational people will prefer to travel from Katra, the town that houses the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, to the national capital by road rather than by train or air. “The hallmark of this road corridor is that it will connect the holy cities of Katra and Amritsar, and at the same time offer connectivity for some other major important religious shrines between the two destinations,” said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. “The work has started on the first-of-its-kind Katra-Delhi express road corridor which will be ready by 2023 and when it becomes functional, the travel time from Katra to Delhi will get reduced to around six and half hours, and from Jammu to Delhi to just about six hours,” the minister said. Singh said that after completion of the survey by M/s Feedback Consultants Ltd, the process of acquisition of land is nearly complete and the work on the ground has started, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. The project is estimated to cost over Rs 35,000 crore, he said, adding the important cities through which this corridor will pass include Jammu and Kathua in J&K, and Jalandhar, Amritsar, Kapurthala and Ludhiana in Punjab. Singh said, simultaneous widening of the National Highway between Pathankot and Jammu is also being undertaken, to upgrade it from 4-lane to 6-lane. It will also prove to be a great boon for the commuters between Jammu, Kathua and Pathankot, he said. Scheduled to be completed within a timeline of three years, he said, the road corridor will prove to be a path-breaking revolution in promoting industry and investments in the entire region. “It will also pave the way for the growth of economic hubs in cities like Kathua and Jammu,” Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/katra-delhi-road-to-be-completed-by-2023-will-reduce-travel-time-to-65-hours-jitendra-singh-872609.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Three more Covid-19 deaths in Haryana; 797 fresh cases||Three more deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the total fatalities in the state to 503, according to the health department's daily bulletin. Two fatalities were reported from the hardest-hit Faridabad district while one death was from another worst-hit Gurgaon. Of the 503 deaths in the state, 359 were males and 144 females. The state recorded another big spike with 797 fresh cases, just a day after the highest single-day spike of 798 cases. The total cases in the state have risen to 44,024. Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad (113), Sirsa (100), Gurgaon (98), Ambala (65), Mahendragarh (60), Rewari (57), Rohtak (49), Fatehabad (40), Panchkula (36), Yamunanagar (36), Kurukshetra (33) and Sonipat (31), as per the bulletin. Nearly half of the total cases in the state are from worst-hit Faridabad and Gurgaon districts, which fall in the National Capital Region. These two districts together have 273 fatalities. The number active cases in the state currently are 6,827 while 36,694 have been discharged after recovery. As of Wednesday, the state's recovery rate was 83.35 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 29 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-797-fresh-cases-872618.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Indian Ambassador Vikram Misri discusses eastern Ladakh, bilateral ties with senior CPC official||Indian Ambassador to China, Vikram Misri on Wednesday held talks with a senior official of the country's ruling Communist Party here and discussed the situation at the border in eastern Ladakh and overall bilateral relations. Misri's meeting with Liu Jianchao, Deputy Director of the Office of the Communist Party of China Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission came amidst diplomatic and military-level talks between India and China on disengagement of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh. "Ambassador @VikramMisri today met H E Liu Jianchao, Deputy Director of the Office of the CPC Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission and briefed him on India’s stance vis-a-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT and overall bilateral relations,” the Indian Embassy tweeted. No further details of the meeting were available. Misri’s meeting with Liu comes against the backdrop of reports that the disengagement process between the troops of the two countries has not moved forward as expected along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. At the latest round of military talks, the Indian side insisted forcefully on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso. The Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of its troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang as demanded by India, according to sources in New Delhi. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-ambassador-vikram-misri-discusses-eastern-ladakh-bilateral-ties-with-senior-cpc-official-872619.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Kerala landslide toll reaches 55, flood situation deteriorates in Bihar, improves slightly in Assam||The death toll in the landslide in Kerala's Idukki district rose to 55 on Wednesday as three more bodies were retrieved from under the debris while the flood situation worsened in Bihar but improved slightly in Assam. While 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods, several parts of the country received rains including the national capital which was lashed by heavy showers which ended a prolonged dry spell in the city. Delhi suffered stifling humidity in the afternoon only to be rewarded with a heavy downpour at night which inundated low-lying areas. Dark clouds hovered over the national capital during the day, but rains kept the residents waiting until after 8 pm. Earlier, the India Meteorological Department had forecast moderate to heavy rains in the city on Wednesday and Thursday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded just 0.2 mm rainfall till 5.30 pm. The maximum temperature settled at 36.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Humidity levels shot up to 92 percent. After more than normal rainfall in July, monsoonal precipitation has remained subdued in Delhi in August so far. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi has recorded 72 percent less rainfall than normal in August so far, which is the lowest in 10 years. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides official figures for the city, has recorded just 31.1 mm rainfall this month so far against the normal of 109.6 mm. In Kerala’s Idukki, operations led by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) continued even on the sixth day on Wednesday to trace 15 more missing people. Idukki Collector H Dineshan told PTI that 82 people were affected by the landslide that occurred on August 7. The settlements of estate workers were swept away by the landslip near Rajamala here and various agencies have been engaged in the rescue operations since then. The flood situation in Bihar worsened on Wednesday as over 2.16 lakh more people were affected by the calamity, taking the total number of victims to 77,18,788 in 16 districts, a Disaster Management Department bulletin said. Flood waters entered fresh areas and the number of affected panchayats increased to 1,271 from Tuesday's 1,260, though that of the flood-hit districts remained at 16. The number of people who died in flood-related incidents in the state remained at 24, the bulletin said. The bulletin said that 20 teams of the NDRF and 13 of the SDRF have evacuated 5.47 lakh people from inundated areas so far. The state government has transferred Rs 403 crore into the bank accounts of 6.72 lakh flood-affected families so far, an official said. Several rivers such as the Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan and the Khiroi are flowing above the danger level at several places in the state while the water level of the Ganga is flowing below it. The MET office at Patna has forecast light to moderate rain in the catchment areas of all rivers flowing in the state on Thursday while heavy rain is likely at a few places in the catchment areas of the Gandak. In Assam, Dhemaji, Baksa and Morigaon districts continued to remain submerged on Wednesday, even as floodwaters receded from most parts of the state. At present, 14,205 people are suffering due to the deluge in these three districts while 7,009 hectares cropland is affected, according to the daily flood bulletin of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). Dhemaji is the worst-hit district with 12,908 people affected, followed by Baksa where 1,000 people are suffering, and Morigaon with 297 people hit by the calamity. The total number of people losing their lives in this year's flood and landslide stands at 136 across the state. Of them, 110 were killed in flood-related incidents and 26 died in landslides. In Uttar Pradesh, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning occurred at a few places in the eastern part of the state and at isolated places in the western region while rains and thundershower are “very likely” at many places in the state on August 14 and August 15, the IMD said. As 16 districts of the state are affected by floods, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to ensure sanitisation and hygiene in relief camps set up in the deluge-hit areas. The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri's Palliakalan and the Saryu at Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar are flowing above the danger mark, state Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyel said. Parts of Rajasthan too were lashed by rain in the last 24 hours, the IMD said. Kishanganj received 170 mm rain followed by 110.4 mm in Jaipur tehsil, 80.2 mm in Jamwaramgarh, 70.6 mm in Mandana, 70.5 mm in Bassi among others. Sriganganagar was the hottest place in the state as the maximum temperature there settled at 40 degree Celsius. Parts of Haryana and Punjab received rainfall but sultry weather conditions prevailed in the region. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, received light rains and recorded a maximum temperature of 34.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal limits. In Haryana, Karnal received 10 mm rain, followed by Bhiwani (8 mm) and Ambala (4 mm) while in Punjab, Ludhiana received 28 mm rain and registered a maximum of 33.7 degrees Celsius and Patiala's maximum settled at 35.6 degrees Celsius, up two degrees. According to the meteorological department forecast, rains or thundershowers are likely at a few places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kerala-landslide-toll-reaches-55-flood-situation-deteriorates-in-bihar-improves-slightly-in-assam-872622.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||AISA members booked for protesting Hany Babu arrest||The Delhi Police has registered a case against members of Left-affiliated AISA and other organisations for flouting prohibitory orders while protesting the arrest of Delhi University professor Hany Babu by the NIA in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case, officials said on Wednesday. The All India Students' Association (AISA) said its member Abhigyan and some students from other organisations and Bhagat Singh Ekta Manch were detained and later an FIR was filed against them while protesting the arrest of professor Hany Babu, arrested last month, at the Delhi University's Arts faculty. The Delhi Police said an FIR has been registered against Abhigyan (20), Sushil (30), Salman (20), Sangita (26), Rajbir Kaur (25) and Navdeep Kaur (24). The student's body said, "From charging students under fabricated cases to even booking them under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the government has left no stone unturned to turn this pandemic to bring an onslaught on all dissenting voices.  "AISA resolves to fight against these injustices and continue to raise its voice by all democratic means against this silencing of dissent." The NIA has accused Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil (54), an associate professor in the Department of English, of propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and being a "co-conspirator" in the Elgar Parishad case.   The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017, organised by the Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada in Pune, where alleged provocative speeches were made, promoting enmity between various caste groups and leading to violence resulting in loss of life and property and statewide agitation in Maharashtra, an NIA official had earlier said. The Pune Police had in September last year conducted a raid on Babu's house and seized his laptop and some books. The National Investigation Agency later took up the probe in the case. A senior police official of the Delhi Police said, "On Wednesday, 10-12 students of AISA, Bhagat Singh Ekta Munch and other groups started protesting the arrest of professor Hany Babu by the NIA, Mumbai wing behind the Arts Faculty of Delhi University. "They were apprised that in the view of Covid-19 pandemic and its guidelines, gathering is not allowed and prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPC has been issued. "However, the students kept on protesting despite several request and have been apprehended for violation of order and a case under sections 188 IPC, 3 Epidemic Disease Act and 51/57 DM Act has been registered against them," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aisa-members-booked-for-protesting-hany-babu-arrest-872625.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Court refuses NIA plea for transfer of new FIR in Jhiram case||A court in Chhattisgarh's Bastar district has refused to hand over the probe of a fresh First Information Report (FIR) in the 2013 Jhiram valley naxal attack case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The new FIR is about the alleged conspiracy that led to the attack in which several Congress leaders were killed. Special NIA court judge, Jagdalpur, D N Bhagat on August 10 rejected the NIA's application seeking a direction to the police to hand over documents related to the FIR lodged on May 26 to the agency, NIA lawyer Kishore Bhaduri said. The judge stated in the order that under section 10 of the NIA Act, the state government has powers to investigate. On May 25, 2013, Naxals attacked a convoy of Congress leaders in Jhiram Valley in Bastar, killing 29 people including then state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of opposition Mahendra Karma and former Union minister Vidyacharan Shukla. The Bastar police registered the FIR and subsequently the NIA took over the probe. It filed a charge sheet in the special court in Jagdalpur in September 2014. While the case is still pending before the court, on May 26 this year another FIR was registered at Darbha police station. Complainant Jitendra Mudliyar, a Congress leader, sought probe of the "conspiracy" angle of the incident. Mudaliyar's father Uday Mudaliyar was among those killed in the Jhiram attack. The NIA on June 16 moved the special court, seeking that Bastar Superintendent of Police be asked not to probe the FIR but instead hand over documents to the central agency, said advocate Bhaduri. "We argued in the court that there cannot be multiple FIRs for one offence as per the CrPC. The NIA has already investigated the case and filed a charge sheet," he said. But the court held that the state had the power to investigate the new FIR. Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said, "Bastar police told the NIA court that this case is different from the 2013 one. The new case is mainly about the conspiracy angle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-refuses-nia-plea-for-transfer-of-new-fir-in-jhiram-case-872630.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in Rajouri||The Pakistani army on Wednesday violated ceasefire by using heavy fire and mortar shells to target forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, prompting a befitting response from the security forces, officials said. "At about 1950 hours today, the Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district", a defence spokesman said. The Indian army retaliated befittingly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-rajouri-872634.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||11 Indian Youth Congress members held for violating Covid-19 guidelines during protest in Delhi, later released||Eleven members of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines while protesting in central Delhi against the Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, police said. The members of the Congress' youth wing were later released, they said. Around 12.30 pm on Wednesday, 25-30 workers of IYC were protesting at Kushak Road. They were stopped before the official residence of Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, they said. The IYC workers started raising slogans against the government on the Draft EIA Notification, 2020. "They were told that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and guidelines related to it, gathering is not allowed and prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 have been issued. "However, they kept on protesting despite several requests, following which they were apprehended for violation of order and a case under sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, and 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against them," a senior police officer said. The IYC members were identified as Harish Pawar, Shubham Sharma, Jiaprakash Sisodia, Tejas Bhardwaj, Nawab Ali, Divyansh Girdhar, Rahul Chauhan, Mukesh Kumar, Varun Khari, Laxman Sagar and Gaurav Kaushik, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-indian-youth-congress-members-held-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines-during-protest-in-delhi-later-released-872651.html
12-08-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot hopes coronavirus crisis will be discussed in assembly session||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday hoped that members of the Rajasthan assembly will openly discuss various issues of the state during the upcoming session beginning on August 14. He also hoped for the support from the Opposition in providing good governance in the state. "The legislative assembly is beginning on August 14, I hope that during the session, we will be able to openly discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state and its financial conditions due to the lockdown," Gehlot said in a tweet.  "I am sure, there will be support from the ruling as well as opposition sides in providing good governance and this will give new confidence to the people of the state," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-hopes-coronavirus-crisis-will-be-discussed-in-assembly-session-872652.html
12-08-2020||Oasis||Memories of a cloudy day||From the time the lockdown started, I’ve been spending some time watching the sunset, clouds, the trees outside my room and taking photos on my mobile phone. On one such cloudy day, watching the housekeeping staff of my building, sweep the quadrangle, I was transported to my college days. In the first PUC, my best friend and I had bunked college to go shopping in Commercial street, on my friend’s bike, with her birthday money, to buy a pair of black shoes. Parking in one of the smaller by-lanes of Commercial street, we started our shoe-hunting expedition. Sadly, the shoes didn’t appeal to us. Disappointed, we returned to the by-lane, feeling bad that we had bunked two classes. As we approached my friend’s bike, we saw an old man, bundled up in a shawl, sweeping the ground. My friend started her bike, giving me her handbag to hold. I slung it over my shoulder, along with mine, sitting pillion on the bike. Reaching my house, we chatted in my room. An hour later, my friend got ready to leave. When she picked up her handbag, she realized it felt lighter. On opening it she found her black wallet missing. She said she had given it to me along with her handbag while starting the bike.  I didn’t remember the black wallet. We both came to the conclusion that we must have dropped it in the by-lane. “I’m sure the janitor must have found my wallet and taken it, my ID card was there,” my friend groaned.   We rushed to Commercial street. We started searching. There was no sign of the wallet. A shopkeeper asked us what we were looking for. The shopkeeper beckoned us. When we reached his shop, he handed my friend her wallet, saying the janitor had found it and left it with him, in case the owner returned for it.  My friend opened her wallet. Everything was intact. “Shouldn’t you leave something for the janitor?” the shopkeeper said. My friend handed him a few notes, saying, “Please thank him on my behalf.”  While returning home, we were lost in our thoughts. How quickly we had jumped to the conclusion, judging the old man. His honesty had silenced us, making us ashamed of our petty thoughts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/memories-of-a-cloudy-day-872288.html
12-08-2020||Oasis||My tryst with the divine||There have been innumerable instances of yogis, gurus and masters manifesting self or materialistic things and it is magical, giving devotees something to believe in. Sports psychologists and leaders often refer to the visualization of victory and achievement of goals which helps athletes win. This is also manifestation in away.  My tryst with this kind of phenomenon occurred on a visit to Tirumala temple in the year 2014. I had decided to climb the Tirumala hills on foot and my Uncle and I reached Tirupati the previous evening of the scheduled day and took up accommodation in a hotel. After a heavy dinner, we spoke for a while and retired for the night. While going to sleep, I kept thinking about how we humans need validation for our actions. We look for confirmation in every aspect of our lives whether we like to accept it or not. With this flow of thought I went back to my years of belief and made a prayer that if my path was right, I needed god to tell me so. The next morning, I woke early and uncle dropped me off at the foothills. I was already pensive as it were and after the initial climb of 20-30 steps, I suffered, what I later came to know, a panic attack. I stood there for a while and then observed the other devotees making the climb. There were old people carrying their entire luggage on their shoulders, there were differently-abled people making the climb slowly but surely and everybody seemed determined. I thought to myself that if these people could make it, so could I. I started chanting and with a new vigour started the climb again. I don’t recall stopping anywhere after that for rest and reached the deer park in record time. The deer park is on the left side in an enclosed area. As I walked, I noticed a lone deer on the right side. It was quietly standing near a boulder. I went a few steps ahead and then it struck me. I turned back but by then the deer had moved. It did not appear as if the other devotees had even noticed it.  I made the climb in record time, had a great darshan and at the temple I silently thanked Him. My belief was re-affirmed and in a manner that I had wished for.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/my-tryst-with-the-divine-872605.html
12-08-2020||Opinion||Privacy & pandemics: Building systems of trust||What has particularly stood out, from a technological point of view, are contract-tracing apps that tell people when they have been in close contact with anyone confirmed infected. We need technology as part of emergency measures; however, a balanced regulatory framework guiding the deployments of data-driven solutions is equally essential. The right approach lies in finding a balanced middle ground that does not ignore the application of essential privacy principles. The architecture of trust Within our digital ecosystem, concepts such as privacy, transparency and data protection entail citizen and user trust. Central to the idea of good governance is public trust – and that trust depends on transparency and upholding human rights. This segues perfectly to our case in point: The importance of building institutions and systems of trust. If disproportionate and indefinite restrictions are put in place, the adverse effects will extend far beyond the outbreak, leading to loss of confidence. So how exactly do we build these systems of trust? Technology projects based on open standards promote democratic values, one based on community, collaboration, and transparency. Open-sourced solutions instill unfaltering trust and allow for auditing of data flows. Sharing information and working collaboratively across the internet allows public participation and ensures public trust and privacy are always maintained. At the same time, rigorous encryption standards are an imperative. One such way is to use homomorphic encryption. Homomorphic encryption is a method that allows analysis and computations on encrypted ciphertexts generating an encrypted result, which, when decrypted, matches the result of the operations as if they had been performed on the plaintext. This eliminates the need for decrypting the data and exposing it to a host of cyberattacks and data misuse. That means, even if the data is sent to centralised servers, it will keep sensitive information such as location data and symptom results cryptographically secure. There are also instances where datasets cannot be fully anonymised and remain useful at the same time. This is where the concept of differential privacy comes in. Differentially private database mechanisms make confidential data widely available for accurate data analysis, without resorting to data clean rooms, data usage agreements, data protection plans, or restricted views. It is essential that the implementation of systems uses differential privacy, which obscures individuals’ data to a certain extent. Furthermore, any actions or laws that come into existence to tackle this pandemic should ideally have clearly-defined sunset clauses. A sunset clause is a provision within a statute, regulation or other law that provides that the law shall cease to be in effect after a specific date unless further legislative intervention is taken to extend the law. Data retention limitations and sunset clauses give users the peace of mind of knowing that their digital footprints are eventually going to go away. Wherever personal data is collected, there must be stringent policies ensuring that, whenever possible, users have given their explicit consent. Minimise any data sharing and, in case of anonymisation, ensure that no effort is made to re-identify it. If there is a system in place that obtains any data, it must disclose fully-transparent information about the data’s scope, and source, and how it is getting processed. This involves drafting comprehensive and clearly defined privacy policies. We often believe that technology will inevitably erode privacy. However, what we fail to realise is that it is ultimately humans, and not technology, who design and build these intricate and complex systems deployed at scale and adopted by people living in every remote corner of the world to make life better. The principles of fundamental rights – legality, necessity, and proportionality – are among the core principles deeply rooted in our laws and statutes. They are always relevant, including, and perhaps especially, in emergencies. (Madhav Sharma is a tech policy enthusiast. He is a Young Professional with NITI Aayog) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/privacy-pandemics-building-systems-of-trust-872339.html
12-08-2020||Opinion||Pilot-Congress ‘thaw’ can’t mask their troubles for long||The mask on the face is an excellent metaphor as India sees two crises at hand. One involves, of course, the Covid-19 pandemic that seems to go on and on. The other is the one in the Indian National Congress, often called the Grand Old Party. As it turns out at this moment, the latter looks more old than grand as Prime Minister Narendra Modi's steamroller Bharatiya Janata Party seems to be cruising with high popularity ratings, never mind the pandemic, a persisting drag on economic growth or the plight of migrant workers. Any sign that the Congress party is trying to crawl out of the mess it got into after Modi's arrival as PM in 2014 must involve a strange cocktail of hope, love and optimism. One such sign is in headlines about the Rajasthan dissident leader, Sachin Pilot, reportedly being in a "thaw" with the party’s national leadership -- Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi -- after a bitter, ugly confrontation with state chief minister Ashok Gehlot. We have to read between the lines now. And it would take a generous dose of optimism to conclude that the troubles are over for the Congress in Rajasthan, or that Sachin Pilot, as some reports say, has accepted Rahul Gandhi as the boss in ending his rebellion. Congress’ leadership woes This is especially difficult to swallow given that the Congress’s conditions remain unaltered since its 2019 LS debacle. Sonia Gandhi is still the "interim" president of the party and Rahul Gandhi, despite his frequent videos cheered by party ranks, is only an MP from Wayanad. Tut-tutting noises and murmurs of "we need a leader now" by party seniors only symbolises the restlessness about the vacuum in leadership in a party that is historically famous for steadiness at the top and fractiousness at the bottom rather than the other way around. When the future of generals remains uncertain how is a mutiny to be quelled? This makes the thaw between Pilot and the Gandhis a shaky one. Nevermind the picture of Sachin Pilot and Priyanka Gandhi posing with masks in what appears to be a visual image of reconciliation. No wonder that Sachin Pilot's Tweet after meeting Rahul Gandhi only promises that he will work for a "better India" – not restricted to a better Rajasthan or better Congress. Are we reading too much into this? We have to. Pilot's words are terse though he thanks the Gandhi siblings for their thaw-inducing meetings. Uncertain future But beyond that many things remain unresolved. Consider the fact that Pilot's rebels, as some reports suggest, need to be pacified with plum postings. They are in a significant minority in the Rajasthan Congress legislature party. We have to see how Gehlot, who only the other day described Pilot as a shirking “nikamma” (useless fellow), kisses and makes up; or how he practises the Congress party's famous virtue of tolerance within its own party ranks where the nuisance value of emboldened rebels can be significant. Gehlot's outburst against Pilot in which he lashed out at everything from the 41-year-old leader's good looks and English skills is a rare event in the party. It is difficult to imagine a truce without a take-back or apology of sorts from Gehlot on the kind of stuff he has said about Pilot. Gehlot says he will hug the rebels if the party leadership wants but it is difficult to imagine a warm working relationship. Either we have had an internal agreement in which Sachin Pilot will be co-opted by the party high command for a national-level role, or he is himself keeping that option open in case his loyalists are not placated and his own wounded pride not given some soothing balm at the very least. His words are well measured. Pilot's personality, and I would argue talent, training and temperament, is not that of a simple state-level leader. Showing Pilot his place in Rajasthan as the Numero Duo after ugly wranglings is like throwing bread crumbs to a hungry lion. It won't last. The fractured nature of the Congress countrywide and the context in which the Rajasthan crisis has played out is such that we have to take this slowly. As they say, watch this space. (The writer is a senior journalist who has covered economics and politics.  He tweets as @madversity) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pilot-congress-thaw-can-t-mask-their-troubles-for-long-872395.html
12-08-2020||Panorama||In Thailand, students take on the Military (and ‘death eaters’)||Her hair is tucked back with rhinestone bobby pins. Owlish glasses frame her face, and her school uniform is neatly pressed. Benjamaporn Nivas, 15, hardly looks like a rebel. But she is on the forefront of a youth revolt in Thailand against the powerful military’s influence in schools and society in general. Earlier this year, students began protesting strict school rules imposed by past military regimes, such as requiring boys to wear crew cuts and girls to crop their hair at their earlobes. The protests have since grown, taking on graver issues like the disappearance of Thai dissidents. For weeks now, thousands of students, many dressed in demure school uniforms or as pop culture icons (like a Japanese animated hamster), have staged rallies across the country, urging the armed forces and their allies to withdraw from politics and respect human rights. Over the weekend and Monday, more large crowds gathered to support young protest leaders who had been briefly detained, defying warnings from the police that they, too, were breaking the law. “What other countries have these kinds of rules, unless they are dictatorships like North Korea?” said Benjamaporn, referring to the hair regulations. “They want us to be like robots.” Thailand may project an image of a relaxed holiday destination, where sun, surf and sex intermingle in hedonistic indulgence. But the country is also bound by martial traditions that critics — particularly younger ones — say promote subservience and glorify hierarchies that are ill-suited to modern life. The prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, is a former army chief who orchestrated a military coup in 2014, the 12th successful one since a 1932 putsch ended Thailand’s absolute monarchy. Two other retired heads of the army are in his Cabinet. Generals drafted the country’s latest constitution to ensure that the military retained significant power even after elections were held. Prayuth’s government has intensified efforts to instill obedience among the young. Every morning, students are required to belt out a song exalting 12 Thai values, which include discipline and filial piety. On Children’s Day, they take field trips to military encampments to gaze upon tanks and fighter jets. But rather than fall into line, young Thais have taken to the streets, calling for democratic reform. At Democracy Monument in Bangkok last week, young people gathered in Harry Potter outfits that were as whimsical as they were nonthreatening. Some clutched chopsticks or batons, raising these makeshift wands to demand that the military stop interfering in politics and society. “Thailand has been dominated by the dark power of the Death Eaters,” read a statement from the student group that organized the protest, continuing the Potter theme. “It is now time for the wizards and muggles of democracy to come out and join forces to protect rights, freedoms and brotherhood and reclaim power into the hands of the people.” Protesters raised their hands in a three-fingered salute of defiance from the “Hunger Games” films, a gesture that was forbidden by the junta that orchestrated the last coup. The military’s grip on society goes back generations in Thailand, where coups are almost as likely as elections to shape politics. The school haircut rule, for instance, was instituted in 1972, when the country was led by a U.S.-backed field marshal. “In the military government’s intention, the ideal student, like the citizen, should be passively prone,” said Giuseppe Bolotta, an assistant professor of research in anthropology at Durham University in Britain who studies Thailand. The aim, he said, was for the youth to “show absolute loyalty and obedience and be ready to sacrifice for the sake of the nation and its tutelary deities: monarchy, Buddhism and the army.” Even today, infractions, such as wearing socks that tend toward ecru or eggshell rather than plain white, can earn students a caning, despite a ban on corporal punishment in schools. And army conscription remains a fact of life for young men. “The military’s values are to not question and to follow orders collectively,” said Netiwit Chotiphatphaisal, the president of the political science student union at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “This is imposed in Thai schools, where teachers say we have to be obedient. Because it’s gone on so long, we think this is normal, that the government also has to be obeyed.” In May, after protests by Netiwit, Benjamaporn and others, the education ministry relaxed the rules on student haircuts. While perms and dyed hair are still taboo, individual schools can now decide on the coiffures of their charges. But many schools, particularly in rural areas, have kept to the old traditions. In some schools, students are still forced to prostrate themselves before teachers during special ceremonies. Such displays of deference are customary in the presence of Thailand’s monarch. When prime ministers form governments and merit an audience with the king, for example, they crawl on the floor and peer up at the throne from a prone position. In 2017, Netiwit declined to prostrate himself before a statue of the founder of his university, King Chulalongkorn, who during his reign abolished that very practice. Prayuth, the prime minister, reprimanded Netiwit for his suggestion that students bow instead. The university removed Netiwit from his elected position as head of the student council. “We live in a cage of militarization, where everything is so rigid and collective, where we have to prostrate on the ground,” Netiwit said. “The government, the teachers, they are stuck in the past.” That same year, King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, a trained fighter pilot who was educated at an Australian defense college, instituted new hairstyles for soldiers, requiring closely trimmed sides and a tuft at the top. The king also endorsed a new style of salute, in which military recruits puff out their chests and twitch their heads. Earlier this year, the army chief pledged allegiance, first and foremost, to the monarchy. The king has assumed direct control of two influential army units. At the Harry Potter-themed protest last week, Arnon Nampa, a human rights lawyer who was dressed as a wizard, criticized the military’s lasting influence but also brought up the monarchy, a rare topic for public protests in Thailand. The royal family, which is among the world’s richest, is protected by lèse-majesté laws that can land critics in prison for up to 15 years. On Friday, Arnon and another protester were arrested on charges of sedition stemming from a different rally, in July. They were also accused of violating emergency measures imposed to fight the coronavirus, though officials had given assurances that the rules would not be used to ban protests. “We are all starving already, but money is presented lavishly to the monarchy,” Arnon said at the Harry Potter protest, referring to dispersals of state funds and calling for more civilian oversight over the royal coffers. “If we allow this, it is unavoidable that one day there will be a clash with violence.” International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-thailand-students-take-on-the-military-and-death-eaters-872285.html
12-08-2020||Panorama||The 21st century avatars of East India Company – IP, IT and FTAs  ||There is a war going on between global e-commerce giant Amazon and Walmart/Flipkart for control of the Indian market. Likewise, Google’s 7.73% and Facebook’s 9.9% acquisition of equity in Reliance-Jio points to a furious race for control of the telecommunications space where the infrastructure already exists.    Foreign companies battling it out on Indian turf. Sounds familiar?   In the past several months, countries across the globe have been focused on how best to handle the coronavirus pandemic and revive their economies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently invited US companies to invest in India’s healthcare, infrastructure, defence, energy, farm and insurance sectors. No doubt this will involve the drawing up of new trade agreements.    In the meantime, the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) has been ratified and gone into effect July 1.  USMCA, which effectively replaces the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), is intended to serve as the gold standard in US trade policy in future trade agreements. Of particular import in the treaty are the chapters dealing with digital trade, intellectual property and financial services.    Intellectual property (IP), as is currently interpreted, is an umbrella term for grouping intangible assets such as patents, databases, copyrights, software, and algorithms. Nearly 90% of the value of the ‘big five’ tech companies (Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, and Alphabet/Google) comes from their intangible assets. Over the last 20 years, the global economy has become much more dependent on intangible assets rather than physical assets such as factories and merchandise.   Though USMCA met with significant opposition from the Canadian IT industry, it was ratified by the Canadian government. Jim Balsillie, the co-founder of Blackberry, claims that poor IP stewardship costs the Canadian economy more than $100 billion annually in lost revenue. He believes that if Canada can’t protect its IP, the country risked becoming a “client state” to countries which can. A “colonial supplicant”, as Balsillie memorably puts it. He also lashed out at Google’s smart-city project in Toronto as a “colonising experiment in surveillance capitalism, attempting to bulldoze important urban, civic and political issues.” Policymakers in New Delhi should take note.  If technology leaders in a developed country such as Canada with a decent entrepreneurial and innovative record (especially in artificial intelligence), express strong reservations about USMCA, there is a good reason for developing and under-developed countries to be extremely wary of signing onto trade deals with USMCA-like provisions, since they can endanger a country’s sovereignty, security and economy.   For example, one of the lesser-known provisions prevents any party to a trade deal from passing laws that restrict the cross-border flow of data. So, if an American firm sets up shop in India, it would be free to transfer any data it collects to servers back in the US. The same is true for an Indian company operating in the US. However, this arrangement benefits American firms almost exclusively since they possess massive datasets which have been generated over a 20-year period and can exercise monopolistic power. The economic implication is that smaller countries cannot prosper in an economy based on intangible assets without sovereign control over their data.   The new Digital Trade chapter in USMCA focuses on the rules for the expansion of trade and investment in the innovative products and services where the United States has a competitive advantage. Here are some of the more important rules -- prohibit customs duties on digital products distributed electronically (e-books, videos, music, software, games, etc), protect cross-border data flows and limit data localisation requirements, limit treaty signing nations’ ability to require disclosure of proprietary source code and algorithms, promote open access to government-generated public data, and limit the civil liability of Internet platforms for third-party content that such platforms host or process.  In the chapter on IP, there is an extra-territorial provision which grants a) ex officio authority for customs officials to stop suspected counterfeit or pirated goods at every phase of entering, exiting, and transiting through the territory of any Party, and b) duty evasion verifications and in-country facility visits by customs authorities.  As for the rules governing financial services, the important clauses pertain to treating US financial service suppliers as being on on par with local suppliers. The granting of most-favoured-nation status, prohibiting the imposition of certain quantitative and numerical restrictions that would limit the business of US financial services suppliers, and an expanded list of cross-border services, such as portfolio management, investment advice and electronic payment services.  Now for a short history lesson.  In what passes for history courses at the secondary school level in India, you were probably taught that, under the British Raj, major railway networks were established across India and an elaborate legal, police and administrative system set up to govern the country. ‘Infrastructure’, in today’s parlance.    Mentioned in passing, of course, would have been the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 (anecdotally focused on the Hindu-Muslim divide), the ‘Black Hole of Calcutta’ and the British East India Company. There were, of course, at least five East India Companies set up by five European powers between 1600 and 1664 – Britain (1600), Holland (1602), Denmark (1616), Portugal (1628) and France (1664) – to establish trading posts in coastal areas of Asia so as to dominate the local trade with Europe.     The trading posts of the 1600s, fortified and backed up by the European navies, served multiple functions – marketing, warehousing, and the transportation and delivery of goods. Much like Amazon today? The posts soon turned into colonies and metastasized, ably assisted by local rulers who signed one-sided treaties for the companies’ military support in exchange for certain privileges.    After losing the trade-related First and Second Opium Wars with Britain, China ceded control of major ports such as Shanghai, Canton and Hong Kong by signing the singularly one-sided Treaties of Nanjing (1842) and Tianjin (1858) with numerous extraterritoriality provisions and the conferral of most-favoured-nation status to Great Britain. The US was also party to the Tianjin treaty.  Likewise, the 1858 Treaty of Amity and Commerce between the US and Japan gave Americans the right to engage in free trade, and reside in Tokyo and Osaka. An extra-territorial provision ensured that they would not be subject to Japanese law since the laws of Japan were ‘very peculiar’.  Four hundred years on, the rulers and the products have changed, but the rules haven’t. Veni, vidi, vici? (The writer is a Professor of Computer Science based in the US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-21st-century-avatars-of-east-india-company-ip-it-and-ftas-872286.html
12-08-2020||Panorama||New Education Policy: What next?||With the recent announcement of the 'New Education Policy’ (NEP) the process of much-awaited revamping comes to an end. My impulsive response to this was --what next especially for higher education? Surely, the NEP will become operational very soon. There will be implementation hurdles and hiccups; overcoming these necessitates careful planning and execution. Here, I focus on higher education, the domain with which I am associated for nearly 50 years in various capacities.  The most pertinent question is how to realize the perceived goals of the NEP and ensure building human resource of global competence, national character and worthy men of honesty and integrity? Without going into the minute details of the policy (and school education) let me focus on the core issues that need attention to make the NEP truly path-breaking or serve as a game-changer.  When higher education improves, school education will also improve. I propose five major thoughts (shown below) that can play a pivotal role in accomplishing the set goals of the NEP. First and foremost, the education system should not be controlled or regulated by politicians and bureaucrats. It should be left in the hands of eminent educationists with a proven track record, competency and credibility. World-class universities and colleges can not be built with indigent leadership and mediocre faculty.  Likewise, the State Higher Education Councils should be left to highly accomplished and competent educationists to manage their affairs. The politicians must willingly and gladly opt to stay away from controlling the routine management of education as a whole if we have to march towards a modern India and empower it to withstand and sustain diverse global challenges confronting the nation.  The authorities like the UGC/AICTE etc, must be delinked gradually in a phased manner from control and regulation of varsities; these bodies should then focus on providing leadership to the educational institutions with brilliant minds, and making recommendations from time to time for consideration of the institutions.  By and large, Universities and colleges must be allowed to enjoy total autonomy to manage their affairs. It is noteworthy that most advanced countries of Europe or America also do not have regulatory bodies like the UGC/AICTE to control colleges or universities. Institutions should be motivated to impart holistic education involving total human development, inculcation of ideals, morals, sense of patriotism and pride in national heritage, culture and ethos. Often, people, even scholars mistake cultures for religion. In short, the focus of education managers should be total curriculum development and not on mere completion of syllabus. The educational institutions, regulatory authorities and the state and Central governments must proactively promote and make honest efforts to create much needed academic ambience and, cross-cultural hybridization in the appointment of faculty and admission of students from different parts of India as much as possible. Premier institutions can not be built by inbreeding. Lastly, the most important aspect pertains to the appointment of (Principals and Vice-Chancellors) as worthy persons alone can provide good governance as well as leadership to higher education institutions, the colleges and universities. Because of their complementary nature, governance and leadership are the ‘Yin &Yang’ of successful organisations. Governance without leadership often leads to atrophy, bureaucracy and indifference. Leadership without governance often results in tyranny, fraud & personal fiefdoms. The NEP has generated an enormous amount of hope and scope for total revamping of our education system. Let us seize this opportunity and implement the recommendations fully. With this fond hope in my heart and soul I have proposed the above thoughts for consideration of the education managers and policy-makers in the State and the nation.   (The writer is a former Vice-Chancellor, Karnatak University, a scientist, educationist, administrator and a writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/new-education-policy-what-next-872287.html
12-08-2020||Panorama||We need to engage children during the Covid-19 pandemic, but how? ||One of the reasons is that most countries, including India, are hoping that they will be able to start the schools “soon”. In some countries, where the infection has flattened,  they may be able to open the schools. But it is not the case in India. There is an urgent need to think seriously about how to keep children engaged.   In this background, it was admirable on the part of S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka’s minister of Primary and Secondary Education to have organised a virtual meeting of NGOs on July 28 to find out how he can help them in engaging with the children.   Being the first meeting with several participants, there was no opportunity to discuss the innovative ways some NGOs have developed in any detail. Purpose of this article is to discuss one such project developed and being implemented by Pratham Mysuru, an NGO. The basic idea behind this project is to use parents as teachers when schools are closed.  Ever since the formal schools started, the role of parents in educating their children has been declining. Even in the case of urban areas where parents are educated and professional, for the most part, what they perform as ‘teaching’ is more like tutoring. In short, it is to prepare them to score high marks in examinations.  How often parents sit with children and discuss topics which are not taught in schools to impart values or discuss about their own profession or about the happenings in town, state, country or the world?   Before formal launching the “Parent as a Teacher” project, Pratham had sought comments from different educationists, experts and activists. While most appreciated the concept, some questioned what illiterate parents can teach and how they could be teachers. One need not be “literate” to spend time with children to create curiosity and to teach them the most basic learning tool of asking questions.   Today’s education system is geared more towards imparting the basic skill sets of reading, writing and maths. In the process, children unlearn the innate ability to ask questions and to get interested in things around them. Mark Twain has famously has said, “ I have never let my schooling interfere with my education”. But do we?  A farmer can teach his children about farming and the need to use water wisely,  keeping surroundings clean, traditional food, etc. An illiterate mother can narrate stories about her childhood days or about village life. An illiterate grandmother can pass on age-old house remedies.  To start such “education”, Pratham Mysuru, has prepared some videos on cleanliness which it has distributed through WhatsApp. For those who do not have such applications, Pratham plans to call them and narrate the message over a mobile phone. After seeing the video or listening to the message, parents can sit with children and start a discussion.  This is just the beginning. Pratham has developed more than 50 topics in which children will be interested and on which any parent can start a discussion. It is likely that as more experience is gained, the list of topics will expand. When we learnt that a former Fullbright scholar from the US, James Vopat, had developed “parent project” 30 years back involve immigrants to act as teachers, we talked to him to learn from his experience. We got the following three ideas from him.   Children can learn and write about their family history by interviewing their parents, grandparents, relatives and neighbours. Second, children can grow a small vegetable garden in some available land or plant trees and to study their growth. Third, is for parents to sit with the children and discuss what they want their children by attending schools and also to find out what children want to get from schools. While implementing these projects, children even without being told, learn about research, experimentation, writing, interviewing, the importance of history, etc.  Besides asking children to take up projects, we also plan to expand to storytelling which always attracts children. Every week, we will upload narration of two stories by an expert narrator. It is expected that parents and children will sit together to see or listen to these stories and discuss moral values. This type of individual programmes may complement the programs the government has already been involved through TV and radio.  It is here that the government can step in to promote the “parent” project. They should form a committee of experts to write a series of stories from Ramayana, Mahabharath, and about the life stories of Indian kings and freedom fighters, spiritual leaders of different religions, etc. All of them should be in Kannada.   The government can promote their publication through widely read newspapers and distribute them freely to children in villages and towns. This way during the pandemic, papers will get additional revenue through expanded sales. Let us not kill the idea by raising the objection that the dealers will defraud the government by claiming more sales. There will certainly be some amount of cheating.  We can recall how in ‘60s and ‘70s, papers like Sayunkth Karnataka used to publish articles on Shivaji by Galaganath,  stories from Ramayana and Mahabharatha, etc. every week. These stories have left greater impressions on us than some of the lessons we learnt at schools. We can recreate this environment today.   This way we achieve several goals. We will transmit values based on Indian heritage and civilization. Children will develop the habit of reading newspapers. By discussing with parents, they get to learn to ask questions. In short, we create a residential school in each home where parents are teachers and impart real education by igniting critical thinking. (Bhamy V Shenoy is an advisor and Ashvini Ranjan is a trustee of Pratham Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-need-to-engage-children-during-the-covid-19-pandemic-but-how-872602.html
12-08-2020||Panorama||Prevent tobacco lobby interference||Tobacco use remains a major public health challenge in India accounting for over 13 lakh premature adult deaths a year. Many more suffer from myriad diseases. The annual cost of tobacco attributable diseases among adults in India for the year 2011 was estimated to be a whopping 1,04,500 crores. That accounted for 1.16% of India’s GDP and far exceeded the governments’ expenditure on health as well as the total excise collected from tobacco that year.  Governments, especially in the last two decades, have taken several measures to curb tobacco use. India enacted the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act in 2003 that mandated pictorial health warnings on tobacco products and prohibited smoking in public places, the advertisements of tobacco as well as tobacco sales to minors. The National Tobacco Control Program is in place since 2007 to raise awareness on tobacco harms, promote the implementation of laws, and offer cessation support.   These measures did make a difference. Nationwide surveys show that the proportion of people using tobacco came down from 34.6% in 2010 to 28.6% in 2017. This meant 81 lakh fewer tobacco users during this period saving a significant number of lives. We, however, are yet to plug a crucial policy gap: protecting these public health policies from tobacco industry interference.  In 2003, the World Health Assembly adopted the first global health treaty, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control to address the tobacco pandemic using evidence-based demand- and supply-side measures. India played an active role in negotiating the Convention signing and fully ratifying it in 2004. As India remains among the world’s largest consumer, producer, and exporter countries of tobacco, it is indeed crucial to protect public health policies from commercial interests in the tobacco sector.  A decade and a half passed since India signed the Convention but is yet to have a national policy to prevent tobacco industry interference. In 2011, as part of the public interest litigation, the Government of India had submitted to the Karnataka High Court to develop a code of conduct for public officials preventing tobacco industry interference in the development and implementation of tobacco control policies/programs. While such a policy did not materialize at the national level, at least 14 states in India, starting with Punjab in 2015, adopted a protocol for public officials. These protocols limit the interactions of public officials with the tobacco industry making them transparent, and prevent the exchange of favors as well as any partnership between a public agency and the tobacco industry.  These subnational measures despite their suboptimal enforcement seem to be yielding some results. Last month, a collaborative of 26 tobacco control researchers and practitioners across the country developed the India Tobacco Industry Interference Index 2020. The Index uses a standardized tool and systematic gathering of information from public sources to assess various aspects of interference such as the level of industry participation in policy development; benefits to the tobacco industry; measures for transparency; and preventing conflicts of interest. The overall Index score indicates the degree of tobacco industry interference: lower the score, lesser the interference. The Index 2020 has an overall score of 61 out of 100 indicating an improvement in governments’ efforts in protecting public health policies from industry interference compared to the previous years.  To protect the public health gains and to do better in the future, it is high time that India adopts a national policy cutting across ministries and departments. To do this well, we would need to do more than just the codes of conduct for public officials, and check the so-called corporate social responsibility activities by the tobacco industry; divest and prevent public investments in tobacco companies; provide alternative and safer livelihoods for tobacco growers and workers; and align policies of commerce, finance, agriculture and other non-health departments with the public health goals over time.  (The writer is Director, Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/prevent-tobacco-lobby-interference-872603.html
12-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Doordarshan back in our lives||Back in the ‘80s, two serials on Doordarshan completely changed the way we looked at entertainment. The serial, Ramayana, followed by Mahabharata, became an integral part of our socio-cultural life. The visual retellings of these two epics on television for the first time created unprecedented interest in the stories as never before. When Ramayana went on air, people cutting across age groups virtually glommed onto the episodes every Sunday as streets became empty. In no time, the serial surged in popularity. Actors like Arun Govil, who played Lord Rama and Deepika Chikhalia, who played Sita, became instant household names. The divine aura of these actors seeped into real lives so seamlessly that people started deifying them. After Ramayana, another epic, Mahabharata, began to be aired on DD, which equally garnered enormous viewership from the word go. Cut to 2020. Both these epics are back on Doordarshan, being aired in a time when our country goes into lockdown mode. No wonder those of us who grew up watching these epics on Doordarshan is feeling nostalgic watching them again. Now that people, including youngsters, are watching the performances of the actors of both these serials, they have become social media celebrities. The kind of publicity and coverage they are getting today was something unthinkable during those pre-internet days. These actors can now be seen waxing lyrical about the ‘80s and sharing their experiences on the sets.  Another popular serial which has made a comeback after a gap of 30 years is Buniyaad, a gripping story revolving around Partition. The serial has lost none of its verve and relevance even today. The acting, setting and music are simply brilliant. Children and teenagers are also having a whale of a time watching old popular serials like Shaktimaan, our desi Superman, and the ever-popular, The Jungle Book. These two serials are holding even today’s otherwise internet savvy and gadget-obsessed generation spellbound. No wonder, they make sure they don’t miss any of these episodes. And who can forget the detective serial, titled Byomkesh Bakshi that stood out from the cluster of other serials? This popular serial is also being re-telecast on DD these days. In each episode, Rajit Kapur, as a soft-spoken and dhoti-clad detective, known for his ingenious reasoning, unravels the mystery surrounding somebody’s death or disappearance. The serial’s popularity remains undiminished even after twenty-five years. With parents working from home, the old tradition of families watching television serials together at home, has also staged a comeback.  Thanks for these small mercies in the time of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/doordarshan-back-in-our-lives-872284.html
12-08-2020||Right in the Middle||In those days...||People celebrated festivals with great jubilance and panache in the past. The preparations kicked off weeks in advance with the entire house getting a makeover. Elders got their act together by cleaning, shopping, and churning out assorted sweets and savouries in the kitchen. They took care to keep the goodies--tucked away in tall tin boxes--out of reach of children.  The festival days saw the courtyard washed clean with cow-dung and adorned with eye-catching rangolis. Fresh mango buntings spruced up the doorway. The non-Hindu festivals saw our Muslim and Christian brethren reciprocate our gesture. The Pongal or the harvest festival was my favourite for two reasons --it coincided with my birthday, and it was a time when sugarcane was available in plenty. I loved to chew on the juicy cubes or drink the sweet juice with a dash of lime. The sweet Pongal--a delicious south Indian dish made with rice, moong lentils, ghee, jaggery or sugar, cardamoms and nuts--was something to die for. The word environment pollution did not exist in our lexicon back then, and the Deepavali or the festival of lights saw the kids strut their stuff and plunge headlong into celebrations by exploding crackers. We were trigger happy, aiming our little toy guns, loaded with roller caps, at our neighbours a la James Bond. The innovative among us manufactured low-intensity bombs made of gunpowder which when loaded into a metal container and banged hard on to the ground with the aid of an iron pole created a deafening blast, strong enough to scare the living daylights out of the faint-hearted. The nights turned magical with lit diyas and splendorous fireworks. Many homes had a niche in the wall near the gate to house the oil lamps. Neighbours competed to out bomb each other. The festival lasted three days, and the D-Day culminated with the bursting of a 5000 wala, which witnessed frightened passersby freeze in their tracks. I recall how a lady who lived nearby and had spent her years as a youth in war-torn Germany, remained bolted indoors during Deepavali; ears plugged with cotton buds. The ear-shattering sounds of firecrackers startled her and reminded her of the horrific days of WWII when German towns and cities came under Allied air raids. But her adamant teenage son hardly spared a thought for her travails and cheerfully went about firing on all cylinders! The vibrancy, colour and joy of the festivals permeated every aspect of life, and the bonhomie that existed then among people from all communities is sadly absent today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-those-days-872601.html
12-08-2020||Second Edit||Fire audits needed in Covid-19 hospitals||Hospitals are particularly vulnerable to conflagrations as oxygen cylinders are stored in large numbers in basements and sometimes close to patients. Oxygen is also piped to various rooms, which means that a spark can quickly become a raging fire in a matter of minutes. A Covid-care hospital would be all the more susceptible to fire accidents as oxygen use by patients in such hospitals is far higher than in other hospitals. One would have thought that this would have made hospital authorities all the more cautious. Sadly, it did not. Preliminary investigations have revealed that there were defects in the wiring at the Vijayawada hotel-turned-hospital. Why did civic authorities give it permission to function as a hotel in the first place? Did the fire brigade okay the operation of the hotel? Didn’t the hospital management check the building papers before they leased it to run a hospital? Apparently, hospital authorities were aware of the faulty wiring but ignored the problem. It does seem that in the rush to make quick profits from treating Covid-19 patients, safety of patients was not a priority. The Ahmedabad hospital fire underscores another major problem that has surfaced in the wake of the pandemic. Faulty medical equipment is being manufactured and sold in the country. Eyeing windfall gains in the current crisis, manufacturers are paying little attention to the quality of medical equipment. In the rush to meet the demand, safety cannot become a casualty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/fire-audits-needed-in-covid-19-hospitals-872282.html
12-08-2020||Second Edit||Bengaluru riots: Nothing can justify mob violence||The extreme and mindless violence resorted to by a section of people in a part of Bengaluru city on Tuesday evening, which has caused the loss of three lives and much damage to public and private property, should be strongly condemned and put down with a heavy hand and strong measures. In the sudden eruption of trouble in KG Halli and DJ Halli, areas in the north-eastern part of the city, many people and police personnel were attacked, houses were vandalised, vehicles were set afire and much property was destroyed. Though the violence seemed to have erupted suddenly, the way it was reported to, the number of people involved in it and the large assortment of weapons which were used showed that it could only have been planned and organised. A number of people who perpetrated the violence and others who instigated and planned it have been arrested and detained, and the situation is being closely monitored.  A social media post made by a relative of a Congress MLA which was derogatory of Prophet Mohammad is said to have triggered the violence. Such incendiary postings are wrong and the person who made them should be hauled up before the law. Such acts are deliberate attempts to create strife and disorder and should be treated as such. But the response to it cannot be the unleashing of violence on people and police personnel and destruction of property. It should also be examined whether there was any laxity or slackness on the part of the police in handling the matter and the situation. There are reports that the police had ignored Muslim groups’ complaints about the offensive social media post and was late in responding to the brewing trouble. There also seems to have been a failure on the part of intelligence. The immediate task is to bring the situation completely under control and ensure that it does not spread to other areas. It must also be ensured that it does not take on a communal colour. It is basically a law and order issue in which a group of people have wrongly reacted to a wrong act. The perpetrators of violence and those who were behind it should be brought before the law and punished, just as the person who may have provoked it should be. The situation should not be politicised either. Unfortunately, statements of a political nature have already been made. But it would be wrong for any group or section to take political advantage of it. It is unfortunate that the city has to deal with such a situation when it is busy tackling a deteriorating Covid-19 scene.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bengaluru-riots-nothing-can-justify-mob-violence-872600.html
12-08-2020||South||Too premature to make initial assessment of Kozhikode plane crash, says AAIB chief||Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) chief Aurobindo Handa has said that evidence is being collected for carrying out a formal probe into the Air India Express plane crash and it was too premature to make an initial assessment of the incident. At least 18 people, including two pilots, died in the Air India Express aircraft crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday. The Boeing 737 plane, carrying 190 people, had overshot the runway and later broke into pieces. On the initial assessment about the crash, Handa said the investigation is being carried out as per the Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017 and ICAO Annex 13. "As the objective of the investigation is prevention of accidents and incidents, a thorough and an in-depth investigation into all contributory factors would be carried out. It is too premature to make an initial assessment of the crash," he told PTI in an e-mail interview late Tuesday evening. Handa is the Director General of the AAIB. The International Civil Aviation Organisation's (ICAO) Annex 13 on aircraft accident and incident investigation contains the international standards and recommended practices for aircraft accident and incident investigation. The digital flight data recorder (DFDR) and cockpit voice recorder (CVR) of the ill-fated aircraft have been recovered. "Initial collection of evidences is in progress for carrying out formal investigation into the causes of the accident to Air India Express B- 737 aircraft VT-AXH," Handa said while replying to a query on when the initial report is expected to be submitted to the government. An Airports Authority of India (AAI) spokesperson, on Saturday, said the plane had touched down near a taxiway that is around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway at the Kozhikode airport before breaking into pieces. The Kozhikode airport has a table-top runway and is operated by the AAI. On whether there is a possibility that the first officer could have taken control of the plane and any indications of pilots' or air traffic controllers’ (ATC) failure, Handa said, "It is a part of the investigation and any comments made at this stage would be inappropriate and irresponsible". In response to a query on whether overseas agencies would be assisting in the probe, Handa said that if AAIB requires any assistance, overseas agencies would be contacted. "Each aircraft accident investigation is unique. Seasoned investigators do study the reports of other accident investigation agencies as well and there is a little doubt in my mind that they won't be aware of the recommendations of Mangalore crash," Handa said. He was responding to a question on the possible takeaways for the probe from the report on the plane crash in Mangalore in 2010. In 2010, an Air India Express aircraft overshot the runway at Mangalore airport, fell into a gorge, caught fire and 158 people lost their lives in the accident. The Court of Inquiry into the Mangalore accident, that happened on May 22, 2010, had said the direct cause was the captain's failure to discontinue the unstabilised approach of the plane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/too-premature-to-make-initial-assessment-of-kozhikode-plane-crash-says-aaib-chief-872378.html
12-08-2020||South||Covid-19 tally in Telangana rises to 84,544; nine more deaths||Telangana continued to see an increase in Covid-19 cases with nine more fatalities and 1,897 new cases being reported, taking the total number of people infected by the virus in the state to 84,544. The toll mounted to 654 with nine more deaths, a state government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 11. Out of the total 1,897 fresh cases, 479 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri 172, Rangareddy 162, Sangareddy 107 and Warangal Urban 87. Except Komaram Bheem Asifabad (5), all the remaining 32 districts reported positive cases in double digits. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.77 per cent, while it was 1.99 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the disease so far was 61,294, while 22,596 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 72.49 per cent in the state, while it was 69.79 per cent in the country. The bulletin said 22,972 samples were tested on August 11 taking the cumulative to 6.65 lakh. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent. The percentage of deaths caused by Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals and laboratories, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-in-telangana-rises-to-84544-nine-more-deaths-872382.html
12-08-2020||South||Kamala Harris nomination moment of pride for Indians: O Panneerselvam||The nomination of US senator Kamala Harris, who has her connections with Chennai, as the vice- presidential running mate for the American Presidential elections 2020, is a moment of pride for Indians and Tamil Nadu, said state deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. Reacting to Tuesday's announcement, Panneerselvam recalled her roots and conveyed his hearty wishes. "It is a moment of pride for Indians and TamilNadu especially, as Kamala Harris, the first Indian senator, whose mother hails from Tamil Nadu has been nominated as the Vice Presidential candidate by the US Democratic party. My hearty wishes to her," he said in a tweet. Harris' mother, Shyamala, was the daughter of PV Gopalan, who was active in the Indian independence movement and then became a high-ranking civil servant who fought against corruption. US Democratic party presidential nominee Joe Biden had on Tuesday named 55-year-old Harris as his vice presidential running mate, making history by selecting the first black woman to compete on a major party's presidential ticket. Harris, whose father is an African from Jamaica and mother an Indian, is currently the US Senator from California.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamala-harris-nomination-moment-of-pride-for-indians-o-panneerselvam-872438.html
12-08-2020||South||Puducherry witnesses highest single-day Covid-19 spike with 481 cases||Puducherry on Wednesday registered its highest single-day spurt of 481 coronavirus cases and five deaths, taking the overall tally in the union territory to 6,381. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a virtual press conference that the identification of 481 cases after examination of 1,123 samples during last 24 hours was 'shocking' and highest on a single day so far. He noted that Puducherry accounted for 413 of the new cases, while Yanam reported 67 and Mahe one case. Five people died of the disease, taking the toll to 96. The patients were in the age group ranging between 41 and 90 years. Two of the deceased were male patients and the remaining were female, the Minister said. Of the overall Covid-19 cases, the active cases were 2,616, total patients treated and discharged were 3,669. Health Minister said 49,715 samples were tested so far, out of which 42,771 tested negative. He said the results of remaining samples was on and results were awaited. "The positive cases would increase further. I have been insisting total lock down for some days to contain the spread of the pandemic. I hope the Chief Minister who would chair a meeting of the State level Disaster Management Authority later in the day would take appropriate decision`, the Health Minister said. The rate of positivity was 38.6 per cent while death rate was 1.5 per cent and recovery rate was 57.9 per cent in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-witnesses-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-481-cases-872452.html
12-08-2020||South||Its now DMK vs BJP in Tamil Nadu: V P Duraisamy||The BJP's growth in Tamil Nadu has altered the political landscape in the state and the 2021 Assembly elections will be a fight between it and DMK, under a BJP-led alliance, the saffron party's state vice president V P Duraisamy claimed on Wednesday. Also, being a national party, the BJP has the right to lead the alliance in 2021 Assembly polls, he said. However, the ruling AIADMK, with whose alliance the BJP faced the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, sought to make light of Duraisamy's statement, saying it would respond to the matter only if the saffron party's state leadership endorsed them. "The BJP has grown spectacularly in Tamil Nadu. Earlier it was AIADMK (now ruling party) versus the DMK. Now after the Ku Ka Selvam (episode), it has become BJP versus DMK in the next Assembly elections," Duraisamy told reporters here. Selvam, the DMK MLA from the city's Thousand Lights constituency and apparently leaning towards the BJP, had met its party chief J P Nadda in Delhi last week and also visited the saffron party's state head office, even as he was suspended from the Dravidian party. He had wanted DMK chief M K Stalin to sever the party's ties with the Congress, besides demanding the party president to criticise a YouTube group that had denigrated 'Kanda Sashti Kavacham' a Tamil hymn sung in praise of Lord Murugan. Asked about the alliance, Duraisamy said "all like-minded parties would be part of the alliance. Our alliance will surely win the elections and form the government." When asked which party would lead the alliance, Duraisamy shot back, "the BJP, of course." "Being a national party, the BJP has the right to lead the alliance in the coming Assembly elections in the state. But this is my personal view. The party leadership will take a decision on the alliance," Duraisamy, himself a former DMK leader who joined the party in May, added. Responding to Duraisamy, the AIADMK hinted that such statements would carry weight only if it was made by the BJP state unit president L Murugan. "Did Murugan say this?" asked senior leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar. "Murugan is the state BJP chief. Anyone can make any opinion in a democratic set up. Whether it is the party view, let him (Murugan) clarify. We will respond then," he told reporters when asked about Duraisamy's remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/its-now-dmk-vs-bjp-in-tamil-nadu-v-p-duraisamy-872509.html
12-08-2020||South||Death toll in Kerala landslide goes up to 55; Governor and CM likely to visit||Three more bodies, including that of two children, were recovered from Pettimudi landslide near Munnar in Kerala on Wednesday taking the death toll to 55. About 15 more persons were still missing even six days after the landslide on Thursday late night. At present, the rescue workers are carrying out searches in the nearby river. Many bodies were already recovered from the river. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were planning to visit the landslide-hit areas on Thursday. There were criticisms that though he CM rushed to visit Kozhikode plane crash victims, he did not visit the landslide victims who are plantation workers. More compensation and relief measures for the landslide victims will be also announced by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-in-kerala-landslide-goes-up-to-55-governor-and-cm-likely-to-visit-872518.html
12-08-2020||South||Jagan launches scheme to help deprived women become entrepreneurs||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched a welfare-cum-entrepreneurial program for women, costing about Rs 4,700 crore annually. Under the “YSR Cheyutha” (handholding) scheme, approximately 23 lakh women aged between 45 and 60 years hailing from the SC, ST, BC, and minority communities would be given Rs 18,750 per year for four years aggregating to Rs 75,000, to help them build a sustainable livelihood. Launching the scheme on Wednesday, Reddy said that during his 3,648 km padayatra across the state, he had witnessed the woes of many women in the age group of 45 to 60 years, struggling to run their families as no government scheme applied for them. “Our initial plan of pensions for this age group attracted ridicule from detractors. So, after reconsideration, we decided to provide a financial incentive to such women and open entrepreneurial opportunities suiting their interests like a small grocery store, dairy farming or food processing. The government’s handholding under this initiative would be for four years and would help the women avail bank loans too,” CM Reddy said. There are no constraints or compulsions on the beneficiaries on how they wished to spend the annual amount of Rs 18,750. For those wanting to invest in a productive venture, village volunteers would assist with a two-page letter of consent and the government would customize a business model for them, the Chief Minister said. The Andhra Pradesh government has entered into MoUs with corporate companies like the ITC, Procter & Gamble, Hindustan Unilever, Amul and Reliance to help these women start their business units. “There would be more such MoUs with business houses in the coming days to help create more business opportunities. These companies will supply their products at the price supplied to their agents or less so that our women entrepreneurs will get more profit. Amul’s co-operation would be in the dairy industry,” Reddy said. State government agencies, the Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty, the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas will coordinate the program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-launches-scheme-to-help-deprived-women-become-entrepreneurs-872535.html
12-08-2020||South||Inquiry into 2017 flight skidding at Kozhikode airport did not find any lapse with runway||While the AIE flight crash at Kozhikode international airport triggered concerns over the safety of the tabletop runway, especially citing similar incidents earlier, an enquiry report into a 2017 incident at the same runway did not point out any fault with the runway despite it being wet. Excessive rudder input by the pilot to bring the aircraft on the runway centre line was found to be the cause for the 2017 incident, according to DGCA's enquiry report published last month. It was on August 4, 2017, almost exactly three years ahead of the present crash on August 7, that a Spice Jet flight from Chennai to Kozhikode with 70 passengers and five crew veered off to the right after touchdown. There were no casualties. Compared to the present flight crash in which Boeing 737-800 aircraft was involved, the 2017 incident involved a smaller aircraft, 70-seater Bombardier Q-400. However, a striking similarity between the two incidents was that the in both the cases the flight's initial plan was to land on runway 28 but later opted runway 10 as requested by the pilot. There was moderate rain and runway surface condition was wet. Though an under-training pilot was planned to fly the entire sector, in view of the rain pilot in command decided to carry out the landing. The incident took place during the morning hours. After touch down the flight veered off to the right and the right wheel entered the soft-land and rolled for around 245 metres, while left wheel rolled over runway shoulder, damaging five runway edge lights. Later the aircraft entered the runway and came to complete stop. The aircraft had also sustained minor damages. According to the report, the probable cause of the incident is excessive rudder input by the pilot to bring the aircraft on the runway centre line. "Unstabilised approach coupled with non-adherence to standard callouts by pilot monitoring was the contributory factor to the incident," it said. It recommended that the airline may be instructed to issue a circular to emphasize the use of standard callouts and check during annual refresher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inquiry-into-2017-flight-skidding-at-kozhikode-airport-did-not-find-any-lapse-with-runway-872545.html
12-08-2020||South||Kerala might flatten Covid-19 curve by October, says expert panel head||Kerala government Covid-19 expert committee chairman B Ekbal has said that Kerala might be able to flatten the Covid-19 curve by October. Mr Ekbal, who is a public health activist and State Planning Board member, said in an online interview that Covid-19 transmission might be at its peak in Kerala by September and the total cases may go up to 75,000. Meanwhile, 1,212 fresh Covid1-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, and 880 recovered taking the active cases to 13,048. Around 55 inmates of the Central prisons were tested positive in Covid-19 antigen test, prompting the prison authorities to conduct antigen test for all inmates within two days. Most of those tested positive were asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-might-flatten-covid-19-curve-by-october-says-expert-panel-head-872606.html
12-08-2020||South||Munnar landslide death toll reaches 55; Governor and CM likely to visit||Three more bodies, including that of two children, were recovered from Pettimudi landslide near Munnar in Kerala on Wednesday taking the death toll to 55. About 15 more persons are missing six days after the landslide that took place late on Thursday. At present, the rescue workers are carrying out searches in the nearby river. Many bodies were already recovered. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were planning to visit the landslide hit areas on Thursday. There were criticisms that though he CM rushed to visit Kozhikode plane crash victims, he did not visit the landslide victims who are plantation workers. More compensation and relief measures for the landslide victims will be also announced by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/munnar-landslide-death-toll-reaches-55-governor-and-cm-likely-to-visit-872621.html
12-08-2020||South||Equating Hindi with nationalism is shameful: Kanimozhi||More than not knowing Hindi, the issue of equating Hindi with nationalism is "shameful" and it edged out all other languages in the country in determining one's identity, DMK MP Kanimozhi said on Wednesday. The Thoothukudi Lok Sabha MP claimed she had never studied Hindi in school nor learnt the language even after she started going to Delhi as a Parliamentarian. On Sunday, Kanimozhi had said she was asked whether or not she was an Indian after she told a CISF official at the airport to speak in Tamil or English as she did not understand Hindi. The CISF had subsequently ordered a probe into the matter. "The issue is not about knowing Hindi or not. It is shameful (to say) I can be Indian only if I know Hindi," Kanimozhi told reporters at the airport here. Referring to her experience at the airport on Sunday, she said it was heartening to note that the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) authorities took action responding to "our feelings." "The truth is I don't know Hindi. I never studied it in my school, where only Tamil and English were taught. Even after I started going to Delhi, I have not learnt that language," she said. The language barrier persisted in several places, especially the Central government offices, Kanimozhi said. With a change in attitude, people will definitely get the feeling that they too are Indians and are respected. "This will install faith among the people that there is a place for regional languages in this country," she added. "Only if I know Hindi, I can translate. Let it be proved if there is evidence," she said responding to a query that she had done a translation from Hindi in 1989.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/equating-hindi-with-nationalism-is-shameful-kanimozhi-872627.html
12-08-2020||South||'Critical flaws in government's Covid-19 response strategy, says Ramesh Chennithala, CM dismisses charge||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday alleged that there were 'critical flaws' in the government's Covid-19 response and containment strategies and even in the discharge policy, a charge dismissed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The containment strategy was "limited to the self aggrandisement in the regular evening press conference of the Chief Minister" and the government was infected by "PR pandemic and self promotion", he told reporters here. The Chief Minister later in the day dismissed the charge, saying that the leader of the opposition was oblivious to the government's new discharge policy, revised as per the directions of the expert panel and details of which had been stated at an earlier press meet. "It seems the Opposition Leader is oblivious to the revised discharge policy of the state government, which was finalised as per the directions of the expert panel. The patient will be discharged only if he/she tests negative unlike some other states where the patient is discharged after 10 days if he/she is unsymptomatic," the Chief Minister said at his daily Covid-19 press briefing. He said neither the WHO, ICMR, the central government or other experts in this field had expressed any reservations to the policies adopted by the state government. Vijayan also said that the global policy is based on the test positivity rate and test per million rate and "at one point of time Kerala was leading in the world itself". He pointed out that the discharge policy had only been revised and not changed despite the rise in the number of cases in Kerala. "When the whole society is facing the pandemic together, it is unfortunate that the Opposition is trying to weaken our fight against it," Vijayan added. The Chief Minister also said that Kerala was ensuring the best of treatment to Covid-19 patients free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/critical-flaws-in-governments-covid-19-response-strategy-says-ramesh-chennithala-cm-dismisses-charge-872648.html
12-08-2020||State||Govt appealed to compensate farmers: MLA||Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan M P, Somwarpet Tahsildar Govindaraju and officials from the Agriculture Department on Monday visited the farmers and residential areas near Chiklihole dam where rains have caused extensive damages. Reviewing the situation, Ranjan said that villages in Kambibane Gram Panchayat limits had been receiving heavy rains for the three years and the farmers had suffered losses after crops were destroyed. This year, Chettalli region too has received 14 inches of rain in a single day leading to the destruction of crops and losses to the tune of lakhs of rupees to farmers. "The issue has been brought to the notice of chief minister. We have appealed to the government to compensate the farmers for the losses incurred," the MLA said. Ranjan meanwhile directed the officials from the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Revenue to provide complete details on the losses incurred in the region due to incessant rains. He said he would verify the details by conducting site inspections. Later, a proposal will be submitted to the government for compensation. Farmers Manjunath Rai, Babu Rai, Chandrahas Rai, Pushpadhar Rai and others said that owing to continuous rains for a week, paddy and jowar fields were inundated. Now, the fields are filled with slush and the paddy and jowar crops have been destroyed. The fields were waterlogged as the Upputhodu stream at Biddirahalla overflowed. The MLA visited the coffee and areca plantations which were destroyed by the floodwater from Chiklihole dam. He noted that water in Upputhodu rivulet, near Chiklihole dam, has not been flowing freely due to blockages. The stream is filled with mud and shrubs. Measures will be taken to clean the stream, he added. Zilla Panchayat Vice President Lokeshwari Gopal, district BJP former president B B Bharatish, Taluk BJP president Dasanda Ramesh, Agriculture department Deputy Director Rajashekhar and the Revenue department personnel were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-appealed-to-compensate-farmers-mla-872261.html
12-08-2020||State||This is mini Vidhana Soudha, not a haunted structure||The Somwarpet taluk office is also called Mini Vidhana Soudha. But except for the grandiosity in the name it shares no other traits with its namesake. The building has not seen a coat of paint for the last several years. Without lights, it looks like a haunted structure in the night. Though ministers, who visited the building, promised of aid for repair, the building remains neglected as no funds have been released. Originally, built as Tahsildar’s office in 1997, it was later renamed as mini Vidhana Soudha. It was built at a cost of Rs 1 crore, 23 years ago. The building houses Tahsildar’s office, Treasury office, Election Wing, RTC distribution centre, Nemmadi Kendra and offices of the Food and Civil Supplies department and Revenue department. The monsoon brings untold miseries as water seeps into the building from all sides. The officials from Revenue department find it hard to save hundreds of files from getting drenched. It is difficult to maintain computers due to the moisture content in the rooms, said a staffer. Plastic sheets have been used to protect the ceiling in the RTC distribution centre. There are 1,37,640 files in the file rooms. A control room was set up to collect information on any disaster. The staff were working round-the-clock. The walkie talkie and phone are dead for the last few months. None have set it right, alleged residents. “The Bettadalli panchayat faces disruption in power supply frequently. There is no network as well. If any mishap occurs, we can not give details to the taluk office,” said Suresh, a local resident. “It is a tragedy that no elected representatives and officials have come forward to get the building repaired,” alleged Advocate B E Jayendra. It is a waste to spend money on repairing the building. The authorities should plan a new building by identifying a suitable land, said Jaya Karnataka taluk unit president Suresh Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-is-mini-vidhana-soudha-not-a-haunted-structure-872268.html
12-08-2020||State||Deep-sea fishing to be allowed in Mangaluru from Sept 1||District-in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that deep-sea fishing in the district will begin from September 1. Poojary, while chairing a meeting at the DC’s office on Tuesday said that the fishing period that normally begins from August 1 had been pushed back and fishing activities affected owing to the fear of the spread of Covid-19.. About 75% of the labourers engaged in fishing hail from outside the state. Those who wish to come back to Mangaluru for work should apply under the Seva Sindhu portal and undergo a Covid-19 test, he said. “Only those who test negative can enter the district. As per the guidelines of the state government, they have to remain in quarantine for 14 days. The fish boat owners should take the responsibility of the labourers,” he added. The district administration will conduct free swab test on labourers who come from outside the state and they can remain quarantined in the boat by maintaining three-meter distance. The market should be sanitised daily. Additional Deputy Commissioner M J Roopa said that retail business in ‘dhakke’ (fisheries port) was banned completely. A team of volunteers should be deployed by the fishermen association to take up thermal screening of those who enter the port, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deep-sea-fishing-to-be-allowed-in-mangaluru-from-sept-1-872313.html
12-08-2020||State||9 Covid-19 fatalities, 243 fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||According to officials, among the nine deaths, eight were from Mangaluru and one was from outside the district. On the other hand, a total of 243 fresh cases were reported in the district, taking the total tally to 7,596. Among the infected, 123 were suffering from ILI symptoms and nine from symptoms of SARI. The contact tracing of 88 persons is underway. 23 infected were the primary contacts of already infected persons. Among the fresh cases, 189 are from Mangaluru, 30 from Bantwal, 6 from Puttur, 4 from Sullia, 10 from Belthangady and four from other districts. The discharges in the district have outnumbered fresh cases. A total of 519 infected have recovered and were discharged from hospitals, home isolation and from Covid care centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/9-covid-19-fatalities-243-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-872333.html
12-08-2020||State||SSLC results: Udupi secures Grade A||Udupi is one of the 10 districts in Karnataka that secured Grade A, according to SSLC examination results made public on Monday. All the education blocks-Karkala, Baindoor, Kundapura, Udupi North and Udupi South had secured Grade A. Twenty-one schools in Baindoor, 24 in Kundapura, 37 in Karkala, 38 in Udupi North and 39 in Udupi South had secured Grade A. Similarly, nine schools in Baindoor, 15 in Kundapura, 13 in Karkala, 17 in Udupi North and 25 in Udupi South had secured Grade B while 23 schools secured Grade C in the district. Udupi had secured the second position in pass percentage with 89.49 % during 2018-19. Out of 13,635 registered students, a total of 13,050 had written their exam. As many as 587 students from Udupi district had written their exam outside the district. DDPI Sheshashayana Karinja expressed immense satisfaction over the results. All the five blocks securing Grade A speaks volumes on the quality of education imparted. Amid the Covid-19 scare, the students have done well, he added. 100% results Many schools in the district had secured 100% results including Morarji Desai School in Miyar; Bhuvanendra Kannada Medium School, Karkala; NASAM Aided High School, Nitte; Jnanasudha High School; St Maria Goretti High School, Hirgana; SVT English Medium High School, Karkala; Ajekaru Church High School; Lions High School, Saccharipete and Sacred Heart High School in Bajagoli. The schools securing 100 per cent results in Udupi taluk are GHS School, Hejamadi Kodi; Anantheshwara High School, Udupi; SVS School, Katpadi; Poornaprajna English Medium School, Admaru. The schools in Baindoor and Brahmavar taluks that achieved cent per cent results are: Government High School, Chithooru; Vivekananda English Medium School, Uppunda; Sri Durgaparameshwari High School, Kamalashile; Shubhada English Medium School, Kirimanjeshwara; Little Star School, Yadadi Matyadi; SV English Medium School, Gangolli; Mother Teresa School, Shankaranarayana; Stella Mary's School, Gangolli; Government High School, Nukkooru; Morarji Desai School, Brahmavar; Milagres High School and Mount Rosary School, Kalyanpura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-results-udupi-secures-grade-a-872344.html
12-08-2020||State||Charred bodies of Bengaluru-bound bus that caught fire identified; Three minors among them||The bodies of five passengers who were charred to death after a bus caught fire near Hiriyur of Chitradurga district in the wee hours of Wednesday have been identified.   Vijayapura Superintendent of Police Anupam Agarwal said the deceased have been identified as Sheela Ravi (33), Sparsha (8), Samruddha (5), Kavitha Vinayak (29) and Nishchita (3) . Ticket booking agency staff said Kukke Shree bus left Vijayapura at 9 pm on Wednesday with 29 passengers on board and two drivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/charred-bodies-of-bengaluru-bound-bus-that-caught-fire-identified-three-minors-among-them-872348.html
12-08-2020||State||Bengaluru-bound bus catches fire, survivors recall nightmare||The presence of mind and courage saved the lives of more than 25 passengers of Bengaluru-bound ill-fated bus that caught fire in the Hiriyur taluk of the district in which five were charred to death in the wee hours of Wednesday.  Some of the survivors shared their experiences with DH. Excerpts: "I was still asleep when the incident took place. I awoke after hearing people screaming. The fire had spread near my seat.  I hit the window glass with force and broke it. I managed to jump out of the bus. Now I am alive," these are the words of Basavaraj Kodihal, who is undergoing treatment at the general hospital in Hiriyur town. He hails from Chadachana taluk, Vijayapura district. He was working in the BMTC workshop in Bengaluru. He was home for three months after the lockdown was enforced to contain Covid-19. He was returning to Bengaluru for work. He was in the last seat of the bus with his friend Prashanth. Recalling the incident, he said "when the bus was off the national highway, I realised something went wrong. After noticing the flames, my suspicion was confirmed. As the engine caught fire, getting down from the vehicle through the door was impossible. I noticed people jumping out of the bus by breaking windows. So I also followed it. My leg sustained injuries. With the help of my friend, I rescued two children but I could not rescue the remaining co-passengers," he explained. Recalling the fire mishap, he said a woman who was seated in the front seat was charred to death as her seat was close to the engine.  It was very painful to watch, Basavaraj said with tearful eyes. Panduranga Chawan, who is serving as a doctor in the Vijayapura District General hospital also jumped out of the bus to save his life. He was heading towards Bengaluru on official duty. He too has sustained burn injuries. He phoned the ambulance service and helped shift injured passengers to the hospital in time. Most passengers sustained burn injuries. "I am alive now and it is nothing but a miracle," he added. Furnishing details of the incident, Superintendent of Police G Radhika said the incident took place around 3:45 am. There was ample time to get down from the bus for passengers. But some burnt to death as they were fast asleep. Some passengers tried to wake up women and children who were asleep. But the situation was going south and they could not be rescued. "We are collecting information on the bus driver."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-bound-bus-catches-fire-survivors-recall-nightmare-872352.html
12-08-2020||State||Act against derogatory posts; Setting fire is not our culture: MLA U T Khader||Condemning the violence in Bengaluru, Mangalore MLA U T Khader said “The police should initiate action against those who posted derogatory remarks. However, setting fire is not our culture. All should respect the law of the land and settle the issue legally.” Referring to the incident of an irate mob on Tuesday late night attacking the house of Congress MLA from Pulikeshinagar, Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, in protest against a defamatory religious post allegedly said to have been posted by the MLA’s relative, Khader in a Tweet said, “Stringent action should be initiated against those who post derogatory remarks on Prophet Mohammed who had upheld equality, humanity and harmony. However, in the name of derogatory remarks, it was not right to take law into hands and damage the public property. Such incidents cannot be accepted.” In another Tweet, he said “one should not give scope for violent incidents. Such incidents should not recur not only in Bengaluru but also in any village in the state.” ಬೆಂಕಿ ಹಚ್ಚುವುದು ನಮ್ಮ‌ ಸಂಸ್ಕೃತಿಯಲ್ಲ,ಏನೇ ಇದ್ದರೂ ಈ ನೆಲದ ಕಾನೂನೇ ಅಂತಿಮ,ಎಲ್ಲರೂ ಶಾಂತಿ ಕಾಪಾಡಿ,ಕಾನೂನು ಹೋರಾಟದಲ್ಲಿ ನಂಬಿಕೆ ಇಟ್ಟುಕೊಳ್ಳಿ. ಕೇವಲ ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಷ್ಟೇ ಅಲ್ಲ ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಯಾವುದೇ ಹಳ್ಳಿಯಲ್ಲೂ ಇಂತಹ ಘಟನೆಗೆ ಅವಕಾಶ ನೀಡಬಾರದು. (2) The Tweet also urged the police to initiate action against those who post derogatory remarks against a religion. All should discharge their duties responsibly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/act-against-derogatory-posts-setting-fire-is-not-our-culture-mla-u-t-khader-872367.html
12-08-2020||State||16 fresh Covid-19 cases take Kodagu’s tally to 776||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in Kodagu district with the district administration recording 16 fresh cases including a frontline worker of Municipal administration in Kushalnagar testing positive, on Wednesday morning. Four of the fresh cases were suffering with symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) while the remaining were the primary contacts of the already infected persons, said DC Annies Kanmani Joy. The total cases in the district stands at 776 and 246 infected are undergoing treatment at the designated Covid hospital and care centres in the district. With the fresh cases, the district administration has notified four containment zones—Shirangala Kote in SOmwarpet, Kallubane in Virajpet, Bhagavathi Nagar in Madikeri and behind municipal office in Dandinpet in Kushalnagar. While seven containment zones—behind ITI in Madikeri, A V School in Mahadevpet, Bethri in Kakotuperambu, Chennangoli in Gonikoppa, Chikka aluvara in Somwarpet, Kukkuru in Virajpet and near masjid in Yemmemadu, have been opened for public after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/16-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-kodagu-s-tally-to-776-872370.html
12-08-2020||State||Four Karnataka police personnel among 121 chosen for Home Minister's medal for excellence in investigations||Around 120 police personnel, including four from Karnataka Police, were on Wednesday chosen for the prestigious 'Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for the year 2020. From Karnataka, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sudhir M Hegde, DySP Ashoka D, Inspector Prashanth Babu D M and Head Constable Sridhira H S have been chosen for the award. Two CBI officers -- Inspectors Rakesh Ranjan and Vijaya Vaishnavi -- posted in Bengaluru have also been selected for the award. Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, “a thorough Investigation plays a pivotal role in delivering justice. I congratulate all the recipients of ‘Medal for Excellence in Investigation-2020’. This is a recognition of the outstanding service and commitment of our police personnel. India is proud of them.” This medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognize such Excellence in Investigation by investigating officers. Altogether 121 police personnel have been chosen for this year's award. The list also included 21 women police personnel. The CBI, the premier investigating agency of the country, tops the list with 15 of its officials getting the award followed by 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, eight from Uttar Pradesh Police and seven each are from Kerala and West Bengal Police. Five personnel from the National Investigation Agency also have bagged the award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-karnataka-police-personnel-among-121-chosen-for-home-ministers-medal-for-excellence-in-investigations-872385.html
12-08-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa tells DG&IGP to act tough on those responsible for Bengaluru violence||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday directed DG&IGP Praveen Sood to act tough on those responsible for the Tuesday night violence in KG Halli and DJ Halli limits besides deployment of additional forces to ensure law and order in the area. Karnataka Police Chief Praveen Sood on Wednesday met the CM and briefed him about about the developments since yesterday night. Later CM directed the DG&IG to deploy as many force as possible in the area to take control of the situation. He also directed Praveen Sood to hold talks with the local leaders from the Muslim community. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant had also met CM and briefed him about the incident in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-dgigp-to-act-tough-on-those-responsible-for-bengaluru-violence-872408.html
12-08-2020||State||Karnataka to get Rs 30,000 cr worth of investment from companies: Shettar||Hubballi: Large & Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Wednesday stated that approvals have been given for around Rs 30,000 crore investment in Karnataka by various companies in recent months, and they are expected to generate 50,000 jobs. "Officials concerned are in regular touch with more interested investors, and a meeting of officials would be called soon, to discuss the progress," he said. Steps are taken to increase Swadeshi productions, especially during the lockdown, and FMCG sector is making profits. Several MNCs are coming out of China, and are interested to invest in Karnataka also. Based on the guidelines of the Union Government and tie-up of Chinese companies with other firms, a decision about allowing Chinese companies to operate in Karnataka would be taken, he clarified. Tuesday's violence in Bengaluru is not a failure of the police, and the incident is condemnable. Nobody should violate the law in the name of religion, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-get-rs-30000-cr-worth-of-investment-from-companies-shettar-872412.html
12-08-2020||State||SSLC results: Dakshina Kannada secures Grade B||The Dakshina Kannada district has secured Grade B in the 2019-20 SSLC examination results. The district stood in the seventh position with 86.73% pass percentage in 2018-19. The state government had decided to break the convention of announcing the pass percentage of the different districts and has instead come up with a three-level grading system. Grades are decided based on the total number of students in a district who cleared the exams (40%), combined marks secured by all candidates from a district (40%), and the number of students from a district who secured first class and distinction (20%). Those who have an aggregate above 75% get an A grade, those between 60 and 75% get a B, and those below 60% get C. The district has 510 high schools of which 213 schools have secured A grade, 176 schools B grade and 121 schools C grade. A total of 30,835 students had registered for the exam. The DK district had stood second (82.39%) in the SSLC pass percentage in 2016-17 and fourth in 2017 -18 (85.66%). In fact, private schools have secured good grades in the district. A total of 161 unaided high schools have secured grade A, 26 each government and aided high schools have secured grade A in the district. Seventy-three government high schools have secured grade B along with 50 aided and 53 unaided high schools, said DDPI Malleswamy. As many as 79 government high schools in the district have secured Grade C in addition to 32 aided and 10 unaided schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-results-dakshina-kannada-secures-grade-b-872421.html
12-08-2020||State||Will ask Anant Kumar Hegde to clarify statement on sacking BSNL employees: Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday said that he would seek clarification from Uttara Kannada MP Anant Kumar Hegde for his statement on privatisation of BSNL, sacking of employees and calling them traitors. "Hegde's opinion is personal, but the Union Government is committed to revive sick PSUs, while AIR and Doordarshan are examples," he said. In reply to RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa's statement about removing masjids in Kashi and Mathura temple areas, Kateel once again noted that it was his personal opinion and not the party's stand.  On Bengaluru violence Kateel suspected a systematic conspiracy against the BJP government by some political parties or organisations behind the violence by hundreds of people near KG Halli Police Station in Bengaluru on Tuesday. The government would take strict action against the accused, he said. Flood relief A compensation of Rs 4,000 crore is sought for the State from the Centre for flood relief works and funds would be given as per NDRF guidelines. BJP workers are also given a call to actively engage in flood relief and rescue operations, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-ask-anant-kumar-hegde-to-clarify-statement-on-sacking-bsnl-employees-kateel-872434.html
12-08-2020||State||Riots: BJP says it was an attack on 'Dalit' MLA||Following the riots in Bengaluru on late Tuesday evening, the BJP sought to corner the Congress by highlighting that it was a ‘Dalit’ MLA who was attacked. Leading the charge was BJP national general secretary (organization) B L Santhosh, who asked why Congress pursued “so much of appeasement, fear” even when their own legislator was targeted. Of the eight tweets by Santhosh related to Bengaluru riots on Wednesday, the term ‘Dalit MLA’ featured in five of them. “Dead silence by Congress even after their Dalit MLA Sri Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy was attacked, house ransacked yesterday in Bengaluru. Total support for RIGHT TO RIOT? For them appeasement is the only official party policy,” he said in one of the tweets. BJP Karnataka also tagged the incident to Congress’ treatment of Dalits as a mere vote bank. “For decades, Congress has treated Dalits as “Vote Bank” by merely offering them lip sympathy. By failing to strongly condemn the murderous attack on its own Dalit MLA, CONgress has sacrificed the interests of Dalits at the altar of “Appeasement Politics,” it said. Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao, responded sharply, tweeting, “As usual Santosh is using this terrible incident to gain political mileage. His statement is a crude attempt to communalise the issue and divide on caste lines. Pathetic and deplorable.” That is what BJP and RSS does best, play politics over dead bodies, he said. Tourism Minister C T Ravi demanded a comment on the “violent attack by Muslims on a Dalit Congress MLA’s house” from Rahul Gandhi. “Will Rahul Gandhi take up the cause of a Dalit MLA or will he turn blind eye to the atrocities against Dalits?” he said. Meanwhile, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel alleged that the incident was a pre-planned controversy, while state general secretary said that the riot was part of an attempt to create anarchy in India by some elements desperate over the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/riots-bjp-says-it-was-an-attack-on-dalit-mla-872567.html
12-08-2020||State||Bengaluru riots: Congress forms fact-finding team||The state Congress on Wednesday constituted a six-member fact-finding committee headed by former deputy chief minister and home minister G Parameshwara to delve into what led to the rioting in parts of northeast Bengaluru.  The committee will have former home ministers Ramalinga Reddy, K J George, former minister Krishna Byre Gowda, MLCs B K Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed as members.  KPCC president D K Shivakumar, who condemned the violence, chaired a meeting of the party’s legislators to discuss the incident. The fact-finding committee, he said, will visit the violence-hit areas and submit a report.  Speaking to reporters, Shivakumar blamed the police for the violence. “The police delayed action against the inflammatory social media post by Naveen, a supporter of the BJP, which led to the violence. The police should have taken up a case suo motu,” he said.  “The entire system is responsible for this,” he said. “The police have not only failed to protect the MLA and his family, but also a police station,” Shivakumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-riots-congress-forms-fact-finding-team-872568.html
12-08-2020||State||Two kids die, parents survive 'suicide' bid||Unable to cope with the mounting debts, a man from Kottur taluk, attempted suicide along with his wife and two kids by jumping into a lake in Kudligi taluk on Wednesday. The parents survived but the children met watery grave. Chiranjeevi, an alcoholic, was knee-deep in loans. The debt-ridden man and his Nandini entered into a suicide pact. Accordingly, they pushed Kushi (3) and Chiru (1) into a brimming lake before taking a plunge into it. Chiranjeevi sawm to safety. He also pulled his wife along while two kids drowned. The couple dodging the questions by the locals, fled the scene. The bodies of kids have been fished out of the lake. The Gudekote police have registered a murder case against the parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-kids-die-parents-survive-suicide-bid-872584.html
12-08-2020||State||Search operations continue in Talacauvery||Search for the bodies of three more persons who went missing from the landslide-affected Talacauvery continued on Wednesday as well. The whereabouts of priest Narayana Achar’s wife Shantha, assistant priests Ravikiran Bhat and Shrinivas are not yet known. Search operation is being carried out by NDRF, SDRF, police and emergency services personnel using three excavators, at the trench near Nagatheertha, where the priest’s body was traced on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/search-operations-continue-in-talacauvery-872636.html
12-08-2020||State||Teachers clean flooded classrooms||Gusty winds have damaged roof tiles of a government primary school at KP Bane in Cheriyaparambu in Napoklu. As rain water has entered the classrooms, the teachers have come forward to clean the classrooms. Teachers Sukumar, Dharmendra and others are engaged in cleaning the classrooms. The teachers reached the school with the help of a coracle. All the water from the classrooms. The youths from Cheriyaparambu too have joined hands with the teachers.  The team that was cleaning the masjid at Cheriyaparambu has extended its helping hand to the teachers. The school gets inundated every year due to flood. “As a precautionary measure, we had kept the documents, books, and ration at a safer place. Hence the damage is less,” said teacher Sukumar to DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/teachers-clean-flooded-classrooms-872639.html
12-08-2020||State||Father-son duo donate bicycles in Suntikoppa||Extending a helping hand to the needy students and agricultural labourers, a father-son duo from Suntikoppa have donated new bicycles to labourers and students to help them commute easily. Due to the Covid-19 situation, the public transport service has been hit. Also, several roads are damaged due to incessant rainfall in the district making it difficult for the common people especially the agricultural labourers to reach from one place to another. The livelihood of the labourers, who are dependent on plantation work, was affected due to the lack transportation facility. Realising this Vishal Sivappa and his father Vinod Sivappa, planters from Suntikoppa, distributed bicycles to the needy workers and students. Vishal said that his parents and grandparents were involved in social service. During the current situation, people are in need of assistance as their livelihood is affected. “I see many students walking 5 km to 10 km to their schools and workers in various estates walk several kilometers on a daily basis. Donating bicycles would definitely help them reach their destination much faster. This is very small contribution and I am really happy to help them,” he added. Vishal’s father Vinod is also engaged in farmer welfare programmes over the past few years. Vinod said that he felt proud to extend his support to his son’s initiatives directed towards the welfare of the needy labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/father-son-duo-donate-bicycles-in-suntikoppa-872641.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to step up tracing efforts after meeting with PM Narendra Modi||The state government on Tuesday said it will beef up its contact tracing system, which is in shambles, to identify Covid-19 patient contacts within 72 hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised its importance in reining in the pandemic. “The PM stressed on this very clearly,” Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told reporters after briefing Modi on the state’s Covid-19 situation via video conference along with Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan. “The PM said that the primary and secondary contacts of a Covid-19 person should be traced within 72 hours. We have discussed this and it will be done here,” he said.  Sudhakar’s confidence notwithstanding, the state has an uphill task, considering that the contact tracing, where the state excelled once, has virtually collapsed. In June, Karnataka’s per-patient contact tracing touched 47. But today, this figure has fallen to a single digit.  In the last two weeks, the highest number of contacts traced per patient was in Davangere at 10.1, followed by Dharwad (7.6) and Chamarajanagar (6.2). In Bengaluru, on an average 5.2 contacts are being traced for a patient, according to data from the state war room.  Apparently, contact tracing took a beating due to shortage of staff.  According to Sudhakar, Modi also stressed the need to bring down the Covid-19 mortality rate to under 1%. “Mortality rate is a big challenge the world over. India’s mortality rate is 1.99%, Karnataka’s is 1.8% and in Bengaluru, it is 1.7%,” he said. As on Tuesday, the state has 79,606 active cases with 1.05 lakh discharges and 3,398 deaths.  The government informed the PM that the state will have 20,000 beds with oxygen facilities by the end of September. “We have gone from 20,000 tests to 50,000 tests. We told the PM that we will reach 75,000 tests in the coming days,” Sudhakar said.  During the video conference, some chief ministers sought financial assistance under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), but Karnataka did not ask for money. “Instead, we asked for help in setting up liquid oxygen manufacturing units. There’s a demand for liquid oxygen from all states, so the supply is less,” Sudhakar said.   Karnataka also made a strong pitch to increase the number of medical seats, a demand that was seconded by Telangana. “Currently, we have 10,000 undergraduate and 2,000 postgraduate seats. We told the Centre that the number of seats should be doubled, not only for Covid-19, but to be able to deal with any public health emergency in the future,” Sudhakar said.  The government sought the Centre’s permission to start classes for final year medical and paramedical students “so they can be engaged in Covid-related activities”. Also, the Centre was asked to amend the law to make one-year rural service mandatory for medical graduates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-step-up-tracing-efforts-after-meeting-with-pm-narendra-modi-872262.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 2.5 crore loss due to rain in Virajpet||Virajpet Tahsildar L M Nandish said due to heavy rain losses to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore had been reported in six hoblis of the taluk. The official stated that many houses were damaged and crops were destroyed during incessant rains in the last week. Crops, including paddy and coffee, have been destroyed. The revenue department personnel have been finding it difficult to assess the exact amount of damage. A survey regarding crop loss and house damages will be carried out after the rains subside, he added. Around 37 families on the banks of River Cauvery in Karadigodu village near Siddapura, have been shifted to relief centres. In Virajpet taluk, six relief centres have been opened, including one in Virajpet town. Twenty four houses in Ayyappabetta, Maletirikebetta, Arasunagara, Nehrunagar and Sunkadakatte have been damaged. Protective walls have collapsed at four locations. Houses in Kallubane, Thora, Kedamulluru, Heggala, Ramanagara, Perumbadi, Betoli, Bittangala, Maithadi and Kadanga villages were damaged after trees fell on them. More than 130 houses have been damaged in Ammatti, Mugutageri, Balyamanduru, Birunani, Chinivara village, Shrimangala, T Shettageri, West Nemmale, Ponnampet, Kumuturu, Nathangal, K Badaga and Nalkeri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-25-crore-loss-due-to-rain-in-virajpet-872267.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah tests negative for Covid-19, to be discharged on August 13||“Doctors have informed that Siddaramaiah will be discharged from hospital on Thursday,” the statement said. “The throat swab test conducted for the second time has returned negative. Even his blood tests are negative.” Siddaramaiah was admitted to Manipal Hospital on August 4 after he tested Covid-19 positive. “He had fever for the first two days only. Thereafter, he had no symptoms,” according to a statement from his office.  Siddaramaiah’s son and Congress MLA from Varuna Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 7. Siddaramaiah’s recovery from Covid-19 coincides with his birthday. He turned 72 on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-tests-negative-for-covid-19-to-be-discharged-on-august-13-872341.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With no definitive research data, Karnataka relies heavily on 'investigative' Covid-19 drugs||If you are taking a severely ill patient to a Covid-19 hospital in Karnataka, there's a possibility that they may be administrated with 'investigative' drugs. Two of these drugs, Remdesivir and Itolizumab, are for emergency use, two others - Tocilizumab and convalescent plasma - are for 'off-label' use. The results of using the drug are unknown. Even treating doctors cannot predict the clinical outcome of administering the drug. But this hasn't stopped the state from procuring more vials of the drugs. It is also to be noted that recently, Biocon's Itolizumab was rejected by the national Covid-19 task force for inclusion in the clinical management protocol of the infection. For example, the state has so far procured 15,000 vials of Remdesivir, branded as 'under emergency use authorisation' and another 50,000 are in the process of being procured. Tens of patients in the state, in both public and private sector, have been administered the drug. The Karnataka Drug Logistics and Warehousing Society has also invited bids for 1,500 vials of Itolizumab and Tocilizumab. Dr. Anant Bhan, Researcher, Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy, told DH, "For Remdesivir, the evidence so far indicates its utility might be primarily in reducing time taken for clinical improvement. Its impact on critical outcomes is much less uncertain, and in that light, it might be best used in randomised controlled trials for gathering more data, especially in the local context." Dr S Sacchidanand, Vice-Chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, who heads the state therapeutic committee that approves the treatment protocol for Covid-19 from time to time is however optimistic about the investigational therapies despite latest revelations about the efficacy of these drugs.  About Itolizumab (a drug that is branded as 'restricted emergency use'), he said, "We are discussing it in our next meet of the state therapeutic committee. The rejection has only come recently. It has to be officially communicated. Till then we will have to withdraw." Seema Ahuja, Global Head of Communications at Biocon was not available for comment on the same to DH. About drug manufacturer Roche saying that its drug Tocilizumab shows no benefits in clinical status or mortality in Covid-19 patients, Dr. Sacchidanand told DH, "It might not have met certain defined endpoints of its phase 3 clinical trial but has reduced time for discharge. It does act on IL6 cytokines, an inflammatory mediator released during Covid-19 infection." First patient to be administered Itolizumab in Victoria Hospital dies Blissfully unaware of such developments, in the power corridors of the country, people like Zaffer, still go ahead and procure these drugs in a hope to save their loved ones. He recently spent Rs. 32,000 to procure four vials of Itolizumab for his 42-year-old brother-in-law who was a Covid-19 patient being treated at Victoria Hospital. The patient, unfortunately, died on August 3. He told DH, "We procured four 25 mg vials of Itolizumab from a wholesaler called Sri Vignesh Pharma Distributors in Rajajinagar. The doctors told us this is the last option and my brother-in-law can be saved if we get the drug, so we did. But we had to pay the MRP of Rs. 31,800 costing us around Rs. 8,000 per vial." "The doctors told us my brother-in-law will recover on the fifth day after administering the injection but he passed away on the fourth," Zaffer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-no-definitive-research-data-karnataka-relies-heavily-on-investigative-covid-19-drugs-872442.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Magisterial enquiry into Bengaluru riots will be carried out: Basavaraj Bommai||A magisterial enquiry will be carried out into the rioting witnessed in Bengaluru on late Tuesday evening. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government will also recover losses to public property from those who were responsible for rioting. Speaking to reporters, he said that following a high-level meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, it was decided to conduct a magisterial enquiry by the district executive magistrate as per National Human Rights Commission guidelines. As per the same, district magistrate will probe the incident, he said. ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಿನ ದೇವರಜೀವನಹಳ್ಳಿ ಹಾಗು ಕಾಡುಗೊಂಡನಹಳ್ಳಿ ಪೊಲೀಸ್ ಠಾಣಾ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ನಿನ್ನೆ ನಡೆದ ಗಲಭೆಗಳ ಕುರಿತು ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ಮ್ಯಾಜಿಸ್ಟ್ರೇಟ್ ರವರಿಂದ ಸಮಗ್ರ ತನಿಖೆ ನಡೆಸಲು ಆದೇಶಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. "One of the important announcements I want to make is that the recovery of losses (for damaged property), as per Supreme Court directions, should be recovered from the persons behind the incident. That action we are going to take immediately," he said. People behind rioting are being identified and losses suffered is being assessed, Bommai said. A total of 145 people were arrested and the arrests will continue. Enquiry into the incident will be exposed the conspiracy behind the riots, he said. The government has sought additional forces and six parties of Central Reserve Police Force were dispatched from Chennai and Hyderabad, he said. One party of Central Industrial Security Force will also arrive to augment the Garuda teams and Rapid Action Force units deployed in the ground, he said. "Situation is under control. There is total peace and order," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/magisterial-enquiry-into-bengaluru-riots-will-be-carried-out-basavaraj-bommai-872474.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP accuses Congress of not being 'vocal' against rioters in Bengaluru||The ruling BJP in Karnataka on Wednesday accused the Congress of not being "vocal" against rioters who attacked a legislator of the opposition party in Bengaluru, saying "appeasement" seemed to be its official policy. The BJP also said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa must make the rioters pay heavily for the destruction of properties. "Shameful n disgusting! Karnataka Congress is silent on yesterday's vandalism in Bengaluru. Pseudos are also not vocal against this riot! Freedom from fear of riots is what B'luru needs now. Sri B S Yediyurappa must make rioters pay heavily for the destruction of properties.#SaveBengaluru," BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao tweeted.  Rao is the BJP's in-charge for Karnataka affairs. The BJP is in power in the state.  BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh alleged that the Congress was maintaining "dead silence". He noted that rioters had attacked the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, a Dalit.  "... Total support for right to riot. For them appeasement is the only official party policy," he said. "After 14 hours Karnataka Congress wakes up to blame Naveen for Facebook post & Police for delay in taking action. One straight question. Does your party support riots like this? Why Cong hesitates to condemn riots by minority groups? #CongSupportsRiots," he said in a tweet.  Karnataka Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao hit back at Santhosh, accusing him of using the incident to gain political mileage. His statement is a crude attempt to communalise the issue & divide on caste lines, Rao said, calling it "pathetic and deplorable". "That's what BJP & RSS do best, play politics over/with dead bodies," he alleged.  Responding to his swipe, Santhosh tweeted, "At least acknowledge that your own Dalit MLA's house was ransacked . Police station was destroyed. Why Why Why so much of appeasement , fear when your own MLA is targeted ? Be simple & straight Sir." At least three persons were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in Bengaluru.  Rioters were angry over a social media post allegedly put out by the Congress legislator's relative. The post's content was deemed religiously offensives by them.  Police said Naveen, who allegedly put out the post, has been arrested.  Opposition Congress and JD(S) in Karnataka have extended complete support to the state government in establishing peace in violence-hit parts of the city and demanded immediate action against culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-accuses-congress-of-not-being-vocal-against-rioters-in-bengaluru-872504.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Riot-hit areas of Bengaluru's Pulakeshinagar resemble war zone||Areas under Pulakeshinagar assembly constituency here resembled a war zone on Wednesday, hours after an unruly mob went on a rampage torching vehicles, irked over a 'communally sensitive' social media post allegedly by put up by a relative of a Congress MLA. Charred vehicles, shards of glass from broken windows, stones and bricks lay strewn over the deserted roads of the violence-affected localities. Earlier, three people were killed in police firing and scores of others wounded, including at least 50 policemen in the violence and arson that erupted in the city on Tuesday night and continued till the wee hours of Wednesday. Property of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and his family members was targeted after a 'communally sensitive' social media post uploaded online by one of his relatives enraged a section of people. "We were not at home when all this happened," Jayanthi, the MLA's sister said weeping inconsolably. "The only solace is that my brother and his family are safe," she said. The violent crowd set on fire police vehicles and barged into DJ Halli police station on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday and damaged the property. Police have arrested about 110 people on charges of rioting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/riot-hit-areas-of-bengalurus-pulakeshinagar-resemble-war-zone-872533.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees biggest single-day spike of 7,883 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported the biggest single-day spike of 7,883 Covid-19 cases and 113 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1,96,494 and the death toll to 3,510. The day also saw 7,034 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 7,883 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 2,802 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone, the health department said. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on August 8 with 7,178 cases. As of August 12 evening, cumulatively 1,96,494 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 3,510 deaths and 1,12,633 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of 80,343 active cases, 79,642 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 701 are in Intensive Care Units. Twenty three out of 113 deaths were from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (11), Ballari (9), Dakshina Kannada (7), Belagavi, Hassan, Davangere and Tumakuru (6 each), Raichur and Shivamogga (4 each), Udupi, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Bidar and Chamarajanagara (3 each), Dharwad, Koppal, Vijayapura, Chikkamagaluru, Yadgir, Chikkaballapura and Kolar (2 each) and Gadag and Haveri (1 each). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,802, Ballari 635, Mysuru 544, Belagavi 314, Dharwad 269, Udupi 263, Hassan 258, Davangere 239, Dakshina Kannada 229, Koppal 202, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 79,840 infections, followed by Ballari 11,995 and Mysuru 8,467, the bulletin said. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with 45,034 discharges, followed by Ballari 6,231 and Kalaburagi 5,326. A total of 18,26,317 samples were tested so far, out of which 53,326 were tested on Wednesday alone. Among the samples tested today 26,076 were Rapid Antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-7883-new-covid-19-cases-872542.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Much at stake for MLA Akhanda, Congress in Pulakeshinagar||A simple man trying to develop his constituency so that citizens can live a better life.  That’s how two-time Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy describes himself on his Facebook page.  The Pulikeshinagar constituency, reserved for SC, was formed after the 2008 delimitation. Congress’ B Prasanna Kumar won in 2008. But Murthy, who was then with the JD(S), sprang a surprise when he defeated Kumar in 2013. In 2018, Murthy jumped ship to the Congress and won against Kumar who contested as the JD(S) candidate.  The constituency has a sizable number of Muslim and Christian votes, because of which it is seen as the Congress’ stronghold. When Murthy was looking to expand his base among the minorities, he relied on Zameer Ahmed Khan to garner Muslim votes. In fact, Murthy and Khan together joined the Congress ahead of the 2018 Assembly elections along with five others from the JD(S).  “The rioting could involve the handiwork of some people in our party who do not like Murthy,” a top Congress leader told DH. “The fact that even Khan couldn’t bring the situation under control shows that there could be some mischief,” the leader added. Khan could not be reached for comment.  Politically, the Congress is viewing the Tuesday night incident as another wake-up call, especially ahead of the BBMP elections. “There’s the worry that we might be losing the Muslim support base,” the leader said, “because the SPDI is consistently trying to consolidate Muslims in its favour.” In fact, Muzammil Pasha, a prime accused in the riots, belongs to the SDPI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/much-at-stake-for-mla-akhanda-congress-in-pulakeshinagar-872576.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC toppers' to answer scripts in public domain soon||The answer scripts of six toppers, who've scored full 625 marks in the SSLC exams, will soon be uploaded in the public domain. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to upload the answer scripts of toppers on the Board website. "This proposal was there for several years, but not implemented due to technical reasons." said a senior official of the department. Replying to one of the posts on the issue, Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "This year, the answer scripts of toppers will be made public." Meanwhile, child rights activists feel that the department must discuss it with the children concerned as it is also a matter of their identity. "There will be chances of discussion on social media which may adversely impact the children. The officials concerned must get permission of the children before uploading the answer scripts," says Nagasimha G Rao, a child rights activist. Another activist said, "What if somebody finds a mistake in the answer script? Is the board going to change the marks? This is going to bring unnecessary anxiety for students," he added. This year, as many as six students secured 625 out of 625. In 2018-19, only two students had secured full marks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-toppers-to-answer-scripts-in-public-domain-soon-872577.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru violence politically motivated: Kateel||Terming the violence at KG Halli limits and surrounding areas in Bengaluru on Tuesday as 'fundamentalist madness', State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday suspected political motivation or conspiracy by organisations like SDPI, PFI or Karnataka Forum for Dignity (KFD), to tarnish the image of BJP government which is running the administration 'smoothly' in the State. "It seems to be a systematic plan, as to how around 3,000 people gather suddenly and so many stones and petrol come for causing violence? The government would take stringent action against those responsible for the violence," he said. A former minister and present MLA had earlier said that the state will be on fire during anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru, he recalled. Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the violence is not a failure of the police, but the incident is condemnable. Nobody should violate the law in the name of religion. Strict action would be taken against those who create violence in the name of religion, Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-violence-politically-motivated-kateel-872581.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||14,000 RTE seats go vacant||Over 14,000 seats under Right to Education (RTE) have remained unfilled in the first round of allotment. The last date to get admission under first round seat allotment was August 10 and only about 3,000 students have got admission, leaving 14,000 seats unfilled. As per the data available from the department, 3,001 students got admission and 14,452 seats were left unfilled. These seats will be included in the second round of seat allotment. There were over 17,453 seats available for 2020-21 academic year, for which 11,446 applications were received. Of these, 6,174 applications were considered for seat allotment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/14000-rte-seats-go-vacant-872586.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PUE department issues admission notification||The Department of Pre-University Education has issued admission notification for first-year pre-university courses on Wednesday. As per the notification, the colleges must publish the details of fee structure, stream-wise roaster admission details, details of teaching and non-teaching staff on website and notice boards. The last date to issue applications is the fourth working day from August 13.  The colleges must publish first, a second and third list of selected candidates based on the merit. However, the department has said the date to commence classes and academic time table will be issued later. The notification also reminds about its earlier circular that directing the colleges not to increase the fee and, if they wish, they can reduce the fees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pue-department-issues-admission-notification-872591.html
12-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Bandipur, Nagarahole optimal habitats for Asiatic elephants'||The Bandipur and Nagarahole forests are the optimal habitats for Asiatic elephants and that one tiger, two elephants and a leopard exists per 7 sqkm, said T Balachandra, director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve. In his talk, ‘The tales of Elephas Maximus-Asiatic Elephants’, organised by the University of Mysore, as part of ‘World Environment Day,’ said, Bandipur and Nagarahole forests combined has the highest tiger and elephant population in the world as the forests were nearly ‘optimal habitats.’ The overall status of tropical mixed deciduous forests with bamboo and grasslands, where the standing bio-volume and the above-ground herbaceous biomass are the principal criteria to provide a protective cover, food and water that can sustain fairly large populations of elephants. The availability of drinking water being fairly adequate, the two ecological units with their different vegetation with grasslands and ‘hodlu or gadde’ could be described as near ‘optimal habitats’. Fortunately, Bandipur and Nagarahole have all the features and thus creates a good atmosphere for the animals, he said. On the threats to the elephants, the director said, poaching of elephants for ivory, fragmentation of habitat, degradation of habitat, electrocution, poisoning, gunfire for protection of crops were major threats for elephants. However, the poaching and other crimes on elephants declined after Project Elephant was launched in the country in 1992. The population of these animals was about 15,000 when the project was started. Now the numbers are increased to nearly 30,000, the director said.   On their food habits, Balachandra said, African elephants are mostly browsers while Asian elephants are mainly grazers. They can consume as much as 150 kg food and 40 litres water in a day. Female elephants spend their entire lives in a tight-knit matrilineal family group. The average group size in African savanna elephants ranges from 10 -12 individuals whereas Asian elephants live in much smaller groups, approximately six individuals, he said. The vocalisation of elephants’ calls can broadly be classified into four basic types-trumpet, chirps, roars and rumbles. While ‘trumpet’ are high-frequency calls, produced in different contexts such as social interactions during the disturbance, ‘chirps’ are the calls are mainly produced when elephants are surprised. Roars also high-frequency calls produced when elephants are scared or seeking help and ‘rumbles’ are low-frequency components mainly used to contact another individual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bandipur-nagarahole-optimal-habitats-for-asiatic-elephants-872592.html
12-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Bengaluru violence, conspiracy to disturb peace, says Suresh Angadi||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that the violence at K G Halli in Bengaluru on Tuesday night appears to be a conspiracy to disturb peace. If violence does not come under control, police should use force and shoot at sight those involved in it, he said. Angadi told reporters here on Wednesday that recently, a similar incident of violence was witnessed at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences hospital, wherein an ambulance was set on fire and vehicles were damaged, which indicates a conspiracy. The incident in Bengaluru has to be condemned as it was an act by anti-national forces and strict action should be taken against those involved in it, he said. Violence has been aimed at to bring a bad name to the government, he said. What should be done with those who attempt to set a police station on fire and attack media personnel, he asked. If innocents have to be protected, action against those responsible for it is a must. The state government was efficient to take action against the elements involved. It can also avail assistance of the Centre if needed. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai are working towards maintaining law and order, Angadi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/bengaluru-violence-conspiracy-to-disturb-peace-says-suresh-angadi-872411.html
12-08-2020||West||Goa tops in number of Covid-19 tests per million: Minister||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane has said the state topped in the country in terms of the number of Covid-19 tests conducted per million people. Till Tuesday evening, 1,53,792 tests were conducted in Goa. So far, 9,444 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the coastal state, as per official figures. "In our constant endeavour to test maximum people in the state for Covid-19, we are happy to announce that Goa has yet again topped amongst all states in the country for the number of tests per million population with 94,773 tests per million population," Rane tweeted on Tuesday night. "Proud of our team Goa for their dedication and hard work," he added. So far, 86 people have died of Covid-19 in Goa and there are 2,878 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-tops-in-number-of-covid-19-tests-per-million-minister-872330.html
12-08-2020||West||Congress, AAP target Goa govt over rebate on inflated power bills||The opposition Congress and Aam Aadmi Party in Goa have mocked the rebate announced by the state government for power consumers following complaints of inflated bills. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday announced a relief to power consumers in the form of a rebate worth Rs 18.3 crore. He said 50 per cent of the fixed charges on electricity bills are waived for months of April and May for all low-tension domestic, commercial and other categories. Reacting to it, state Congress president Girish Chodankar in a tweet said, "My electricity bill is Rs 13,203:62. Rebate announced by CM on fixed charges is 50%. Fixed charges on my bill is Rs 162 (for 81 days). So fixed charges in April and May is Rs 122. I will get 50% of Rs 122 which works out to be Rs 61." "After rebate I will have to pay Rs 13,142.62 instead of Rs 13,203:62," he added. Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Goa unit spokesman Rahul Mhambre also targeted the government over the rebate announced for inflated power bills. Look how benevolent is our @goacm Gives an enormous relief of Rs 60 on exorbitant electricity bills to domestic consumer. He can now claim to have liberty to splurge on assembly renovation or gov house or even fancy car now that enormous relief of Rs 60 is given," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-aap-target-goa-govt-over-rebate-on-inflated-power-bills-872390.html
12-08-2020||West||Covid-19 pandemic casts shadow on 'Dahi Handi' celebrations||The grim shadow of Covid-19 crisis was visible on Dahi Handi festivities in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra on Wednesday as mandals opted for low-key celebration unlike past years which provided for public spectacles by ebullient Govinda squads. Adhering to the social distancing guidelines, Dahi Handi mandals were not forming human pyramids this year to mark the birth of Lord Krishna. Instead, they were carrying out health and social welfare drives, like blood donation camps and removal of plastic. In previous years, Dahi Handi used to be celebrated with great fervour in parts of Maharashtra, particularly in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane, where religious institutions, political leaders, and Govinda mandals, comprising youngsters dressed in colourful attire, took part in the festivities. Various social groups also used to organise programmes and cash rewards were given to the groups which succeeded in making the multi-tier human pyramids and breaking the dahi handis, earthen pitchers containing curd or buttermilk, tied at a height with rope. But this year, dahi handis were being broken in a symbolic manner with those involved maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Ram Kadam, BJP MLA from Ghatkopar in Mumbai, said in normal times, his mandals Dahi Handi celebration saw five to six lakh footfalls. "Ours was the biggest Dahi Handi celebration in India in normal times. But this year, we celebrated in a very simple manner, observing social distancing given the Covid-19 crisis. No human pyramid was formed. A child climbed atop a table and broke Dahi Handi to mark the festival in a symbolic manner," Kadam said. "This year, we gave a message of boycotting Chinese products and working for an aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) India," he said. Bala Padalkar, chief of Dahi Handi Utsav Samanvay Samiti, an umbrella body of over 950 mandals (groups) in the state, told PTI that the enthusiasm was not the same this year and members of various mandals agreed not to travel in the city to break dahi handis. Instead, they performed puja in their own areas without forming human pyramids, he said. Considering the crisis situation and the brave fight put up by Covid-19 warriors, various mandals undertook health and social welfare initiatives, including blood donation camps, to mark the festival, he added. Sandeep Dhawale, coach of the city-based Jai Jawan Govinda Pathak (squad), known for forming high human pyramids, said maintaining social distance was the need of the hour and celebrating the festival in a simple manner was in the interest of everyone's health. His mandal has undertaken the plastic-free Mumbai and clean environment initiative on Wednesday to mark the festival while following the social distancing rules. We are collecting plastic and recycling it. The fund raised through the activity will be used for the education of the needy, Dhawale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pandemic-casts-shadow-on-dahi-handi-celebrations-872404.html
12-08-2020||West||Fire at Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat, patients shifted to safety||A fire broke out in the Covid-19 ward of a two-storey hospital in Bodeli town of Gujarat's Chhotaudepur district on Wednesday morning, an official said. There was no casualty in the blaze that erupted on the second floor of Bodeli Dhokalia Public Hospital, the official said, adding that 10 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the facility were shifted to its lower floor and some of them were later admitted to other hospitals. "A minor fire occurred in the switch board of Covid-19 ward following short-circuit in the morning. The blaze was controlled immediately by the staff with the help of fire extinguisher," Chief District Health Officer Dr Mahesh Chaudhary said. "As a precaution, the staff also shifted all the 10 patients to lower floor," he said. Later, after a health checkup, three patients were given discharge as they tested negative for coronavirus while seven were shifted to other hospitals in Chhotaudepur town, said Chaudhary. The second floor of the hospital, a trust-run facility, was earlier converted into a Covid-19 ward. "While the fire was minor and did not cause any casualty or damage to property, it will take time to check and replace the electric wiring on the second floor. Thus, we have decided to shift the coronavirus patients elsewhere," Chaudhary said. Out of the seven patients, two were admitted to the district hospital while five were shifted to a CovidCare Centre set up in the Polytechnic College in Chhotaudepur town, the official added. On August 6, eight Covid-19 patients died in a fire in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ward of a hospital in Ahmedabad. A preliminary inquiry conducted by a government- appointed two-member committee found the primary cause of the fire was short-circuit in a medical equipment, which spread in the hospital's ICU. After the incident, state government had ordered a fire safety audit of all hospitals in the state to avoid a repeat of such tragedy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-covid-19-hospital-in-gujarat-patients-shifted-to-safety-872443.html
12-08-2020||West||Maharashtra government forms panel to recommend names for Padma awards||The Maharashtra government has set up a committee headed by state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray to recommend names of eminent personalities from all walks of life for the Padma awards to be declared next year. A Government Resolution (GR) published on August 11 said the Centre has directed the state government to recommend the names for the Padma awards that will be declared on January 26, 2021. Accordingly, a nine-member committee headed by Aaditya Thackeray has been constituted, the GR said. The other members of the committee are Industries Minister Subhash Desai, Animal Husbandry Minister Sunil Kedar, Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh, Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant, Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde, Minister of State for Industries Aditi Tatkare, Minister of State for Forests Dattatraya Bharne. Principal Secretary (Protocol) is the member secretary of the committee, it said. Aaditya Thackeray is also the Protocol and Environment minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-forms-panel-to-recommend-names-for-padma-awards-872444.html
12-08-2020||West||Goa government clears telecom policy to resolve internet issues||The Goa government on Wednesday cleared the state telecommunication infrastructure policy, which will adopt a single-window clearance for setting up mobile towers in the state. Talking to reporters here, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said Goa Telecommunication Infrastructure Policy 2020 was approved during a state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. A single-window permit system has been adopted, wherein only the public works department will grant permission to companies for setting up mobile towers, the chief minister said. Companies will have to pay Rs 50,000 as one-time licence fee to local governing bodies and no additional permit will be necessary from their end, he said. "There were 250 applications for mobile towers pending. We will club two to three operators on a single tower," Sawant said. If a company wants to install a tower on a private property, then it will require an NOC from the landowner before applying for permission, he said. The policy will help address issues of internet connectivity, especially in rural areas of the state, Sawant added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-clears-telecom-policy-to-resolve-internet-issues-872455.html
12-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput more famous after death: Majeed Memon; NCP disapproves remark||NCP leader Majeed Memon on Wednesday said actor Sushant Singh Rajput was not as famous during his lifetime as he is after death, a remark which did not go down well with his party which quickly distanced itself from it. The NCP said it was Memon's personal opinion and not of the party. Memon, who is a former Rajya Sabha member and a prominent lawyer, also said the media space that the late actor is occupying nowadays is perhaps more than" India's Prime Minister and US President. As reactions came in on the social media following his post, Memon said his comments do not insult the late actor in any way. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in Bandra area here on June 14. A tug of war has been going on between the governments of Bihar and Maharashtra over the case. Maharashtra has been contending that Bihar had no jurisdiction in the matter since the death took place in Mumbai. Mumbai Police have so far recorded statements of 56 people including Rajput's sisters, his friend and actress Rhea Chakraborty and some other film personalities in connection with his death. Rajput's father K K Singh on July 25 lodged a complaint with Patna police against Chakraborty and her family members, accusing them of abetting the actor's suicide. An FIR has been registered by Patna police against Chakraborty and others under various IPC sections. "Sushant was not as famous during his lifetime as he is after his death. The space in media he is occupying nowadays is perhaps more than our PM or President of US! Memon tweeted. Memon said secrecy has to be maintained when a crime is at the investigation stage. Publicising every development in the process of collecting vital evidence adversely affects the interest of truth and justice, he added. With reactions coming in on the social media following his post, Memon later said his comments do not insult the actor in any way. "There is so much noise on my tweet on Sushant. Does it mean that Sushant was not popular during his lifetime or that he should not get justice? Certainly not. Misinterpretation should be avoided. The tweet does not in any way insults or belittle him, he added. However, Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik said Memon's remarks do not reflect the party's view and it does not endorse or support his statement in any way. "The statement made by Majeed Memon on twitter is his personal opinion and not of the NCP. Our party does not endorse or support his statement in any form or manner. He is not a spokesperson of the NCP which must be noted by all, Malik tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-more-famous-after-death-majeed-memon-ncp-disapproves-remark-872456.html
12-08-2020||West||Man whose number is similar to Rhea Chakraborty's gets abusive calls||A resident of Kolhapur in Maharashtra has switched off his mobile phone for the past few days as he was receiving too many abusive calls from people who thought it was Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty' number. Chakraborty is in news after actor Sushant Singh Rajput's family accused her of abetting his suicide. The reason for the confusion, apparently, is that the man's mobile number is quite similar to that of Chakraborty. He had been receiving at least 30 to 40 abusive calls besides text messages every day, he told reporters. "While covering Sushant Sigh Rajput's case, a news channel flashed Rhea's number. There is difference of only one digit between my number and her number. Suddenly I started receiving calls from unknown people," he said. Most callers hurled abuse at him. The messages he received were also filled with hate, he said. "I finally switched off that number," he said. Rajput allegedly committed suicide at his Mumbai residence on June 14. The Patna police have registered an FIR against Chakraborty for alleged abetment of suicide on the basis of a complaint registered by Rajput's parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-whose-number-is-similar-to-rhea-chakrabortys-gets-abusive-calls-872483.html
12-08-2020||West||Woman dies after self-immolation in Mumbai; husband held||A 25-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by setting herself ablaze the following harassment by her husband in the city's Shivaji Nagar area, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place late on Tuesday night when Jyoti Gupta allegedly set herself on fire after pouring kerosene over her body due to mental and physical torture by her husband Rajesh, an official said. Locals rushed her to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival, he said. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim's cousin, a case of abetment to suicide was registered against her husband, who was arrested and produced before the court, the official said. The accused, who runs a grocery shop in the locality, has been arrested and further probe is underway, senior inspector Kishore Gayke of Shivaji Nagar police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-dies-after-self-immolation-in-mumbai-husband-held-872505.html
12-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt slashes Covid-19 test charges by Rs 300, maximum rate per test Rs 2,500||The Maharashtra government has reduced by Rs 300 the rates of Covid-19 tests conducted by laboratories, bringing them in the range of Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,500. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said this in a statement on Wednesday. "The maximum charges for testing now stand at Rs 1,900, Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,500. No laboratory can charge above these prescribed rates," he said. "This decision was taken by the state-appointed committee to regulate the Covid-19 testing charges so that patients do not face any financial burden," the minister said. The test charges vary depending on the collection of swabs from home or through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals. On the cost of PPE kits as well as other necessary equipment, Tope said, "The prices of these items have gone down as well thanks to the increased supply."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-slashes-covid-19-test-charges-by-rs-300-maximum-rate-per-test-rs-2500-872526.html
12-08-2020||West||Red alert in parts of Gujarat as IMD predicts heavy rains||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday issued a red alert for parts of south Gujarat and Saurashtra region, predicting heavy rainfall till August 16. It also predicted light to moderate rainfall in most other parts of the state during this period. Meanwhile, several parts of south and central Gujarat received heavy rainfall on Wednesday, authorities said. The IMD's Ahmedabad centre issued the red alert for Navsari and Valsad in south Gujarat, Dwarka and Jamnagar in Saurashtra, as well as for the Union territory of Daman and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Accordingly, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea along the state coast till August 16. A red alert indicates that heavy downpour could cause major damage to kutcha houses and roads, disrupt traffic, waterlogging in underpasses and reduced visibility increasing risk of road accidents, it said. "Due to the formation of a low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbouring areas on Thursday, Gujarat is very likely to experience an active wet spell for the next five days," the IMD said. Light to moderate rains are likely at most places in Gujarat, with heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places, and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in south Gujarat and Saurashtra regions till August 16, it said. Parts of Panchmahal, Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Chhota Udepur and Narmada districts in south and central Gujarat witnessed heavy showers on Wednesday. As per the data from the state emergency operation centre, Jambughoda taluka in Panchmahal district received 154 mm rainfall, followed by Pardi in Valsad with 128 mm and Gandevi in Navsari district with 101 mm rainfall between 6 am and 4 pm. Mandvi in Surat received 90 mm rainfall during this period, it stated. A state highway in Devbhoomi Dwarka district and 79 panchayat roads in south and central Gujarat and Saurashtra were closed due to water-logging, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/red-alert-in-parts-of-gujarat-as-imd-predicts-heavy-rains-872557.html
12-08-2020||West||Bombay High Court sets aside murder accused's conviction for want of evidence||Observing that a person can be convicted based only on explicit evidence and not merely on grounds of morality, the Bombay High Court on Wednesday set aside the conviction and life term awarded to an accused in a rape and murder case. Mohan Jadhav (24), a resident of Raigad, was convicted and sentenced to a life term by a local court in 2015 for an offence under sections 302 (murder) and 376 (rape) of the IPC. Jadhav, however, challenged his conviction and sentence in the high court claiming that he was innocent. The prosecution told the court that while there were no eyewitnesses in the case, the police had relied on circumstantial evidence to arrest Jadhav and secure his conviction. It was stated that the police had found Jadhav walking, in a frightened state, near the spot where the body of the 20-year-old victim was found. The prosecution argued that the accused had also claimed before a friend that he, along with another person, had killed a woman. However, the court ruled that Jadhav walking in a frightened state was not enough evidence. It noted that the police had failed to find any direct evidence or eyewitness accounts linking Jadhav to the crime. "The cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence is that a case can be said to be proved only when there is certain and explicit evidence and no person can be convicted on pure moral conviction," a bench of Justices P B Varale and P D Naik said. Considering the discrepancies in evidence, the accused is undoubtedly entitled to a benefit of the doubt, it said while setting aside the trial court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-sets-aside-murder-accuseds-conviction-for-want-of-evidence-872566.html
12-08-2020||West||1,132 new Covid-19 cases in Mumbai; 50 succumb, 923 recover||With the single-day rise of 1,132 Covid-19 cases, the infection tally in Mumbai rose to 1,26,371 on Wednesday, while the death toll mounted to 6,940 with 50 new fatalities, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. At the same time, the number of recovered patients crossed the one lakh-mark and reached 1,00,070 after 923 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, it said. The recovery rate of the country's financial capital is now 79 per cent, the civic body added. Of the 1,26,371 Covid-19 patients in the city, only 19,064 cases are active, it said. According to the BMC, of the 50 patients, who died due the infection, 39 had various co-morbidities. Mumbai's average growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.81 per cent, while the average doubling rate is 86 days, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1132-new-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-50-succumb-923-recover-872588.html
12-08-2020||West||Maharashtra to pay Rs 10 lakh to kin of Maratha quota stir deceased||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to implement the erstwhile BJP government's decision to pay Rs 10 lakh cash compensation to kin of those who had died during protests for Maratha quota. The Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation will also award employment to kin of such deceased in the state transport corporation. Urban Development Minister and Sena leader Eknath Shinde told reporters after the weekly Cabinet meeting that CM Uddhav Thackeray had given a go ahead for implementing the old decision. He said 42 people had died during the quota stir. The Cabinet also decided that the Maharashtra Housing Area and Development Authority (MHADA) will take over pending redevelopment projects of old and cessed buildings in Mumbai city, said a statement issued by the office of the chief minister. It will be mandatory for MHADA to complete the projects within three years after getting the commencement certificate, it said. The decision is expected to benefit residents of 14,500 cessed buildings. It stated that several projects were left midway by developers who violated NOC terms and also didn't pay rent to tenants, it said. A high-powered committee headed by principal secretary (housing) will be set up to look into such cases. On October 29, 2016, an eight-member committee of legislators was set up to recommend measures to expedite redevelopment of cessed buildings. A bill to amend the MHADA Act will be tabled in the legislative session, the statement said. The cabinet also approved a proposal to reimburse fees of 112 students of 'open' category pursuing dental and medical courses who were forced to migrate to private non-aided colleges from government colleges in the academic year 2019- 2020 due to Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS)reservations. The cabinet also decided to increase the contingency fund limit by Rs 1,500 crore from the fixed amount of Rs 150 crore for implementation of the Mahatma Phule loan waiver scheme, the statement said, adding that an ordinance would be issued soon. The cabinet also decided to increase the monthly stipend of resident doctors in 18 government medical colleges and three dental colleges by Rs 10,000 in view of round-the-clock duty done by them during the Covid-19 outbreak. Resident doctors currently get the stipend of Rs 54,000 per month. Due to this decision, the state exchequer will be burdened with additional Rs 29.67 crore, the statement said. The doctors will be getting Rs 71,247 from this month while dental resident doctors will be paid Rs 55,258 in place of the existing Rs 49,648, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-pay-rs-10-lakh-to-kin-of-maratha-quota-stir-deceased-872595.html
12-08-2020||West||Goa partners with Sunburn to raise funds for Covid-19 efforts||To raise money for Covid management efforts, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the state government had tied up with the organisers of the popular Sunburn EDM festival for an online charity concert. Speaking to reporters at the state Secretariat Sawant said the state government, on Wednesday, had started a second designated Covid-19 hospital in the state to cater to the increasing number of cases in the state. “Percept Live is doing a live event and whatever donations they are receiving they are giving to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for Covid-19 Relief,” the chief minister said while appealing to businessmen and industrialists in the state to also contribute to the fund to help the state combat the pandemic. “It is an online musical festival somewhere in Berlin. It is online and free. Those who participate in the event can donate money, which would be deposited in the CM's relief fund. They have done it to promote Goa and Goa Tourism. The music has already been recorded, they only sought our permission to go online,” Sawant said. Goa has witnessed an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with the overall tally of positive cases nearing 10,000. The chief minister said the increasing numbers were because Goa was testing the most number of patients in the country at the rate of 90,000 per million. He also announced about starting of a new designated Covid-19 hospital with a capacity of 440 beds. "The state's second Covid hospital has started. Twenty-seven patients have been admitted there today. Currently, four private hospitals have also agreed to admit Covid patients in the state," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-partners-with-sunburn-to-raise-funds-for-covid-19-efforts-872626.html
12-08-2020||West||Gujarat Covid-19 count goes up by 1,152; 18 new deaths||Gujarat reported 1,152 coronavirus positive cases on Wednesday, which pushed the overall tally of the state to 74,390, the health department said. With the death of 18 patients, its fatality count rose to 2,715, it said. As many as 977 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the state during the day. This took the number of recovered cases to 57,393. With this, the recovery rate rose to 77.15 per cent, the department said in its release. As many as 50,124 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the highest number of single-day tests conducted so far, it said. Surat reported 272 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state on the day, followed by Ahmedabad at 159, Vadodara at 120 and Rajkot 95. Bhavnagar district reported 46 new cases, Jamnagar 38, Amreli 35, Panchmahal 34, Mehsana 32, Gandhinagar 30, Gir Somnath, Kutch and Surendranagar 27 each, Bharuch 25, Dahod and Morbi 21 each, among others, the department added. With six deaths, Rajkot reported the highest number of fatalities, followed by Surat at five, Ahmedabad four, Vadodara two and Tapi one. There are 14,282 active cases in the state. Of them, 75 patients are on ventilator, while the condition of 14,207 others is stable, it said. A total of 11,09,005 samples have been tested so far. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 74,390, new cases 1,152, deaths 2,715, discharged 57,393, active cases 14,282 and people tested so far 11,09,005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-count-goes-up-by-1152-18-new-deaths-872638.html
