13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||Among the infected, 113 were suffering from the symptoms of ILI and 11 with that of SARI. Among them, 36 infected were the primary contacts of already infected persons, while the contact tracing of 69 infected-persons were underway. Among the fresh cases, 133 are from Mangaluru, 45 from Bantwal, 22 from Puttur, 5 from Sullia, 14 from Belthangady and 10 are from outside the districts. The total positive cases in the distrit has increased to 7,825. The total active cases in the district is 2,349. A total of 59,750 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the district so far. Among the seven fatalities, two were from Mangaluru, one each from Moodbidri and Bantwal and three were from other districts. All the deceased were suffering from comorbid conditions along with Covid-19 infection. The total deaths in the district has risen to 244. Covid-18 in Dakshina Kannada: Total positive cases: 7,825 Total active cases: 2,349 Total recoveries: 5,232||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-recoveries-outnumber-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-872693.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||NMAMIT develops automated band saw blade welding machine||A team of researchers from "Centre for System Design, Fabrication and Testing", and "NMAMIT-Fronius Centre for Welding Technology", Department of Mechanical Engineering, NMAMIT Nitte developed an “automated band saw welding machine” for one of the local Timber Industry in Karkala. The machine was developed with an aim of helping local wood industries to weld the broken band saw blades 'in-house' which makes them self-reliant in reworking the broken band saw blades and increase their productivity.  A MIG welding machine was used to weld the broken band saw blades in the newly developed system. Arduino MEGA controller is used to control the to and fro motion and velocity of the welding torch using a stepper motor controlled motorised linear stage. The MIG Welding machine and the motorised stage are switched on and off by a push-button provided at the operator interface. The welding current and the wire speed are also controlled by controller through a set of knobs provided in the operator interface.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nmamit-develops-automated-band-saw-blade-welding-machine-872712.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru sees more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases||The district is witnessing more number of discharges than the positive cases. However, there is no decline in the number of fresh cases reported every day. The district recorded 522 fresh cases, while 637 persons were discharged from hospital after recovery, on Thursday. While the number of positive cases on Wednesday was 544 and 668 persons discharged from hospital. With this, the district has recorded 8,989 positive cases. With the recovery of 5,418 persons, there are 3,297 active cases. Of 522 fresh cases, 264 are contacts of infected, 69 ILI, 10 SARI and 179 persons have travel history. With 12 deaths, including a 24 year-old-male on Thursday, the death toll increased to 274 as on August 13. All the 12 deceased were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The Health department authorities have observed a total of 49,701 persons. While 22,275 completed isolation period of 14 days, 24,129 are under isolation. The district administration has declared 96 fresh containment zones. According to sources, as the Health Department is facing staff shortage to handle Covid-19 cases, due to a shortage in ‘D’ group employees. It is alleged that there is a delay in conducting the procedures after the death of the patient. However, an officer explained that the process will be delayed as certain guidelines have to be followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-sees-more-covid-19-recoveries-than-fresh-cases-872994.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||135 Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths in Mandya||With two more deaths, the total number of people who have succumbed to the infection has increased to 31, in Mandya district. The district reported 135 positive cases on Thursday. With this, the total positive cases have increased to 3,016. This includes 42 from Mandya, 30 from Srirangapatna, 21 from Pandavapura, 11 from Malavalli, Maddur 10, K R Pet 10, five from Nagamangala and six from other districts. All are being treated at the district and taluk hospitals and Covid-19 Care Centres. In all, 1,693 people have been discharged, including 170 on Thursday. There are 1,291 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/135-covid-19-positive-cases-and-two-deaths-in-mandya-872995.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||60 contract Covid-19, 54 discharged from Chamarajanagar||The district has reported two deaths on Thursday, including KG Parameshwarappa, ASI, of the Chamarajanagar rural police station. But the district administration has included both the deceased in the list of non-Covid-19 deaths. 56-year-old Parameshwarappa was admitted to the hospital on July 30 and was treated for more than 15 days. He was also suffering from typhoid fever, according to sources. He died on Thursday. The other deceased is a 64-year-old woman from Hanur taluk. She was ailing from renal disorders and was in a coma. She died at her house on Wednesday and was found Covid-19 positive after death. With these two cases, the total death has increased to 28. According to the district administration, 17 deaths are due to Covid-19 and 11 are due to co-morbid conditions. The district reported 60 new cases on Thursday and 54 discharged after recovery. The total positive cases have increased to 1,432. The total discharges are 979. There are 425 active cases. In all, 114 are under home isolation and 22 are in ICU. Out of 60 cases, 22 are from Chamarajanagar taluk, 14 from Gundlupet, 11 each from Kollegal and Hanur, one case from Yalandur, and two are from other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/60-contract-covid-19-54-discharged-from-chamarajanagar-872996.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||UoM likely to conduct final semester UG, PG exams in September||University of Mysore (UoM) has decided to conduct the final semester examination of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses in the month of September.   A total of 1.11 lakh students are pursuing UG and nearly 12,000 students are pursuing PG courses in UoM. As many as 35,000 students are in the final semester for UG course and all the colleges are informed to make arrangements to conduct the examination, said UoM Register R Shivappa. There are more than 6,000 students in PG final semester at UoM campus, and PG centres in Hassan, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and other 40 colleges. The Registrar said all precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the safety of students. UoM Syndicate has decided to conduct an examination and the preparations are going on. The time-table will be announced in the UoM website before August 20. It has to be mentioned that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed the varsities to conduct the examination with necessary precautionary measures. A few varsities have moved the Supreme Court questioning the UGC. The varsities also submitted petitions against conducting the examination, the Registrar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uom-likely-to-conduct-final-semester-ug-pg-exams-in-september-872998.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: 502 discharged, 129 positive cases in Hassan district||The district reported 129 positive cases on Thursday and has crossed 4,000-mark. However, the recovery rate is also on the rise with 502 people discharged after testing negative on the day. Two deaths were reported and the total deaths have increased to 118. The total positive cases are 4,115. In all, 2,190 patients have got discharged after recovery. A few are under home isolation. Fifty-two patients are being treated in the intensive care unit. There are 1,807 active cases. An 80-year-old woman from Channarayapatna and a 78-year-old man from Holenarasipur taluk are the deceased. The final rites were conducted as per the protocol, according to District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Sathish. The new cases included one from Alur, 21 from Arkalgud, 17 from Arsikere, 16 from Belur, 18 from Channarayapatna, 45 from Hassan, eight from Holenarasipur and three from other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-502-discharged-129-positive-cases-in-hassan-district-873002.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bharachukki Falls now open for tourists||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has issued orders permitting the tourists to visit the popular Bharachukki Falls in Kollegal taluk. The entry was restricted following the Covid-19 pandemic four months ago. With River Cauvery overflowing, the Bharachukki Falls is in full splendour. There was a demand that the falls be open for the public. The deputy commissioner, who held a meeting with the authorities concerned, directed to provide basic amenities on the spot for the visitors and also follow the Covid-19 safety guidelines like thermal screening. Based on the report submitted by Assistant Commissioner Nikitha M Chinnaswamy, the deputy commissioner has issued orders allowing tourists to visit the picnic spot. Dargah A Dargah near Shivanasamudra too attracts a large number of people. The restriction for the entry of devotees has also been lifted, but with certain conditions, for the safety of visitors, as per the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bharachukki-falls-now-open-for-tourists-873003.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sneha new Lokayukta SP||After a long gap, Lokayukta Police, Mysuru Division, have got a new Superintendent of Police. Karnataka State Police Service (KSPS) officer P V Sneha has been posted as the new SP. Sneha was serving as the Additional Superintendent of Police, Mysuru. Earlier, she served as SP of State Intelligence in Mysuru, DySP of Sakleshpur Sub-Division in Hassan district and Kollegal Sub-Division in Chamarajanagar district. She also served as an assistant director of the Karnataka Police Academy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sneha-new-lokayukta-sp-873004.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: 9 fatalities, 246 fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 death toll and infection rate continue to surge in Dakshina Kannada as 9 deaths and 246 fresh cases were reported on Thursday. Dakshina Kannada district’s total death toll has now risen to 250. So far, 8,071 people in the district have tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 103 patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 10 patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) have tested positive for Coronavirus. As many as 36 people had contracted the virus from primary contacts while contacts of 97 Covid-19 positive patients are being traced. Mangaluru taluk topped the list with 150 people testing positive for Covid-19. Bantwal, Belthangady and Puttur taluks have reported 47, 16 and 15 cases respectively. As many as 641 patients have recovered and were discharged on Thursday. The number of patients discharged from the hospital is 5,873. All 9 patients, who succumbed to the virus, were suffering from other co-morbidities, according to a press release issued by Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr K V Rajendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-9-fatalities-246-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-873006.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru region gets Rs 1.67K cr investment amid Covid crisis||Amid Covid-19 crisis there is some positive development in Mysuru region, as it has received a total investment of Rs 1,675.35 crore, generating around 3,000 jobs directly and around 5,000 jobs indirectly. Karnataka has received a total of Rs 30,626.5 crore despite Covid-19 crisis, since March. The 53rd State High-Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) has cleared investment of one company in Chamarajanagar district, while the 119th State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) has cleared investment of three companies in Chamarajanagar district, six companies in Mysuru district, six companies in Mandya district and one company in Hassan. The 72nd Land Audit Committees (LAC) has cleared investment of two companies in Mysuru district and four companies in Hassan district. The 73rd LAC has cleared four companies in Mandya district and one company in Hassan district. Interestingly, Chamarajanagar has received a single investment of Rs 270.95 crore by First Steps Babywear Private Limited, promising generation of 938 direct jobs. The highest investment for a district in the region is Rs 680.06 crore in Hassan by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, even though the employment generation is a meagre 18.  Thus, even in district-wise tally, the investment in Hassan tops the list, with Rs 793.08 crore from six projects, followed by Chamarajanagar with Rs 477.05 crore from four projects, Mysuru with Rs 232.36 crore from eight projects and Mandya with Rs 172.86 crore from nine projects. Principal Secretary for Commerce and Industries Gaurav Gupta said that the flow of funds for investment and employment generation, amid the Covid-19 crisis, is a positive development and an indication for more hope in future. “The projects, approved for investment since March, would fructify in one or two years. There is hope for more investment in the coming years. It is also a good sign that the investors are looking beyond Bengaluru and the border district of Chamarajanagar has attracted good investment,” he said. Gupta said, “Agro-processing projects and textile and garments related industries are showing interest in Mysuru region. More sectors would be encouraged to invest here.” Revanna Gowda, Managing Director of Karnataka Udyog Mitra, said that the government is making all efforts to attract investors to Tier-II and Tier-III cities and has been successful to some extent.  “The Badanaguppe-Kellamballi Industrial Area, which was opened two years back in Chamarajanagar district, has all infrastructure and facilities to set up industries. The projects cleared by SHLCC and SLSWCC would be notified in the Gazette soon. Those cleared by LAC are in thefinal stages and would soon be cleared by either SHLCC or SLSWCC, depending on the quantum of investment,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-region-gets-rs-167k-cr-investment-amid-covid-crisis-873008.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kaup MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Kaup MLA Lalaji R Mendon on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19. The three-time BJP MLA from Kaup revealed this in his Facebook page. “I was in home quarantine after one of my PAs contracted the virus. My throat swab sample has returned positive for novel coronavirus. I am asymptomatic and undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 Care Centre.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kaup-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-873009.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru riots: Punish only the guilty, says HD Deve Gowda||Former prime minister HD Deve Gowda urged the state government Thursday to “punish only those who were involved in rioting and arson” that took place Tuesday night in northeast Bengaluru. “I am confident that only the guilty will be punished. The police have named some 150 accused. Definitely not everyone was involved," Gowda told a news conference. Commenting on the arrests made in the incident, he said that generally many people are held following a riot to examine them. Such an unfortunate incident, where one MLAs house was torched and robbed is unprecedented, and should not have happened in the city, he said. On Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy seeking a CBI probe, Gowda said that the decision was left to the state government. “The government should ensure that the MLA gets justice and relief,” he said. The JD(S) supremo decried the politicisation of the incident. “In the BJP, 8-10 ministers have reacted regarding the incident. The chief minister has already spoken and these ministers have diverse views. When a government is there, the final word should be of the chief minister’s or the home minister’s," he said. A similar situation is in the Congress where everyone was floating their own views, he rued. Protest Gowda said the JD(S) would launch a statewide stir against the ordinances issued by the state government on the agricultural markets, land reforms and labour laws. The protest will be launched in Hassan on August 14 and will be held around the state by adhering to social distancing norms, he said, adding that he would visit a few flood-affected areas in the coming days to raise the issue in the upcoming Parliament session. Gowda was elected to the Rajya Sabha recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-riots-punish-only-the-guilty-says-hd-deve-gowda-872827.html
13-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress vanquished, but remains a potent force: Krishna||Former External Affairs Minister S M Krishna said Thursday that Congress remained a potent force, despite the fact that it was vanquished now. In an interview to PTI, Krishna said the Congress along with regional parties could pose a serious threat to the BJP. There are regional outfits with national garb which cannot be brushed aside. On the perception in some quarters that the BJP today has no strong opposition, Krishna said in whatever form and nature, there was opposition both in Karnataka as well at the Centre. The BJP leader was critical of the lack of internal democracy in all parties in the country and said that fear of criticising the leadership in power has to be abandoned. “Every political party suffers from a lack of internal democracy. We need to evolve a system which has (at least) a semblance of internal democracy which was prevalent during the Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose era,” hesaid. Appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s achievements, Krishna said that Modi had “ushered in a qualitative transformation in all walks of life.” Asked about Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP earlier this year, and Sachin Pilot’s recent revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan, Krishna claimed that it was part of a “deep-rooted malaise” in that party. “...and the malaise is the absence of a vent for youngsters like them to express their opinion and make space for themselves. The older generation must make space for youngsters but remain in the party’s core to guide the young generation,” Krishna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-vanquished-but-remains-a-potent-force-krishna-872953.html
13-08-2020||National||Kamala Harris’s nomination as Vice President candidate historic but not a surprise, says her uncle in Delhi||US Senator Kamala Harris' nomination as the vice-presidential candidate is a "historic" moment but it is not a surprise at all, her proud uncle said here on Wednesday. Gopalan Balachandran, Harris’ maternal uncle, said she will script many firsts if she wins and expressed the hope her top-level position will give Indians in the US "greater access" in interacting with the US administration. "I am feeling very proud. Our family is feeling very proud. And if her mother was alive today, she would have felt supremely proud as she had a tremendous influence on Kamala’s life and career. But when her name came up, I wasn't surprised at all," Balachandran told PTI. Joe Biden has picked the 55-year-old lawyer and moderate Democratic politician, born to Donald Harris from Jamaica and Shyamala Gopalan from India, as his vice-presidential candidate, prompting celebrations among the Indian American community in the US and at the south Delhi home of her uncle many thousand miles away. At Balachandran’s house 'Kamakshi' in Malviya Nagar, journalists queued up to interview him about the accomplishments of his niece and congratulatory phone calls and messages poured in. "Kamala’s victory would inspire more people in the Indian-American community in the US to take up leadership roles in politics. And I hope it will also lend greater access to Indians in interacting with the US administration," said the former journalist. The 79-year-old said he had sent a congratulatory message to his niece. "I have also written in my message, 'think what will Shyamala say’," Balachandran said, remembering his late sister who died last year. Harris came to India to immerse her mother's ashes in the Bay of Bengal, keeping up with the family tradition.   “Shyamala went to pursue a PhD at the University of California, Berkeley, at a very young age, America was seeing its own counterculture movement, and Shyamala took part in that civil rights agitation and met her future husband there,” Balachandran recalled. They were four siblings, Balachandran said. Shyamala was the oldest, followed by him and two more sisters. Their father P V Gopalan was a government official who was involved in the rehabilitation of refugees from East Pakistan to India. Talking about his sister and their family – with roots in Tamil Nadu – Balachandran said she was an achiever who finished her PhD in the US when she was only 25. "She did her bachelor's from Lady Irwin College, Delhi University, and went to the US. Shyamala made us proud and now my niece has," said Balachandran, who earned his PhD in economics and computer science from the University of Wisconsin. Continuing where her mother left off perhaps, Harris, too, participated in apartheid protests during her college days at Howard University. "Kamala knows her multi-ethnic routes, drawn from India and Jamaica, and she has learned values from all her ethnic roots, but she calls herself a proud American. It's her mother who continues to guide her. Whatever she (Kamala) does today, she still thinks of what her mother would say," he added. Harris' vice-presidential nomination is tagged with many firsts -- she is the first Indian-American and also the first African-American to be chosen as the running mate of a major party's presidential candidate. Asked what her possible win might bring to Indo-US ties, Balachandran said, "Her win will be historic, but I don't think there is anything new that will be brought to the table at the presidential or vice-presidential level." On the recent Black Lives Matter movement in the US and his niece’s days at Howard University, he said, "She has always stood for civil rights." Describing Harris as a fighter, he said the entire police community was against her when she was running for the district attorney’s office for her stand against capital punishment. “But she stood her ground. She has firm resolve and she's a fighter." Harris has written about the influence her mother had on her in her memoir “The Truths We Hold: An American Journey”. She also describes her grandfather as one of the “earliest and most lasting influences” in her life. Asked about Harris’ hobbies, Balachandran said she likes music and reading books and understands quite a bit of Tamil. Former President Barack Obama, who served in the White House with Biden for two terms, has said he has known the California politician for a long time. "She is more than prepared for the job. She’s spent her career defending our Constitution and fighting for folks who need a fair shake," the first Black-American president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-s-nomination-as-vice-president-candidate-historic-but-not-a-surprise-says-her-uncle-in-delhi-872654.html
13-08-2020||National||SC to hear on Thursday plea by senior journalists on validity of contempt law||The Supreme Court is to take up on Thursday a plea filed by senior journalists N Ram and Arun Shourie, along with activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan, challenging the validity of the Contempt of Courts Act, for violating fundamental rights to freedom of speech and equality. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari would on August 13 consider the writ petition filed jointly by Ram, Shourie and Bhushan claiming the provision was likely to be used to "stifle criticism and freely discuss the acts of the judiciary". The petitioner sought a declaration that Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act was unconstitutional as it was incompatible with preambular values and basic features of the Constitution.  They contended the provision violated Article 19(1)(a) and was unconstitutionally and incurably vague, besides being manifestly arbitrary.  Section 2(c)(i) stated that criminal contempt means the publication (whether by words, spoken or written or by signs or by visible representation) of any matter or doing of any other act, which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court. The petition had a fair share controversy. The Supreme Court on the administrative side last week sought an explanation from its registry for listing the matter by "mistake" before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph, "ignoring established practice and procedure".  Since the petition by Ram and others also sought to stay on the ongoing contempt proceedings against advocate Bhushan, it could not have been listed before any other bench, sources said. Bhushan faced contempt proceedings for his allegation of corruption among former Chief Justices of India, made in Tehelka magazine interview in 2009. The matter would be considered from August 17 by the court, which had rejected his explanation. He faced yet another contempt case for his tweets made in June 2020. The judgement has already been reserved in this case. Both the matters were considered by a bench led by Justice Mishra. During the pendency of both the matters, the joint petition was filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal on behalf of the three citizens including Bhushan. In their plea, the petitioners claimed that the sub-section had an extremely wide import and was incapable of objective interpretation and even-handed application.  The petitioners also claimed the provision of criminalised speech in the absence of proximate and tangible harm. "By criminalising contempt of court in sweeping and absolute terms, the sub-section raises a prior restraint on speech on matters of public and political importance," they said. The language of a tendency of scandalising failed the test of proximate cause or "spark in a powder keg". The dissenting and critical views almost always have such a tendency and has the effect of tangling speech of this kind as a result, they pointed out. Among other grounds, they said the provision had a constitutionally chilling effect and failed the test of proportionality. The offence was rooted in colonial assumptions and objects with no regard to fundamental rights in a democracy, including freedom of speech, equality and equal treatment. Eminent journalists Ram and Shourie, who is also a former Union Minister, themselves have faced contempt of court at different points of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-thursday-plea-by-senior-journalists-on-validity-of-contempt-law-872656.html
13-08-2020||National||Mukherjee suffered head injury in mishap but was calm, says doctor who treated him in 2007||As the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee is still critical after brain surgery, a doctor in West Bengal's Nadia district, who had treated him 13 years ago following a car accident, remembered him as a "calm and composed" patient even in the face of immense pain. Dr Basudeb Mondal, a gynaecologist and the owner of a nursing home at Krishnagar, recalled the night of April 7, 2007. On that day, while returning to Kolkata from Murshidabad district, Mukherjee's car met with an accident near Nakashipara in Nadia district, he said. A truck collided with the car of Mukherjee, then the external affairs minister, and he received deep head injuries. He was first taken to a local health centre where he got stitches on his scalp and then was shifted to a government hospital at Krishnagar. "But as the hospital didn't have CT scan and X-ray facilities, I got a call from district administration officials. They asked me to get all the facilities ready as Mukherjee would be shifted to my nursing home," Mondal told PTI over the phone from Kirshnagar. The then Union minister was shifted to the nursing home under the supervision of a few doctors who came from the SSKM Hospital, a premier state-run facility in Kolkata. "Although Mukherjee was suffering from pain, he was very calm and composed. He was also very humble. We got the tests done and found, fortunately, that there was no internal injury. Later, he was taken to Kolkata that night," he said. Even after he became the President five years later, Mukherjee didn't forget the doctor. "In 2016, I went to invite him for a programme to observe the bicentenary of the birth of Madan Mohan Tarkalankar (educationist and Sanskrit scholar) at his ancestral home in Birbhum district during the Durga Puja. "He immediately recalled my services and promised me that he would attend the programme. He kept his promise," the 80-year-old Mondal said. The former President underwent life-saving emergency surgery for brain clot on Monday. The 84-year-old, who had also tested positive for COVID-19 prior to the surgery, is on ventilator support at the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mukherjee-suffered-head-injury-in-mishap-but-was-calm-says-doctor-who-treated-him-in-2007-872658.html
13-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 13||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 23 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 24,57,769 as of August 13 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):     48,082   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 16,59,982  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-13-872668.html
13-08-2020||National||Kamala Harris unlikely to trigger major change in US policies towards India||Kamala Devi Harris may be the first Indian-American to run for the office of the Vice-President, but, if Joe Biden makes it to the White House, she is unlikely to trigger any significant change in the policies of the United States administration to make it more or less favourable to India.   Harris, who is representing California in the US Senate since 2017, never distanced herself from her biracial identity, unlike some other Indian-American politicians. She has rather always proudly talked about her upbringing that was greatly influenced by her grandfather, PV Gopalan, who served as a bureaucrat in Government of India, and her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who was born in Chennai, migrated to the US in pursuit of a career in medical research, joined civil rights movement, married another immigrant from Jamaica, Donald Harris, and fought against all odds to raise two daughters after her divorce.    Biden’s decision to pick up Harris as his “running mate” was lauded by some Indian-Americans in the US. “Kamala Harris’s story is the story of a changing, inclusive America,” said Neil Makhija, who leads the IMPACT, the leading Indian American advocacy group and Political Action Committee.  Yet, New Delhi is not much elated at the prospect of an Indian-American reaching the second-highest office in the Washington D C. Neither it was concerned over the possibility of having in the US Vice-President’s office someone, who only a few months back criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for its decisions on J&K, although not as harshly, as other members of the American Congress did.       “We have to remind the Kashmiris that they are not alone in the world,” Harris said in October 2019, when she was still in the race for the Democratic Party’s nomination to contest the US presidential elections. Her comment came after New Delhi stripped J&K of its special status. She also criticised External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in December 2019, when he cancelled a meeting with a group of US lawmakers, because it included Pramila Jayapal, who introduced a bipartisan resolution in the US House of Representatives asking New Delhi to end restrictions on communication and arbitrary detentions in J&K. Harris, however, never joined other ‘progressive’ US lawmakers, who last year specifically criticised Modi – be it for the decision on J&K, or for the introduction of Citizenship Amendment Act and the process of updating the National Register of Citizens in Assam. Biden, however, of late also acknowledged the importance of the US-India strategic partnership to counter the growing belligerence of China. India also took note of his promise to withdraw the suspension of the H-1B visas – a recent move by Trump’s administration that hit the interests of the Indian Information Technology professionals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-unlikely-to-trigger-major-change-in-us-policies-towards-india-872694.html
13-08-2020||National||Condition of Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged, is in deep comatose state and on ventilator support: Hospital||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged and he is deeply comatose, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Thursday. Doctors attending on him said Mukherjee has stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilator support. The former President was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated upon for removal of a clot in the brain. He also tested positive for Covid-19. "The condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning, He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support," a statement from the hospital said. Amid rumours that former President Pranab Mukherjee has passed away, his son, Abhijit Mukherjee, clarified that his father is still alive and is haemodynamically stable.  "My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable ! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News," he said in a tweet.  My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable !Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News . Mukherjee, 84, underwent an emergency brain surgery on Monday for removal of a large clot that had formed after he fell at his home on Sunday night. The former President's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted, "Rumours about my father are false. Request, especially to the media, not to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condition-of-pranab-mukherjee-remains-unchanged-is-in-deep-comatose-state-and-on-ventilator-support-hospital-872714.html
13-08-2020||National||At Rs 2,800, Zydus Cadila launches India's cheapest remdesivir drug for Covid-19||“Remdac is the most affordable drug as we would like to enable patients to have access to this critical drug in the treatment of Covid-19", said Dr Sharvil Patel, the Managing Director of Cadila Healthcare Limited. The company said the drug will be made available across India through the group's strong distribution chain reaching out to government and private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Through the course of this pandemic, the company’s efforts have been focused on supporting people in this healthcare crisis, whether it is through developing vaccines, ramping up production and distribution of critical drugs and therapies, making diagnostic tests available or exploring new treatment options, Patel added. In June this year, Zydus had entered into a non-exclusive agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc to manufacture and sell Remdesivir, the investigational drug, which has been issued an emergency use authorisation by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to treat patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19. The active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for the drug has been developed and manufactured at the group's API manufacturing facilities in Gujarat. Zydus Cadila's vaccine candidate ZyCov-D is now in phase II of the clinical trials. Shares of Cadila Healthcare, the listed entity of the group, were trading at Rs 387 apiece on BSE, 0.44 percent higher against their previous close. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-rs-2800-zydus-cadila-launches-indias-cheapest-remdesivir-drug-for-covid-19-872735.html
13-08-2020||National||Record single-day spike of nearly 67,000 Covid-19 cases takes India's tally to 23.96 lakh||With a record single-day increase of 66,999 cases, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 23,96,637 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the disease surged to 16,95,982, pushing the recovery rate to 70.77 per cent in the country, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 47,033 with 942 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate in the country has declined to 1.96 per cent. There are 6,53,622 active Covid-19 cases in the country presently, which accounts for 27.27 per cent of its total caseload. India crossed the 20-lakh mark in terms of Covid-19 cases on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 2,68,45,688 samples were tested in the country till August 12, including 8,30,391 tested on Wednesday, the highest number of tests performed in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-nearly-67000-covid-19-cases-takes-indias-tally-to-2396-lakh-872743.html
13-08-2020||National||Contempt plea filed in SC against SP MP, top functionary of AIMPLB for utterances against Ayodhya verdict||An advocate has moved the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against Samajwadi Party MP Shafi-qur-Rahman Barq and top functionary of All India Muslim Personal Law Board and All India Imam Association for scandalising to  lower authority of the top court by their utterances on Ayodhya case judgement. Petitioner Vineet Jindal claimed Barq as well as Maulana Mohd Wali Rahmani, General Secretary of AIMPLB and Sajid Rashidi President of AIIA have issued contemptuous statements with regard to the top court's Constitution bench decision of November 9, 2019 on Ram temple case. According to the petition filed by advocate Raj Kishore Choudhary on behalf of Jindal, Barq said on August 6 that the BJP and the RSS, on strength of their power, have obtained decision in their favour from the court and killed secularism and democracy. Likewise, he cited statement made in a tweet by Rahmani questioning the court’s judgement in Ayodhya matter, saying "Babri Masjid was and will always be a Masjid. Hagia Sophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an unjust, oppressive, shameful and majority appeasing judgment can’t change its status". Similarly, immediately after foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, Rashidi said "mosque wasn't built after demolishing temple but now maybe temple will be demolished to build mosque." "The alleged contemnors are trying push in the mind of minorities that the judgment of the court has been obtained by influence of BJP and RSS and thus they are trying to lower the authority of the court," he said. The advocate sought contempt action against the three for scandalising the dignity of this court by making public statements and acting in total disregard of the authority of the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contempt-plea-filed-in-sc-against-sp-mp-top-functionary-of-aimplb-for-utterances-against-ayodhya-verdict-872745.html
13-08-2020||National||Over 3 crore N95 masks, 1.28 crore PPEs, 10 crore HCQ tablets given to states, UTs by Centre for free||The government has distributed more than 3.04 crore N95 masks and over 1.28 crore personal protection equipment (PPE) kits among the states, Union territories and central institutions for free since March 11, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. Also, more than 10.83 crore hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets have been distributed among them, it added. In addition, 22,533 "Make in India" ventilators have been delivered to various states, Union territories and central institutions, the ministry said, adding that the Centre is also ensuring the installation and commissioning of the machines. The central role of the government has been in strengthening the health infrastructure of the states and Union territories to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure its effective management, the ministry underlined. Along with augmenting the Covid-19 facilities, the Centre is also providing medical supplies to the states and Union territories for free. "Most of the products supplied by the Government of India were not being manufactured in the country in the beginning. The rising global demand due to the pandemic resulted in their scarce availability in the foreign markets," the ministry said. With the combined efforts of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Textiles, Ministry of Pharmaceuticals, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and others, the domestic industry has been encouraged and facilitated to manufacture and supply essential medical equipment such as PPEs, N95 masks, ventilators etc., it added. "As a result, resolve for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Make in India' has been strengthened and most of the supplies made by the Union Government are domestically manufactured," the Health Ministry underscored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3-crore-n95-masks-128-crore-ppes-10-crore-hcq-tablets-given-to-states-uts-by-centre-for-free-872756.html
13-08-2020||National||Physical hearings may begin in some benches of Supreme Court next week||A committee of seven Supreme Court judges is learnt to have recommended holding physical hearings in at least two or three of its 15 benches in the apex court as early as next week with some additional safety measures. The apex court, since March 25, has been holding hearings through video conferencing due to a nationwide lockdown and even after the restrictions were relaxed, it has decided to continue with the practice. In the last week of July, the 7- judge panel headed by senior most judge Justice N V Ramana had apprised the bar leaders of its decision to not open the apex court for physical hearings "for the time being" and had assured to meet them again after two weeks to reconsider the issue. Now, Shivaji M Jadhav, President of the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAORA), said that the judges committe met Bar leaders on Tuesday and "is seriously considering to start at least 2-3 physical courts from the next week". Jadhav said in the meantime, the apex court's registry would take necessary steps to prepare the courts for physical functioning. Sources said that the judges panel would give its commendations to Chief Justice S A Bobde for necessary action. The panel, evaluating the court's opening,  told leaders of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the SCAORA that at least three courts may start holding physical hearings on a trial basis and this will be in addition to the virtual court hearings already in place, they said. "I may also add that the physical courts are in addition to virtual courts and people would have option to do virtual hearing as well. Matters from the final hearing list published before the lockdown would be listed before the physical courts. Final decision would be taken by the judges' committe in a day or two," the SCAORA President said. The judges panel has met leaders such as Bar Council Chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra, Supreme Court Bar Association President Dushyant Dave and Shivaji Jadhav on the issue of resumption of physical hearings in SC. Bar leaders have been demanding start of the physical hearings as soon as possible, while continuing with virtual court hearings with improved system for limited types of matters. Justices Ramana, Arun Mishra, Rohington Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and L N Rao are part of the committee set up by the CJI to look into the issue of resumption of physical hearings in the top court again. In June and July, the committee of judges had not agreed to the demands of bar bodies including SCBA to resume regular courtroom hearings for the time being and would review the functioning of the Supreme Court later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/physical-hearings-may-begin-in-some-benches-of-supreme-court-next-week-872761.html
13-08-2020||National||Ram Temple Trust head Mahant Nritya Gopal Das tests positive for Covid-19||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust President Mahant Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for Coronavirus on Thursday. The Mahant had shared stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony at Ayodhya on August 5. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath were also on the stage with him. Sources said Nritya Gopal Das, who was also the president of the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, was in Mathura to take part in the 'Janmashtami' festival, when he complained of uneasiness, coughing and breathing difficulty. He tested positive in the Covid-19 antigen test. Sources also added that the Mahant had participated in the 'Janmashtami' celebrations at the Shrikrishna Janmabhumi on Wednesday evening. Several seers and other office bearers of the Trust had also taken part in the celebrations. He was staying at an 'ashram' in Mathura. Adityanath spoke to the Mahant and the doctors and directed them to provide the best possible medical care. Das was likely to be shifted to a private super speciality hospital in Gurgaon. ''The Mahant is stable....he has mild fever and cough,'' the doctor who attended to him in Mathura, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-trust-head-mahant-nritya-gopal-das-tests-positive-for-covid-19-872771.html
13-08-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi seek withdrawal of EIA 2020||Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the government of dismantling India's environment rules and demanded that the draft EIA 2020 be withdrawn immediately. The draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, which involves the procedure of issuing environmental clearances to various projects, was issued by the Environment Ministry in March this year and has received thousands of suggestions from the public. Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has said the EIA 2020 is only a draft and not a final notification and the ministry has received thousands of suggestions from the public which will be considered before a final draft. In an article, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has said that the government has a social obligation to protect the environment and must withdraw the EIA. "Simply put, the government must stop dismantling India's environmental regulations. An essential first step is to withdraw the Draft EIA 2020 Notification. What is essential is widespread public consultation to shape a national agenda that will place India at the forefront of the battle against global warming and pandemics,” she said in the article. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also shared the article on Twitter saying, "Nature protects if she is protected." "Government of India must stop dismantling India's environmental regulations. The essential first step is to withdraw the Draft EIA 2020 notification," he said. Noting that the origins and spread of the global novel coronavirus pandemic and its catastrophic impact are a warning to the entire world, Sonia Gandhi said the protection of the environment must go hand in hand with promoting public health and access to dignified livelihoods for all. She said India, with its rich biodiversity and widespread inequality, must especially pay heed now. "Our nation has all too often sacrificed the environment and the rights of our people while chasing the chimaera of unbridled economic growth," she said. "Of course, progress requires trade-offs, but there must always be boundaries that cannot be transgressed,” she said, alleging that the government has eroded our environmental protection framework in the last six years. "The disastrous Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), 2020 Notification, which among other provisions, gives a clean chit to polluters violating environmental regulations through ex-post-facto approvals, will unleash unprecedented devastation on our environment,” she maintained. "We have an incredible opportunity to reset our economy and demonstrate leadership to the world with a growth strategy that transforms India into a green manufacturing hub,” she said, adding that the erstwhile Planning Commission's expert group report on low carbon growth strategy and the many suggestions in the 2019 Congress Manifesto can be a starting point. The Congress chief also alleged that the government has sought to project an image of 'Ease of Doing Business' to the world, mindless of the consequences. “It formed multiple committees, diluted laws and regulations across the board, and opened up vast tracts of forest land to a select few in the private sector,” she alleged. She also suggested that in times of mass reverse migration, environment protection through public works programmes including afforestation and watershed development can be turned into a grass-roots movement involving youth, women, communities, gram sabhas and non-governmental organisations. Rahul Gandhi on Sunday urged people to protest the EIA 2020 draft, saying it was "dangerous" and if notified, the long term consequences will be "catastrophic". Javadekar has brushed aside Congress leaders' criticism and termed it as "premature". He also accused protesting Congress leaders of taking big decisions without consultations during their regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-seek-withdrawal-of-eia-2020-872788.html
13-08-2020||National||SC permits senior journalists, Bhushan, to withdraw plea on validity of contempt law||Senior journalists N Ram and Arun Shourie, and activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday preferred to withdraw their plea, challenging validity of the Contempt of Courts Act, for violating fundamental rights to freedom of speech and equality, to approach the High Court. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari allowed a request for withdrawal made by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan on their behalf. Dhavan said the issue was important but the petitioners would not like to raise it at this stage as similar matter were pending. They may approach the court after two months. The court, however, said it would not permit the petitioners to come to the top court again. They, however, may approach the High Court, which is also a constitutional court. The petition was filed during the pendency of two contempt proceedings against Bhushan. One arose out of his allegation of corruption among former Chief Justices of India, made in Tehelka magazine interview in 2009. The matter has been posted for consideration from August 17 by the court, which had rejected his explanation. Another contempt case was related to his tweets made in June, 2020. The judgement has already been reserved in this case. Both matters were considered by a bench led by Justice Mishra. In their plea, the petitioners sought a declaration that Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act was unconstitutional as it was incompatible with preambular values and basic features of the Constitution. The provision was likely to be used to "stifle criticism and freely discuss the acts of judiciary", they claimed. They also contended the provision violated Article 19(1)(a) and was unconstitutionally and incurably vague, besides being manifestly arbitrary. Section 2(c)(i) stated that criminal contempt means the publication (whether by words, spoken or written or by signs or by visible representation) of any matter or doing of any other act, which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court. The petition had a fair share controversy. The Supreme Court on administrative side last week sought an explanation from its registry for listing the matter by "mistake" before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph, "ignoring established practice and procedure". Since the petition by Ram and others also sought stay on the ongoing contempt proceedings against advocate Bhushan, it could not have been listed before any other bench, sources said. Journalists Ram and Shourie, who is also a former Union Minister, themselves have faced contempt of court at different points of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-permits-senior-journalists-bhushan-to-withdraw-plea-on-validity-of-contempt-law-872792.html
13-08-2020||National||Private train operators to be penalised for delays, early arrivals||Private entities have to pay heavy penalties in case the trains they operate are delayed or reach the destination early, according to a draft key performance indicators for private operators released by the Railways. The draft document released on Wednesday states that private train operators have to maintain 95 per cent punctuality through the year. Private operators also have to pay penalties for misreporting their revenue or in case of train cancellations for reasons attributable to them. According to the draft, if the arrival of a train at its destination is delayed by over 15 minutes it will be deemed to have lost punctuality. In this case, the private operator has to pay the Railways extra haulage charge worth 200 km for every one per cent "reduction in punctuality" compared to the guaranteed punctuality, the document states. The Railways has said the haulage charge -- the fee that private operators will pay to use Railways' infrastructure -- will be Rs 512 per km. If a private train reaches destination at least 10 minutes in advance, the operator will have to pay the Railways penalty in the form of haulage charge for 10 kilometres. Officials said these measures are to ensure that private trains maintain punctuality. The draft document also states that if a train doesn't reach its destination on time because of the Railways, the private operator will be paid for every one per cent reduction of punctuality compared to guaranteed punctuality by the private entity in the form of haulage charge for 50 km. In the event of cancellation of a train service due to the reasons attributable to the operator, it will pay the Railways one-fourth of the haulage charge for such train service as damages. However, if a train is cancelled because of the national transporter, it will pay the private operator the same amount, the document said. But, if the loss of punctuality of a train is attributable to both the Railways and the private entity, it shall be treated on account of the entity having more than 70 per cent contribution in the total loss of punctuality of that train. In case the punctuality of a train is affected because of reasons such as bad weather, cattle run over, human run over, law and order, public agitation, miscreant activity, accident, heavy traffic at level crossing gates, and operation of passenger alarm system, neither will be liable to pay damages. The document also states that since the Railways will share revenue with the private entity to ensure that it was reporting gross revenue honestly and faithfully, the national transporter will depute its representatives to the project and offices of the private operator. "If verification of revenues pursuant to this demonstrates that the Gross Revenue is more than the amount reported by the concessionaire by more than 1 per cent thereof, the difference between such amount reported by the Concessionaire and the gross revenue shall be multiplied by 10 and the product thereof shall be paid as damages by the concessionaire to the government,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-train-operators-to-be-penalised-for-delays-early-arrivals-872797.html
13-08-2020||National||BJP MP Varun Gandhi to bring private member bill for registration of all adult citizens as organ donors||BJP MP Varun Gandhi Thursday said he will introduce a private member’s bill proposing to make it compulsory for all adults to be registered as organ donors to promote cadaver donation, but they will be free to opt-out. The ‘Donation and Transplantation of Human Organ Bill, 2020’ is likely to be introduced by Varun Gandhi in the upcoming monsoon session of parliament. It proposes to make every individual a donor by default unless he or she opts out, he said. Underlining that India has a shortage of organ donors and there is a huge gap between demand and supply, Varun said the lack of strong policies to make organ donation compulsory leads to the death of over five lakh people every year in the country. There is a need of 2,00,000 kidneys, 50,000 hearts and 50,000 livers for transplantation every year, said the Pilibhit MP. Aiming to bridge this gap and to reduce death due to non-availability of organs, Varun announced on Twitter, "I will be introducing a private member’s bill that proposes to put all adult citizens in a national organ donation register, which anyone can voluntarily opt-out off. This will ensure a reduction in the number of deaths due to non-availability of organs." He used the hashtag #OrganDonationDay. “The bill makes it compulsory for a citizen turning above 18 years of age to be registered as an organ donor unless an objection notice was filed by the person,” Varun said. There is a need for a policy to promote cadaver organ donation, he said, pointing out that organ donation in India is largely from living donors and the rate of organ donation from deceased persons is very low at 0.8 per million populations. Advocating for a shift in organ donation policy, Varun said from the current opt-in system it should be an opt-out system where every individual shall become a donor by default under the law and this will ensure an increase in the rate of cadaver donations. A private member’s bill is a piece of legislation proposed by a parliamentarian in his or her personal capacity and has nothing to do with the party he or she belongs to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-to-bring-private-member-bill-for-registration-of-all-adult-citizens-as-organ-donors-872804.html
13-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee slowly responding to medical intervention: Son||Former President Pranab Mukherjee was “slowly responding to medical interventions” and continued to be on ventilator support on Thursday, four days after a life-saving emergency brain surgery. “My father is & has always been a fighter! He is slowly responding to medical interventions & all his vital parameters are stable,” Abhijit Mukherjee, the former President’s son, said on Twitter. Earlier, the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) had said in a statement that the condition of the 84-year-old former President remained unchanged on Thursday morning. “He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a statement. On Wednesday, the hospital had said that the 84-year-old Mukherjee was “haemodynamically stable and on ventilator.” Mukherjee underwent an emergency brain surgery on Monday for removal of a large clot that had formed after he fell at his home on Sunday night. Earlier Thursday, Mukherjee’s son Abhijeet and daughter had dismissed “fake news” and “speculation” on the former President’s health. As per the hospital, Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital at 12.07 p.m. on Monday in a critical condition. It was found that he had a large brain clot for which he underwent the emergency procedure. “On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self-isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” the former President had said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-slowly-responding-to-medical-intervention-son-872807.html
13-08-2020||National||Venkaiah Naidu starts fourth year as Rajya Sabha Chairman on a 'clean table'||M Venkaiah Naidu stepped into the fourth year as Rajya Sabha Chairman on a clean table -- not a single file is pending in the Upper House Secretariat with officials clearing over 4,400 files, including some dating back to 2007, in the first week of August. The drive came on Naidu's directive to officials in the Secretariat that not a single file should be pending as on August 11, the day he completed three years in office as Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman. Sources said the officials went on an overdrive in the first eight days of August to clear all pending work with several staff members even working late hours and on a weekend. Details of files cleared and issues addressed were put up for Naidu's perusal before a publication on his three years in office was released on Tuesday.  "Some files pending since 2007 and others, mostly on account of reduced attendance over the last three months were taken to their logical conclusion during this special drive. All the papers/issues/references received till late evening on August 9 were addressed to," a senior official said. Naidu complimented the officials for clearing the pending work in the midst of a pandemic, during which he redefined the norms of engagement and made extensive use of technology platforms to connect with people, sources said. During the pandemic, he spoke at over 70 public events and 14 convocation ceremonies through digital mode.  Remaining active even when travel restrictions were imposed, he spoke to over 1,600 people over phone sharing experiences of coping with the confinement and made extensive use of social media urging the people not to panic under the situation and instead make simple alterations in daily habits to deal with the situation.  Sources said he posted 350 tweets and 55 Facebook posts to reach out the people on various subjects, including Covid-18. He had called his exercise 'Mission Connect', during which he spoke to almost all Rajya Sabha MPs, Governors and Chief Ministers among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-starts-fourth-year-as-rajya-sabha-chairman-on-a-clean-table-872815.html
13-08-2020||National||NGT slams MoEF over delay in guidelines for emission from railway engines||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the environment ministry for delay of over three years in finalising guidelines enumerating locomotive standards for the Railways. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said that despite its 2017 direction the matter is still pending and has not been finalised by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). “It is thus seen that even though more than three years have passed, the standards have still not been finalised without any valid justification. Such unexplained delay and apathy can hardly be conducive to the Rule of Law,” the bench said. The green panel said the delay adversely affects the environment and the public health.  “Thus, action needs to be taken expeditiously with all sensitiveness to the impact of delay on environment and public health,” the bench said. The NGT directed the MoEF, Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministry of Railways to take prompt action in finalising the standards "positively" within three months and furnish a compliance report. The Secretary, MoEF, may nominate a Joint Secretary for the purpose so that accountability can be fixed to avoid any further delay, it said. The matter is listed for next hearing on February 5. The tribunal in 2017 had directed that the guidelines containing locomotive standards be put up on the CPCB website and expeditious efforts are to be made by all the stakeholders to approve the final parameters for locomotive engines. The CPCB's interim report -- Exhaust Emission Benchmarks for Diesel Locomotives on Indian Railways -- aims to fix standards and protocols for the sector to achieve the targets submitted by India under the Paris climate change agreement. The directions came while hearing a petition filed by Dwarka resident S K Goyal about harmful emissions from diesel locomotives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-slams-moef-over-delay-in-guidelines-for-emission-from-railway-engines-872830.html
13-08-2020||National||Coronavirus recovery rate rises to 70.77%, fatality rate declines to 1.96%, says Health Ministry||The case fatality rate among Covid-19 patients has declined to 1.96 per cent from 2.49 per cent in mid-July, the health ministry said on Thursday. The total confirmed cases of Covid-19 have crossed the 24-lakh mark, but India has also reported a strong recovery rate of 70 per cent on account of better clinical management. “With increasing number of recoveries, as the recovery rate has crossed 70 per cent, the case mortality among Covid-19 patients has further regressed to 1.96 per cent, and steadily declining,” the ministry said. India also crossed the eight-lakh Covid-19 tests in a single-day as the network of more than 1400 laboratories tested 8,30,391 samples on Wednesday. “With a record high, more than 8 lakh tests done in the last 24 hours, the cumulative testing as on date has jumped to 2.68 crore. The Tests Per Million has seen a sharp increase to 19,453,” the ministry said. India recorded the highest ever single-day recoveries of 56,383 on Thursday morning, taking the total recoveries beyond the 17-lakh mark. “The recoveries exceed the active cases (6,53,622) by more than 10 lakh,” the ministry said. The patients under active medical supervision constitute 27.27 per cent of the total confirmed cases. Since March, the Centre has distributed more than three crore N-95 masks, 1.28 crore PPE kits and more than 10.83 crore HCQ tablets to state governments and Union Territories. In addition, 22,533 ‘Make in India’ ventilators have also been delivered to various states/ UTs/Central Institutions, the ministry said, adding that the Centre is also ensuring their installation and commissioning. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India has 24,17,091 total confirmed cases of Covid-19 of which 17,15,361 have recovered at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday. The total fatalities reported so far are 47,362.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-recovery-rate-rises-to-7077-fatality-rate-declines-to-196-says-health-ministry-872864.html
13-08-2020||National||Russia not world's first to develop coronavirus vaccine: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||Biotechnology industry veteran Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw has questioned Russian claims of developing the world's first safe coronavirus vaccine, citing the absence of data on clinical trials and "more advanced" programmes elsewhere. The world has not seen any data on Phase 1 or 2 clinical trials conducted by Moscow-based Gamaleya Research Institute, the Executive Chairperson of Bengaluru-headquartered Biocon Ltd said. "If launching a vaccine prior to completion of Phase 3 trials is acceptable to Russia, well so be it," Mazumdar-Shaw told PTI. "But it doesn't make them the world's first vaccine as several other vaccine programmes are even more advanced," she added. Russia announced on Tuesday it had become the first country to grant regulatory approval to a Covid-19 vaccine. The first dose of the vaccine-Sputnik-V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Russian Healthcare Ministry, was administered to Russian President Vladimir Putin's daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-not-worlds-first-to-develop-coronavirus-vaccine-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-872869.html
13-08-2020||National||Key Cabinet ministers hit by Covid-19 as pandemic grips India||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Ragini Saxena Several Indian ministers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days, underscoring the spread of the virus in the nation. Five ministers including Modi’s key aide and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have contracted the virus which has infected nearly 2.4 million Indians. The nation has the highest death toll after US, Brazil and Mexico. Some of the ministers, including Shah, are in hospitals while others are recovering at home. Shripad Yesso Naik was the latest to test Covid-19 positive. Naik, who heads the AYUSH Ministry that oversees the practice of alternative medicine including ayurveda, yoga and homeopathy, posted in a tweet on Wednesday evening that he was infected and was isolating at home. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and two other junior ministers have also tested positive. Former president Pranab Mukherjee, who had tested positive for the virus and underwent brain surgery in an army hospital in the capital New Delhi, is in critical condition. India has the most confirmed cases after the US and Brazil -- and one of the world’s fastest-growing epidemics, adding more than 50,000 cases each day. The virus has spread further from India’s top cities to its vast hinterland, where most of the population lives and health infrastructure is mostly archaic.\ The pandemic hasn’t spared top politicians around the world. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro have recovered from Covid-19 while one of Iran’s vice presidents, Masoumeh Ebtekar, and deputy health minister Iraj Harirchi were also infected. Politicians across the world are at higher risk of contracting the virus because of their frequent public interactions. In India, many of them have sought out private hospitals for treatment rather than public hospitals. The virus has also struck a number of regional politicians. B S Yediyurappa, chief minister of Karnataka and his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, both contracted the virus. Across the country, at least a dozen ministers and lawmakers have been infected, while two legislators have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-cabinet-ministers-hit-by-covid-19-as-pandemic-grips-india-872874.html
13-08-2020||National||Eicher Motors' VECV to acquire bus business of Volvo Group India for over Rs 100 cr||Eicher Motors on Thursday said its arm VECV will acquire Volvo Group's bus business in India for Rs 100.5 crore. Definitive agreements have been signed for the integration of Volvo Bus India (VBI) business into VECV, Eicher Motors said in a statement. As part of the deal, VECV will carve out a separate bus division housing both Eicher and Volvo branded products. The vertical would be headed by Akash Passey, currently Senior Vice President at Volvo Bus Corporation. The bus division would be responsible for manufacturing, assembly, distribution and sale of both Volvo and Eicher buses in India. Consequently, the bus manufacturing facility at Hosakote, Bengaluru, and all employees of VBI will be transferred to VECV. VECV entered into a business transfer agreement on August 12 with Volvo Group India for acquisition, as a going concern on slump sale basis, of the bus business of Volvo Group India, Eicher Motors said. The agreement is for manufacture, assembly, distribution, and sale of the Volvo buses in India, and other rights forming part of the said business, for a consideration of Rs 100.50 crore, it added. “With the integration of Volvo Bus India into VECV, we aim to shape the future of the Indian bus industry by offering the widest range of transport solutions to our customers," VECV Chairman Siddhartha Lal said. "Post the completion of the transaction, VECV and VBI will consolidate their bus businesses into a newly formed bus division within VECV. This division will offer Volvo and Eicher branded buses, and will maximise synergies to capitalise on market opportunities, he added. This strategy will be extended to exports, wherein the new bus division will offer products and services that are complementary with Volvo Buses' core product portfolio in select international markets, Lal noted. VE Commercial Vehicles, a joint venture between Volvo Group and Eicher Motors, currently sells Eicher branded trucks and buses and also distributes Volvo branded trucks. The company also provides aftermarket services and distribution of spare parts for Volvo branded trucks and buses in India. Volvo Bus Corporation President Hakan Agnevall said that by consolidating the operations of VBI into VECV, "we aim to further develop our bus business and strengthen our position in the Indian bus market. The new bus division will offer a full range of modern buses covering customer needs for heavy, medium and light-duty buses”. Volvo Bus India is currently a division of Volvo Group India Pvt Ltd (VGIPL). In a conference call, VECV MD and CEO Vinod Aggarwal said the company's strong presence in the Indian bus market will be complemented by Volvo Buses' prominent position in the premium bus segment. "With this integration, VECV will be able to leverage synergies in the areas of product development, purchasing and manufacturing with access to Volvo Group's world-class technology in buses," he added. The transaction would be completed over the next two months, Aggarwal said. Replying to a query, he said the company would not be taking any debt as part of the deal. VEC manufactures its range of buses at Pithampur (Madhya Pradesh) based manufacturing plant. "The new division will also engage further in the dynamic Indian market driven by megatrends such as urbanisation, e-mobility and connectivity,” Passey said. He will join as President of the newly formed VECV Bus Division. Currently, based out of Singapore, he will repatriate to India for this role and report to Aggarwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eicher-motors-vecv-to-acquire-bus-business-of-volvo-group-india-for-over-rs-100-cr-872876.html
13-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: 7 booked in Bengaluru riot case, BJP to move no-confidence motion against Gehlot govt||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Seven accused booked in connection with a riot in Bengaluru; Rajasthan BJP will move a motion of no confidence against Ashok Gehlot government; head of the Ram temple trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das tests positive for Covid-19; Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveils faceless tax assessment and private entities will have to pay heavy penalties in case the trains they operate are not punctual.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: August 13, 2020: A day after the violent attack on the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy in Kaval Byrasandra and subsequent riots, arsoning in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits, the police officials have registered a total of seven FIRs (First Information Report) in both DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. According to the police FIR, the riots were the act of SDPI members. The police FIR has revealed about 22 names, out of which 16 have already been identified as SDPI members in the FIR. This apart, there are more than 300 accused persons pertaining to the riot. Of the seven FIRs, six cases have been registered suo motto by the jurisdictional police and one case against P Naveen, nephew of the MLA who allegedly posted the blasphemous post on Facebook. Based on the complaint by a social activist—Firdos Pasha, police have registered an FIR against Naveen.  The suo motu cases include a case about the mob attack on MLA's house in Kavalbyrasandra, preventing them from discharging their duties and ransacking the public property. Remaining five FIR's are with respect to the mob ransacking the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations, torching of vehicles. The FIR says all the named in FIR are members of SDPI. The BJP in Rajasthan will move a motion of no confidence against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state assembly, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said. The decision was taken in a BJP legislature party meeting held here on Thursday. After the meeting, Kataria told reporters that the motion of no confidence will be moved in the assembly session beginning Friday. He said the proposal was being finalised. “Coronavirus cases are on the rise and the law and order situation is badly deteriorating. Attempts were made to link those, who were arrested by the SOG (Special Operations Group) over allegations of conspiring to topple the government, with BJP but the government failed in this. We will mention all these issues in the proposal,” Kataria said. He said even though the political crisis in the Congress has been resolved, all is still not good in that party as "one is going to east and the other to west". BJP state president Satish Poonai said the motion will be moved on Friday. He said the BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) have a total of 75 MLAs and of them, 74 were present in Thursday's legislature party meeting held at the BJP's office. The head of the Ram temple trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das (80), tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and was rushed to the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, officials said. According to the officials, Das was rushed to the Gurgaon hospital on instructions from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "A team of doctors tested him for Covid-19 after the district administration was informed in the morning that he was feeling uneasy," Mathura District Magistrate (DM) Sarvagya Ram Mishra said. He added that the process to identify those who had come in contact with Das in the recent past has started. Adityanath has spoken to Mishra as also to Dr Naresh Trehan, the chairman and managing director of the Medanta hospital, and requested for immediate medical attention to Das, the officials said. Das, who is also the president of the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Nyas, was at the Sri Krishna Janmasthan in Mathura till 1.30 am. He had performed the "abhishek" of the deity at the Bhagwat Bhavan from 11 pm to 1 am, Gopeshwar Nath Chaturvedi, a member of the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan, said, adding that till then, he had not complained about his health. On August 5, Das shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. In a major overhaul of tax administration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled faceless tax assessment and appeals to reduce the scope for corruption and overreach by officials, and said a taxpayers' charter is being implemented to ensure a free, fair and transparent tax environment. Launching the 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring The Honest Platform' through video conference, he said the taxpayer base at just 1.5 crore in India is very low and urged those who owe taxes to come forward and honestly pay their dues and contribute to nation-building. The taxpayers' charter and faceless assessment are the next phases of direct tax reforms aimed at easing compliance and rewarding honest taxpayers as the government looks to rebuild the pandemic-hit economy. While, faceless assessment that does not require the taxpayer to visit any office or meet any official, and taxpayers' charter will be implemented from Thursday, the faceless appeal will come into force from September 25, he said. Now, a central computer will pick up tax returns for scrutiny based on risk parameters and mismatches and then will allot them randomly to a team of officers in any city. The scrutiny by these officers will be reviewed by officers at another randomly selected location. Notices, if any, will be sent only by centralised computer system, and taxpayer can respond to them electronically without the requirement of visiting a tax office or meeting any official. The Prime Minister said taxpayers' charter provides for fair, courteous, and reasonable treatment while treating taxpayers as honest. It expects taxpayers to be honest and compliant and pay taxes in time. The government has undertaken various tax reforms during the last six years including a reduction in corporate tax last year to 22 per cent from 30 per cent for existing companies and 15 per cent for new manufacturing units, scraping of dividend distribution tax and faceless assessment. The I-T Department has also taken several tax-payer friendly measures over the years.  It launched the Direct Tax 'Vivad se Vishwas' scheme to expedite the resolution of pending tax disputes. The income tax department has simplified compliance norms for startups and has moved forward with the pre-filling of income tax returns to make compliance more convenient for individual taxpayers. Currently, most of the functions of the Income Tax Department starting from the filing of the return, processing of returns, issuance of refunds, and assessment are performed in the electronic mode without any human interface Private entities have to pay heavy penalties in case the trains they operate are delayed or reach the destination early, according to a draft key performance indicators for private operators released by the Railways. The draft document released on Wednesday states that private train operators have to maintain 95 per cent punctuality through the year. Private operators also have to pay penalties for misreporting their revenue or in case of train cancellations for reasons attributable to them. According to the draft, if the arrival of a train at its destination is delayed by over 15 minutes it will be deemed to have lost punctuality. In this case, the private operator has to pay the Railways extra haulage charge worth 200 km for every one per cent "reduction in punctuality" compared to the guaranteed punctuality, the document states. The Railways has said the haulage charge -- the fee that private operators will pay to use Railways' infrastructure -- will be Rs 512 per km. If a private train reaches destination at least 10 minutes in advance, the operator will have to pay the Railway's penalty in the form of haulage charge for 10 kilometres. Officials said these measures are to ensure that private trains maintain punctuality. Former President Pranab Mukherjee was “slowly responding to medical interventions” and continued to be on ventilator support on Thursday, four days after a life-saving emergency brain surgery. “My father is & has always been a fighter! He is slowly responding to medical interventions & all his vital parameters are stable,” Abhijit Mukherjee, the former President’s son, said on Twitter. Earlier, the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) had said in a statement that the condition of the 84-year-old former President remained unchanged om Thursday morning. “He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a statement. On Wednesday, the hospital had said that the 84-year-old Mukherjee was “haemodynamically stable and on ventilator.” Mukherjee underwent an emergency brain surgery on Monday for removal of a large clot that had formed after he fell at his home on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-7-booked-in-bengaluru-riot-case-bjp-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-gehlot-govt-872879.html
13-08-2020||National||NSO survey highlights urban-rural education divide in India||With the introduction of National Education Policy 2020, India is looking forward to several reforms in the education sector starting from the Academic Bank of Credit to multiple entry and exit points in higher education. But will it be easy to address the urban-rural divide and implement all the proposed policies without any shortcoming? A comparison between two National Statistical Office (NSO) surveys on education confirms the persistent urban-rural divide on all fronts -- from literacy, accessibility to schools, household expenditure on education, to availability of schools and access to computer and internet. Availability of primary schools This gap further increases when secondary schools are taken into account. In the 2014 survey, 37 per cent of rural households as compared to 73 per cent of urban households reported secondary schools within a one-kilometre radius. Similarly, 38 per cent of rural households and 70 per cent of urban households had access to secondary schools within such a distance, as per the recently released 2018 survey. Literacy rate     Literacy rate in India was about 77.7 per cent, according to the 2018 report, as compared to 76 per cent in the previous report. When a comparison was drawn, not only did urban areas fare better than rural areas in both the surveys, but also there was a striking gap between the male and female literacy rates. As per the 2018 report, rural areas had 73.5 per cent literacy rate while in urban areas, the literacy rate was reported at 87.7 per cent. The male literacy rate stood higher at 84.7 per cent than female literacy rate at 70.3 per cent.  Likewise, in the 2014 survey, the literacy rate in rural areas was 71 per cent compared to 86 per cent in urban areas. The difference in literacy rate among males and females was observed with male literacy rate higher at 83 per cent than female literacy rate at 68 per cent. Accessibility Only four per cent of rural households have access to computers as compared to 23 per cent in urban areas as per 2018 report. In 2014, nearly six per cent of rural households and 29 per cent of urban households were found to possess a computer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nso-survey-highlights-urban-rural-education-divide-in-india-872880.html
13-08-2020||National||Private trains to run at 130 kmph speed initially: Railways||With several top corporate houses expressing interest to take part in operating the private passenger trains, Indian Railways has said that these trains will run at 130 kmph speed initially. As the Railways is planning to roll out the private trains by March 2023, these trains will run at 130 kmph speed in the first year, while it will operate at 160 kmph speed in 2024. As per draft specifications of private trains issued by India Railways, the train should be designed in such a way that it can run at 180 kmph speed during testing. "These trains once operation, should able to reduce the travel time by 30 % from current journey time when it runs at 160 kmph speed. The Railways is working racing against time to improving infrastructure including upgrading tracks and signaling system to enable trains to operate at 160 kmph in some routes," said an official in the Railways. The trains will have modern facilities including electronic sliding doors,  cameras in each coach, information system to display destination in different languages, emergency talk-back option in each coach where passengers can talk to the drivers or guards in case of an emergency. Aimed at maintaining strict punctuality of trains, private entities have to pay heavy penalties in case the trains they operate are delayed or reach the destination early. Private train operators have to maintain 95 % punctuality throughout the year. 15 minutes delay on the arrival of trains is to be considered as a delay. Even private operators also have to pay penalties for misreporting their revenue or in case of train cancellations for reasons attributable to them. However, if the punctuality of a train is affected by bad weather, cattle run over, human-run over, law and order, public agitation, miscreant activity, accident, heavy traffic at level crossing gates, and operation of passenger alarm system, neither Railways nor private operators will be liable to pay damages. And private players can fix the damage amount on their own. The Railways plan to allow private operators to run passenger trains as it has received good responses. A total of 23 big corporate houses have shown interest to take part in the project. The Railways invited 12 Request for Qualification (RFQ) from private players to run passenger trains on 109 important routes in 12 clusters through the introduction of 151 modern rakes. These new trains will be over and above the existing ones operated on the network. The private entities for undertaking the project will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising of Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-trains-to-run-at-130-kmph-speed-initially-railways-872884.html
13-08-2020||National||Narendra Modi becomes fourth-longest serving Indian Prime Minister||Narendra Modi has become the longest-serving non-Congress prime minister and the fourth longest-serving overall, the party noted on Thursday. "Today, PM Narendra Modi becomes the fourth longest serving PM in the history of India! He now also holds the distinction of being the longest serving non-Congress PM. Vajpayee ji served for 2,268 days, with all his terms put together. Today PM Modi has surpassed that duration," BJP IT department in-charge Amit Malviya tweeted.  Today, PM Narendra Modi becomes the fourth longest serving PM in the history of India! He now also holds the distinction of being the longest serving non-Congress PM. Vajpayee ji served for 2,268 days, with all his terms put together. Today PM Modi has surpassed that duration. Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh, all from the Congress, are the three longest-serving Indian prime ministers in that order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-becomes-fourth-longest-serving-indian-prime-minister-872887.html
13-08-2020||National||Decision to cancel final exams would impact education standard, UGC tells SC||The UGC has defended before the Supreme Court its notification issued on July 6, which ordered all varsities to conduct final year examinations by September 30, saying it was clearly in the long-term interest of students. "Conducting final examinations, be it in the form of program-ending terminal semester examination or final annual examination, is a crucial step in the academic career of a student," it said. It also said that the decision by the Maharashtra and Delhi government to cancel the examinations would directly impact the standards of higher education in the country, which the UGC is statutorily obligated to maintain. The guidelines issued on July 6 are based on the recommendations of experts and have been made after due deliberation by taking into account the Covid-19 situation and balancing all relevant factors, it pointed out. The UGC adequately accounted for the prevailing circumstances resulting from the coronavirus pandemic because it provided sufficient time till the end of September 2020 to conduct the final year or terminal semester examinations after following the prescribed protocols and procedures relating to Covid-19. In an affidavit to a batch of petition filed by Praneeth K, a Bengaluru resident, who challenged the decision, the higher education regulator said it permitted universities and institutions the flexibility to conduct their final year in online, offline (pen and paper) or blended (online + offline) mode precisely for the reason that online examinations may not be feasible in the case of every university or institution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-to-cancel-final-exams-would-impact-education-standard-ugc-tells-sc-872888.html
13-08-2020||National||India announces $500 million for Maldives project to counter China influence||Even as the Covid-19 crisis strained its own economy, India has loosened its purse strings and pledged a new financial package of $ 500 million to support an infrastructure project in the Maldives – ostensibly to counter China’s attempts to spread its geo-strategic influence over the Indian Ocean nation. External Affairs Minister, S Jaishankar, had a video conference with Foreign Minister of Maldives, Abdulla Shahid, on Thursday. He announced a financial package – consisting of a grant of $ 100 million and a new Line of Credit of $ 400 million – to support the construction of a 6.7-kilometer-long bridge-cum-causeway link between Malé, the capital of the Indian Ocean archipelago, and its three other islands, the Ministry of External Affairs stated in New Delhi. The continuing military stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to step up New Delhi’s efforts to counter the communist country’s bid to spread tentacles in the Indian Ocean region. India on July 24 extended a $ 400 million currency swap facility to Sri Lanka to help its economy recover from the Covid-19 crisis. The officials of the two governments are also discussing a proposal to delay Sri Lanka’s outstanding debt repayment to India. The Greater Malé Connectivity Project will streamline connectivity between the four islands, boost economic activity and generate employment in the Maldives. It was one of the key poll-promises of Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih during the 2018 elections. Once completed, it will boost the economy and generate employment for the people of Maldives, apart from being the most visible infrastructure project in the island nation. It will eclipse the 1.39-kilometer-long Malé-Hulhule-Hulhumale bridge, which was funded by China. The erstwhile regime of Solih’s predecessor Abdulla Yameen had put the Maldives into a debt-trap by awarding the state-owned companies of China contracts to build several infrastructure projects – mostly on unsustainable loan terms. Though Beijing’s influence over Abdullah Yameen's regime had resulted in strains in New Delhi’s relations with Malé, it saw a reset after Solih and former Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed led the Maldivian Democratic Party to victory in the November 2018 elections. During Solih’s first visit to New Delhi in December 2018, Modi assured him of New Delhi’s financial support to get the Maldives out of China’s debt-trap.   China, however, continued to offer concessional loans to the Maldives, including one to support the Greater Malé Connectivity Project. The communist country in fact inked an agreement with the Maldivian Government earlier this week to support an $ 11.8 million micro-grid seawater desalination project in five islands in the Maldives. Jaishankar on Thursday conveyed to his counterpart in the Maldivian Government that New Delhi would also extend a soft loan to urgently help recover the island nation’s economy from the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-announces-500-million-for-maldives-project-to-counter-china-influence-872893.html
13-08-2020||National||'How can govt say food security Act, poverty unlinked'||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre as to how it can say that the National Food Security Act (NFSA) has no link with poverty alleviation as the object behind the statute was to ensure food security for the poor. "Food security is needed for the poor, so how can you say it (NFSA) is de-linked from poverty," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Ministry of Consumer Affairs while hearing a PIL for providing benefits of the various food security schemes to persons with disabilities (PWDs). Replying to the PIL, the ministry contended that NFSA has no link with poverty alleviation and its goal is to ensure food security for 67 per cent of the country's population. The ministry, represented by central government standing counsel Monika Arora, also said that Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act was not applicable to the NFSA as under the food security law foodgrain was being provided to 67 per cent of the population which included PWD and therefore, there was no need for a 5 per cent reservation for them. "We need food security because we are poor," the bench said, adding that the government cannot say it will not provide reservation to PWD merely on the basis that they have not been excluded under NFSA. "The purpose of the reservation was to give preferential treatment. Where is the preferential treatment here? You (Centre) are presuming that it is as easy for a PWD to get a ration card as it is for anyone else. You are not considering the reality (with regard to the plight of PWD) in the country that we live in," the court said. The bench further said that disability certificates are issued by government authorities and asked the Centre and state governments to consider giving foodgrain to the PWD initially based on their disability certificates and at the same time collecting their information for issue of a ration card. Thereafter, they can be given the ration card along with the foodgrain, the bench said. With the suggestion, the court listed the matter for hearing on August 24. The suggestion was given by the court earlier as well, on July 22, to the central government which was asked to look into its feasibility.  However, the central government on the subsequent date of hearing on July 29 did not say anything on the suggestion. During the hearing on Thursday, senior advocate Santosh Kumar Rungta, appearing for the NGO which has filed the PIL, said that the Consumer Affairs Minister had recently tweeted and also issued a press release saying that PWD would be provided foodgrain without insisting on ration cards and directions to this effect have been issued to all state governments. The NGO, National Federation of Blind, in its petition has sought directions to the Centre to ensure that states and Union Territories provide benefits of welfare schemes, like Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Kalyan Yojana, to PWD also during the Covid-19 pandemic. It has contended that PWDs are neglected when reliefs under various food security measures are implemented as most of them do not have ration cards.  The NGO has also contended that under the PWD Act of 1995, a 3 per cent reservation was provided for all disabled persons in poverty alleviation schemes and this was increased to 5 per cent under the RPWD Act of 2016. Therefore, the government should ensure that at least 5 per cent of the beneficiaries for foodgrain under the schemes like Antyodaya Anna Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Kalyan Yojana, are PWD, it has said. The bench had earlier remarked that PWD have been excluded from welfare schemes "from time immemorial". "Fact that persons with disabilities get marginalised from every scheme does not require debate," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-can-govt-say-food-security-act-poverty-unlinked-872926.html
13-08-2020||National||Optional exams to improve performance in class 12 boards to be held in September||The optional exams for improvement of performance in class 12 board examination are proposed to be held in September, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Thursday. "Optional examination for class 12 students whose result has been declared based on the assessment scheme and wish to improve their performance, are proposed to be conducted in September, along with the compartment examination for both class 10 and 12 students. Dates will be announced soon," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj. "The marks obtained by a candidate in these optional examinations will be treated as final for those who have opted to take these examinations," he added. While the regular candidates have been asked to approach their respective schools, the private candidates are required to apply directly using the link on the board's website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/optional-exams-to-improve-performance-in-class-12-boards-to-be-held-in-september-872935.html
13-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: SC defers hearing plea for unified CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Thursday deferred hearing a plea by Bofors-fame advocate Ajay Agrawal for a unified probe by the CBI into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde posted the matter for consideration on August 21 as the petitioner was indisposed. Agrawal has claimed that the entire country was shocked by the way the Mumbai Police handled this case, leaving many loopholes at the initial stage of the investigation. In an additional affidavit, he has pointed out Narayan Rane, who is a former Chief Minister of Maharashtra, alleged that it is a clear cut case of murder, while some other prominent people took the name of Aditya Thackeray, himself a Cabinet Minister of Maharashtra, to be involved in some way or the other with this case.   "The faith of the people is being eroded with such facts coming through media the whole day," he said. All this can be put to rest by a unified CBI investigation of this case. The CBI is a professional agency and is well-equipped to deal with such type of high profile and controversial case, Agrawal added. In his petition, he contended a unified probe by the CBI was necessary to unravel the truth. Even though the Bihar government ordered an enquiry by the central agency, the Maharashtra government may not agree for it. Agrawal pointed out the blatant act of the Bombay Municipal Corporation to put Patna SP, Vinay Tiwari, who went for probe in an FIR lodged by Rajput's father, in quarantine under the instruction from the Maharashtra government made it loud, clear and apparent that there was something fishy in the investigation of Mumbai Police. The Maharashtra government wanted to hide and suppress some material facts which are necessary for impartial and fair investigation of the case, and that is why it was shy of recommending CBI inquiry into the matter wherein its act in this matter is under a cloud, he claimed. Pointing towards "unsavory war of words between Bihar and Maharashtra police", the petitioner said that citizens of the country were shocked by all these developments. He said nobody could swallow this theory of suicide of a bright star of Bollywood and every Indian was curious to know the actual facts of his untimely death. The petitioner also pointed out the top court on July 15 dismissed a PIL for a CBI probe into the matter but there was no speaking order. Agrawal, who filed the PIL in Bofors scam, is a member of the BJP. He has also unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls against Sonia Gandhi from Rai Bareli constituency. Notably, the court had on Tuesday reserved a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty for transfer of the July 25 FIR filed by father of deceased actor with Patna Police to Mumbai. Although the CBI has taken over the probe into the matter but the Maharashtra government has vehemently opposed it. Sushant's  father K K Singh accused Rhea, who was in a live-in relationship with the actor, and others, including her family members, of cheating, holding his son hostage and forcing him to commit suicide on June 14. He also claimed as much as Rs 17 crore was withdrawn from his son's bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-sc-defers-hearing-plea-for-unified-cbi-probe-872941.html
13-08-2020||National||SC notice to Mantri Promoters on plea questioning quashing of FIR||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to real estate major Mantri Promoters' Sushil Mantri and others on a plea challenging the validity of the Karnataka High Court's order of quashing an FIR, related to cheating and other offences lodged with High Grounds police station in Bengaluru. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee sought a response from the Karnataka government and the real estate developer within two weeks on a petition filed by M/s Township Promoters. The petitioner, led by senior advocate C A Sundaram, assailed the High Court's order of February 2, 2020.  The HC had quashed the criminal case registered in 2018. Mantri Promoters entered into a joint development agreement with M/s Township Promoters in 2017 and formed a partnership firm as  Jakkur Promoters Pvt Ltd, for the development of land at Jakkur. The firm was converted into a company in 2017. But due to certain litigations, the project could not be developed, leading to the lodging of the criminal case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-mantri-promoters-on-plea-questioning-quashing-of-fir-872946.html
13-08-2020||National||Covid-19 killed more than 100 doctors in India, says study||By Ari Altstedter At least 104 doctors in India died due to coronavirus infections, a study has found, as the pathogen’s spread accelerates across the country. More than half these doctors were younger than 60, according to a study by Rajeev Jayadevan, a gastroenterologist and president of the professional organization representing private doctors in Kochi. The paper was posted in an online forum for prepublication research and has not been peer-reviewed. In the US as of Aug. 11, 21 physicians have died of Covid-19 -- the disease caused by the novel coronavirus -- according to data compiled by the Guardian and Kaiser Health News. In China at the height of its crisis earlier this year, at least 46 medical workers were reported to have died, while at least 26 doctors have died in Indonesia and about a dozen in the Philippines, according to government data in April. India saw 942 overall deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing its toll to 47,033 fatalities. That’s the fourth-largest in the world, behind the US, Brazil and Mexico. Independent experts are warning India has failed to properly record fatalities, and say better data collection is needed if the country is going to get a handle on the epidemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-killed-more-than-100-doctors-in-india-says-study-872948.html
13-08-2020||National||Editors Guild condemns incidents of assaults on journalists in Delhi, Bengaluru||The Editors Guild of India on Thursday termed as "reprehensible" the separate incidents of assault on journalists in Delhi and Bengaluru and demanded that police authorities must quickly take necessary steps to initiate action against the guilty in both the cases. In a statement, the guild "unequivocally condemned" the recent attacks on journalists while they were on duty. "Three journalists working with The Caravan were allegedly assaulted while they were in northeast Delhi’s North Ghonda neighbourhood on August 11 to report on a complainant in the recent communal violence case in the capital," the Guild said. They also say they were subjected to communal slurs, threatened with murder and sexually harassed, it alleged. "On the same day in Bengaluru, as many as four journalists belonging to India Today, The News Minute and Suvarna News 24X7 were reportedly attacked by the city police," the Guild said. These journalists at that time were on duty, reporting on the vandalism and police shooting in the wake of a mob violence in the city, it said. "Both attacks are reprehensible. The freedom of the media to discharge its responsibilities without fear or harassment is an important and indispensable attribute of a functioning democracy," the Guild said. The case of assault on journalists working with The Caravan shows a dangerous trend where communally inspired people can assault and harass journalists with impunity in the presence of an indifferent police, it said. The Bengaluru incident also highlights the failure of the law enforcement agencies in maintaining an environment where the media can function freely and without fear, the Guild said. "The Editors Guild of India demands that the police authorities in Delhi and Bengaluru take cognizance of both the cases and quickly take necessary steps to initiate action against the guilty," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-condemns-incidents-of-assaults-on-journalists-in-delhi-bengaluru-872959.html
13-08-2020||National||CM sees ‘foreign hand’ in protest against central government projects along Goa-Karnataka border||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday blamed the proverbial ‘foreign hand’ for protests against three central government projects in reserved forest areas along the Goa-Karnataka border, saying NRIs who have no knowledge about the state, are unnecessarily adding to the shrill protest against the BJP-led coalition government’s efforts for the development of the state.  Sawant’s comments come on the heels of severe criticism of the state government vis a vis three central government projects along the forested Goa-Karnataka border, for which nearly 50,000 trees are expected to be axed in Goa’s territory.  Speaking at a state government function organised at the Chief Minister’s official residence on Thursday, Sawant said: “We want power and water 24x7. We want good transport and road facilities. And at the same time, we also need a good environment. Government is not keen on destroying the environment. We want to preserve it. if we cut 10 trees, we replant 100 trees. People do not understand this”.  “The opposition is coming from (people in) Africa, England and Russia. Those who have not seen Goa and Mollem, are now commenting about it from foreign countries. On the other hand, those who stay in Mollem, say that if the road is widened it will be beneficial to them,” the Chief Minister also said.  The 50,000 trees located in the Western Ghat area have been slotted for felling for multiple central government projects, which include expansion of railway lines and highways and drawing of a new high tension power, spread across the two wildlife reserves, which are two of the biggest protected forests in the state. The projects have already been cleared by the National Wildlife Board for Wildlife in April this year. Two weeks back, the Bombay High Court in Goa had issued notices to state government as well as central government agencies, following a petition which alleged that proper procedures were not followed in the course of clearing the projects.  Goa leader of opposition Digambar Kamat has also written to National Wildlife Board urging it to scrap the three projects, which the former Chief Minister said would destroy Goa’s forest cover and disturb the habitat of protected wildlife species including the Royal Bengal Tiger, the Great Indian bison etc.   Goa’s tourism industry stakeholders, as well as green activists and NRIs of Goan origin, have been campaigning for the scrapping of the three projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-sees-foreign-hand-in-protest-against-central-government-projects-along-goa-karnataka-border-872963.html
13-08-2020||National||Multilayered security arrangements, social distancing norms in place for Independence Day||Multilayered security arrangements and mandatory adherence to social distancing norms are in place for the 74th Independence Day celebrations at the Mughal-era Red Fort this year. A security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be placed around the Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation.  Over 300 cameras have been installed for security and their footage is being monitored round the clock, police said. There will be around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort and they will stand in adherence with social distancing norms.  The security in and around railways stations has also been intensified.  "Security personnel have been deployed at railways stations and along the tracks. There will be no movement of trains from 6.45 am to 8.45 am on Independence Day on particular tracks near the Red Fort due to VVIP movement," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said.  On Thursday morning, a full-dress rehearsal of the 74th Independence Day celebrations was held at the Red Fort. Personnel from the Army, Navy and Air Force marched across the Mughal-era structure.  The security arrangements were stringent and there were traffic restrictions during the rehearsal. The Red Fort has already been closed for the public ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. Police personnel have been asked to keep an eye on the sky to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the areas around the Red Fort. Police have also been carrying out anti-sabotage checks, visiting hotels in the vicinity in search of suspicious elements, they said.  The Delhi Traffic Police had also issued an advisory for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort to ensure safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city.  Eight roads -- Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover -- will be closed for the general public from 4 am to 10 am. Earlier, the Delhi Police had advised invitees to refrain from attending the event it if they experienced any Covid-19 symptom in the last two weeks and did not go for a test. The police had also requested them to follow Covid-19-related guidelines issued by the home and health ministries during the Independence Day celebrations. Over 350 Delhi Police personnel, who will be part of the guard of honour, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. This personnel of the force of all ranks -- from constable to deputy commissioner of police -- have been quarantined at a newly built police colony in Delhi Cantonment.  Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, microlight aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft etc. are prohibited over the jurisdiction of National Capital Territory of Delhi up to August 15, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multilayered-security-arrangements-social-distancing-norms-in-place-for-independence-day-872980.html
13-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Centre asks SC to allow CBI to continue probe||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that the CBI, which has already registered an FIR on Bihar government's recommendation to investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, should be allowed to continue its probe along with the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering. Rhea Chakraborty, the live-in partner of Sushant, filed a plea to shift an FIR lodged by the Patna police on July 25 to Mumbai. The Central government submitted that the Maharashtra police has not registered any FIR with regard to the incident on June 14. "There are no two cases pending in two different states in the present case. The Maharashtra Police has “recorded 56 statements” which have no backing of the law," it said. The Union government also submitted that the investigation in a case can be initiated with the registration of an FIR. "It is only after registration of FIR that the police get jurisdiction to record statements of witnesses and not otherwise," it said, pointing out that none of these steps were admittedly taken by Maharashtra Police. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy has on Tuesday concluded its hearing on Rhea's plea to transfer the probe to Mumbai police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-centre-asks-sc-to-allow-cbi-to-continue-probe-872983.html
13-08-2020||National||NEP will ensure quality and affordable education: Prakash Javadekar||The new National Education Policy will ensure accessibility, equity, quality, affordability and accountability, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday. Addressing a webinar on the National Education Policy (NEP), Javadekar said he had seen the process of formulation of the policy closely when he was the Human Resource Development minister. This is an education policy that will take India forward as it will provide accessibility, equity, quality, affordability and accountability, he said at the webinar organised by the Vidyapeeth Vikas Manch, National Yuva Cooperative Society and the Savitribai Phule, Pune University. If one studies the policy, one will realise that education for all is its basis, the Information and Broadcasting minister said. "Those students who do not come in the school system, there is an attempt to bring them under the system," said Javadekar, who was the HRD minister from July 2016-May 2019. There are about three crore students in the college system right now and the aim under the policy is to double that number, Javadekar said. While one out of four people now go from school to college, the aim is to ensure that the number increases to two out of four, he said, adding that this is a major initiative. "A big thrust has been given to research and innovation in higher education," Javadekar said. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Choice between 3 or 4 year undergraduate courses, multiple entry and exit options in degree courses, adding 3.5 crore seats in higher education institutions, which will now have a single regulator, discontinuation of M.Phil programmes and fixation of fees are among the higher education reforms outlined in the new NEP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-will-ensure-quality-and-affordable-education-prakash-javadekar-872987.html
13-08-2020||National||Gujarat's top forest officer issued notice for critical remarks on Asiatic lions' management||The Gujarat government on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to a senior Indian Forest Officer (IFS) over his alleged "objectionable views" and "undesirable comments" on various issues pertaining to Asiatic lions, conservation efforts and wildlife policy as a whole in a webinar. The officer Shyamal Tikadar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) & Chief Wildlife Warden, had said in the event that Asiatic lions, restricted to Gir National Park and Saurashtra landscape, should be looked at as a "resource" for local livelihood and not just "asset". He rued the fact that wild cats such as tigers and lions have been branded as "commodity" due to marketing but they are not being treated as "resources" that can help the local community which tolerate these wild cats. The state government that hails Asiatic lions as "pride of Gujarat" issued a press note on Thursday stating that Tikadar "presented certain objectionable views and made undesirable comments on various issues. The government of Gujarat does not agree with such personal views, which are far from truth & facts. For his irresponsible statements against the policies of the government, the government of Gujarat has decided to call his explanation and issue notice as per All India Service (Conduct) Rules." During the webinar, Tikadar spoke at length on managing lions and changes that needed to be brought in the overall policy. "We have got a species which has been branded...has very long traditional linkages with the community or society. Same is the case with tigers and also with lions- tigers at the national level, lions at the state level. Now, this bonding gives rise to ownership and no owner would obviously like to give away the ownership." Arguing that lions should be treated as "commodity" so that the local community can earn from them as it is the locals who are responsible for the lions' conservation, Tikardar said only "political" and "public will" can make such an arrangement happen. "Today, let me tell you very frankly that lion conservation or whatever the population of lions that exists in Gir and Saurashtra landscape, all the credit goes to the community. In Saurashtra, people are vegetarian and tolerant. And, this tolerance has given rise to a situation where a big cat-like lion, which is a prolific breeder, keeps on breeding. Given the right condition of food and space, it will keep breeding which it has been doing quite successfully so far." But due to intensive management practices happening in the past and because "we consider this particular species vulnerable and very important, the wild lions per se no wilder, let me tell you. Almost 70 to 80% of them are microchipped as on date. They all have got Aadhaar cards the way we have it... They are not elusive like tigers," Tikadar said in the webinar. He added that "looking from a management perspective, lions and tigers have been branded and being marketed very well...branding has taken this to such a level that everybody considers it as their own... and even a natural thing like death is questioned 101 times." According to Tikadar, the biggest question that has arisen is "how many lions can the society sustain or tolerate." He said, "someday or the other, apart from the disease aspect, there are revenge killings that do happen... I don't know how far this rubber band can be stretched till the tolerance level breaks and then it will be a disaster. I know this very well that we are sitting on a time bomb and it can burst anytime."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-top-forest-officer-issued-notice-for-critical-remarks-on-asiatic-lions-management-872989.html
13-08-2020||National||No material found against Chidambaram, others in 63 moons' complaint: CBI||The CBI on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that it did not find any material to substantiate the allegations made by 63 moons technologies against former finance minister P Chidambaram and two others. CBI lawyer Hiten Venegavkar told a division bench of Justices Sadhana Jadhav and N J Jamadar that the complaint filed by the firm has been forwarded to the Chief Vigilance Officer of the Department of Economic Affairs. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Jignesh Shah-promoted company, earlier known as Financial Technologies Ltd, questioning "delayed" action by the Central Bureau of Investigation against Chidambaram and bureaucrats K P Krishnan and Ramesh Abhishek. On February 15, 2019, 63 moons technologies filed a complaint with the CBI. It alleged that the senior Congress leader and the other two abused their official positions and caused damage to the company when the multi-crore payment default scam at National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) came to light. Chidambaram was finance minister, Abhishek was chairman of the Forward Markets Commission and Krishnan an additional secretary and joint secretary in the Ministry of Finance when the scam came to light in 2012-13. The trio took "malicious and malafide" action against it, the company alleged. Advocate Venegavkar said the CBI verified the complaint, but "we have not found any material as of now to substantiate the allegations made by the petitioner". The CBI also said in an affidavit that the petitioner did not submit any supporting documents. "In the absence of any supporting documents in support of the allegations and due to the technical nature of the complaint, the same has been forwarded to the Chief Vigilance Officer, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance for expert examinations," the affidavit said. "It was informed in the letter dated February 25, 2020 that the matter may be reverted to CBI along with due approval of the competent authority under section 17 (A) of the Prevention of Corruption Act for taking up formal investigation," it said. Till then, the agency cannot conduct any probe, the affidavit added. Senior counsel Aabad Ponda, appearing for 63 moons, argued that as the complaint alleges corruption and criminal conspiracy at high level, an inquiry must be conducted. The hearing was adjourned for three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-material-found-against-chidambaram-others-in-63-moons-complaint-cbi-872990.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan CLP meet at 5 pm; Gehlot, Pilot likely to come face-to-face||Three days after the simmering Rajasthan crisis met with a subdued end and truce was reinstated, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will likely come face-to-face with Sachin Pilot at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, which is to be held at Gehlot's residence in Jaipur at 5 pm. Pilot had openly rebelled against Gehlot last month along with 18 other Congress MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan chief. The stalwarts of the stalemate might come together at a Congress Legislature Party meeting scheduled for today. The special session of the Rajasthan assembly is to be held on August 14. At earlier Congress Legislature Party meetings, the loyalist MLAs had called for disciplinary action against the dissidents who defied party whips while demanding a change in the leadership in the state. Gehlot had himself called the now sacked PCC president “useless”, using the derogatory Hindi word “nikamma” for Sachin Pilot. The crisis for the Rajasthan government appeared to have ended with the intervention of the top leadership of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who met rebel leader Sachin Pilot earlier this week. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-clp-meet-at-5-pm-gehlot-pilot-likely-to-come-face-to-face-872787.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Misunderstanding in Congress should be forgiven, forgotten to move forward: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Thursday that whatever was the "misunderstanding" in the Congress party, it should be "forgiven and forgotten" for moving forward. The Congress crisis in Rajasthan appears to have ended with the intervention of top leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who met rebel leader Sachin Pilot earlier this week. Pilot had openly rebelled against Gehlot last month along with 18 other Congress MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party's Rajasthan chief. "Whatever misunderstanding occurred in the party in the last one month, we need to forgive and forget in the interest of the country, the state, the people and in the interest of democracy," Gehlot said in a tweet. "We have to put all our energies in this fight to save democracy with the spirit of forgive and forget and move forward," he wrote on Twitter. The Rajasthan Chief Minister claimed a "very dangerous" game to undermine the democracy is going on in the country. The struggle of the Congress is to save democracy under the leadership of the party president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, he said. "Save democracy should be our priority with the spirit of forgive and forget. The conspiracy that is going on to topple elected governments one by one in the country, the way governments were toppled in the states of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and other states. "How ED, CBI, Income Tax, the judiciary have been misused, it is a very dangerous game that is going on to undermine democracy," Gehlot said in a series of tweets. Ahead of the Assembly session beginning Friday, the dissidents MLAs have reached Jaipur following the intervention of the Congress high command on Monday. The MLAs in the Gehlot camp were on Wednesday flown back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where they were together at another hotel. They were taken straight from the airport to the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of the city, where they had stayed before being moved to Jaisalmer. The MLAs – mostly from the Congress and some allies – are expected to remain there till the assembly meets on August 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/misunderstanding-in-congress-should-be-forgiven-forgotten-to-move-forward-ashok-gehlot-872810.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan BJP to move no-confidence motion against Ashok Gehlot-led Congress govt||The BJP in Rajasthan will move a motion of no confidence in the state assembly against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said on Thursday. The decision was taken in a BJP legislature party meeting held here on Thursday. After the meeting, Kataria told reporters that the motion of no confidence will be moved in the assembly session which is beginning from Friday. The opposition party's decision comes days after an "amicable resolution" of the nearly month-long political crisis in Rajasthan. Congress leader Sachin Pilot had openly rebelled against Chief Minister Gehlot last month along with 18 other party MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan chief. The Congress on Monday had said the crisis in Rajasthan was a "closed chapter" and all legislators supporting its government will work towards strengthening the state government and fighting Covid-19 and economic calamities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bjp-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-ashok-gehlot-led-congress-govt-872837.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Ex-CM Siddaramaiah discharged after testing negative for Covid-19||He has been discharged after reports of the second test also came out negative, it said. The statement said Siddaramaiah was admitted to hospital on August 3 for urinary infection and subsequently he had tested positive for the coronavirus infection. As per the advice of the doctors, he will take rest at home for one week, it added. The 72-year-old leader of the opposition has thanked doctors and medical staff who took care of him at the Manipal hospital for the last ten days. He has also thanked people of the state and others, who wished his speedy recovery, the statement said. Siddaramaiah's son and Congress MLA from Varuna Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah had tested positive on August 7. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who was also undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at the same Manipal Hospital was discharged on Monday after recovery. He is currently under self-quarantine at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-cm-siddaramaiah-discharged-after-testing-negative-for-covid-19-872839.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Congress revokes suspension of two Sachin Pilot camp MLAs||The Congress on Thursday revoked the suspension of Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, two MLAs who had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot government. They were suspended from the party's primary membership last month over their alleged involvement in a “conspiracy” to topple the Congress government in the state. The decision to revoke the suspension of the two MLAs follows a patch-up between the Ashok Gehlot and his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot after the intervention of the party’s top leadership in Delhi. “After a consultative discussion, the suspension of @INCRajasthan MLA Sh. Bhanwarlal Sharma Ji and Sh. @vishvendrabtp ji is hereby revoked,” AICC general secretary Avinash Pande tweeted. Eighteen MLAs had backed Pilot in the rebellion, demanding a change of leadership in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-revokes-suspension-of-two-sachin-pilot-camp-mlas-872845.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan: Time to forgive, forget, says Ashok Gehlot; meets Sachin Pilot||After a month-long stand-off that had pushed the Rajasthan government to the brink of collapse, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his arch-rival Sachin Pilot were together again, just in time for the state assembly session beginning on Friday. Pilot and Gehlot came face-to-face for the first time since the crisis unfolded on July 13 at the chief minister’s residence in Jaipur at the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party ahead of the assembly session, where BJP is expected to bring no-trust motion against the government. “Whatever misunderstanding occurred in the party in the last one month, we need to forgive & forget in the interest of the country, state, people & in the interest of democracy,” Gehlot had said earlier in the day. “Everything went on well. Now that the Congress family is united, we will fight against BJP's bad politics. Tomorrow in Vidhan Sabha Congress party will stand unitedly,” KC Venugopal, AICC General Secretary (organisation), told reporters in Jaipur after the CLP meeting. However, the fragility of the truce between Gehlot and Pilot were visible as the chief minister interacted with the media. “We could have proven our majority even without these 19 MLAs but it would not have given us happiness. We will move a trust vote in the House,” Gehlot said. His obvious reference was to Pilot and 18 MLAs who had rebelled against his leadership. Earlier, Congress revoked the suspension of Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, former ministers and Pilot supporters. They were suspended from the party after an audio recording of their purported conversation on toppling the Gehlot government surfaced last month. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajasthan Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria said the BJP will move a no-confidence motion on Friday. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the Gehlot government would not last long. “This government won’t last long,” she said after the meeting of the BJP Legislature Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-time-to-forgive-forget-says-ashok-gehlot-meets-sachin-pilot-872871.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Cong to move confidence motion in Rajasthan Assembly||The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government will move a confidence motion in the Rajasthan Assembly during the session beginning Friday, a party leader said. This was announced Thursday at the Congress Legislature Party meeting chaired by Gehlot. The session comes days after the top leadership of the Congress announced the return of Sachin Gehlot and 18 other dissident MLAs to the party-fold. Pilot had led a rebellion against Gehlot, seeking a change in the party’s leadership in Rajasthan. At the CLP meeting held at his residence, Gehlot urged Congress MLAs to forget the acrimony of the past month and move on. The party has 107 MLAs in the 200 member assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-to-move-confidence-motion-in-rajasthan-assembly-872919.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Introspect on toxic TV debates: Congress||Congress on Thursday called for introspection on the “toxic” television debates, a day after the death of its spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi within minutes of finishing a television show. “It is high time TV channel owners, editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates into a meaningless, poisonous and potentially fatal activity. At times words can have the same impact as bullets,” AICC Treasurer Ahmed Patel said. “These debates are no longer structured discussions, but resemble WWFs,” former union minister Manish Tewari said. He demanded that the government cancel the licenses of television channels that violate the rules and allow panelists to throw expletives at each other. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill shot off a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar urging him to issue an advisory to the media to enforce a code of conduct to “curb slanderous, sensationalist and toxic television debates.” Tyagi, 54, suffered a massive cardiac arrest on Wednesday, minutes after he had concluded a television debate on the Bengaluru riots on a private television channel. “It is imperative to restore civility through a code of conduct, in order to tame the slanderous beast that television debates have become,” Shergill said in a letter to Javadekar. “I share the concerns expressed by Jaiveer Shergill over the damage done by competitive sensationalism in the media. The brazen violation of NBA guidelines and code need honest reflection and course correction,” senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/introspect-on-toxic-tv-debates-congress-872938.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||India cannot keep depending on imported defence supplies, self-reliance crucial: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India cannot depend on foreign governments and overseas suppliers to meet its requirement of military platforms, and self-reliance in the defence sector is far more crucial than any other field. Singh made the comments after launching a number of new products brought out by several defence public sector undertakings and the Ordnance Factory Board. "Security is its first priority for the development of any nation. It is known to all of us that the nations, which are able to protect themselves, they have been able to build their strong image at the global level," Singh said. "We cannot depend on foreign governments, foreign suppliers and foreign defence products to meet our defence needs. It is not compatible with the objectives and feelings of a strong and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’," he added. In a mega push to boost domestic defence production, Singh on Sunday announced that India will stop import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems under a staggered timeline running into 2024. India is one of the largest importers of arms globally. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around $130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. "We should not only be able to ensure the fulfilment of our national interests but also be able to help other people in times of need. Self-reliance in the defence sector is far more crucial than any other field," Singh said. The decision to prune the import list of weapons systems under a year-wise schedule was first announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May while rolling out reform measures for the defence manufacturing sector that included increasing the FDI limit from 49 percent to 74 percent under the automatic route. The defence ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing in the next five years that included an export target of $5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-cannot-keep-depending-on-imported-defence-supplies-self-reliance-crucial-rajnath-singh-872943.html
13-08-2020||National Politics||Nominating Jai Prakash Nishad is BJP's effort for Mallah outreach||By nominating Jai Prakash Nishad for Rajya Sabha by-election from UP, who filed his nomination on Thursday, BJP has made one more conscious effort to reach out to the Mallah or Kevat (boatmen) community, which has nearly five percent votes in the state and influences results in over 100 assembly segments in the state. The by-election for Rajya Sabha scheduled on August 24, was necessitated following the demise of Samajwadi Party MP Beni Prasad Verma, who hailed from the Kurmi community, the second most dominant OBC community in the state after Yadavs. Of 31 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh, there are 15 from BJP, eight from SP and four of the Bahujan Samaj Party and two from the Congress. Two are vacant. Nishad is a former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA who joined the BJP a few years ago like a number of leaders from the community whom the BJP has courted in the last few years after Modi came to power in 2014. Former Rajya Sabha MP Narendra Kashyap, belonging to the Nishad community, who moved to BJP from BSP in 2016, says there is a need to give ‘more representation” to Mallah in politics and the community members look towards the BJP with more anticipation. “There are 100 assembly seats in the state, where the number of Mallah voters range from 15 thousand to 70 thousand and they can tilt the results either way. They are divided into 27 sub-castes and known as Kashyap in Western UP,” he said. BJP has made sustained efforts to woo the community ever since the Modi government came to power at the Centre in 2014. During the 2015 Bihar assembly polls, Modi had picked up a Mallah youth Mukesh Sahni, who was famously referred as “son of Mallah”. In 2016, Prime Minister Modi reached out to the community, launching 11 solar-powered “e-boats” in Varanasi and naming India’s new satellite  NAVIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) to honour the contribution of the “courageous boatmen (naavik). A number of Mallah leaders from SP and BSP defected to BJP before the 2017 assembly polls. In the middle of 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the then BJP president Amit Shah promised to build an 80-feet tall statue of Nishadraj in Allahabad. Mallahs fit into BJP's Hindutva politics as they have made consistent efforts to widen the party’s political base and make deep inroads in Most Backward Classes (MBCs). BJP has repeatedly referred to the pantheon of Kevatraj of the epic Ramayana and even during the August 5 groundbreaking ceremony of Ayodhya, VHP made reverential references to the Kevatraj’s connection with Lord Ram. In UP, the most well known Mallah politician was bandit turned politician Phoolan Devi who, after being elected MP for the second time from Samajwadi Party, was shot dead outside her residence in Lutyens Delhi in daylight in July 2001. She had formed the Eklavya Sena to fight for the rights of the community. The aspiration Mallahs have been seeking larger political representation for quite some time. In December 2016 a number of MPs and former MPs of the Nishad community from various parties held a protest in the national capital to seek due representation for Nishads or Kevats, seeking first a sub-quota within 27 percent OBC reservation for them and ultimately SC status. In June 2019, the Yogi Adityanath government included Mallahs among 17 castes in the list of Scheduled Castes, a decision which was stayed by the Allahabad High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nominating-jai-prakash-nishad-is-bjps-effort-for-mallah-outreach-872958.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||DH Radio | The Lead: How the Wazwans of Kashmir are dealing with Covid-19||This episode of The Lead from DH Radio brings to you the story of what's happening to the famed Wazwans of Kashmir during the Covid-19 crisis. A wazwan meal is a unique identifier, pride of Kashmiri cuisine and identity, comprising of lamb and chicken-based dishes and few vegetables.  Ahmed Shariff: What is a Wazwan? Could you tell us more about the cultural significance of this in Kashmir? Zulfikar Majid: Wazwan, the Kashmiri cuisine, is a unique and inseparable component of Kashmiri culture. It comprises seven to 36 dishes mostly of mutton, chicken and few vegetables. The ethnic meat products of Kashmiri wazwan are popular because of their appealing flavor, texture, and palatability characteristics. The preparation of wazwan is considered as an art and a point of pride in Kashmiri culture and identity. Any Kashmiri wedding or special occasion is incomplete without wazawan and this highly stylistic form of food preparing and serving is one of the more celebrated customs among most Kashmiris. Ahmed: With no employment, what are the Wazwan chefs doing now? Zulfikar: Since the abrogation of Article 370 last August and subsequent lockdowns, most of the wazas are with little or no work as most of the weddings and functions are being carried out without any pomp and show. The work of wazas have reduced drastically. With Covid-19 SOPs in place, a family has to invite less than 50 guests for a wedding which in normal times used to be 300-400. Ahmed: Has the administration done anything about it? Zulfikar: No, not really. There is no such scheme with the government to help out the wazas. Ahmed: What is the road ahead for them, do they have anything planned out? Zulfikar: Like everybody in Kashmir, wazas too are waiting for the situation to improve so that they can carry out their work the way they were doing. Some of the wazas are these days doing some other work, like selling vegetables or fruits to feed their families. Ahmed: Is it a hereditary profession and what does the younger generation think about it? Zulfikar: Over the years, like other professions in Kashmir, the younger generation of wazas too have slowly but steadily started to drift away from the profession of their previous generations. Some of the children of wazas are studying medicine, engineering and other professional courses now. New people with no background in the trade are now preparing wazwan. However, there are still some famous wazas in Srinagar’s old city, who take pride in their profession. Ahmed: Now, let's listen to the conversation that Zulfikar had with Abdul Gaffar, Waza Q: How has the lockdowns since last August impacted your work? We have suffered huge losses, first it was August 5 last year. On that very day, I and my team had to cook 500-600 kgs of wazwan at one wedding function only. But due to the situation, the function had to be cancelled. Since then there has been no good news. But still during last year's lockdown, some activity was going on. This time after Covid, there is almost no work. Even if there is a wedding, we have to cook at the most 30 or 40 kgs of wazwan which is ten times lesser than normal times. There are only losses and nothing else. People associated with this trade are in deep crisis Whatever our earnings were, we are spending that now. There is no work. We may get a day’s work after a week or two weeks.   To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-radio-the-lead-how-the-wazwans-of-kashmir-are-dealing-with-covid-19-872667.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||DH Toon | Forgive and forget, Ashok Gehlot tells upset MLAs||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said resentment among the Congress MLAs is “natural” after the return of dissident legislators to the party-fold but asked them to forgive, forget and move on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-forgive-and-forget-ashok-gehlot-tells-upset-mlas-872669.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||HAL’s new Light Combat Helicopter deployed at Leh||Two Light Combat Helicopters (LCH) have been deployed for high-altitude operations in the Leh sector to provide short-notice support for the Indian Air Force.  On Wednesday, the two aircraft, designed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) were flown off from a high-altitude location to a forward area for a simulated attack on a high-altitude target. This was followed by a landing at a helipad in the region, known for being treacherous. The Vice Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora took part in one such operation along with HAL test pilot, Wing Commander Subash P John (retired).  HAL, in a statement, said the sorties had shown that the helicopter had “successfully demonstrated its quick deployment prowess to forward locations in extreme temperatures.” R Madhavan, Chairman and Managing Director of HAL added: “It is the lightest attack helicopter in the world designed and developed by HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of Indian Armed Forces reflecting the crucial role of HAL in Atma Nirbhar Bharat.” “Among the key features of the Light Combat helicopter is its ability to operate in the complete ‘Area of Responsibility’ (AOR) and altitudes while carrying adequate weapon load at high altitudes under varied conditions,” the company added. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) has approved the proposal for an initial batch of 15 LCHs. These fifteen limited series production machines are based on a Request for Proposal by the Indian Air Force, with 10 of the helicopters destined for the air force and five for the army.  HAL said that a technical evaluation and the price negotiations have been concluded, and the order is expected shortly. The company added that it has also launched production of the limited series helicopters, in anticipation of orders at its Bengaluru facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hal-s-new-light-combat-helicopter-deployed-at-leh-872728.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Heaviest rain spell this monsoon season in Delhi so far||Delhi witnessed the heaviest spell of rains this monsoon season on Thursday, which inundated low-lying areas and threw traffic out of gear. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Ayanagar weather station recorded 99.2 mm rainfall, the maximum in the city, till 8.30 am. The Palam and Ridge weather stations gauged 93.6 mm and 84.6 mm precipitation respectively. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 68 mm rainfall, according to the IMD. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours, as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches. The Delhi Traffic Police reported an incident of a tree being uprooted near the high court, which led to traffic snarls. The Raja Garden and Mayapuri flyovers also witnessed heavy waterlogging. Till Wednesday evening, the city had recorded 72 per cent less rainfall than normal in August so far, the lowest in 10 years, according to the IMD. Overall, Delhi has recorded 35 per cent less rains in the monsoon season so far. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the city witnessed "continuous rains overnight" and more rainfall is expected during the day. "The axis of monsoon remains close to Delhi-NCR. Also, there is a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal also fed moisture," he said. Light rains will continue over the next two to three days, Srivastava said. Earlier, the IMD had predicted one or two spells of heavy rains between Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heaviest-rain-spell-this-monsoon-season-in-delhi-so-far-872751.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Continuous overnight rains inundate parts of Delhi, more showers likely||A spell of continuous rain drenched Delhi on Thursday, inundating parts of the city, and more is in store, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. According to the IMD, the Palam observatory recorded 86 mm rainfall till 5:30 am and the Safdarjung weather station gauged 42.4 mm rainfall.  Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy, according to the IMD. The heavy rains are also expected to bring down the rain deficiency in the national capital. Till Wednesday evening, the city had recorded 72 per cent less rainfall than normal in August so far, the lowest in 10 years, according to the IMD. Overall, Delhi has recorded 35 per cent less rains in the monsoon season so far. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the city witnessed "continuous rains overnight" and more rainfall is expected during the day. "The axis of monsoon remains close to Delhi-NCR. Also, there is a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal also fed moisture," he said. Light rains will continue over the next two to three days, Srivastava said. Earlier, the IMD had predicted one or two spells of heavy rains between Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/continuous-overnight-rains-inundate-parts-of-delhi-more-showers-likely-872755.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Militant hideouts unearthed in Pulwama||Security forces have unearthed two militant hideouts in the forest area of Awantipora in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, recovering a cache of arms and ammunition, police said on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off about the presence of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants in Badroo forests of Awantipora, security forces launched a search operation on Wednesday night, a police official said. "During a search in the early morning hours (of Thursday), two hideouts of LeT outfit were busted and destroyed," the official said. He said incriminating material and a huge cache of explosive material and ammunition have been recovered from hideouts which include over 1900 rounds of AK ammunition, two hand grenades and a UBGL thrower with four grenades. The other explosives recovered include ammonium nitrate-like substance, five gelatin sticks, one crude pipe bomb and three code sheets. A case has been registered at police station Awantipora in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-hideouts-unearthed-in-pulwama-872760.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Mumbai police did not lodge FIR due to political pressure, Bihar government tells SC||The Bihar government on Thursday laid out its justification before the Supreme Court for lodging a case in Bihar in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. It said apparent political pressure in Maharashtra resulted in the Mumbai police neither registering an FIR, nor extending any cooperation to state police in conducting the investigation expeditiously. The state government maintained that the action of the Bihar Police in registering the FIR on July 25 and undertaking the investigation was not only within its jurisdiction but the discharge of such an obligation by it was also entirely valid and legal. "Simultaneously, on the other hand, non-registration of an FIR by Mumbai Police is not only entirely inexplicable but also contrary to law," it said. In a written submission filed in the court, the state government opposed a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty, live-in partner of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to transfer the FIR lodged by his father K K Singh in Patna to Mumbai. It also pointed out that Rhea had herself Tweeted to the Union Home Minister for an investigation by the CBI. Even before the court, she reiterated the same thing. Since the CBI took over the probe on a recommendation by the central government on August 5, nothing further was called for in the present transfer petition, which deserved to be rejected, the submissions settled by senior advocate Maninder Singh and filed by advocate Keshav Mohan said. "No impediment would deserve to be allowed to come in the way of CBI to undertake and complete the investigation expeditiously," it said. A bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy had on Tuesday reserved its judgement on the transfer petition by Rhea and asked the parties to submit written submissions by Thursday. In her written submissions, Rhea contended that the Patna police could not have lodged an FIR there as no part of the alleged offence took place there. "The case registered by the Bihar Police was transferred to the CBI, for the reasons of ‘sensitivity’ and ‘inter-state ramifications’. The concept of sensitivity is alien to criminal jurisprudence," she maintained. The investigations in Bihar were totally illegal and such illegal proceedings cannot be transferred to CBI by way of illegal executive orders, she added. Moreover, the consent by the Bihar government was given merely to render the present petition infructuous. She also submitted that the charge levelled against her of confining and cutting-off Sushant from his family was contradictory as the Patna FIR itself mentioned that immediately prior to the incident on June 14, 2020, one of Rajput's sisters had stayed with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-mumbai-police-did-not-lodge-fir-due-to-political-pressure-bihar-government-tells-sc-872776.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Deposit Rs 50 lakh environment damage compensation with DPCC: HC to DDA||The Delhi High Court has directed land-owning agency, DDA, to deposit with pollution control body, DPCC, the environmental damage compensation of Rs 50 lakh imposed on it for alleged water contamination of stormwater drains on the Samalkha-Dwarka Road here. Justice Navin Chawla directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to deposit the amount with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) within two weeks from August 10 and added that the deposit would be subject to the outcome of the plea moved by the land-owning agency against the environmental damage compensation imposed on it. The court also issued notice to DPCC, represented by Biraja Mahapatra, and sought its stand on the DDA's plea within four weeks. With the direction, the court listed the matter for further hearing on November 20. The order came on DDA's plea challenging DPCC's July 10 decision to impose environment damage compensation of Rs 50 lakh on the land-owning agency for allegedly spoiling the water quality in the stormwater drains installed on the Samalkha-Dwarka Road in south-west Delhi. The DDA has contended that the July 10 order of DPCC was "illegal, arbitrary and unreasonable" as it does not have the jurisdiction to take such a decision. "The impugned communication dated July 10 is patently illegal, unsustainable, without application of mind, arbitrary, without merit and unconstitutional and liable to be quashed by this Court," the DDA has said in its plea. The petition has contended that unless there is a specific provision in the statute enabling the authority (DPCC) to levy a penalty, it cannot levy any penalty or damages with reference to the general powers provided under the Environment Protection Act. "It is respectfully submitted that in the present case, the respondent (DPCC) has levied the environmental compensation upon the petitioner (DDA) under the Environment Act read with the provisions of the Water Act.  "It is respectfully submitted that neither the Environment Act nor the Water Act provides for a specific power enabling the DPCC to impose a penalty or compensation of such nature. No justification has been given for the quantification of the exorbitant amount of Rs 50 lakh levied on the petitioner," the petition has said. The DDA has also claimed that it has no control over the area in question -- the Samalkha T-Point to Bharthal road i.e., Urban Extension Road (UER-II).  "The primary responsibility of disposal of the waste/surplus sewage flow discharge beyond the boundary wall of each complex on the road is of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Delhi Jal Board," the petition has said. It has also claimed that in terms of earlier directions issued by the National Green Tribunal, it had closed in December last year all the rainwater harvesting systems installed in stormwater drains at Samalkha-Dwarka Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deposit-rs-50-lakh-environment-damage-compensation-with-dpcc-hc-to-dda-872782.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Civilian injured in ceasefire violation in J&K succumbs to injuries||A civilian, who was injured in a ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control in Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir last week, died at a hospital here on Thursday, police said.  Mohammad Yaqoob Mir, who was undergoing treatment at the SKIMS hospital here for the past six days,  breathed his last early this morning, a police official said.  He said Mir was one of the six people injured in the Pakistani firing in Tangdhar sector on August 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-in-jk-succumbs-to-injuries-872802.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||No coercive steps against DIAL in relation to Rs 2,600 cr property tax demand: HC||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) not to take any coercive action against DIAL, which operates the IGI Airport, in connection with the Rs 2,600 crore property tax demand by the authority for the 2016-19 period. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction after the DCB sought one more week to file its response to DIAL's plea challenging the property tax demand. The court noted that both the Centre and the DCB are yet to file their replies and are seeking more time to do so. "Time as sought is granted to file the replies. Meanwhile, no coercive action be taken against the petitioner (DIAL) till the next date of hearing," the bench said and listed the matter on September 14. Issuing notice to the Centre and the DCB on July 22, the court had refused to pass any interim order on the plea seeking stay on the June 15 decision of the board or protecting the Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) from any coercive action for non-payment of the amount which had to be paid within 30 days of raising of the demand. Besides seeking quashing of the June 15 order demanding over Rs 2,589 crore, the plea has sought a declaration that the land on which Indira Gandhi International Airport is located is not a cantonment and therefore, does not fall in DCB jurisdiction. The petition has also sought setting aside of the past letters of DCB seeking payment of varying amounts of property tax in respect of a certain portion of the airport land which was purchased in 1940 by the International Airport Authority of India from the Defence Estate Authorities (presently DCB) for a consideration of Rs 4.61 crore. According to the petition, part of the airport land falls in jurisdiction of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation for which DIAL pays property tax to the civic body. For the remaining portion, DCB has been demanding property tax. The petition has said that in 2016 DCB first raised a demand of Rs 9.01 crore which was disputed by DIAL. Thereafter, DCB sought to revive the assessment in 2019 and under the revised assessment it demanded Rs 39.51 crore as property tax, DIAL said in its petition. It has said that the 2019 demand was challenged in the high court which asked DCB to hear DIAL and also provide it a reasoned order explaining the calculations on how the amount had been arrived at. However, after hearing DIAL, DCB issued a fresh demand of nearly Rs 2,600 crore. DIAL has contended that instead of explaining how it arrived at the earlier amount, DCB "completely revised the amount and sought to impose a completely arbitrary and exorbitant amount". DIAL has also contended that if such a huge amount is levied on it, it would be constrained to recover it through the tariff charged at the airport which would ultimately be transferred to the passengers as an undue financial burden.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-coercive-steps-against-dial-in-relation-to-rs-2600-cr-property-tax-demand-hc-872803.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Enforce noise pollution norms: National Green Tribunal directs Delhi Government||The National Green Tribunal Thursday directed the Delhi government to ensure that the noise pollution norms are enforced at the ground level and formed a committee to enforce compliance. Noting related failures to enforce rules, a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a monitoring committee, headed by former Delhi High Court judge Justice SP Garg, to ascertain the status of compliance. The committee may take the assistance of any other experts/institution and associate such members of public/educational institutions/social organisations as may be found useful and may give its report before the next date by e-mail,  “We are of the view that the compensation scale laid down by the CPCB may be enforced throughout India. The CPCB may issue appropriate statutory orders for the purpose for being complied with in all the States/UTs,” the bench said. The tribunal said that while some regulatory framework is said to have been made operational, there is no effective centralised mechanism for monitoring.  It said that representatives of the Chief Secretary (SDM) and the Police Commissioner (DCP) need to jointly take stock of the situation on a weekly basis.  “Suitable officers of the rank of the DCP in Delhi Police and SDM in Delhi Government need to be spared for undertaking the assigned responsibility, as already directed,” the bench said. The green panel said though the DCP and the SDM were nominated for ensuring compliance, on being summoned, they were found to be non-functional. “This state of affairs must be forthwith remedied by the Police Commissioner and Chief Secretary respectively. They may ensure that their representatives are duly and jointly functional and conduct weekly meetings and maintain the minutes of meetings and the website,” the bench said. It said that the officials should work in tandem with all other regulatory bodies including the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the municipal corporations. The tribunal said that the entire data collected on the noise monitoring equipments may be centralised and placed on their exclusive websites. “They may also coordinate and follow-up the corrective measures with all other agencies and may also monitor the functioning of the eco-clubs. The DPCC/other authorities may get prepared an appropriate App (like Sameer) to facilitate receiving and addressing complaints,” the bench said. If Delhi becomes a model of compliance for enforcement of pollution norms, it may help all other States/UTs to follow the same, it said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Hardeep Singh and others alleging that bars and restaurants in Rajouri Garden area were using loudspeakers and DJ systems during weddings, receptions, parties and other functions and causing noise pollution from 10 pm to 6 am.  The NGT had earlier directed the CPCB to prepare a noise pollution map and remedial action plan to solve the issue across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enforce-noise-pollution-norms-national-green-tribunal-directs-delhi-government-872806.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||71-year-old father shot at in Muzaffarnagar over property dispute, says police||A 71-year-old man was shot at allegedly by his son, a retired army man, and hospitalised with critical injuries, police said Thursday. They said former army jawan Sunil Kumar used his licensed gun to open fire at his father Mai Chand on Wednesday evening over some property dispute. They are residents of Manglora village under Jhinjhana Police Station in the neighbouring Shamli district. Chausana police outpost in-charge Ravinder Kumar said Sunil’s elder brother Yogesh Kumar lodged a complaint in connection with the case. He said in the complaint that trouble started after Sunil demanded money from his father. While Sunil lives with his other family members at Shamli town, his elderly father lives at their native village Manglora. Police said Mai Chand has 45 bighas of agricultural land which he had divided among his three sons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/71-year-old-father-shot-at-in-muzaffarnagar-over-property-dispute-says-police-872812.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||BJP's Jai Prakash Nishad files nomination for Rajya Sabha by-polls in Uttar Pradesh||BJP candidate Jai Prakash Nishad on Thursday filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha by-election from Uttar Pradesh, an official said. The by-election is scheduled to be held on August 24. The poll was necessitated following the demise of Samajwadi Party MP Beni Prasad Verma. His tenure was till July 4, 2022. "Jai Prakash Nishad has filed his nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha by-polls. Till now, he is the only candidate to file his nomination papers. Thursday is also the last date for filing nominations," Election Officer, Brij Bhushan Dubey, told PTI.  He said scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on August 14, while August 17 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature. Polling will be held on August 24 from 9 am to 4 pm. Counting of votes will also be held on the same day, Dubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-jai-prakash-nishad-files-nomination-for-rajya-sabha-by-polls-in-uttar-pradesh-872816.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Andhra Pradesh government withdraws prosecution of Muslim youth in Guntur police station attack case||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has ordered the withdrawal of prosecution of youth belonging to a minority community involved in a case of attack on a police station in Guntur in 2018. Andhra Pradesh BJP leaders, retired bureaucrats and political analysts have censured the state government decision as one based on “vote bank politics.” An irate mob had attacked the Old Guntur Police Station on 16 May 2018, pelting stones, and damaging several vehicles. The crowd had gathered there demanding immediate action on a youth accused of molesting a 10-year-old girl of their community. A few policemen were also injured in the ensuing violence and additional forces had to be deployed to prevent further escalation of the situation in the town with a substantial population of the minority section.   In a similar incident on Tuesday night, although of larger proportions, a huge crowd from a minority community went on a rampage in Bangalore, damaging the house of a Congress MLA, and the DJ Halli Police Station, besides setting many vehicles on fire. A derogatory post on religion has reportedly triggered the youth who resorted to arson. In the order issued on Wednesday, the Reddy government stated its decision “to withdraw the prosecution against the accused Muslim Youth in Old Guntur Police Stations.” “Government hereby direct the Director General of Police, Andhra Pradesh to issue instructions to the Assistant Public Prosecutors / Station House Officers concerned to file a petition under section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (Central Act No. 2 of 1974) before the concerned Courts, if any, for withdrawal of prosecution against the accused involved in crime numbers registered against Muslim Youth in Old Guntur Police Station, Guntur, in connection with (trying) to ingress into the Police Station,” the GO issued by Kumar Vishwajeet, principal secretary, home department said. Six cases were booked on the youth in the said PS under various sections of the IPC like 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force deterring a public servant from discharging duties). The decision to withdraw the cases was taken last month by Reddy's cabinet.   “It is these actions by governments based on vote bank politics that embolden criminals. Shame on YSJagan government …,” tweeted IYR Krishna Rao, retired Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh. “Such stance of the earlier governments led to the situation in Bangalore today,” Rao, associated with the BJP, further said “This tendency to appease some sections should stop. Wrongdoers should be punished, regardless of their affiliations. The government should stop vote bank politics and uphold the legal, constitutional processes,” Bhanu Prakash Reddy, secretary, AP BJP told DH. The Old Guntur PS incident had occurred when TDP’s Chandrababu Naidu was the Chief Minister. Police officials had then stated that they would push for a stern penalty for the law and order violators. “TDP or YSRCP governments are not permanent but our legal system is. The accused can be acquitted by the courts if proven innocent, but such executive orders would set bad precedents,” Prof DAR Subrahmanyam, chairman, Navyandhra Intellectual Forum says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/andhra-pradesh-government-withdraws-prosecution-of-muslim-youth-in-guntur-police-station-attack-case-872817.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||SpiceJet offers automated customer service and check-in facility on WhatsApp||SpiceJet said on Thursday its automated customer service and check-in facility is available on WhatsApp in addition to its website and mobile app. In May, the government had made it mandatory for all passengers to check-in online 48 hours to 60 min before flight departure in order to ensure social distancing amid the coronavirus pandemic. SpiceJet's automated customer service agent called "Ms Pepper" can be accessed by passengers at mobile number 6000000006 anytime, it said in a press statement. "WhatsApp "Hi" to Ms Pepper on your way to the airport and she will help you with the mandatory web check-in process without the need to visit SpiceJet's website and deliver your boarding pass directly to your mobile phone," it stated. The automated agent will also resolve customer's queries on WhatsApp, the airline said, adding that it is also available on its website and mobile app. "As WhatsApp works well over slow and intermittent internet connections, customers can chat with Ms Pepper without worrying about being in a good network area," it noted. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, passengers have been asked to follow various rules such as mandatory online check-in in order to ensure social distancing and avoid coronavirus transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spicejet-offers-automated-customer-service-and-check-in-facility-on-whatsapp-872822.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Shopian encounter: J&K police to cross-examine DNA samples of slain militants||Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday said that they will go for cross-examination of DNA samples on the July 18 alleged fake encounter in Shopian. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that a police team headed by a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) rank officer has left for Rajouri in Jammu to complete the legal formalities. “The police are working on two aspects - to go for cross-examination of DNA samples of slain with the families claiming them as their wards and to check their call details to find out whether they were in touch with militants,” he said. The army is already inquiring into an encounter on July 18 by its troops in Shopian following complaints by three families that the three persons killed in the encounter were their kin and not the militants. The families of three missing youth from Rajouri had on Monday claimed that the pictures of three slain killed on July 18 encounter were their wards, who were working as labourers in Shopian and were living in rented accommodation. “We will go for DNA cross-examination of the slain with the three families that claim three militants killed were their wards. We have already taken the DNA samples of all three slain,” the IGP said, adding that “today a team headed by DySP Wajahat has left for Rajouri to complete the legal formalities.” Secondly, Kumar said the police will check the call details of all the three slain to find out whether they were in touch with militants and other technical details as well. “No conclusion can be drawn at this point,” the Kashmir police chief said. The incident has already sparked a controversy with political parties in Kashmir demanding an impartial probe into the alleged encounter to ensure speedy justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopian-encounter-jk-police-to-cross-examine-dna-samples-of-slain-militants-872832.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Very heavy rain likely in 8 MP districts; orange alert issued||The India Meteorological Department has issued an 'orange alert' with a forecast of very heavy rainfall in eight districts of Madhya Pradesh till Friday morning. Monsoon has been active in many parts of the state, IMD Bhopal centre's senior meteorologist G D Mishra said on Thursday. Some isolated places in Chhindwara, Balaghat, Betul, Harda, Khandwa, Alirajpur, Jhabua and Dhar districts are likely to receive very heavy rainfall till Friday morning, the official said. Besides, there is a 'yellow warning' of heavy rainfall in 15 districts- Anooppur, Dindori, Chattarpur, Sehore, Rajgarh, Hoshangabad, Burhanpur, Khargone, Barwani, Dewas, Agar, Shivpuri, Datia, Morena and Sheopur,Mishra said. An orange alert means the authorities should "be prepared", while a yellow warning asks them to "be updated". According to IMD, downpour in the range of 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is considered 'heavy rainfall', while that between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is termed 'very heavy rainfall'. In the last 24 hours, Satna district received 132.6 mm rainfall, Rewa district received 42.4 mm downpour, while Tikamgarh recorded 41 mm rain, Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/very-heavy-rain-likely-in-8-mp-districts-orange-alert-issued-872847.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association president Yadupati Singhania passes away||Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association (UPCA) president Yadupati Singhania died in Singapore on Thursday. He was 67 and is survived by his wife, Kavita. Singhania was battling a prolonged illness for which he was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Singapore. "Yadupati Singhania had been ill for a long time and was undergoing treatment at a Singapore hospital. News of his demise was received on Thursday morning. He was around 67 years old,'' UPCA director Rajiv Shukla told PTI-Bhasha. The nature of Singhania's illness was not clear. Shukla added that like Singhania his grandfather Padampat and father Gaur Hari were also engaged in promoting cricket in UP and the family has helped the sport reach new heights in the state. The UPCA will organise a condolence meeting in memory of Singhania soon, said Shulka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cricket-association-president-yadupati-singhania-passes-away-872849.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||BSP MLAs' merger with Congress: Rajasthan HC to resume hearing of petition on August 14||The Rajasthan High Court has posted for hearing on Friday the petitions filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP challenging the merger of six MLAs with the Congress. After hearing arguments, the single judge bench posted the matter for hearing on Friday as half-day was observed in the court on Thursday. The petitioners have challenged the merger of the six MLAs- Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha-with the Congress and demanded a stay on the execution of the order passed by the speaker in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-mlas-merger-with-congress-rajasthan-hc-to-resume-hearing-of-petition-on-august-14-872850.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Two of family killed in wall collapse in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur||Two members of a family were killed and as many seriously injured when a wall of their 'kutcha' house collapsed due to heavy rains in Haliyapur area of Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur, police said on Thursday. The wall of Ram Achal's (55) house collapsed on Wednesday night in Haliyapur township, Station House Officer (SHO), Haliyapur, Arshad Khan said. Both Ram Achal and his 16-year-old son Ram Hriday were trapped under the debris and had died before they could be pulled out, the SHO said. His wife and daughter were seriously injured and admitted to the district hospital, Khan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-of-family-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-uttar-pradeshs-sultanpur-872861.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court refuses to pass interim order in Rajasthan BSP MLAs case||A day before the Rajasthan Assembly session, the Supreme Court on Thursday refused to pass any interim order on a plea related to the merger of six BSP MLAs into the ruling Congress party. "We will not interfere at this stage since the High Court is already hearing the matter," a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari told senior advocate Harish Salve, who questioned the validity of the Speaker's decision of September 18, 2019, allowing the merger. The court posted the petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar for consideration on Monday. Dilwar sought a stay on the order passed by Speaker C P Joshi. He claimed the Speaker had no jurisdiction to record a finding of the so-called merger, without giving notice to the Bahujan Samaj Party and without holding an enquiry as to whether the party has actually merged in the Congress or not. Appearing for Dilawar, Salve, for his part, said the situation in Rajasthan may lead for the number count and the Speaker's order continued to be in operation. "Why should we take it up when the matter is pending before the High Court? Can the High Court not take care of this? If there is an order by the HC, it would have the same effect," the bench said. Senior advocate S C Mishra, for BSP, submitted that there was a question of the whip. Recently, a Rajya Sabha MP got elected taking the vote of BSP MLAs as that of Congress. Opposing any interim order, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker said the matter was already pending before the High Court. He said the Business Advisory Committee would meet at 10 am on Friday to decide the agenda. Dilwar challenged the validity of the High Court's interim order of August 6, 2020. He claimed that HC had failed to appreciate that the Speaker straight away "illegally" accepted the request of six MLAs and allowed the merger of their party, i.e. BSP, into the Congress. The Rajasthan Assembly Session is set to start its session on Friday after home-coming of sacked Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and supporting rebel MLAs to the Congress party, after more than a month-long political crisis in the Ashok Gehlot government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-refuses-to-pass-interim-order-in-rajasthan-bsp-mlas-case-872865.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||I may be killed in encounter as I am Brahmin: Muscleman UP MLA says in viral video||As the opposition parties accused the Yogi Adityanath regime of being ''anti-Brahmin', a four-time muscleman Uttar Pradesh lawmaker on Thursday apprehended that he could be ''killed in police encounter'' as he was a 'brahmin'. In a video, which went viral on the social media, Vijay Mishra, the Nishad Party MLA from Gyanpur assembly seat in Bhadohi district in the state, said that the present regime wanted to 'eliminate' him so that some ruling party supported mafia from the neighbouring Varanasi or Chandauli districts could win the seat. ''My only fault is that I am a brahmin...I am a four-time MLA...the police have been harassing me and my family members...they are being implicated in false cases,'' Mishra said. Mishra, who faced over 60 cases, including those of murder, kidnapping, extortion and others, alleged that the police were planning to 'arrest' him and then 'kill' him in a fake encounter. The lawmaker's allegations came amid the opposition leaders' charge that the BJP government was 'persecuting' the 'brahmin' community. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh even termed the Special Task Force (STF) as 'Special Thakur Force' accusing the state government of being 'pro-Thakur'. Earlier also Congress and BSP had levelled the same charge, when gangster Vikas Dubey, who, with the help of his goons, had gunned down eight cops, was killed in a controversial encounter with the police last month. Dubey hailed from the 'Brahmin' community. Congress' 'brahmin' leader Jitin Prasada had then sought to link the 'encounter' of Vikas Dubey with the killings of the members of the community since the formation of the BJP government in the state in March 2017. BSP supremo Mayawati also saw a connection between the killing of Vikas Dubey and the overall attitude of the state government toward the community. ''The Brahmin community is scared and is feeling unsafe after Vikas Dubey's encounter,'' Mayawati had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-may-be-killed-in-encounter-as-i-am-brahmin-muscleman-up-mla-says-in-viral-video-872878.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||More Mayawati statues at Dalit memorials in Uttar Pradesh||BSP supremo Mayawati's desire to get her statues installed during her lifetime was once again on display at the 'Bahujan Prerna Sthal' (a memorial of Dalit icons) here. At least three statues of Mayawati have been constructed and were being given final touches before being installed at Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in the state capital. The public came to know about it when the covers were withdrawn from the statues on Wednesday. All the statues show Mayawati standing with a handbag. BSP leaders, preferring anonymity, however, said that no new statues were being installed and that the three statues had been renovated.  They refused to elaborate. Sources in the BSP, however, said that the statues were new. The Bahujan Prerna Sthal was constructed in 2005 by the BSP. During her tenure as Uttar Pradesh chief minister (2007-2012), Mayawati installed her statues at several places in the state capital. One of them was placed inside the Shakuntala Mishra University for Differently Abled. She also installed the statue of BSP founder Kanshiram at a busy thoroughfare in the city. The opposition had then accused Mayawati with spending public money on the construction of statues. The BSP supremo, however, claimed that it was her party which paid the bills. Mayawati, in an apparent bid to woo the Brahmins ahead of the next assembly elections, recently promised to install the statue of the community icon Bhagwan Parashuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-mayawati-statues-at-dalit-memorials-in-uttar-pradesh-872882.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Video shows advocate Rajeev Dhavan 'smoking' during virtual hearing, judge issues health advisory||Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan got some advice on the perils of smoking from a high court judge on Thursday, as a video clip surfaced showing the lawyer apparently taking a puff from a hookah during a virtual hearing. The clip shows Dhavan holding a sheaf of papers in front of his face and some smoke escaping from the side. When the lawyer keeps the paper aside, what seems to be the nozzle of a hookah appears in the few seconds-long clip, purportedly from Tuesday’s proceedings in the court of Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal. Dhavan is representing six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs whose merger with the Congress in Rajasthan is being challenged by the BSP and a BJP MLA. The judge’s remark came Thursday when the hearing resumed. In a lighter vein during the proceedings, Justice Goyal advised Dhavan that he should quit smoking at his age as it is injurious to health. Dhavan responded that he would so. He also admitted that senior lawyers are not accustomed too well to video conference hearings but are trying to cope with the situation. The lawyer assured he will try to adapt as such hearings are going to be a regular feature for some time. In April, another lawyer had appeared in a vest during a virtual hearing in the Rajasthan High Court. The judge then had made it clear that lawyers should appear in proper attire even when they are arguing their case online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-advocate-rajeev-dhavan-smoking-during-virtual-hearing-judge-issues-health-advisory-872903.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi rains: Heaviest spell this monsoon season so far; city grapples with waterlogging woes||Delhi on Thursday witnessed the heaviest spell of rains this monsoon season which inundated low-lying areas and threw traffic out of gear. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Ayanagar weather station recorded 106.9 mm rainfall, the maximum in the city, since Wednesday morning.  The Palam and Ridge weather stations gauged 99.9 mm and 98.2 mm precipitation respectively during the period.  The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 83.8 mm rainfall since Wednesday morning, according to the IMD. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. The mercury slumped to 28.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal.  Vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches. The Delhi Traffic Police reported an incident of a tree being uprooted near the high court, which led to traffic snarls. Raja Garden and Mayapuri flyovers also witnessed heavy waterlogging. The incessant rains damaged a drain near Khaira village T-point on Dhansa road where metro construction work is going on, the traffic police said.  The affected 200-metre stretch of the road has been closed for traffic. Civic bodies reported 21 incidents of trees being uprooted and one incident of wall collapse due to the rains. There were no injuries.   Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media. The downpour also brought down the rain deficiency in the national capital. Till Wednesday evening, the Safdarjung Observatory had recorded 72 per cent less rainfall than normal in August, the lowest in 10 years, according to the IMD. The shortage reduced to 14 per cent by Thursday morning. Overall, Delhi has recorded 7 per cent more rains in the monsoon season so far. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the city witnessed "continuous rains overnight" and more rainfall is expected during the day. "The axis of monsoon remains close to Delhi-NCR. Also, there is a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal also fed moisture," he said. Light rains will continue over the next two to three days, Srivastava said. Earlier, the IMD had predicted one or two spells of heavy rains between Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-rains-heaviest-spell-this-monsoon-season-so-far-city-grapples-with-waterlogging-woes-872916.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan afraid with BJP rise in Kashmir: Jammu & Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina||Pakistan is afraid of the BJP’s rise in Kashmir and is engineering targeted killings of party workers in the Valley, BJP’s J&K chief Ravinder Raina said on Thursday, asserting the neighbouring country will not succeed in its nefarious designs. His statement came in the backdrop of terror attacks on some village-level BJP leaders, following which nearly a dozen party workers in Kashmir have resigned. "Pakistan is afraid of the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Kashmir, that's why it is selectively targeting BJP workers in Kashmir", he told reporters here. He said with the rise of the BJP and the nationalist forces in Kashmir, Pakistani terrorists and separatists are in frustration and desperation. “But they can't succeed in their nefarious designs.” Applauding the bravery, dedication and commitment of BJP workers in Kashmir Valley, Raina said their sacrifices won't go in vain and very soon the whole Valley will become terrorism-free. Naming some of the party workers who were recently attacked, Raina said Pakistani terrorists were afraid of the growing popularity of BJP leaders like Sheikh Wasim Bari, Abdul Hamid Nazir and the party's sarpanches and panches, and therefore targeted them. “But it can't stop the BJP in Kashmir valley as the common masses in Kashmir are with the party,” he said, adding, "the majority of people of Kashmir valley are true patriots and they love India from the core of their hearts.” He also appealed to the people to hoist the national flag in every nook and corner of Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of Independence Day. He said innocent kids, school students, girls, women and the youths are the worst victims of the Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in Kashmir He said that Pakistan has lost all sympathies among the Kashmiris as people have understood its actual designs. More than 95 percent Kashmiris are hardcore Indians and only a few anti-nationals are creating trouble, he said. “These anti-nationals are being treated with Iron hands.” He said many prominent people, educated youths, women and educationists are joining the BJP in Kashmir, and the party today has emerged as a strong nationalist force with the full organisational structure in every district and constituency of the Valley, he said. Raina said there are continuous human rights violations in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and areas under China’s control, which should be promptly taken care of by international human rights bodies. Raina said that Pakistan and China will have to vacate all illegally-occupied parts of India. Areas such as Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzzafarabad, Mirpur, Bhimbar, Kotli, Deva, Batala and Neelam Valley, which are in illegal occupation of Pakistan, will soon be a part of India and the Tiranga will be hoisted there with dignity. Raina also appealed to the people of Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir to celebrate the Independence Day on August 15 and hoist the national flag. “We all should swear on this August 15 that we will get PoJK vacated and our people free from the slavery of Pakistan and China,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-afraid-with-bjp-rise-in-kashmir-jammu-kashmir-bjp-chief-ravinder-raina-872931.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Babasaheb Bhimarao Ambedkar statue vandalised in Rishikesh||A statue of Babasaheb Bhimarao Ambedkar was vandalised here, sparking a protest by locals, police said on Thursday. People were irked to find that a book representing the Indian Constitution was missing from the statue's hand on late Wednesday evening, he said. As the news of vandalism spread, locals gathered at the Ambedkar Chowk and created a ruckus demanding immediate action against the culprits, Kotwali inspector in charge Ritesh Shah said. A case was registered against unidentified persons and the police had a tough time pacifying the agitated crowd, he added. Citizens also met Rishikesh Mayor Anita Mamgai on Thursday to submit a memorandum to her demanding stern action against those responsible for the vandalism. The Mayor condemned the incident and asked the assistant city commissioner to file a report on behalf of the municipal corporation at the Kotwali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babasaheb-bhimarao-ambedkar-statue-vandalised-in-rishikesh-872932.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||BJP's Nishad files nomination for Rajya Sabha bypolls in Uttar Pradesh, set to win uncontested||BJP candidate Jai Prakash Nishad on Thursday filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha by-election from Uttar Pradesh and is set to win uncontested. He was the lone candidate in the fray at the close of nomination on Thursday as no other party fielded a nominee. The poll was necessitated following the demise of Samajwadi Party MP Beni Prasad Verma. "Jai Prakash Nishad has filed his nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha bypoll. He is the only candidate to file his nomination papers. Thursday was also the last date for filing nominations," Election Officer Brij Bhushan Dubey told PTI. He said scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on August 14, while August 17 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature. The polling was scheduled for August 24. Nishad is a former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA who joined the BJP a few years ago. According to the Rajya Sabha website, two of the 31 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh are vacant. At present, there are 15 BJP Rajya Sabha members from Uttar Pradesh, followed by eight of the Samajwadi Party, four of the Bahujan Samaj Party and two from the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-nishad-files-nomination-for-rajya-sabha-bypolls-in-uttar-pradesh-set-to-win-uncontested-872945.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||Mayawati defends BSP's 'upkeep' work at Lucknow Prerna Kendra||BSP supremo Mayawati on Thursday defended her party's "cleaning and renovation work" at some memorials of party founder Kanshi Ram in Lucknow, saying people do not like the worsening conditions of statues at public places for the want of proper upkeep. The BSP president took to Twitter to defend her party's work in the wake of some media reports that she was getting installed her new statues at Lucknow Prerna Kendras, that she built up during her regime as Kanshi Ram's memorials in which she had also installed her statues, besides those of her political mentor. 1. जैसाकि सर्वविदित है कि अपने देश में सरकारी, गैर-सरकारी व सार्वजनिक स्थानों/स्थलों पर जो मूर्तियाँ आदि लगी होती हैं उनकी साफ-सफाई, मरम्मत व रख-रखाव पर पूरा ध्यान नहीं दिया जाता है, जिनकी स्थिति फिर धीरे-धीरे काफी खराब हो जाती है जिसे जनता कतई पसन्द नहीं करती है। 1/3 "It is well known that statues installed in the governmental, non-governmental and public places are not cleaned, repaired and renovated regularly due to which their condition deteriorates, and it is not liked by people," she said in a tweet. "It is also well known that the BSP has always been paying special attention to the upkeep of statues, water fountains etc, built during its government not only in public places but also at private nes places in houses," she said in another tweet. "A section of media, however, is wrongly depicting the BSP's ongoing work at the private and non-government Prerna Kendra in Lucknow. They must bring some change in their casteist mentality. It would be better," she said in her third tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-defends-bsps-upkeep-work-at-lucknow-prerna-kendra-872966.html
13-08-2020||North and Central||DCW, police rescue 2.5 month old baby girl who was sold multiple times||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) and police on Thursday said they have rescued a two-and-a-half-month-old baby girl from central Delhi's Hauz Qazi area who was sold multiple times. The girl was first sold by her father since he did not wanted a female child to a woman, who sold the baby to another woman. On Wednesday night, the DCW received an information from its Mahila Panchayat about a baby girl who had been sold by her own father for Rs 40,000. The infant's father was made to accompany a DCW team to Jaffrabad, where he had sold his baby to a woman named Manisha, the women's panel said. The woman was not present at the address.  The baby's father was taken to a police station, where he confessed that he had two daughters and was disappointed to have another girl child, it said. He did not want to have another girl in the family so he sold her off, the DCW said. After looking for the baby girl throughout the night at various locations, she was rescued on Thursday morning.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said, "Our teams conducted raids at multiple locations across Delhi and recovered the child from Hauz Qazi area. She has been handed over to her mother safely."  During further enquiry, it was found that the girl's father had two more daughters who are physically challenged. To get money for their medical expenses, he sold his third child and also expected a better life for the baby girl, the DCP said. He gave his baby to Manisha, who further sold her to one Sanjay Mittal as they wanted a girl child. Mittal paid Rs 80,000 to Manisha. The transaction was done through two women, Deepa and Manju, who is Mittal's neighbhour, she added. Four people, including the baby's father, Manju, Mittal and Manisha have been arrested and efforts are being made to nab their associate Deepa, who is absconding, police said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, "We have been tracing the girl since Wednesday late night and have raided several places in an attempt to rescue the infant. The infant was successfully rescued and a big trafficking nexus exposed. The work of Delhi Police on this case is commendable and I thank them for the same."  "The DCW will work on rehabilitation of the infant. The DCW is working 24x7 for safety and security of women and girls in Delhi," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-police-rescue-25-month-old-baby-girl-who-was-sold-multiple-times-872992.html
13-08-2020||Opinion||Oxford Kolkata, Princeton Mumbai: Can India be the future of higher education?||By Tyler Cowen With much of US higher education online only this semester, and its more long-term future deeply uncertain, now is a time to dream big. My own fantasy is based on the Indian government’s recent plan to encourage the top 100 universities in the world to operate in India.Consider how the next 30 years might look if India were to allow the creation of a “Princeton Mumbai,” a “Harvard Hyderabad” or an “Oxford Kolkata.” At first, most top US universities would be reluctant to proceed boldly. Ventures abroad exist, such as the Yale-NUS College in Singapore, but they are usually smaller and less important relative to the home university. Top universities jealousy guard their positions as exclusive institutions, and it would not be easy for Harvard (even pre-Covid-19) to hire faculty of comparable quality in India in most areas of academic study. Still, some schools in the top 100 would start operations in India. Even if Harvard hesitated, schools such as University of Texas at Austin, Georgia Institute of Technology or perhaps one of the nearby Singaporean schools would not. In my fantasy, the schools that are open to expanding their India operations will rise considerably in reputation. India, and South Asia more generally, is in the midst of a phenomenal explosion of talent in diverse fields. Sundar Pichai runs Alphabet and Google, and Satya Nadella runs Microsoft. Abhijit Banerjee recently won a Nobel Prize in economics. Vishy Anand is one of the world’s top chess players. Indian writers are famous around the world. And so on. The universities that open significant branches in India thus would become among the very best in the world — not the top 100, but the top 50. India could find itself in a situation much like that of the U.S. in 1900, when most American universities and scholars lagged behind those of Europe but were within decades of overtaking them. Competitive pressures would kick in, and the very top schools that initially were reluctant to enter India would find themselves drawn in. You might wonder whether India actually needs all of these foreign branches, when it has some superb schools of its own, for instance the various Indian Institutes of Technology. In my fantasy, some Indian institutions of higher education will improve and force some competitors — shall we say UC Berkeley? — to leave the country. Yet many talented Indians will find attending a branch of Harvard or Yale to be an appealing option. Furthermore, the top foreign schools may form alliances with Indian institutions (as Yale has done in Singapore), giving students the best of both worlds. This future gets better yet. Over time, the population of Indian alumni of prestigious U.S. universities will increase, relative to those who studied and graduated in America. America’s top schools thus will become engines of opportunity. It might also become obvious that the students attending in the U.S. are underperforming their Indian counterparts. What better way to light a competitive fire under the current dominant institutions? And maybe some of the keenest and most ambitious American students will prefer to study in India rather than in America. (Perhaps a “canceled” American student could be sent to Brown Uttar Pradesh?) Wouldn’t you want to study with the very best of your peers, knowing you might be sitting next to the next generation’s Einstein, von Neumann or, of course Ramanujan? Best of all, America’s top schools would learn they could open their doors to many more students, while boosting the reach and prestige of their institutions overall. The success of Princeton Mumbai would lead to a much larger Princeton in New Jersey. After all, if they can admit more qualified students from Kerala, doesn’t it follow that they can also accept more high-achieving kids from suburban Maryland? Or even, say, Detroit? As I said, this is all a fantasy. Indian bureaucracy can be frustrating, Indian politics can be forbidding, and many talented faculty still seek to leave India rather than to move there, among other problems. Still, especially considering the implications of a rising India, this future no longer sounds crazy. An Indian expansion could be the best thing to happen to American and British higher education in this century. Next stop: MIT Lagos!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oxford-kolkata-princeton-mumbai-can-india-be-the-future-of-higher-education-872746.html
13-08-2020||Opinion||To help the world’s poor, put money on their phones||The global economic crisis has caused historic job losses in the developed world. For workers in poor countries, the consequences are even more dire. In places where the virus is surging, swaths of the economy remain closed and millions have seen their livelihoods vanish. The World Bank estimates the pandemic will push 71 million into extreme poverty, defined as living on less than $1.90 a day; other forecasts predict the number will be even higher. Governments are struggling to respond. The world’s lowest-income countries have spent, on average, just $1 per capita on direct social assistance to their citizens, compared with $121 in the richest countries. To avert further calamity, governments in the developing world must do more to assist the worst-off, and rich countries should be prepared to help. They can best do so by harnessing technology to put money directly in the hands of the poor. Research suggests that making direct payments to poor households can contribute to higher savings and better health and education outcomes than other forms of social assistance. Since the start of the pandemic, more than 1 billion people have received direct government money transfers of some kind, including some 140 million informal workers. In many cases, aid has been delivered through digital payment systems, such as mobile “wallets” that allow people to access money through their phones. When properly designed and implemented, electronic payments are faster, less costly and more secure than traditional cash handouts. By reducing the need for in-person transactions, they also help to contain the spread of the virus. Responding to the pandemic, creative governments have used digital payments to reach workers outside the formal economy, many of whom face financial ruin. Togo distributed emergency funds over mobile devices to 500,000 people in two weeks. Since April, the Colombian government has used mobile wallets to provide monthly small payments to 1 million households without bank accounts. At the start of the crisis, Namibia, a country of 2.5 million, created a mobile-payment system for workers without formal jobs. Out of 739,000 eligible workers, more than 579,000 signed up within a week to receive government vouchers through their phones. To improve the prospects of the world’s poor, initiatives like these should be scaled up. Developing countries should expand mobile-phone coverage to underserved areas and promote universal phone ownership, particularly among women. They should invest in building comprehensive national ID registries, as India has done, to better target payments to individuals and reduce the potential for fraud and abuse. Regulatory obstacles should be eased to encourage private-sector innovation. Expanding financial literacy programs and providing incentives for merchants to accept mobile payments would build confidence in digital services and encourage wider use. All of these measures will require substantial state investment — a tall order for governments under financial stress and focused on trying to contain the pandemic. Advanced economies can help with more generous relief packages for the neediest countries, with specific funds designated for digitization efforts. One example is G2Px, a partnership between the World Bank and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which gives low-income countries technical assistance in designing more efficient digital payment systems. Amid the economic devastation wrought by the pandemic, a bright spot has been progress in delivering aid rapidly to those who need it most. Governments should build on this success by expanding and strengthening their digital payment systems — one of the most effective tools for helping the world’s most vulnerable people cope with the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/to-help-the-world-s-poor-put-money-on-their-phones-872765.html
13-08-2020||South||Hyderabad startup Skyroot Aerospace test-fires upper stage rocket engine 'Raman'||Skyroot Aerospace, a city-based startup has successfully test-fired here its upper stage rocket engine named 'Raman', which can place multiple satellites into orbit, a top official of the firm said on Thursday. Founded by former scientists of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), Skyroot is into building India's first privately built space launch vehicles. The company was tight-lipped on when the rocket engine was test-fired. "We demonstrated India's first 100 per cent 3D-printed Bi-Propellant Liquid Rocket Engine injector. Compared to traditional manufacturing this reduced the overall mass by 50 per cent, reduced total number of components and lead time by 80 per cent. The engine is capable of multiple restarts enabling them to insert various satellites into multiple orbits in a single mission," Pawan Kumar Chandana, Co-Founder and CEO, Skyroot Aerospace said. Two of the firm's rocket stages are getting ready for test firing in six months, he added. Skyroot has developed in-house software for launch vehicle guidance, navigation and control functions and testing for onboard avionics modules is in progress and the firm is targeting its first launch vehicle in December 2021, Naga Bharath Daka, Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer, Skyroot said. "Our first launch vehicle 'Vikram-I' which is under manufacturing and targeting a launch in December 2021, hosts an Orbit Adjustment Module (OAM) at the top which gives the final burn and inserts multiple satellites into space. In an 'Indias first', we successfully test-fired its liquid engine," he said. Skyroot will highly benefit from the newly-created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) which allows access to ISRO's testing and launch range facilities, Naga Bharath Daka said. "We are already in active discussions with ISRO for testing activities. We look forward to utilizing ISROs launch ranges for our launch," he added. The startup has so far raised Rs 31.5 crore till now and is in the process of raising another Rs 90 crore before 2021. Mukesh Bansal, founder of Myntra, Solar Industries, Vedanshu Investments and few other angel investors participated in the early-stage funding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-startup-skyroot-aerospace-test-fires-upper-stage-rocket-engine-raman-872779.html
13-08-2020||South||Kerala plane crash: 92 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||Air India Express said on Thursday that 92 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospitals after "obtaining complete fitness". An Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on the night of August 7. The B737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 discharged, while three were critically injured in the plane crash. The injured passengers of IX-1344 flight are being treated at various hospitals of Kozhikode, the airline said in a statement. "As on date, 92 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness," it added. Air India Express, a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline had said on Sunday the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-plane-crash-92-injured-passengers-discharged-from-hospitals-872801.html
13-08-2020||South||Kozhikode plane crash: 92 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||Air India Express said on Thursday that a total of 92 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospitals after "obtaining complete fitness". Seven passengers were discharged from various hospitals in Kozhikode between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning, the airline indicated. It had said on Wednesday morning that a total of 85 injured passengers have been discharged. An Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on the night of August 7. The B737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 discharged, while three were critically injured in the plane crash. The injured passengers of IX-1344 flight are being treated at various hospitals of Kozhikode, the airline said. "As on date, 92 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness," it said in a statement on Thursday morning. Air India Express, a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline had said on Sunday the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-plane-crash-92-injured-passengers-discharged-from-hospitals-872829.html
13-08-2020||South||Nun rape case: Trial against rape accused ex-bishop Franco Mulakkal from next month||The former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal has denied the rape charges against him before the trial court at Kottayam district in Kerala. It was as part of framing charges ahead of commencing trial that the court read out the charge-sheet. Franco said that the charges were baseless. The court posted the case for commencing trial from Sept 16 with an examination of the complainant nun. The Supreme Court recently rejected Franco's discharge petition. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Franco sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at the convent. The police initiated a probe into the nun's petition after a group of nuns staged a demonstration that received much attention. Franco was arrested on September 21, 2018, and later released on bail. He was charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention and criminal intimidation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nun-rape-case-trial-against-rape-accused-ex-bishop-franco-mulakkal-from-next-month-872833.html
13-08-2020||South||Bengaluru riots: Youths form human chain to protect Hanuman temple||Youth, including those from a minority community, decided to protect a temple when a mob was going on a rampage here after being irked over a social media post on an allegedly communally sensitive issue. A video of the youth quickly forming the human chain to protect the Hanuman temple on Shampura Main Road has gone viral, even as the mob was indulging in arson. The human chain was formed on Tuesday night as a result of some quick thinking while violence sent shock waves across DJ Halli, KG Halli and neighbouring areas of Pulakeshinagar. "We saw the rioters coming in groups towards the temple and their intention seemed to damage it. Then we decided to form a human chain to protect it," a youth who wished not to be named, said. He expressed fear that any damage to the temple could have complicated things further. On Tuesday night, a mob had gone on the rampage at Pulakeshinagar irked over the social media post allegedly put out by a Congress legislator's relative, with the government terming the violence as a well-planned act. Three persons were killed when police opened fire to quell the mob and scores of others, including over 50 police personnel, sutained injuries in the violence that stretched till the wee hours of Wednesday. The mob had set on fire the DJ Halli Police Station, besides damaging Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy's property for his nephew Naveen had allegedly posted some objectionable content in the social media about a week ago. State Revenue Minister R Ashoka had dubbed the violence pre-planned with an intention to spread it in other parts of the city. Naveen has also been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-riots-youths-form-human-chain-to-protect-hanuman-temple-872834.html
13-08-2020||South||DMK expels MLA who met BJP President JP Nadda||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party, DMK, on Thursday, cracked the whip against its legislator Ku. Ka. Selvam, who met BJP President J P Nadda in New Delhi last week and questioned party’s links with Congress among many other things, by expelling him from the outfit. Selvam, the MLA from Thousand Lights constituency here that was represented by DMK President M K Stalin four times in the past, is expected to join the BJP formally. The legislator, after meeting Nadda, had questioned DMK’s ties with Congress and criticised Stalin for not conducting internal elections of the party. “The response of Ku. Ka. Selvam who was relieved from the posts of headquarters office secretary and member of the executive council and served a show-cause notice for bringing disrepute to the party is unacceptable. Hence, he is being dismissed from all his posts, including primary membership of the party,” Stalin said in a statement. Since Selvam has been expelled by the DMK, he is likely to function as an unattached member in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, sources said. He could also be BJP’s voice in the Assembly, where the party has nil presence. Though Selvam maintained that he never joined the BJP, leaders of the saffron party claimed that the legislator joining the party has strengthened it in the state. Immediately after meeting, Selvam demanded a conduct of internal party elections in the DMK and needled Stalin for not condemning YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam’s disparaging remarks against Lord Murugan. An MGR loyalist, Selvam, who joined the DMK in the 1990s after quitting the AIADMK, was upset over not being appointed as Chennai West district secretary of the DMK following incumbent J Anbazhagan’s demise in June. With the party preferring a low-weight Sitrarasu who was backed by Stalin’s son and youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi for the post, Selvam was upset. Intense speculation that Udhayanidhi might test his electoral fortunes from his constituency in the next elections could have also led to Selvam exploring other options.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-expels-mla-who-met-bjp-president-jp-nadda-872842.html
13-08-2020||South||Kerala court rejects bail plea of Swapna Suresh in gold smuggling case||A court here on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of the key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and her co-accused, saying their instant release would certainly hamper the successful progress of the investigation by the Customs Preventive Commissionerate. Dismissing the bail applications of Suresh and Said Alavi, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, said it has found "great force" in the submission of the Customs that the petitioners are likely to tamper with evidence and help the absconding accused in the event of granting bail. The Court observed that Suresh, who is the third accused in the case, is an "extremely influential lady" and even after her resignation from Consulate, she continued to help the top officials of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. "That apart, she managed to obtain employment in the project proposed by the state government. Her extreme influence in the corridors of power is evident from the available records. Such a woman is not entitled to benefit of the proviso to Section 437 Cr PC," the Court observed.  In their petitions, Suresh and Alavi had said their detention was no longer required since the major part of the probe is complete. Earlier on Monday, an NIA special court here had rejected the bail plea of Suresh in the terror angle of the gold smuggling case being investigated by the central agency, saying there are sufficient grounds for believing that the accusation made against her is prima facie true. Multiple agencies including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate are probing the case of smuggling of gold worth over Rs 100 crore through the diplomatic channel in Thiruvananthapuram since November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-swapna-suresh-in-gold-smuggling-case-872859.html
13-08-2020||South||Clamour in AIADMK to make Palaniswami the CM candidate for 2021 elections||As AIADMK prepares itself for the most-crucial assembly elections in recent years scheduled to be held in the first half of 2021, there is a clamour in the ruling party to announce incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial candidate. The demand to announce that Palaniswami will continue to lead the government if the AIADMK were to gain power for a third consecutive term has also exposed chinks within the party. Not everyone is happy with the proposal as announcing Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial face would lead to further sidelining of his deputy O Panneerselvam, who happens to be the coordinator of the party. Four ministers of the Palaniswami cabinet have come out in the open to air their views on the contentious issue of Chief Ministerial candidate, though three of them directly or indirectly favoured continuation of the current arrangement – Palaniswami as CM and Panneerselvam as coordinator of the party. Revenue Minister R B Udhaya Kumar, Tamil Development Minister ‘MaFoi’ K Pandiarajan, and Dairy Development Minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji have come out in support of the continuation of the current arrangement, while Cooperation Minister Sellur K Raju wanted the MLAs to elect their leader after elections. Sources in the party told DH that many office-bearers believe projecting Palaniswami as the face of the AIADMK was imperative to take on the now resurgent DMK. “We cannot go into the assembly polls leaderless. We need to have a face because our opponent DMK has a Chief Ministerial candidate in M K Stalin. In such a scenario, we cannot say we will decide the leader after elections. And to announce the incumbent Chief Minister as the face will be the right decision,” a senior AIADMK leader said. As the ministers’ statement embarrassed the party, the AIADMK on Thursday announced that the party leadership will decide about the timing of announcing the Chief Ministerial candidate, giving an indication to party workers not to talk about it for now. As the Ministers’ statement embarrassed the party, Panneerselvam took to Twitter on Thursday to appeal to party men to maintain discipline and work towards the “goal of establishing party government for a third consecutive term.” Three ministers favouring Palaniswami is a setback for Panneerselvam, who stood for Jayalalithaa twice when she had to quit as CM. The Deputy CM has lost much of his bargaining power and ground in the party and the government after his rebellion against Sasikala that saw Palaniswami occupy the Chief Minister’s chair. “Edappadi is our Chief Minister forever. Let us fix the goal and face the ground (polls). Let us prepare the ground by projecting Edappadi K Palaniswami and win the elections. 2021 is ours,” Bhalaji, known for his penchant for controversies, said. This is the first time in the AIADMK’s history that the party is in a bind on whether to announce its Chief Ministerial face. When it was led by the legendary M G Ramachandran and later by the charismatic Jayalalithaa, there arose no need to make any such announcement as people largely voted based on personalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/clamour-in-aiadmk-to-make-palaniswami-the-cm-candidate-for-2021-elections-872904.html
13-08-2020||South||Kerala police's decision to collect call details record as part of Covid-19 contact tracing triggers row||A decision of Kerala police to collect call details record (CDR) of individuals as part of Covid-19 contact tracing and surveillance activities have triggered a row of infringement of privacy. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the move as a Covid-19 containment measure, cyber experts said that there was not much use of CDR in contact tracing. State police chief Loknath Behera had issued a directive to the ADGP (Intelligence) and ADGP (headquarters) to take steps to ensure that service providers promptly give CDR to the police as part of the Covid-19 containment measures. Justifying the move citing the requirement of stringent measures to contain Covid-19, the Chief Minister said that the CDR would be used only for contact tracing activities and would not be misused. Cybercrime investigator Dhanya Menon told DH that only tower location of individuals could help police trace the route map of a Covid-19 infected person, but that would not be precise. CDR includes the contact history of individuals too, which obviously raises questions of infringement of privacy, she said. Meanwhile, a police official said that the only objective of collecting CDR was to trace the tower locations as a person being tested positive may not be able to recollect the travel history of the previous one to two weeks. The tower location history for a period of time alone could not be retrieved and hence the CDR was being collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polices-decision-to-collect-call-details-record-as-part-of-covid-19-contact-tracing-triggers-row-872914.html
13-08-2020||South||Addicted to PUBG, Andhra Pradesh boy dies as he skips food, water for days||An addiction to the popular online multiplayer game PUBG proved fatal for a teenager in Andhra Pradesh, as a 16-year-old boy passed away for he was so engrossed with the playing that he forgot to consume food and water for days. Due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, and schools shut, the boy was indoors most of the time. A few days ago, he fell sick and was suffering from severe dehydration.  The report added that family members took the adolescent to a private hospital in Eluru Town, and was tested negative for coronavirus. He passed away while undergoing treatment for diarrhoea on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/addicted-to-pubg-andhra-pradesh-boy-dies-as-he-skips-food-water-for-days-872922.html
13-08-2020||South||Youth held for murdering sister and attempting to kill parents by poisoning||A youth was arrested at Kasargod in Kerala, on Thursday, on charges of murdering his sister and attempting to murder parents. According to police, a probe into the death of 16-year-old Ann Mary of Balal, about 25 kilometres from Kasargod, found that her brother Albin, 22, poisoned her. The accused also tried to poison their parents  Benny and Bessy. Benny's condition was reported to be serious. Prima facie the intention of the crime was to remove obstacles for a liberal lifestyle and acquire family wealth. He was suspected to a substance addict and womaniser said police sources. Ann Mary and other members of the family were hospitalised earlier this month after they complained of vomiting and other discomforts after consuming homemade ice cream. Ann Mary's condition later worsened as she got jaundice infection also and she died by August 5. A couple of days later Benny, Bessy and Albin also developed discomforts. Doctors who noticed poison content in their samples alerted the police and the further police investigation unravelled the crime. Albin mixed rat poison in the ice cream. He consumed only in low quantity to avoid suspicions. Bessy consumed the ice cream only two days after it was made. Hence, she was not much affected. The police took the accused to their house and collected evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-held-for-murdering-sister-and-attempting-to-kill-parents-by-poisoning-872925.html
13-08-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, governor visit landslide-hit spot||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who visited the Pettimudi landslide spot at Munnar on Thursday, assured proper rehabilitation of the plantation workers. The chief minister visited the area along with Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan. He also interacted with the families of the victims. Though there were criticisms that the compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the dependents of deceased might be enhanced further, the Chief Minister only announced rehabilitation schemes like proper housing and education to children. He also said that the cooperation of plantation owners was expected for providing better living conditions to plantations workers. Earlier there were criticisms that the Chief Minister was not visiting the landslide-hit area even as he visited the plane crash site and announced a higher compensation. Meanwhile, about 15 persons were still missing at the landslide spot, while 55 bodies were recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-governor-visit-landslide-hit-spot-872927.html
13-08-2020||South||Kozhikode plane crash: Five-member inquiry panel formed, report expected in 5 months||Aircraft Accident Investigation Board on Thursday set up a five-member panel, led by Capt S S Chahar, a formerly designated examiner of Boeing 737NG planes, to probe the Air India Express crash landing at Kozhikode on August 7. Chahar will be the investigator-in-charge to inquire into the circumstances of this accident, an AAIB order said. The investigator on-charge will complete its inquiry and submit a report to the AAIB within five-month, the order signed by AAIB Director-General Aurobindo Handa said. Operations expert Ved Prakash, senior aircraft maintenance engineer (B737) Mukul Bhardwaj, aviation medicine expert Y S Dahiya, AAIB Deputy Director Jasbir Singh Larhga will assist Chahar in the inquiry. Meanwhile, two pilots’ unions – Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) and the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) – wrote to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri requesting him to convene an urgent meeting over flight safety and working conditions of pilots of Air India, Air India Express and Alliance Air. The letter flagged the pilots’ pay cuts and said that flight safety and the working conditions of the pilots of Air India group companies cannot be seen in isolation in the background of the crash of an Air India Express flight in Kozhikode on August 7. “Pending the findings of the official investigations, may we highlight the fact that flight safety and the working conditions of the pilots of Air India group companies cannot be seen in isolation. The recently imposed policies implemented by the Air India Board imposing steep, disproportionate and retrospective pay cuts specifically targeting pilots across Air India as well as Air India Express and Alliance Air are one such example,” the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-plane-crash-five-member-inquiry-panel-formed-report-expected-in-5-months-872933.html
13-08-2020||South||Hyderabad cops bust online gaming racket, arrest four people, including Chinese national||Four people including a Chinese national were arrested by Hyderabad Police from Delhi for allegedly cheating two people here by organising online gaming, a senior police official said on Thursday. Acting on the duo's complaints that they were cheated and lost Rs 97,000 and Rs 1,64,000 respectively after placing bets in the online gaming websites, the Cyber Crimes Wing of Hyderabad police registered cases under relevant sections of Telangana Gaming Act and Indian Penal Code. Police arrested Yah Hao, a Chinese national (Head of Operations for South East Asia) and three Directors--Dheeraj Sarkar, Ankit Kapoor and Neeraj Tuli, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar told reporters. The amount frozen by investigators in bank accounts (Gurugram) during investigation so far is nearly Rs 30 crore, Kumar said. The total value of inward transactions on the two accounts traced so far is nearly Rs 1,100 crore, majority of which is in 2020, he said. "Most of the remittances have been transferred to different other accounts which are being traced and some of the accounts are overseas.Total overseas remittances known as of now is nearly Rs 110 crore," Kumar said. During the probe it came to light that the domain name servers of the gaming websites are based out of China and the data hosting services are cloud-based in the US and operated from China. The entire technical operation is run by the China-based directors/partners of these companies and the payments were being routed through India based payment service providers/gateways, he said. "It is understood from the investigation so far that the companies are controlled through a firm called Beijing T Power Company based out of China," Kumar said. During the investigation it was found that online gaming was being organised by initiating prospective gamers through social media platform--Telegram groups, wherein entry was limited by reference and each member who introduces a certain number of new members were paid commission, he said. "On these groups, the admins will usually indicate the websites on which the registered members can play games and place bets. These websites would be changed on a daily basis," he explained, pointing out that Telangana had passed a legislation banning online gaming in the state. According to the Hyderabad Police chief, the investigation also revealed that the bank accounts and payment gateways were linked to the companies Linkyun, Dokypay and SpotPay and several other companies. "The effort of the group is to constantly establish new companies and more operations from one company to other," Kumar said, adding the promoters and shareholders of these companies are Indians and Chinese. Kumar further said they will be seeking support from other agencies like Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department and Registrar of Companies (RoC) as part of further investigations into the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-cops-bust-online-gaming-racket-arrest-four-people-including-chinese-national-872956.html
13-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government says no to Ganesha idols in public spaces amid pandemic||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said installation and worship of Ganesha idols in public places can not be allowed in view of the pandemic and advised people to celebrate the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival in their homes on August 22. In view of the present curbs to tackle the spread of coronavirus and considering public good, putting up statues and public worship of Lord Vinayaka in public places and processions to immerse the idols later, "could not be permitted," the government said in an official release. Hence, people should celebrate the festival in their homes, the government added. When members of the public visit markets to buy things necessary for the festival, they should follow anti-Covid-19 norms like social distancing. Similarly, during visits to small temples, which have been permitted to open in the state, people must follow anti-virus regulations. Ganesh or Vinayaka Chaturthi is among the popular festivals in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-says-no-to-ganesha-idols-in-public-spaces-amid-pandemic-872961.html
13-08-2020||South||Private hospitals agree to allot 50% of beds to coronavirus cases in Telangana||Corporate hospitals in Telangana have agreed to reserve 50 per cent of their beds to patients referred by the state government for Covid-19 treatment. State Health Minister E Rajender, who held a meeting with representatives of the corporate hospitals, has instructed them to meet the director of Public Health to work out the modalities, an official press release said on Thursday. The Health Minister Rajender conveyed his gratitude to the corporate hospitals which have agreed to allot 50 per cent of their bed capacity to government-referred patients," the release said. The allocation of the beds to the patients would be done by a special app, it said. The Minister had earlier said stringent action would be taken on private hospitals allegedly charging exorbitant prices from the virus patients. The government had also issued notices to errant hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/private-hospitals-agree-to-allot-50-of-beds-to-coronavirus-cases-in-telangana-872968.html
13-08-2020||State||Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline: GAIL officials claim daily commute 'a herculean task' amid Covid-19||Even as work on the long-awaited commissioning of Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline has resumed, GAIL officials are finding the daily commute between Kasargod and Mangaluru to be a herculean task. “Getting an online pass to daily commute between Kasargod and Mangaluru has become a herculean task. The mandatory Covid-19 test every week is further aggravating the situation. It is posing as a hurdle for GAIL's project. More than 40 to 50 officers and staff of GAIL (India) Limited have to commute daily between Kasargod and Mangaluru for the commissioning of project and operate the project on a daily basis,” highly placed sources told DH. The issue has already been drawn to the notice of Union Minister for Chemical and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda. Sources said heavy rain in the region for the past five to six days too have affected the work. The authorities were planning to get LNG via tanker and commission a 60-km pipeline at Ichalampady in Kasargod and later complete the work on HDD at Chandragiri river. The GAIL is also looking into the possibility of getting LNG tanks and commissioning gas supply from the receiving station at MCF.  “The GAIL staff had applied for a six months pass to travel to Kasargod. However, it was denied and issued a 28-day pass,” sources added.        It may be recalled that the LNG terminal of Petronet LNG was commissioned in Kochi six years ago. GAIL (India) Ltd was entrusted with the responsibility of laying the pipeline from Kochi to Mangaluru. The pipeline is designed to transport 16 million cubic metres (MCM) of LNG with Kochi’s demand for 5 MCM and Mangaluru industries assured demand for 4 MCM. Already, the work on laying the pipeline at Malavoor, Adyapadi, Kandavara, Mulooru, Addooru, Malluru, Arkula, Pavoor, Kenjar, Thokooru in Mangaluru taluk, Meramajalu, AMmunje, Pajeer, Kairangala, Balepunti, Kunrand villages had been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kochi-mangaluru-gas-pipeline-gail-officials-claim-daily-commute-a-herculean-task-amid-covid-19-872691.html
13-08-2020||State||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha & Hasiru Sene to organise flag hoisting, farmer protest in Alagawadi||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene have organised national flag hoisting by farmers in front of farmer martyr Basappa Lakkundi memorial at Alagawadi village in Navalgund taluk on the occasion of Independence Day on August 15 at 9:30 pm, followed by a protest seeking welfare measures for farmers. "After the flag hoisting, farmers will stage protest until the tahsildar visits the spot to receive the memorandum. Withdrawal of amendment to land reforms act, pro-farmer APMC act, loan waiver for farmers, monthly pension for aged farmers, concession for farmers in fuel price, and speedy implementation of Kalasa-Banduri project would be the main demands," said Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha & Hasiru Sene district unit president Raviraj Kambali. The governments have been neglecting farmers, who always work to feed the residents of the country. To show respect to farmers, the government should announce the day of 1980 farmers' riot as Farmers' Day. Rs 15,000 should be given under Kisan Samman Yojana. APMCs should be named after farmer martyrs. Banks and other financial institutes should be instructed not to harass farmers and not to force them to repay loan during the ongoing financial crisis. Crop insurance amount and compensation for loss cuased by natural disaster should be disbursed to all the affected properly, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-rajya-raitha-sangha-hasiru-sene-to-organise-flag-hoisting-farmer-protest-in-alagawadi-872831.html
13-08-2020||State||KSCW plans committees to save life of rape survivors||In the wake of rape of minor girls at Bogur and Madanabavi villages in Dharwad taluk and their death later, Karnataka State Commission for Women (KSCW) has planned to have committees having officials at district and taluk levels across the state, including local people, to get immediate information of rape incidents, to console girls, to offer counselling and medical help, and save their life by bring them out of depression. KSCW chairman R Prameela Naidu told media persons here on Thursday that the deputy commissioner of Dharwad has already agreed to constitute such committees. "Soon we will start awareness programmes for girls and boys in the age group of 12 to 18 years, about the ill-effects of sexual violence. Steps would be taken to create better awareness about parents in rural areas, to check child marriages and child trafficking. One-stop-centres to help women suffering from domestic violence would be further strengthened," she said. A decision is taken to give preference to transgenders while allotting Ashraya houses in Dharwad district, so that they can have own house, as it is very difficult for them to even get a rented house. Attempts would be made to expand this initiative to all districts, Naidu noted. Due focus would be given to protect the interest of aged women who are tortured by their children for property, and young pregnant women whose husbands are in jail, she added. Earlier, Naidu held a meeting with officials in Dharwad, and visited Begur and Madanabavi. She also expressed satisfaction about the functioning of police in cases of violence against women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kscw-plans-committees-to-save-life-of-rape-survivors-872905.html
13-08-2020||State||Unit to monitor drug price set up in Karnataka||The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has set up the Price Monitoring and Resource Unit (PMRU) in Karnataka. "NPPA, in coordination with Karnataka State Drug Control Department has set up Price Monitoring and Resource Unit in Karnataka on 12th August 2020", Union Fertilizer Minister D V Sadanand Gowda tweeted.  The Karnataka State Price Monitoring and Resource Unit Society was registered under the Societies Act and it will house at State Drugs Control Department of Karnataka, Vasanthnagar, Bengaluru. "PMRU, a registered society, shall function under the direct control and supervision of State Drug Controller of Karnataka," the statement said.  PMRUs are societies registered under the Societies Registration Act having its own Memorandum of Association/ Bye-laws. The Board of Governors of PMRU includes the representatives from Central Government and State Government concerned and other stakeholders, said a statement. NPPA has already set up PMRUs in 12 States/ UTs, including Kerala, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana, Nagaland, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram, and Jammu & Kashmir. NPPA has plans to set up PMRUs in all the 36 States/ UTs. The expenses of PMRUs, both recurring and non-recurring are borne by NPPA under the Scheme. "The primary function of PMRUs is to assist NPPA in the monitoring of prices of drugs, ensuring the availability of drugs and raising consumer awareness. They act as collaborating partners of NPPA with information gathering mechanisms at the grass-roots level. They will render necessary technical assistance to both the NPPA and the respective State Drug Controllers of States/ Union Territories," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unit-to-monitor-drug-price-set-up-in-karnataka-872924.html
13-08-2020||State||NPPA-backed drug price monitoring unit set up in Karnataka||The government on Thursday said a price monitoring and resource unit (PMRU) has been set up in Karnataka under the aegis of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA). The unit will function at the state level under the direct supervision of the state drug controller for increasing outreach of the NPPA, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in a statement. The primary function of PMRUs is to assist the NPPA in monitoring prices of drugs, ensuring the availability of drugs and raising consumer awareness, it added. Under its central sector scheme named 'Consumer Awareness, Publicity and Price Monitoring', the NPPA has already set up PMRUs in 12 states and UTs, the statement said. The national drug pricing regulator plans to set up PMRUs in all the 36 states and UTs. The expenses of PMRUs, both recurring and non-recurring, are borne by the NPPA under the scheme, it added. The regulator has been working in tandem with state governments during the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure seamless availability of life-saving essential medicines including hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol, vaccines, insulin and medicines under the Covid-19 protocol, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nppa-backed-drug-price-monitoring-unit-set-up-in-karnataka-872971.html
13-08-2020||State||Woman killed in LPG cylinder blast||A woman was killed in an LPG cylinder blast at Ballakere village near Gorur in the taluk on Thursday. Three others were seriously injured in the mishap. The deceased is Sumithra (48) of the village. The injured are her husband Lakshman, son Sudeep and daughter Shruthi. They were provided first aid at the local hospital and shifted to a hospital in Bengaluru, for further treatment. The cylinder exploded, when the woman was cooking at around 7 pm on Wednesday. The roof of the house was totally damaged. The television set, clothes and other household equipment was gutted in the fire. Fire and Emergency personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Gorur police visited the spot for inspection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/woman-killed-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-872997.html
13-08-2020||State||​Independence Day celebrations go online||The institutions have decided to go for online celebrations to ensure the full participation of students and to guarantee the safety of the students. This time, I-Day will be a low-key affair compared to previous years but will be celebrated in a significant manner. The institutions have invited only the staff members to the campus for the celebrations. The tri-colour will be hoisted and the I-Day message will be live-streamed. While a few institutions are limited to flag hoisting, several others have invited guests and organised programmes. Hindustan First Grade College (HFGC), principal C J Priya said that I-Day will be celebrated in a meaningful manner. The event will be celebrated both online as well as offline. The staff members will attend the programme. The students are asked to participate in the event through Zoom, an online video-conferencing application. As per the circular from the Education department, all the schools must hoist the national flag at their campuses, with the teachers taking part in the ceremony.  Not only private institutions, but even the universities have also opted for a digital platform for the celebrations. University of Mysore (UoM), Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) and other government colleges have decided to go for virtual celebrations. The varsities have issued circular to the constituent colleges to celebrate the day and also directed to ensure the participation of the students through a digital platform. Felicitations The district administration will felicitate the Covid-19 warriors on the occasion. The authorities have decided to celebrate the day at the torchlight parade grounds. All the guidelines issued by the Union government will be followed. The flag will be hoisted at 9 am by dignitaries. No school students and freedom fighters have been invited for the programme due to Covid-19. Doctors, medical staff, Asha workers, civic workers and Covid-19 recovered persons will be felicitated on the occasion. All the participants will be thermally screened and wearing a face mask is compulsory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/independence-day-celebrations-go-online-873000.html
13-08-2020||State||Antigen Rapid Test today||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is conducting antigen rapid test for the public at CITB Choultry in Hebbal on Friday. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and Chamaraja MLA L Nagendra have urged the people to undergo the test. The test will commence from 10.30 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/antigen-rapid-test-today-873001.html
13-08-2020||State||Mysuru Literature Festival flagged off; virtual session from today||The fourth edition of Mysuru Literature Festival 2020 was launched here, recently. The virtual sessions will begin on weekends, from Friday, and well-known literary persons, including Venu Rajamony, Ambassador to The Netherlands, will be part of them. Mysuru Literature Festival is a flagship literary event on the cultural calendar of Mysuru. It will be held every weekend (virtual due to the Covid-19 crisis) from August 14 to September 5. Shubha Sanjay Urs, the chairperson of Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust, the host, said, “With Covid-19 locking down cities, Mysuru Literature Festival takes another plunge, this time into the digital world of the online experience. The pandemic has kept the annual confluence of authors and artistes away from Mysuru. However, our first virtual festival will take Mysuru to the authors.” Writers Amjad Ali Khan, Nandita Das, Vikram Kirloskar, Sagarika Ghose, Vasudhendra, Kavitha Lankesh, Aroon Raman, Dharmendra Kumar, Andaleeb Wajid and Rohini Mohan will be joined by authors from Colorado, Minnesota, Georgia, New Jersey, Washington DC, France, Netherlands, Abu Dhabi, and London — Mathangi Subramanian, V V Ganeshananthan, Soniah Kamal, Mona Kareem, Tania James, Preeta Samarasan, Venu Rajamony, Deepak Unnikrishnan, and Amish Tripathi respectively. Urs said, “Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust and the literary community of Mysuru Book Clubs - 2015 have organised book launches, author meets, and talks, in addition to conducting three literature festivals in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The festivals create a platform for writers – both established and aspiring — readers, students, and professionals and engage them in discussions on literature and other subjects.” She said, “This year, most of our efforts went towards helping communities and hospitals, Central Prison, rural places around Mysuru, etc, with supplies and equipment for the pandemic.” Register on: http://www.mysuruliteraturefestival.com/registration/ The webinar will be streamed live on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5H93tCm_27YSlSmCKTzYBQ/about Visit: http://www.mysuruliteraturefestival.com/ Facebook: Mysuru Literature Festival Instagram: mysurulitfest Twitter: @mysurulitfest||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-literature-festival-flagged-off-virtual-session-from-today-873007.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC refuses to stay Comed-K exam||The Karnataka High Court has declined to postpone the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (Comed-K) examination.  A PIL was filed seeking postponement of the examination in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The Comed-K exam is scheduled on August 19. A division bench, headed by Justice B V Nagaratna, declined to interfere with the entrance test considering the fact that the state government has already conducted SSLC and K-CET examination. The bench noted the fact that there has already been a delay in the examination in view of the pandemic. The court directed the Comed-K to take all precautionary measures to ensure safe conduct of the examination. The petition filed by advocate Abdulla Mannan Khan stated that approximately 70,000-80,000 students will be attending the examination and that the conduct of the examination will worsen the situation of Covid-19. He had further stated that other professional exams like All India Bar Examination scheduled to be held on August 16, 2020, the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) examination 2020, which was to be held on August 22,  have been postponed indefinitely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-refuses-to-stay-comed-k-exam-872949.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DAR head constable succumbs to Covid-19||A district armed reserve (DAR) head constable died due to the Covid-related complications at the Chigateri District Hospital on Thursday. Shivaraj, aged 42, had tested positive for novel coronavirus three days back. Following which, he was rushed to the designated Covid hospital. A few days back, a constable from Harapanahalli had lost his battle against the infection at a private hospital in Ballari. A taluk panchayat member also succumbed to the infection on Thursday. Basavaraj was a native of Vasan in Harihar taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dar-head-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19-872951.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Winter session unlikely in Belagavi this year too||For the second successive year, the winter session of the legislature in Belagavi seems highly unlikely. While it is still unclear whether another session will be convened this year, the Finance department has expressed reservations over convening a winter session in Belagavi - especially at a time when the state was scraping the bottom of the barrel for funds. Last year too, the winter session in Belagavi was called off after the district administration expressed its inability to play host due to flood. The Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, which is a replica of Bengaluru's Vidhana Soudha, was built in 2012 in an attempt to bring the administration closer to North Karnataka, amid concerns that the region feltalienated. M K Vishalakshi, secretary, Legislative Assembly, said dates for the next session are expected to be finalised during the Cabinet meeting scheduled on August 20.  If the Cabinet finalises the date, a session can be held September first week. This will allow the secretariat to seek questions from legislators 15 days in advance, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/winter-session-unlikely-in-belagavi-this-year-too-872964.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Long wait to return home for Hakki Pikkis stranded in Madagascar||A 17-member group belonging to the Hakki-Pikki tribal community from Davangere district, stranded in the East African country Madagascar, may have to wait for some more weeks to return home if they can’t bear the expenses of a special chartered flight. Davangere MPG M Siddeswara told DH that there was no provision to bear their travel expenses in the prevailing circumstances. However, international flight service is likely to begin next week. International flight service has been suspended in the wake of Covid-19. If that happens, they can return to India as the fare would be much lesser than a chartered flight, the MP said. In a WhatsApp video sent to their relative in Channagiri taluk, the group members said, “The authorities of Indian Embassy in Madagascar are asking us to seek financial aid from an MP or a minister in Karnataka for travel expenses. We are ready to pay up to Rs 30,000 towards fare per ticket. But they are demanding Rs 90,000 from us. We don’t have that much money.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/long-wait-to-return-home-for-hakki-pikkis-stranded-in-madagascar-872969.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SDPI flag wrapped around Shankaracharya gopura||Unidentified miscreants allegedly covered the gopura housing sage Shankaracharya’s statue in the town with the flag of Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI) on Thursday morning. The incident created a tense atmosphere in the region. Hindu activists vented their ire against the act. BJP leader and former MLA D N Jeevaraj, condemning the incident, sought the arrest of the accused. Meanwhile, a conversation said to have taken place between Jeevaraj and the police, has gone viral on social media. The MLA and Inspector Siddaramaiah had an argument on the occasion. The MLA said that the act by the miscreants has hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. Consistent efforts are being done to provoke Hindu community, he said.  Members of Hindu outfits and BJP submitted a memorandum to the police. Tourism minister C T Ravi condemned the incident on Twitter. He stated that he has directed the police to conduct a probe and initiate action against the culprits. He has requested everybody to help the police department to maintain peace and order.  Bajrang Dal district convener Shashank Herur said such incidents are on the rise in Malnad region and urged the police to initiate action against the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sdpi-flag-wrapped-around-shankaracharya-gopura-872976.html
13-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Education department to launch two channels for virtual classes, says Suresh Kumar||Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the Education Department is making all arrangements to begin two channels to impart virtual classes for the students of all standards. Speaking at a felicitation programme in Mandya on Thursday, the minister said that providing standard education to the students, even during the Covid-19 is our objective. This would send a message of assurance to society. The department has already taken a decision and identified the teachers to impart lessons in the channels. “The question before the department is about the reopening of schools for the next academic year. There are criticisms that Suresh Kumar is hell-bent on reopening schools. But, my priority is the health of children and their education, then reopening of educational institutions.” Vidyagama ‘Vidyagama’, a continuous learning plan for children, launched by the Education department, is being implemented to ensure that the students are connected with schools. The programme has made the whole country to look at our state,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-department-to-launch-two-channels-for-virtual-classes-says-suresh-kumar-872999.html
13-08-2020||West||No dispute in Pawar family: Jayant Patil||There are no issues within the Pawar family, state NCP president and water resources department minister Jayant Patil said on Thursday. The statement of Patil, a close aide of the Pawar family, assumes significance in the wake of the NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar snubbed his grand nephew Parth Pawar, for demanding a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and hailing the bhoomi-pujan of Ram mandir by prime minister Narendra Modi - both of which went against the party lines. Parth is son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the nephew of Pawar. On Wednesday night, members of the Pawar clan met at the NCP supremo's Silver Oak bungalow. Those present were Pawar, his daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule, Ajit Pawar, the deputy chief minister and Baramati MLA besides Patil. "Ajit Pawar is not at all unhappy...there are no disputes in the family," he said. Added Patil: "Pawar saheb is the head of NCP and family...he has the right to guide, order, instruct and suggest." "Everyone has the freedom to express his/her view. If he (Parth) has expressed any view, I have not read it," Patil told reporters on the comments of the 29-year-old Parth, who had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Maval seat. Asked if the NCP will seek an explanation from Parth, Patil replied in negative. "We do not give much importance to what he says....he is immature," Pawar said, when asked about his grand-nephew's demand for a CBI probe and the Maha Vikas Aghadi's opposition to it. Pawar Sr generally never speaks about the family - and this is for the first time he came down against any member of the clan publicly. Even when Ajit Pawar joined ranks with the BJP and became a deputy chief minister under BJP leader and then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Pawar had not spoken about it on a public platform. Meanwhile, Fadnavis said: "It is an issue within the family....between grandfather and grandnephew....however, we welcome what he said, that is the CBI demand for the investigations into the Sushant Singh case." Adding fuel to the fire, former chief minister Narayan Rane's son and BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said: "Parth lambi race ka ghoda gai....don't stop friend."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-dispute-in-pawar-family-jayant-patil-872757.html
13-08-2020||West||Heavy rain in parts of Mumbai; IMD predicts more showers||Heavy to very heavy rains lashed isolated parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts in the last 24 hours, the MeT department said on Thursday. It predicted more showers in the Konkan region and some areas of central Maharashtra over the next day. Some isolated places in Mumbai received heavy downpour in the range of 70 mm to 100 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Thursday, a senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. Besides, some isolated areas of Thane experienced very heavy rainfall of more than 120 mm, while the observatory at Matheran hill town in Raigad reported 161.4 mm rain during the same period, the IMD said. "Mumbai received isolated heavy rainfall, 70-100 mm in last 24 hrs. Thane as expected received very hevy falls (>120 mm) at isolated places. Rest was moderate to heavy," IMD Mumbai centre's Deputy Director-General K S Hosalikar tweeted. "As per model guidance, there could be increase in RF over Konkan & Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra in next 24 hrs. Nandurbar Dhule possible intense spells," he added. According to the IMD, the Dahanu weather station in coastal Palghar reported 90.1 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, while the Thane Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 57.2 mm rain. The Santacruz weather bureau, representative of Mumbai's suburbs, recorded 42 mm downpour, while the Colaba observatory in south Mumbai reported 17.8 mm rainfall. Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra received 25.5 mm rainfall and Parbhani district in Marathwada region saw 20 mm showers, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-in-parts-of-mumbai-imd-predicts-more-showers-872768.html
13-08-2020||West||Congress opposes holding International Film Festival of India in Goa amid Covid-19 pandemic||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) would be held in the state in November this year as per schedule. IFFI is held annually in the coastal state between November 20 and 28. The state will be hosting IFFI 2020 as per schedule in the last week of November, Sawant told reporters on Wednesday. The opposition Congress, however, said it is not advisable to host IFFI in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and urged the state government to reconsider its decision. Role of @GovtofGoa is now reduced to Travel and Hospitality agent of @IFFIGoa. I demand @goacm must reconsider its decision on hosting of #IFFI2020," Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Digambar Kamat tweeted. He also demanded a white paper from the government on the expenditure incurred on IFFI, and benefits received by the local film fraternity and tourism sector from the festival. "CM @DrPramodPSawant has accepted that financial condition of the State is bad. The Covid Pandemic is not the time for hosting Festivals and Celebrations. With no Financial support from @MIB_India and @DFF_India, Goa ends up spending Rs 20-25 crores every year on the mega event.@INCGoa, Kamat said in another tweet. The festival is organised by the Directorate of Film Festivals in association with the state government's Entertainment Society of Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-opposes-holding-international-film-festival-of-india-in-goa-amid-covid-19-pandemic-872795.html
13-08-2020||West||Sushant's family must keep quiet for some time: Sanjay Raut||Asserting the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's faith in the state police machinery, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that the family of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput must keep quiet for some time and allow the Mumbai Police to complete its probe. "The aim is to give justice to Sushant Singh Rajput...I would request the family of Sushant to keep quiet for some time and allow the Mumbai Police to complete its investigations," said Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. On the demand of the CBI probe, he said: "What different the CBI would investigate....let the investigation be complete, if you are not satisfied to bring in CBI or if needed KGB and Mossad." "All political parties, all our opponents as well as family members (should remain quiet). I think the time has come, the probe by the Mumbai Police is about to get over,” said Raut, the executive editor of Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece. He also said that the issue has to be understood in perspective. "The CBI has already taken over the probe....this is what attorney general Tushar Mehta has told the Supreme Court....the Bihar government had illegally transferred the probe to the CBI," he said. When asked why the Maharashtra government is opposing the probe, he said that what the Uddhav Thackeray dispensation is standing for is federalism. "It is clear and established that law and order is the state subject," he said, if anything happens along the border, it is the BSF and central forces that look into it. When pointed out that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has said he had no objection to a CBI probe, he said, "What different has he said...it is what we have been saying...what he had said and what I am saying and what we are saying is that we have 100 percent faith in the Mumbai Police....the investigations are being done by Mumbai Police."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushants-family-must-keep-quiet-for-some-time-sanjay-raut-872851.html
13-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: One killed after bus, van collide; vehicles catch fire||One person was killed when a state transport bus collided with a van and both the vehicles caught fire on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Thursday afternoon, police said. Some passengers of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus also received injuries, they said, adding the exact number of those hurt was not yet known. The accident took place at Dekhale village under Manor police station limits around 3.30 pm when the bus proceeding towards Gujarat apparently went out of its lane and collided head-on with the van going towards Mumbai, Palghar police spokesperson Sachin Navadkar said. After the collision, both the vehicles caught fire, the official said. The van driver was charred to death, he said, adding that some bus passengers received injuries and they were rushed to a nearby hospital. The deceased is yet to be identified and the body was sent for postmortem, he added. Police, fire and district disaster control officials rushed to the spot to carry out rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-one-killed-after-bus-van-collide-vehicles-catch-fire-872867.html
13-08-2020||West||Covid-19 positive Navneet Kaur Rana shifted to Mumbai||Actress-turned-politician Navneet Kaur Rana, who had tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago, has been rushed to Mumbai. An Independent MP from Amravati, Navneet Kaur Rana is the wife of Independent MLA from Badnera, Ravi Rana. A dozen members of the Rana-family had tested Covid-19 positive during the last fortnight. Navneet Kaur Rana,  after initial treatment in Amravati,  was shifted to Nagpur. She has now been shifted to Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-positive-navneet-kaur-rana-shifted-to-mumbai-872982.html
13-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees record 413 deaths in 24 hrs||A record 24-hour total of 413 deaths of Covid-19 patients was reported in Maharashtra on Thursday. This is for the first time that a day's toll has crossed 400. On Thursday, 413 deaths were reported in 24 hours taking the toll to 19,063. As far as the fresh Covid-19 cases are concerned, the total stands at 5,60,126 with the addition of 11,813 new cases. As many as 9,115 patients were discharged, taking the total to 3,90,958 recoveries in the state.  The case fatality rate in the state: 3.4 per cent. Out of 29,76,090 laboratory samples, 5,60,126 have been tested positive (18.82%) for Covid-19 until Thursday. Currently 10,25,660 people are under home quarantine and 36,450 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-sees-record-413-deaths-in-24-hrs-872991.html
