14-08-2020||Comment||Jammu and Kashmir: Conflict and its casualty||The Indian government while abrogating Article 370 in August last year had claimed ‘development’ to be its motive. Its decision was, however, followed by a complete lockdown and communications blockade in the former state of Jammu and Kashmir, now split into two Union Territories, J&K and Ladakh -- a move completely opposite in intent and effect to what the government had claimed them to be. The lockdown and blockade totally halted every activity in the Valley, which in no way could have led to the ‘development’ that had been promised. An irony of words and actions. But this kind of irony has been  Kashmir’s lot for a long time. The conflict has had its serious effects on almost every aspect of life in the Valley. Be it on tourism, the backbone of Kashmir’s industry, be it the world-famous Kashmiri horticulture, or its business and industry. But for anyone familiar with Kashmir, it won't be hard to comprehend that it is the Kashmiri children’s education that has been the worst hit. The other sectors, with some time and effort, can be brought back on track. But in education, the effect of years of strife cannot be reversed. Can the days and months and years that students have lost be retrieved? And what about the students who couldn't continue studies due to the everyday incidents of violence? Education, like almost all other sectors, was severely affected following the rise of the separatist movement in the Kashmir Valley. According to a report in the Free Press Journal of February 2, 1992, of the 11,422 schools in the Valley then, more than half had been wrecked by mysterious fires and bomb blasts – in less than two years after the start of militancy. A number of government colleges, including the prestigious Islamia College of Science and Commerce, also suffered damage during this time. Another report in the Saudi Gazette of January 24, 1993, mentioned the following with regard to educational institutes in the Valley during that time. “Crackdowns on a locality meant the closure of schools within an area of 2 km. In most cases, armed rebels would inform the school management well in advance about their operations. Many schools were set on fire following the apprehensions of security forces occupying these buildings.” The functioning of educational institutions during this time was frequently interrupted by the military crackdowns on the militants. This period also saw a large number of school buildings being occupied by the security forces. Apart from these hindrances, it could not have been possible to open educational institutions because of the almost daily strikes, curfews and restrictions, encounters and crackdowns. While the 1990s saw the destruction of schools, educational institutions being occupied by the forces, or caught in the crossfire between military and militants, the 2000s saw a kind of implicit form of damage to education. With the advent of the new century, the influence of guns came down, but there was little change in the condition of education. The biggest damage to education during this time was in the form of there being very few working days, due to hartals and curfews. The schools and colleges remained close for countless days. This trend of strikes and restrictions heightened in 2008 and was the order of the day well into the 2010s. Over the years, schools and colleges have functioned for fewer and fewer days each year. The numerous and frequent shutdown calls by the Hurriyat leadership and the curfews imposed by the government ensured that the locks on the gates of educational institutions stayed for most of the time. According to data available with a local private school in Srinagar city, the number of working days in schools each year is as low as about 90 days. Sharp dips were experienced in the number of school days in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2016 and 2019. The average number of working school days in India is about 222 days. This is the sad state of education in Kashmir. One can imagine the amount of time a Kashmiri student misses out on his or her studies due to the insufficient number of school days. These losses are compensated either with assignments to be completed independently or by reducing the syllabus. The prescribed syllabus is rushed through very quickly or the students are asked to complete it by themselves. There have also been years – in fact, three years – when the state simply resorted to mass promotions of students to the next class. Self-study assignments, reducing the syllabus, or mass promotions don’t compensate for the loss of proper schooling and learning that the students have suffered. Of course, online classes could have been of great help, but the availability of the internet in the state, especially in the Valley, has always been an uncertain thing. And since the last year, even that uncertain, patchy connection has been taken away from the people. While the conflict has seen different phases in the Valley -- from the gun being dominant in the early 1990s to the mass public uprisings in the latter half of that decade to the gun again becoming dominant now, the crippled condition of education has remained constant. And while ‘development’ has been the slogan of the Indian government in the Valley, its decision of August 5, 2019, has meant that educational institutions have remained shut for the most part since. It is hard to think of a community with a strangled education sector as being on the path of development and peace. (The writer is a student at Jamia Milia University, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/jammu-and-kashmir-conflict-and-its-casualty-873037.html
14-08-2020||In Perspective||Perils of low birth weight||In India, low birth weight (LBW) is still a largely unmapped territory. This was one of the concerns raised by the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) in a report recently. While the World Health Organization (WHO) has set a target of reducing LBW globally by 30% by 2025, the absence of data at a granular level threatens to derail India’s efforts at salvaging the situation. According to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS), 22.1% of live births in India (43% of which belong to low-income households) do not have weight recorded at birth, leading to a potential underestimation of its prevalence in the country. The WHO considers infants born with a weight lower than 2.5 kg as suffering from LBW. It is a major predictor of prenatal mortality and morbidity. Recent studies indicate that this condition also increases the risk of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular complications later in life. The WHO pegs 15.5% of children born globally as suffering from LBW, out of which, over 96% are from developing countries. Insufficient antenatal care (ANC), low nutritional status of the mother before conception, low nutritional intake and anaemia during pregnancy, early pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, small birth spacing, and exposure to tobacco are major contributors to this condition. These conditions are rampant in developing countries. Most children from low-income households are not weighed at birth. Of those weighed, 18.2% suffer from LBW, even after a full gestational period. This is despite government interventions such as cash-transfer programmes for improving healthcare visits, nutritional food in the form of ‘Take-Home-Ration’ for pregnant and lactating women in anganwadis, pre-conception folic acid supplement for reduction of congenital anomalies, and antenatal care. The government also runs prophylactic schemes such as the Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for Empowerment of Adolescent Girls (SABLA) to improve the nutrition and health of young girls. Moreover, it doles out monetary incentives under the Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY), for completing four compulsory ANCs on time. Large-scale distribution of iron and folic acid supplements to women in the 15 to 49 age group is also carried out under the mentioned schemes. There is a high prevalence of malnutrition among children below 5 years in India. As per the latest NFH survey, 38.4% of them are stunted, 21% are wasted (low weight-for-height), and 35.8% are underweight. There is a positive correlation between the incidences of LBW and the prevalence of malnutrition. According to a study in the International Journal of Current Research, LBW children have greater chances of showing delayed development. Low birth weight has both short-and-long-term effects, which are detrimental to the growth and development of children. Kids with these conditions exhibit a low growth trajectory, including cognitive development. Infants born with LBW are associated with poorer school performance between 12 to 18 years, compared to other children. A study in the journal of Indian Paediatrics shows that the mean IQ of individuals with LBW is 20% lower than that of a normal-birth-weight individual. Unfortunately, despite its criticality, LBW is not effectively tracked in India. Data on birth weight—from birth certificates or medical records—is unavailable for most rural children. The NFHS includes data on birth weight obtained from health cards issued by government hospitals, and surprisingly, maternal recall under the categories “very small”, “smaller than average”, “average or larger” and “don’t know”. The survey points out that in most cases, “the mother’s estimate of the infant’s size at birth was obtained because the birth weight was unknown for many infants”. The way forward The detrimental effects of LBW, such as low physical and mental development, are generally irreversible. Thus, preventing its occurrence is the only effective way of dealing with it. Low birth weight can be effectively tackled using the following interventions: Technology: Extensive surveys and audits of accurate birth weight records need to be institutionalised. Birth weight data for every child needs to be recorded and stored in the national health data system or on a platform/system that will make tracking easy and effective. The use of technology such as digital weighing machines, linked to a computer or mobile, can be used to make the data more reliable. Technology will also ensure that birth weight is regularly monitored, aiding the development of preventive measures. Exhaustive research: Not enough studies have been undertaken to gauge the socio-economic causes for LBW. According to a study in the district of Shivamogga, Karnataka, 31.3% mothers delivered low birth weight babies, of which most had negligible weight gain during pregnancy. Another such study reveals that mothers who consume alcohol and do not have proper antenatal check-up are more likely to give birth to low birth weight babies. Specific regions have specific causes—consumption of alcohol by expectant mothers in Tripura; socioeconomic status and educational status of mothers in Haryana; birth weight not being considered a determinant of newborn’s health in Uttar Pradesh—for low birth weight prevalence. Therefore, more widespread research is the need of the hour. Calcium supplement: Based on widespread trials, WHO recommends large-scale implementation of calcium supplements during pregnancy in populations with low-calcium intake. Consumption of calcium supplements during pregnancy have shown to reduce cases of gestational hypertension by 35%, preeclampsia by 55%, and preterm births by 24% -- major causes for LBW. Unlike iron, large-scale distribution of calcium supplements is not well institutionalised in India. This is a huge gap, as the most vulnerable and marginalised sections of the society have low calcium intake. India should put its weight behind evidence-based interventions, collection of accurate data at the granular level, and effective execution of existing policies, to bring down the occurrence of low birth weight. (The writer is a Research Associate at CSTEP, a non-profit, research-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/perils-of-low-birth-weight-873038.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Unscientific works responsible for recent landslides: Vedike||Talacauvery Moolaswaroopa Rakshana Vedike member M Poovaiah claimed that the recent landslides in Talacauvery were a man-made disaster. Speaking to media persons in Madikeri on Thursday, he said that the development works carried out in the area had damaged the original structure of Talacauvery and eventually led to the landslide. He further claimed that the forum had requested to ban the entry of tourists into Brahmagiri Hills. Around five to six lakh tourists ascend Brahmagiri Hills annually. The Forest department has dug percolation ponds in Gajarajagiri Betta, which witnessed landslides recently. “A person by name G T Satish has levelled the land in Kolikadu, situated at a distance of only 700 metres from Talacauvery and has constructed a lake as a part of a proposed resort. These unscientific works have led to the landslide in the region,” he said. Terming the concretisation works done in Talacauvery to be unscientific, Poovaiah recalled that the court had directed not to tamper with the Talacauvery Kundike and Theertha pond. “But, by then, the works were complete. It was also told not to construct a gallery near the Theertha pond. No protective walls have been built on the road leading to Talacauvery. The kshetra has been converted into a tourist spot.”\ On the other hand, preparations are being carried out in Talacauvery towards resuming prayers in the kshetra. Cleanliness works were done under the guidance of MLA KG Bopaiah on Thursday. Youth from the nearby village voluntarily took part in the cleanliness driver. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy visited the kshetra. The prayers had been stopped in Talacauvery since a week after the landslides. The MLA said that the prayers will be held under the guidance of the Tantri who will arrive from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unscientific-works-responsible-for-recent-landslides-vedike-873011.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poor net connectivity affects students||Online education is a failure in Virajpet as there is no proper internet connectivity, according to Jaya Karnataka Taluk president Mandetira Anil Ayyappa. In a press release, Ayyappa stated that the children were made to look up to online classes for their education. But due to the malfunctioning of BSNL towers in the region, the students are not able to access online classes on their mobile phones and their future hangs in balance. Students from government schools are left to fend for themselves. The problem persists not only in the rural areas but also in Virajpet town, Ayyappa stated. Jaya Karnataka City president S H Manjunath said that no elected members were bothered about BSNL connectivity. Fed up with the bad service, many BSNL consumers in Kakotuparambu, Betri, Kadanga and surrounding areas of Virajpet have cancelled the connections. The tower installed in Kakotuparambu Gram Panchayat limits is not serving any purpose. The government should bat for online classes after setting the internet connectivity right, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poor-net-connectivity-affects-students-873013.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Get acquainted with Kodava tradition’||People are busy in agricultural activities during the month of Kakkada and also it keeps raining during the month. Hence, our ancestors imposed restrictions on holding auspicious programmes during Kakkada month, opined Kodava Sahitya Academy member Dr Mullengada Revathi Poovaiah. Speaking during ‘Kodavame Padipu’ programme, organised by Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy, at Coorg Institute of Technology (CIT) in Ponnampet on Wednesday, she said that the youth should understand the reasons behind the religious rituals. “Our elders gave a lot of importance to indigenous food and used them during the rainy season. They planned their food according to the seasons,” Revathi added. Inaugurating the programme, Kodava Education Society Joint Secretary Chiriyapanda Raja Nanjappa said it is believed that the Kodava tribe was present during the origination of River Cauvery and called upon the present generation to get acquainted with the local tradition and culture. He further said, “The Jamma land is not government land. It is inherited by Kodavas from generations. Also, the gun is used for religious rituals in Kodava culture. However, our ancestors did not use a gun for fighting. Gun rights of Kodavas should be preserved, he added. During the programme, the resource persons spoke on the importance of ‘Kakkada Padinett’, ‘Kakkada Tingalra Pudume’, ‘Kodava Namme’ and ‘Kodava Takk’. Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy Chairperson Dr Ammatanda Parvathi Appaiah, member Padinjaranda Prabhukumar, CIT PU College Principal Dr Sannuvanda Rohini Thimmaiah, Thookbolak Kala Sahitya Vedike convener Madhosh Poovaiah and others were present. Students of CIT PU College watched the programme online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/get-acquainted-with-kodava-tradition-873015.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Drunk man held for draping Islamic religious banner on Shankaracharya statue in Karnataka||An inebriated man left an Eid-Milad banner on the gopura of Shankaracharya statue in Sringeri town, investigation has revealed. Tensions ran high in the temple town of Sringeri after the cloth, claimed to be the flag of an organisation, was found on the gopura, on Thursday. Addressing a press meet here on Friday, Superintendent of Police Akshay M Hakay said that a man by name Milind (28) had been arrested in connection with the incident. He said that during investigation it came to light that the cloth found on the statue was not a flag of any party or organisation, but was a banner pertaining to last year's Eid Milad. The police had formed a special team to crack the case. The team traced the culprit on the basis of CCTV footage. The SP said that Milind had confessed to have committed the act on the night of August 12. During interrogation, the accused said he had wrapped the banner found at the Jamia Masjid to protect himself from rain. But, after realising that it belonged to a place of worship, he thought of returning it and hung it on the gopura of the Shankaracharya's statue, the SP said. The SP said that the accused had no connection within any party or organisation and it appeared that he was under the influence of liquor and did not act intentionally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drunk-man-held-for-draping-islamic-religious-banner-on-shankaracharya-statue-in-karnataka-873335.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||81 Bengaluru riot accused shifted to Ballari jail||As many 81 accused persons in the recent riots at DJ Halli in Bengaluru were shifted to the central prison in Ballari on Friday. Under the tight security of Central Crime Branch (CCB) and Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP), the accused were ferried in three KSRTC buses from Bengaluru on Thursday night. The vehicles reached Ballari on Friday morning. All of them have tested negative for Covid-19 and two each of them have been lodged in a cell, said Superintendent of Central Prison Mallikarjun Swamy. After their arrival in Ballari, the accused pleaded the police and media persons to lend their phones to them saying that they need to inform their families who had no idea about their whereabouts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/81-bengaluru-riot-accused-shifted-to-ballari-jail-873347.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Now, farmers can conduct survey of crops using app||Now, farmers can directly enter the details of the crops they have cultivated in their RTCs (record of rights, tenancy and crops) with a few clicks on the app on crop survey. The last date for entering the details on the crop survey is August 24. The ‘Farmers Crop Survey App 2020-21’ has been developed by e-governance department of Karnataka, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Chairing a meeting on implementation of the crop survey, she said the farmers should mention survey number, hissa number of the land owned by them and upload details on agriculture crops, horticulture crops and other forest crops cultivated by them. The DC said farmers had to take photographs of the crops cultivated on the land and fill in the details. Depending on crop details and extent of area cultivated that are documented in the pahani, government will announce support price and compensation during the natural calamities. The crop survey will benefit in documenting the details of the crops cultivated in pahani, Annies said. If farmers are unable to conduct survey of crops on their own, then they can seek the assistance of private individuals to document the details after August 24, she added. The details uploaded by the farmers will be verified by the officials. The farmers can visit Raitha Samparka Kendra, revenue inspectors, village accountants and assistant agriculture and horticulture officials, for any query. Agriculture Minister B C Patil, in a video conference with Deputy Commissioner, said that the crop survey should be implemented like a ‘Utsava’. For the first time in the country, the crop survey is carried out by the farmers themselves using an app. He appealed to the farming community to authorise the crops cultivated by them by conducting a crop survey using the app. In the past, objections were raised when the crops that the farmer claimed to have grown was different from the one recorded on the RTC. As the farmers themselves take up the survey, the mistakes in the RTC can be avoided, Annies said.  The ‘Farmers Crop Survey App 2020-21’ can be downloaded from Play Store. A farmer should register his name and mobile number using an OTP. The farmers should select district, taluk, hobli, village and add survey number of the land and then furnish details of the crops cultivated. MLA M P Appachu Ranjan visited the rain-affected Makkandooru and other areas on Friday. He inspected the affected farmland, houses and public roads in Makkandooru, Kadagadalu, Hodduru Gram Panchayat jurisdiction along with officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/now-farmers-can-conduct-survey-of-crops-using-app-873421.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Elephant menace a jumbo problem here||The farmers in Suntikoppa hobli are in distress as wild elephant menace has increased in the past few days. A herd of elephants that strayed into Herooru have destroyed crops. The farmers have expressed displeasure at the apathy of the Forest department in checking the menace. Elephants that entered into the coffee plantation, belonging to one D L Sujatha, have damaged sweet potato, coffee, pepper and other crops. Similarly, the herd has damaged ginger, coffee, banana, coconut and pepper crops in plantations belonging to Chandrashekar, M N Nanaiah and others. The farmers are planning to stage a protest against the negligent attitude of the Forest department. The elephants arrive from Aanekadu forest in search of food. Farmer Chandrashekar said, “We have appealed to the authorities to initiate measures to check the elephant menace. Our appeals have fallen on deaf ears. If the officials take steps to dug up trenches on the periphery of the forest, then elephant menace can be checked to some extent.” The trenches laid in Harangi, Yadavanadu and Athuru areas have helped to check the menace, he added. Farmers M N Nanaiah and Sujatha said the officials should drive elephants back into the forest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-menace-a-jumbo-problem-here-873424.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Internal Congress rift, SDPI conspiracy behind Bengaluru riots: Basavaraj Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said “political differences within the Congress” and “the larger conspiracy of the Social Democratic Party of India” had a role to play in the rioting that took place in east Bengaluru earlier this week. Bommai was speaking to reporters after briefing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the latest in the police investigation into the riots in KG Halli, DJ Halli and Kaval Byrasandra.  “What we’ve learnt so far is that political differences within the Congress, its differences with the SDPI, the SDPI’s own larger conspiracy to disrupt law and order, whatever transpired during the previous election (2018) and the upcoming elections (BBMP) have a role in the incident,” Bommai said.  A total of 206 people have been arrested in connection with the riots, the minister said.  During the violence, Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s house was attacked. Murthy was with the JD(S) until he switched to the Congress just before the 2018 assembly election. He won from the Congress’ ticket.  Bommai also refuted the Congress’ stand that it was police inaction against P Naveen, for his alleged inflammatory social media post, that led to the violence. “It’s a lie and an attempt to mislead,” Bommai said.  “At 5.40 pm, Naveen made the post. One Feroz Pasha filed a complaint against it at the DJ Halli police station between 7.30 and 7.45 pm. The FIR was filed immediately at 7.45 pm. There was no delay. The FIR is a public document. Anyone can verify,” Bommai said.  “At around 8.30, a crowd began to swell and by 9, there was a big crowd. The inspector told the crowd clearly that the FIR was filed, they were tracking Naveen down and that he’d be arrested within a few hours. But the crowd wanted Naveen to be handed over to them. It can’t be done under the law. You can imagine what would have happened. For Naveen’s safety, he wasn't brought to the police station,” Bommai explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/internal-congress-rift-sdpi-conspiracy-behind-bengaluru-riots-basavaraj-bommai-873183.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Decision to ban SDPI, PFI to be taken on August 20: K S Eshwarappa||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa said the government would take a decision on banning the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI) in the cabinet meeting slated to be held on August 20. Speaking to media persons, here on Friday, he said the government is under pressure from various sections of the society to ban both the organisations. The violence in Bengaluru over offensive social media posts on Muhammad Paigambar and the act of putting the flag of SDPI on the statue of Hindu saint Shankaracharya by activists of SDPI is an attack on values of Hindu culture.  He said Congress party has formed a fact-finding committee on violence in Bengaluru. Let them uncover the truth. It is shocking that Congress leaders have not condemned the incident yet. MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan who stated that those who died in the incident are innocent people is nothing but a traitor.  He also urged former chief minister Siddaramaiah to tender an apology to people of the country for criticizing BJP National Organising Secretary Santosh. He said Naveen (who reportedly posted a derogatory remark on Paigambar in social media)  is not a BJP worker. But KPCC President D K Shivakumar is projecting Naveen as BJP worker just to escape from the responsibility. Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah has failed to understand this. So, there is a need to teach him from class 1. MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy has not lodged a complaint with police due to fear. It is the duty of Congress leaders to instill confidence in him, the minister added.  Corporators S N Channabasappa, S Jnaneshwar, BJP City Unit President Jagadish, and others were present in the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/decision-to-ban-sdpi-pfi-to-be-taken-on-august-20-k-s-eshwarappa-873194.html
14-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP to have nine new office buildings in Karnataka||BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday virtually laid the foundation stones for eight district and one mandal BJP offices. Speaking at the event, Nadda recalled the measures initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, adding that the PM was also working to improve the economy. "Considering the 130 crore population of the country, corona cases are in control in India," he said. According to state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, the new offices were in addition to the 11 district office buildings. Works are on for two offices, while land is being identified in ten organisational districts for a building, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-to-have-nine-new-office-buildings-in-karnataka-873402.html
14-08-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Literature Festival ‘begins’ on a 'positive' note||The virtual Mysuru Literature Festival, the fourth edition since 2017, began on a positive note, with just a couple of technical glitches, amid negative news of Covid cases. The opening session of the festival was on ‘Writers on Their Beginnings’. Despite a lukewarm response by the online audience, ranging from 40 to 90 at a given point of time, the discussion revolved on the beginnings of the novels authored by the panelists. The literary festival is hosted by Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust and Mysuru Book Clubs - 2015.  The sessions will be held on weekends up to September 5. On Saturday, August 15, the session on “Writing about Place” will begin at 8 pm. Mathangi Subramanian from Denver, the United States; and Rohini Mohan and Andaleeb Wajid from Bengaluru, will be on the panel. Earlier, the festivals were held in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Among four panelists, Preeta Samarasan, spoke from France, while the remaining spoke from the USA — V V Ganeshananthan, Minneapolis; Soniah Kamal, Atlanta; and Tania James Washington, DC. Preeta is a Malaysian Tamil, Ganeshananthan is a Sri Lankan Tamil, Tania is a US born Malayali and Soniah is from Pakistan. The session was a cross-culture understanding, besides tracing the stories behind the beginnings of their respective novels. With just four of the panelists discussing among themselves, acting as moderators for each other, the session was set in a homely environment. It has to be noted that the writers were speaking from the comforts of their homes, thanks to the Covid-19 crisis. The talk began with Soniah anchoring Preetha. Soniah was trying to get her pronunciation of the names Chellam and Muniandy, characters, right. Preetha said, she tried various beginnings, but zeroed in on the description of her homeland Malaysia in her novel “Evening Is The Whole Day”. “I began chronologically, but changed the sequence to suit the story-telling, over many drafts. Like the beginning, choosing the end, to decide where to stop, is also a challenge,” she said. Ganeshananthan said, even though her novel is in the first person, the beginning is in the third person, to give the apt narration in her novel “Love Marriage”. “It is a challenge to narrate culture-specific details, as most of the readers would be unaware of their significance.”  Tania, also a filmmaker, said how the beginning in a movie is used to create an atmosphere, very different from the beginning in a book. She explained how writing was a self-entertaining experience, in her novel “The Tusk That Did the Damage.” Soniah said she experimented ‘text within the text’ in her novel “Unmarriageable: Pride & Prejudice in Pakistan”. She said, as she was retelling Jane Austen’s novel, she was actually narrating two novels and, balancing was a challenge. Register on: http://www.mysuruliteraturefestival.com/registration/. The webinar will be streamed live on YouTube.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-literature-festival-begins-on-a-positive-note-873397.html
14-08-2020||National||NHAI plans to build 23 new expressways in five years||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the nodal agency to build highways, plans to construct  23 new highways and economic corridors across the country including Bengaluru-Chennai Expressways by March 2025. As per a status report on highways works prepared by the NHAI, in the next five years total 7,800 km expressways will be built with the investment of Rs 3.3 lakh crore. For many projects bids will be invited next year, said the official in the NHAI. The government plans to complete Bengaluru-Chennai Expressways (272 kms) and Bengaluru Satellite Town Ring Road (281 kms) by March 2024, says the report. Of the proposed total 23 expressways and economic corridors, 4 will be completed by 2023, 10 will be 2024 and nine will be completed by 2025. Some of the other major expressways and economic corridors to be complete by 2025 are Hyderabad-Vishakhapatnam, Chennai-Selam, Solarphur-Kurnool, Nagpur-Vijayawada. Other major projects Delhi-Mumbai, Ahmedabad-Dholera and Amritsar-Jamnagar expressways expected to complete by March 2023. The NHAI will set up a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to fund these projects. The NHAI aimed to get cheaper funds for SPV from pension and insurance funds, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-plans-to-build-23-new-expressways-in-five-years-873027.html
14-08-2020||National||India-Nigeria sign MoU on space cooperation: MoS MEA||India and Nigeria signed an agreement on space cooperation on Thursday, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said. Calling Nigeria India's close friend and the largest trading partner in Africa, Muraleedharan said the MoU is another milestone in the relations of the two countries. "Glad to join minister @Dr_OgbonnayaOnu in the signing ceremony of India-Nigeria MoU on space cooperation. Nigeria is our close friend and largest trading partner in Africa. This MoU is another milestone in India-Nigeria relations," he said in a tweet. In a statement, the External Affairs Ministry said the Memorandum of Understanding between India and Nigeria on 'cooperation in the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes' was concluded at the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, Abuja. The signing ceremony was witnessed by Muraleedharan through video link. Onu, Minister of Science and Technology, Federal Republic of Nigeria, attended the event in Abuja. ISRO Scientific Secretary R Umamaheswaran was also present through video link from ISRO Headquarters in Bengaluru, the statement said. The MoU envisages India-Nigeria collaboration in space science, planetary exploration, ground stations, development of micro and mini satellites and joint space research and development, the statement said. "It provides for capacity building assistance by ISRO, exchange of scientific know-how, exchanges between academic institutes and joint symposiums/conferences. Cooperation in remote sensing, communications and navigation will benefit Nigeria in the fields of forestry, environment, agriculture, mining, watershed development and connectivity," it added. Over the last 12 years, 49 Nigerian nationals have attended various short-term ITEC (Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation) courses in India in the fields of Remote Sensing, GIS and Geoinformatics, conducted by the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun; Geological Survey of India Training Institute, Hyderabad; and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Noida, the statement said. The above MoU will further enhance India's capacity-building assistance to Nigeria, it said. On the occasion, both sides also agreed to sign a subsidiary MoU between New Space India Limited (NSIL), under ISRO, and Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP), under the Federal Ministry of Environment of Nigeria, on cooperation in the use of geospatial technologies, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nigeria-sign-mou-on-space-cooperation-mos-mea-873029.html
14-08-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgement on Aug 14 on Suo Motu contempt action against Bhushan for tweets||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday its judgement in Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings initiated against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweets on CJI S A Bobde riding a bike and alleged role of last four CJIs in the destruction of democracy in the country. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari had reserved its judgement on August 5 after elaborate hearing granted to Bhushan, who was represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave. Dave asked the court to drop contempt proceedings against Bhushan, saying there was nothing wrong in criticising the judiciary. Those tweets, including the one related to CJI sitting on a high-end bike, did not attack the independence of the judiciary or caused obstruction in administration of justice, he said. Dave, also SC Bar Association President, also referred to sexual harassment case against then CJI Ranjan Gogoi, saying all charges against the woman-employee were dropped and no contempt was issued against her. It showed she was speaking the truth. He referred to the matter related to Article 370, saying those petitions were not listed for months. Dave also cited the Tablighi Jamaat issue where the matter related to the media's alleged hate campaign was taken cognisance of but was not listed for a long time.   He said people like Bhushan took up cases which executive was not willing to. Bhushan's invaluable and untiring efforts in several landmark cases can't be ignored. Had he been pro-establishment, he would have been conferred with 'Padma Vibhushan', Dave said. The advocate was issued a notice on July 22 for his tweet on June 27, wherein he accused four CJIs of "playing a role in the destruction of democracy". He faced the adverse action also for another tweet on June 29, wherein he accused the current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and keeping "the SC in lockdown denying citizens their fundamental right to justice". On August 5, the court rejected a petition by Bhushan, challenging entertaining of a "defective" contempt plea by the court, in violation of his right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Bhushan sought to recall the order on listing the petition by one Mahek Maheshwari against him on July 22 due to procedural irregularities.  Maheshwari, a Gwalior-based lawyer, had filed a contempt petition against Bhushan which was converted into Suo Motu criminal contempt. Bhushan also claimed to accept the petition by Maheshwari, filed without consent from the Attorney General or the Solicitor General, was illegal in terms of Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act. He also submitted the matter could not have been placed before a bench led by Justice Arun Mishra without providing him a copy of the administrative order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-aug-14-on-suo-motu-contempt-action-against-bhushan-for-tweets-873047.html
14-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 14||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 24 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 24,99,004 as of August 14 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):     48,781   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 17,51,555  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-14-873054.html
14-08-2020||National||Crisis in Pawar family blows over||The crisis within the Sharad Pawar-led NCP and the Pawar-family seems to be over. The crisis began after Parth Pawar, the son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, took a diametrically opposite stand and demanded a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant  Singh Rajput and hailed the bhoomi-poojan of Ram temple in Ayodhya. On Thursday night, 29-year-old Parth called on Pawar, the 79-year-old family patriarch, at the latter's residence for over two-and-a-half hours. This meeting follows the meeting on Wednesday night, when Pawar Sr called nephew Ajit Pawar, daughter Supriya Sule and state NCP president and water resources development minister Jayant Patil, to discuss important issues. Over Wednesday and Thursday, Sule and Ajit Pawar had met separately.What transpired in both these meetings is not yet known but the issues seem to have been ironed out. Also, Patil and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, said that Ajit Pawar was not upset over the Pawar snubbing Parth. "Pawar saheb is the head of NCP and family...he has the right to guide, order, instruct and suggest....Ajit dada is not upset," said Patil."Since Pawar saheb has spoken on the issue,  I need not speak...he (Parth) is new (in politics)...the NCP and  Pawars are united...Ajit Pawar is not upset," said Bhujbal.Parth's demand for a CBI probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case - even before BJP formally demanded it - has put the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in an embarrassing situation.   Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's son Aditya, who is the tourism, environment and protocol minister, has been dragged into the entire issue - and the saffron party too was unhappy. In fact, Parth had met state home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP and demanded a CBI probe. Parth seemed to have explained his position to the NCP founder-president. This is the second time in a matter of nine months that the Pawar family has witnessed a crisis. In November, Ajit Pawar had joined BJP ranks. He was sworn in as the deputy chief minister along with BJP's Devendra Fadnavis, who became the chief minister for the second time. However, the government could not survive and the MVA came to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crisis-in-pawar-family-blows-over-873098.html
14-08-2020||National||Covaxin's preliminary Phase I results show it is safe: Report||Principal investigator, Savita Verma, who is leading the trial at PGI, Rohtak, told the publication, “The vaccine is safe. We have not observed any adverse events in any of the volunteers at our site.” Verma added, “The second step is to know how effective the vaccine is for which we have started collecting the samples. We are in the process of giving a second dose to the healthy volunteers and so far, we have not seen anything unusual event in patients.” Last month, Verma had said that Covaxin trials showed "encouraging" results. According to the ET report, investigators are collecting blood samples to test the immunogenicity of the vaccine and expect to complete the Phase I trial by August end. Covaxin is the first indigenous vaccine developed by India against Covid-19 and is derived from a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. ICMR and Bharat Biotech are jointly working for the preclinical as well as clinical development of this vaccine. It has already received the approval for Phase I and II by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Telangana-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, along with ZyCoV-D, are the only two vaccine candidates to have got a nod from the DCGI to conduct human trials. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxins-preliminary-phase-i-results-show-it-is-safe-report-873099.html
14-08-2020||National||India records over 64,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; recovery rate improves to 71.17%||India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed 24 lakh on Friday after 64,553 people tested positive in a day, and the recoveries rose to over 17 lakh, the Health Ministry said. With 17,51,555 people defeating the disease, the recovery rate has surged to 71.17 per cent. The caseload increased to 24,61,190, while the death toll climbed to 48,040 with 1,007 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the Ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The fatality rate has declined to 1.95 per cent. There are more than 6.60 lakh active cases, which is 26.88 per cent of the total cases. India had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7. According to ICMR, more than 2.76 crore samples have been tested, with 8,48,728 being tested on Thursday, the highest in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-over-64000-fresh-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-improves-to-7117-873103.html
14-08-2020||National||Supreme Court holds lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court||The Supreme Court on Friday held activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty in Suo Motu criminal contempt case initiated against him for his tweets made on "distorted facts" to make "malicious and scurrilous attack" against not only against one or two judges but entirely on its functioning.  Holding that his tweets tend to shake public confidence in judiciary, a three-judge bench, presided over by Justice Arun Mishra fixed August 20 as the date of hearing him on quantum of sentence, which may go upto maximum jail term of six months. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said if an attack is made to shake the confidence that the public at large has in the institution of judiciary, such an attack has to be dealt with firmly.   "An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand. The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of the Indian democracy," the bench said, in 108 judgement authored by Justice Mishra. The advocate, who was issued notice on July 22 for his two tweet on June 27 and 29 against the judiciary, had tried to explain that the tweets reflected his anguish and were bona fide criticism of the court.  The bench, however, said making scurrilous allegations, which are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalise the court was not expected from a person, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing. "He has made such a false, scandalous and malicious statement having himself availed the right of an access to justice during the said period, not only as a lawyer but also as a litigant," the bench said. The court reminded Bhushan that he himself was granted protection from arrest in a criminal case lodged in Rajkot during the period of lockdown on May 1. Since March 23 till August 4, various benches had 879 sittings to hear the matters through video conferencing. It heard 12,748 matters and dealt with 686 writ petitions during the period of lockdown. After the cognisance of the matter was taken, micro-blogging site Twitter had disabled the tweets, which the court said, reached millions of people. Mahek Maheshwari, a Gwalior-based lawyer, had filed a contempt petition against Bhushan which was converted into Suo Motu criminal contempt. Bhushan claimed accepting the petition by Maheshwari, filed without consent from the Attorney General or the Solicitor General, was illegal in terms of Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act. But this plea was rejected by the court. During the arguments, senior advocate Dushyant Dave strongly defended Bhushan's tweets, saying there was nothing wrong in criticising the judiciary. Those tweets did not attack the independence of judiciary or caused obstruction in administration of justice, he had said. However, the bench said, "In our considered view, it cannot be said that the tweets can be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary, made bona fide in the public interest". He had also highlighted Bhushan's invaluable and untiring efforts in several landmark cases. Had he been pro-establishment, he would have been conferred with 'Padma Vibhushan', Dave had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-holds-lawyer-prashant-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-of-court-873110.html
14-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition remains unchanged||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be under intensive care at the Army hospital here on Friday with family members saying he was responding to external stimuli and treatment, after life-saving brain surgery on Monday. “The condition of Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning (August 14). He is under intensive care and continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital parameters are presently stable,” a statement from the Army Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Friday morning. Mukherjee’s son Abhijit said his father’s vital parameters continued to remain stable and he was responding to external stimuli and treatment. “Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from the last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues to remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light,” Sharmistha Mukherjee, the former President’s daughter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-remains-unchanged-873115.html
14-08-2020||National||19 from Karnataka among 926 chosen for police medal||Over 900 police personnel were on Friday chosen for the prestigious Police Medal for Gallantry, President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service on the eve of Independence Day CRPF with 118 police personnel, Uttar Pradesh Police with 102 and Jammu Kashmir (94) topped the medal tally, with Karnataka personnel bagging 19 medals, including Assistant Sub Inspector with Bengaluru CID Prasanna Kumar Lakshminarasimha bagging the President's Medal for Distinguished Service. Eighteen other personnel from Karnataka Police won the Police Medal for Meritorious Service while none won the Police Medal for Gallantry. Overall, 926 police personnel won the medals -- 215 for Gallantry, 80 for Distinguished Service and 631 for Meritorious Service. Among the Police Medal for Gallantry, Jammu and Kashmir Police had the highest number at 81, including Deputy Inspector General Atul Kumar Goel who arrested former DySP Devender Singh while allegedly ferrying Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, followed by CRPF (51). Four Jammu and Kashmir police personnel Syed Javeed Ahmad (DySP), Tabraiz Ahmed (Sub Inspector), Muneer Ahmad Bhat (Head Constable) and Ayaz Ahmad Katoch (Cadet) were chosen for the gallantry medal for killing six terrorists in an operation in Baramullah on 27 May, 2017. One of the gallantry medal winners is Delhi Police Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who was killed in an encounter with Indian Mujahideen terrorists in Batla House in 2008. This is Sharma's seventh gallantry medal. Police Personnel who were chosen for Police Medal for Meritorious Service from Karnataka included Deputy Superintendents of Police Hemanth Kumar Rangappa (SIT, Lokayukta), Parameshwar Hegde (Economic Offences, CID), Manjunath Rajanna (ACB, Mandya), Shailendra Muthanna Haraga (Somawarpet), Ramesh Kumar Byrappa Hiriyuru (State Intelligence), Umesh Panithadka (Police Training School, Mysuru) and Assistant Commissioner of Police Satish Mahalingaiah Honnenhalli (Traffic, Bengaluru). Others are: Inspector Diwakara Channapatna Narasimha Jettappa (Madikeri Rural), Sub Inspectors Lakshmi Narayana Anantharaman Beechanahalli (Special Branch, Bengaluru), Mahabeshwar Chandekar Hema (Special Reserve Police, Bengaluru) and K Jayaprakash (Mangaluru City Control Room), Assistant Sub Inspectors Hanumanthappa Nanjudaiah (DCRB, Chikkaballapura), K Ateeq-ur-Rahman (Finger Print Unit, Shivamogga), Ramanjanaiah (Tumkuru) and Rudrappa Nagappa Balikai (Haveri) and Civil Head Constable Honappa Kariyappa (Bengaluru).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-from-karnataka-among-926-chosen-for-police-medal-873153.html
14-08-2020||National||Six-day 'Janata Parliament' from August 16||With the Budget Session curtailed and the Monsoon Session delayed due to Covid-19, a group of activists and academicians have come together to organise a six-day digital 'Janata Parliament' (People's Parliament) to discuss the issues concerning vulnerable sections of the society due to the pandemic. The 'People's Parliament' is being convened as the government has taken "several far-reaching and even controversial policy decisions" during this period, which have "escaped any kind of legislative scrutiny or representative accountability", the organisers said. The civil society bodies that are part of the programme include People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS), Maadhyam, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Right to Education Campaign, Vikalp Sangam and All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS). Former Delhi High Court Chief Justice A P Shah, ex-Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani and activist Soni Sori will speak at the inaugural session of the digital People's Parliament, which will be streamed live. Aiming to fill the "vacuum created between public and political discourse" due to the pandemic, activist Nikhil Dey said, 11 sessions will be held online on health, food security and nutrition, education, environment, agriculture, economy, industry labour and employment, technology and surveillance, impact on vulnerable communities, and civil liberties, laws and governance between August 16 and 21. Through the People's Parliament, Maansi Verma (Maadhyam) said the organisers aim to demonstrate that it would not have been difficult to convene a Parliament session, online, had the government intended to. Another objective is to set the agenda for what must be discussed whenever the Parliament session is convened and to have issue-based discussions instead of political rhetoric. Prof. Jayati Ghosh of Jawaharlal Nehru University said that the session on economy will highlight, among other things, the fiscal relations between the centre and the states and how states are cash strapped right now. She said that corporates are also being approached to participate in the session on the economy. Vijoo Krishnan (AIKS) said that the session on agriculture will look to the problems faced by the farmers in the country and seek to mobilise people against the farm-related ordinances issued by the government, which are detrimental to the sector. This session will also have speakers talking about a host of allied sectors like forest dwellers, fishworkers and livestock farmers. There will be two sessions dedicated to discuss the impact of Covid-19 on various vulnerable communities including, adivasis, notified and denotified tribes, Dalits, the elderly, disabled and sexual minorities, activist Paul Diwakar said adding that the past few months have "disproportionately affected" such vulnerable communities more. Dr. Rushda Siddique of the National Federation of Indian Women said these sessions would also look at the issue from a gender perspective. "How women have been particularly impacted in the last few months will inform the discussions during these sessions. For example, the way that the anti-CAA protesters, which were largely led by women, are now being targeted by the police will be discussed," she said. The session on health will focus on the effectiveness of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, regulation of private healthcare providers and the impact of Covid-19 on various vulnerable populations, Abhay Shukla (JSA), said. In the session of civil liberties, Kavita Srivastava (PUCL) said, the use of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and clampdown in Jammu and Kashmir among other issues will be discussed. The session on food security, which will discuss topics like universalisation of Public Distribution System and 'One Nation, One Ration', will see academicians Jean Dreze and Reetika Khera.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-day-janata-parliament-from-august-16-873158.html
14-08-2020||National||I was lucky to have support from family and IAF: Gunjan Saxena||Former IAF officer Gunjan Saxena, whose life story has been made into a Netflix feature film, says she was lucky to have the support of commanding officers and supervisors in the Indian Air Force but whenever there is a major change in an organisation some individuals take more time to adjust than others. Saxena's response comes after the Indian Air Force (IAF) wrote a letter to the Censor Board objecting to its "undue negative" portrayal in the movie "Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl", which released on Netflix on Wednesday. According to a senior official, the letter mentions "concerns related to the movie's portrayal of gender bias as an institutional work culture" at the IAF. In a statement, Saxena, who became the first woman pilot to take part in the 1999 Kargil war, said there is a different kind of individuals who make up the environment in an organisation. "Whenever you are in any kind of environment, there are different kinds of individuals that make up that environment so when there is a major change happening, some of these individuals are ready to accept this change more readily than the others and some take more time to adjust to this change. "What is really of importance here is - even though it took time for some individuals to change, those individuals did change, it did happen and in a very positive and right direction," she said in a statement. Saxena called it a privilege to be the first to do something. "I think I was always lucky to have people around me who supported and rooted for me be it my family or in the IAF, at both the places I got support to pursue my dream. It's a privilege to be the first one to be doing something, but along with privilege comes a lot of responsibility. "Whenever there is a major change happening in any organisation or in any field for that matter, it is never easy - there are troubles," she said. She said she remains grateful to her fellow officers, supervisors, and commanding officers for helping her whenever she found herself in a difficult situation. Saxena also clarified that officers in the IAF never differentiated between male and female trainees. "Even when we started the flying training, the first lesson that was given to us as lady cadets or trainees was that the aircraft doesn't know and doesn't differentiate whether the person flying it is a male or a female. "So the instructors told us that they are not going to differentiate whether it is a lady trainee or a male trainee and they are going to give us the same level of training and will also set the same standards for us and I think that is the reason that when I was performing any of my sorties, I was performing equally well," she said. Saxena said she was proud of the film made on her life and hopes it will inspire young girls to go after their dreams fearlessly. "Over the last three years, an incredible team poured their hearts into this film that dramatises the real-life events of my life and yet is true in its portrayal of hope, love and determination. I am proud of the film and the love it has received. "I hope that this story inspires all young Indians, especially young girls, to be fearless and encourages them to dare to dream." Directed by Sharan Sharma and produced by Dharma Productions, "Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl" also features Pankaj Tripathi, Angad Bedi, Vineet Kumar Singh and Manav Vij.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-was-lucky-to-have-support-from-family-and-iaf-gunjan-saxena-873186.html
14-08-2020||National||Cops launch probe in plaint over 'rumours' about Disha Salian's death||The Mumbai Police has initiated an inquiry into the complaint filed by the father of Disha Salian, former manager of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, about the rumours allegedly being spread about his daughter's death, an official said on Friday. Based on the complaint filed by Disha's father Satish Salian, the Malvani police has launched an inquiry and the process of recording statements is on, the official said. Disha had died on June 8 after allegedly jumping off the 14th floor of a building in Mumbai's Malad. An accidental death case was registered in the alleged suicide. On June 14, Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai. Her father had recently given a written complaint to the police, stating that "derogatory" posts and forwards were being shared by people that defamed his deceased daughter and his family. In his complaint, he had also alleged that the "news about her (Disha's) involvement with any politician or attending parties with big names of the film fraternity, rape and murder are all stories cooked up by media people just to sell it to channels and these stories hold no truth." Disha's father had also requested the police to take action against the people concerned for their "insensitive act" towards his family. "The Malvani police, who are probing the case of Disha's death, have also started an inquiry into the complaint filed by her father. Accordingly, statements of a few persons are being recorded in this connection," the police official said. The police has made an appeal to the people to come forward with any evidence or information linked to the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-launch-probe-in-plaint-over-rumours-about-disha-salians-death-873197.html
14-08-2020||National||Union Home Minister Amit Shah tests negative for Covid-19||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday tested negative for Covid-19 and will stay in home isolation for some days on the advice of doctors. Shah (55) had tested positive for the virus infection on August 2 and was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, near Delhi.  "Today, my Covid-19 test report has come negative. I thank God. I express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who have blessed me and my family by wishing me well. I will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors," Shah said in a tweet announcing the results of the fresh Covid-19 test to ascertain his health condition. There were reports on August 9 that he had tested negative for Covid-19 but the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had then denied any such tests done. Shah had missed the Ram Temple 'bhumi pujan' function in Ayodhya on August 5 as he was hospitalised. Also, he will not be present at the Red Fort when Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurls the national flag and addresses the nation. This month alone, a number of prominent leaders politicians have tested positive for Covid-19, including former President Pranab Mukherjee, Ministers of State Arjun Meghwal and Shripad Naik and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Uttar Pradesh Minister Kamal Rani Varun died on August 2 after testing positive for Covid-19.  Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu, Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain, UP BJP president Swantantra Dev Singh and senior JD(U) MP RCP Singh were among the prominent politicians who tested positive for Covid-19 in the recent months. In Maharashtra, five ministers and three MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 while in Tamil Nadu, 21 MLAs and three ministers had contracted the virus infection. In Delhi, three AAP MLAs also recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-minister-amit-shah-tests-negative-for-covid-19-873220.html
14-08-2020||National||AirAsia India offers 50,000 seats without base fares to armed forces||Ahead of India’s 74th Independence Day, AirAsia India has announced the RedPass initiative for the armed forces in recognition of their contribution as the strongest pillar of the nation, supporting democracy and security.  In keeping with the long-standing commitment to nation-building, AirAsia India will offer 50,000 seats on flights on the domestic network as part of the initiative. In addition to the free flight, guests will also enjoy priority boarding and priority baggage. In June, at the height of the initial response to the pandemic, AirAsia India had announced the AirAsia RedPass initiative offering a goodwill trip for doctors across the country, which received an overwhelming response. In recognition of their sacrifices and long stints away from their homes, to ensure that we are safe in ours, AirAsia India now proudly extends the AirAsia RedPass to all Indian Armed Forces including the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Paramilitary Forces and Under Trainee Cadets.  AirAsia India is also extending the RedPass to dependants and retired Indian Armed Forces personnel in recognition of their sacrifices. It is our turn to #PassOnTheGoodwill by helping them fly back to their homes with the AirAsia RedPass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airasia-india-offers-50000-seats-without-base-fares-to-armed-forces-873227.html
14-08-2020||National||Maharashtra yet to give nod for Ganpati locals||The Maharashtra government had put on hold its decision to run special trains to the Konkan region for the Ganesh festival. The 11-day festival starts on 22 August on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 1 September on Anant Chaturdashi.The coastal Konkan belt and the golden triangle of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, is the focal point of celebrations in the state, with the maximum public celebrations being held here. Lakhs of people travel from Mumbai to Konkan destinations during the festival. Last week, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government asked Indian Railways for Ganpati specials but then put the decision on hold. It is becoming a difficult choice for the MVA partners and there are several issues like people's demand, people's opposition and threat of Covid-19 spread.Both,  Central Railway and Western Railway accordingly made plans to operate special trains from 11 August-5 September. The trains were to run from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on CR and Bandra Terminus and Mumbai Central on WR. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation is running buses from the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) districts which include Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The passengers would have to get their Covid-19 swab tests done. The financial capital of Mumbai and its suburbs have a close connect with the south Konkan districts Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, as more than 20 lakh people from the twin districts work and stay in Mumbai. Meanwhile, the Central Railway reiterated that it was still ready to run the trains. "Director, Disaster Management Unit, Maharashtra vide their letter dated 7 August informed that special trains may be scheduled to the Konkan Region for the Ganapati Festival in response to Central Railway’s letter. Accordingly, Central Railway immediately scheduled the special trains and sent for Railway Board’s approval.  The Railway Board have instantly approved on 9 August the running of special trains subject to following the Standard Operations Procedure (SOP) of Ministry of Home Affairs and Inter-District travel norms of the Maharashtra government in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic," the CR said. "Railways is ready to run the specials subject to all the norms including social distancing. However, senior officials of  Maharashtra government asked for the schedule of running of special trains to be kept on hold as the matter is under re-consideration of the Maharashtra Government and said that they would advise on the outcome. Since then, Railway administration both at Board level and zonal level are in continuous touch with the Maharashtra Government officials and have been waiting for the go-ahead," the CR said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-yet-to-give-nod-for-ganpati-locals-873235.html
14-08-2020||National||Hold low key Ganesh Chaturthi festival in Covid-19 times: Goa Health Minister||With Covid-19 cases in Goa are on the upswing, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday urged people to hold a low key celebration of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, saying not having grand festivities does not make one less religious or less spiritual.  Rane also warned committees of housing societies and colonies to not stigmatise asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who have opted for home isolation.  “This is not the time for celebration. If you want to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi, you can do it in a personalised manner at home. Do not step out too much or you may end up pulling (Covid-19) on to yourself,” Rane told reporters in Panaji.  The Health Minister also said, that at his home too, he had urged his father to postpone Ganesh Chaturthi festivities to a later date in February.  “My father is 81. At that age, one has to be careful. I am speaking about myself. That does not make me less religious or less spiritual. I believe in God and I believe that this is a time for serious business and to deal with a situation like Covid-19, where the spike is at 570 (cases per day on Thursday),“ the Health Minister said.   The warning comes at a time when Goa on Thursday, crossed 10,000 confirmed cases and has seen a sustained spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. Ganesh Chathurthi is the most popular Hindu festival in the state and is scheduled to be held on August 22 this year.  Rane also said that he had been receiving complaints from Covid-19 patients who have opted for home isolation, who have said that committees of housing colonies and societies were stigmatising them.  “You cannot stigmatise patients who are opting for home isolation, otherwise the government will come down heavily and take action these housing societies and colonies. I have received complaints that committees are not allowing access to those who are in home isolation in different societies,” the Health Minister said.  “Supply of food is being stopped at the gates, as a result, it is creating problems for patients who are asymptomatic and under the monitoring of the Indian Medical Association and Health services. These people should not be stigmatised,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hold-low-key-ganesh-chaturthi-festival-in-covid-19-times-goa-health-minister-873241.html
14-08-2020||National||Bengaluru riots: UP man declares Rs. 51 lakh reward on Bengaluru Congress MLA's nephew's head||A case was registered against a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 500 kilometres from here, after he declared a reward of Rs. 51 lakh to whosoever beheaded the nephew of the Congress MLA from Pulakeshinagar Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose alleged controversial post against a particular religion led to riots in Bengaluru earlier this week. The man, identified as Shahzeb Rizvi, who claimed to be a social worker, released a video in which he condemned the riots and said that the Congress MLA's nephew must be 'punished'. The video has gone viral on social media. ''He (nephew of Cong MLA) has used derogatory words for the Prophet...it can not be allowed...I will give Rs. 51 lakh cash to whosoever beheads him....the members of the Muslim community will help in collecting the money,'' Rizvi was heard saying in the video. The SHO of the local police station Manish Bisht said that a case for inciting communal passion and in some other sections of the IPC was registered against Shahzeb. ''We are investigating the video....stern action will be taken against the person if the video is found to be authentic,'' the SHO said. Three people were killed and several others, including cops, injured in violence in some Bengaluru localities after an alleged controversial post on the social media by the Congress MLA's nephew.  Earlier also the then Merrut MLA Haji Yaqoob Qureshi had declared a reward of Rs. 51 crore to whosoever beheaded the Danish cartoonist for making a controversial caricature of Prophet Muhammad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-riots-up-man-declares-rs-51-lakh-reward-on-bengaluru-congress-mlas-nephews-head-873248.html
14-08-2020||National||India exported 23 lakh PPE kits to 5 countries in July: Health ministry||From being a net importer of personal protection equipment, India has taken first steps in exporting the protective gear that has emerged key defence in the fight against Covid-19. The Ministry of Health said domestic manufacturers had exported 23 lakh personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in July, when the government allowed sale of such medical coverall to foreign entities. The domestic manufacturers sold the PPEs to five countries – the US, Britain, UAE, Senegal and Slovenia. “This has substantially aided India to position itself in the global export market of PPEs,” the ministry said. India had lifted the export ban on PPEs on June 29 and set a limit of 50 lakh pieces per month for export. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the government had encouraged domestic production of PPE kits that include coveralls, N-95 masks and gloves, to meet the growing demand, but put a complete ban on exports. Several apparel manufacturers tweaked their production units to stitch PPEs with active support from the Textile Ministry which relaxed norms for use material without compromising on safety. While the Union government is supplying PPE kits, N95 masks, ventilators etc., to the state governments and union territories administrations, states are also procuring these items directly. “Between March and August 2020, they have procured 1.4 crore indigenous PPE from their own budgetary resources. During the same period, the Centre has distributed 1.28 crore PPE to states, UTs and central institutions, free of cost,” the ministry said. Meanwhile, India also tested nearly 8.5 lakh samples for Covid-19 across its network of 1,451 laboratories. “India has touched a new high of the highest number of tests in a single day, so far. A record high of 8,48,728 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours (ending Friday morning). This has taken the cumulative tests to 2,76,94,416,” the ministry said. The ministry said that while the World Health Organisation HO has advised that a country needs 140 tests per day per million population, the national average stands at 603.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exported-23-lakh-ppe-kits-to-5-countries-in-july-health-ministry-873251.html
14-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: CM Ashok Gehlot government wins vote of confidence in Rajasthan Assembly||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court holds Prashant Bhushan guilty in criminal contempt case; Ashok Gehlot government wins confidence vote in Rajasthan Assembly and Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said “political differences within the Congress” and “the larger conspiracy of the Social Democratic Party of India” had a role to play in the rioting    Here are the top news of today, Friday: August 14, 2020: The Supreme Court on Friday held activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty in Suo Motu criminal contempt case initiated against him for his tweets. Holding that his tweets tend to shake public confidence in the judiciary, a three-judge bench, presided over by Justice Arun Mishra fixed August 20 as the date of hearing him on the quantum of sentence, which may go up to maximum jail term of six months. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said if an attack is made to shake the confidence that the public at large has in the institution of the judiciary, such an attack has to be dealt with firmly. "An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand. The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of the Indian democracy," the bench said, in 108 judgement authored by Justice Mishra. The advocate, who was issued the notice on July 22 for his two tweets on June 27 and 29 against the judiciary, had tried to explain that the tweets reflected his anguish and were bonafide criticism of the court.  The bench, however, said making scurrilous allegations, which are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalise the court was not expected from a person, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing. "He has made such a false, scandalous and malicious statement having himself availed the right of access to justice during the said period, not only as a lawyer but also as a litigant," the bench said. The court reminded Bhushan that he himself was granted protection from arrest in a criminal case lodged in Rajkot during the period of lockdown on May 1. Since March 23 till August 4, various benches had 879 sittings to hear the matters through video conferencing. It heard 12748 matters and dealt with 686 writ petitions during the period of lockdown. After the cognisance of the matter was taken, micro-blogging site Twitter had disabled the tweets, which the court said, reached millions of people. Mahek Maheshwari, a Gwalior-based lawyer, had filed a contempt petition against Bhushan which was converted into Suo Motu criminal contempt.   The preliminary results of Phase I clinical trials of indigenously developed Covaxin suggest that it safe, Economic Times reported, quoting principal investigators conducting the trials. The human trial of BBV152 Covid-19 vaccine or Covaxin is being tested on 375 volunteers enrolled at 12 different sites across the country. Two doses of the vaccine are being administered to each volunteer, according to the report. Principal investigator, Savita Verma, who is leading the trial at PGI, Rohtak, told the publication, “The vaccine is safe. We have not observed any adverse events in any of the volunteers at our site.”   Ashok Gehlot government wins confidence vote in Rajasthan Assembly.  Hitting out at the Opposition over its criticism of the recent political developments in Rajasthan, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday described himself as the strongest warrior of the Congress and said he would protect his party at all costs. Pilot, who has returned to the Congress fold after a month-long rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, made the remarks during the debate on a motion of confidence moved by the ruling party in the Rajasthan Assembly. During the debate, Deputy Leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore mentioned Pilot's name in various matters, including the recent political developments in the state and a Special Operations Group (SOG) notice issued to him. The notice was sent to Pilot after the Rajasthan Police claimed to have stumbled upon a plot to topple the Congress government. "They are taking my name repeatedly. Prior to my seat being changed, I was safe and part of the government. Then I thought why our Speaker and chief whip have given me a seat here? I thought for two minutes and then saw that this is a border.   Over 4,000 people including diplomats, officials and media personnel have been invited for the Independence Day ceremony at the Red Fort and it is being organised maintaining a balance between the dignity of the event and factoring in Covid-19 protocols, the defence ministry said on Friday. It said the seating arrangement has been made under the guiding principle of “Do Gaz ki Doori” (maintaining distance of two yards) between any two guests. It said members of the guard of honour have been under quarantine. "With an eye on safety, NCC (National Cadet Corps) cadets have been invited to witness the event (instead of young school children) and they will be seated at Gyanpath," it noted. All invitees have been requested to wear masks, it said, adding that an adequate number of masks are being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. "Similarly, the availability of hand sanitizers at pre-defined locations has been done. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees," the ministry said. In order to facilitate people's seamless movement and to avoid crowding, seating enclosures and walkways have been laid with wooden flooring and carpeting, it said.   Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said, “political differences within the Congress” and “the larger conspiracy of the Social Democratic Party of India” had a role to play in the rioting that took place in east Bengaluru earlier this week. Bommai was speaking to reporters after briefing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the latest in the police investigation into the riots in KG Halli, DJ Halli and Kaval Byrasandra.  “What we’ve learnt so far is that political differences within the Congress, its differences with the SDPI, the SDPI’s own larger conspiracy to disrupt law and order, whatever transpired during the previous election (2018) and the upcoming elections ... A total of 206 people have been arrested in connection with the riots, the minister said.  During the violence, Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s house was attacked. Murthy was with the JD(S) until he switched to the Congress just before the 2018 assembly election. He won from the Congress’ ticket.   A team of sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and East division police have arrested 60 more persons in the DJ Halli and KG Halli riot case in the wee hours of Friday. The officials nabbed the culprits in a midnight operation, according to the police. Khaleem Pasha, husband of BBMP Corporator from Nagavara (Ward#23) Irshaad Begum, is one among the accused. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said, "We have arrested 60 more till now. The total arrests in the riots has gone up to 206. The interrogation of the accused is on."  According to the police, Khaleem Pasha had come near the police station on Tuesday evening even before the violence started. He is accused of instigating people to resort to violence. When the mob started pelting stones at the police station, Pasha left the spot. Pasha later returned to the police station in the midnight and acted innocent. “He also tried to help the police in identifying few people involved in the riot,” said a senior police officer. He is also close to Congress party leaders and was taking part in events attended by a few of the Congress MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cm-ashok-gehlot-government-wins-vote-of-confidence-in-rajasthan-assembly-873252.html
14-08-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre on plea by Tamil Nadu to implement 50% OBC quota in all India seats||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a plea by Tamil Nadu to implement 50% quota for OBCs in all India seats in medical colleges in the state as per rules of reservation in academic year 2020-21. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat sought a response within two weeks from the central government on a petition filed by Tamil Nadu government against the Madras HC's judgement of July 27. The state government led by senior advocate V Giri and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan questioned non implementation of 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and denotified community in admission to the seats contributed by the state to all India quota in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma seats in medical and dental courses. In its order, the High Court decided to form a committee to examine the matter and declined to issue any direction to the Centre and the Medical Council of India to implement the quota as per the plea by the Tamil Nadu government. The HC had concluded that the Medical Council of India Regulations are silent as to whether the all India quota seats would also attract the law of reservation as applicable in the respective states. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all India quota. The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, provided for 50% reservation for OBCs, besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-by-tamil-nadu-to-implement-50-obc-quota-in-all-india-seats-873254.html
14-08-2020||National||Govt reduces port tariff for cruise ships in bid to boost domestic cruise tourism||To promote domestic cruise tourism, the government on Friday reduced cruise shops port tariff rates ranging from 60% to 70%. "Decision will support the cruise industry and domestic cruise tourism from the adverse economic impacts due to Covid-19 pandemic," said Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "It will provide the opportunity to earn huge amount of foreign exchange and generate sizable direct and indirect onshore employment in cruise tourism sector of India”, the Minister added. "The port charges for a Cruise Ship to be charged at $0.085 per GRT (Gross Registered Tonnage) instead of $0.35 of current rate, for first 12 hours stay ('Fixed Rate') and $5 per passenger (‘Head Tax’). The Ports will not charge any other rate like berth hire, port dues, pilotage, passenger fee, etc. For the period exceeding 12 hours stay, the fixed charges on cruise ships will be equal to the Berth Hire Charges payable as per SOR (Schedule of Rates) (with 40% discount as applicable for cruise ships)," said a statement. Further, cruise ships making 1-50 calls per year will get a 10% rebate, 51-100 calls per year will get a 20% rebate, and ships making more than 100 calls per year will get a 30% rebate. These tariffs shall be immediately effective for a period of one year, said a statement. Due to policy support by Shipping Ministry since 2014, the number of call made by Cruise Ships in India has increased from 128 in 2015-16 to 593 in 2019-20. This rationalisation would also help ensure that cruise calls at Indian Ports do not dry up completely, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-reduces-port-tariff-for-cruise-ships-in-bid-to-boost-domestic-cruise-tourism-873256.html
14-08-2020||National||Beirut blast: India sends medical, food supplies to Lebanon||India has sent 58 metric tonnes of emergency humanitarian aid, including crucial medical and food supplies, to Lebanon whose capital Beirut was rocked by a deadly explosion last week. "India demonstrates solidarity with the people of Lebanon in the aftermath of the tragic explosions in Beirut. 58 MT of emergency humanitarian aid, including crucial medical and food supplies, is on its way to Beirut in IAF C17 aircraft," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Friday. The August 4 blast, which killed more than 170 people, wounded thousands and left tens of thousands homeless, is believed to have been caused when a fire touched off a stockpile of 2,750 tonnes of highly explosive ammonium nitrate, according to reports. The Ministry of External Affairs had said last week that India has sought from the Lebanese government an assessment of damage caused by the blast, based on which it will decide on the nature of assistance it will extend to the West Asian country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beirut-blast-india-sends-medical-food-supplies-to-lebanon-873257.html
14-08-2020||National||India conducts nearly 8.5 lakh Covid-19 tests in a day; recovery rate rises to 71.17%||India has conducted a record 8,48,728 tests for detection of Covid-19 in a day with an aim to achieve a daily target of 10 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The cumulative figure of tests has now gone up to 2,76,94,416 as a result of ramping up of testing facilities on a sustained basis, it said. Meanwhile, the total recoveries from Covid-19 in the country have crossed 17.5 lakh. Successful implementation of "testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently" has ensured a rising recovery rate at 71.17 per cent as on date, while effective clinical management through a standard of care treatment protocol has further ensured a progressive and sustained decline in the mortality among Covid patients, the ministry stated. "The Covid-19 case fatality rate is pegged at 1.95 per cent as on date, maintaining its path of steady decline," it said. The recoveries exceed the active cases of coronavirus infection by 1,089,960, the ministry said. There are 6,61,595 active cases of coronavirus infection in India at present which comprise 26.88 per cent of the total caseload in the country.  A record high of 8,48,728 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours on Thursday taking the cumulative tests to 2,76,94,416, the ministry said.   The WHO in its guidance note on 'Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19' has advised comprehensive surveillance for suspected cases.  The WHO has also advised that a country needs 140 tests per day per million population, the ministry said. "While the national average is 603 tests per day per million population, with focussed efforts of the Centre and effective implementation by the states and union territories, 34 of them have exceeded this figure.  "States and union territories are being advised to scale up the testing on a commensurate level with the prevailing positivity," the ministry said. Andhra Pradesh is conducting 2,822 tests per day per million population, Tamil Nadu 925, Karnataka 856, Delhi 836, Assam 829, Bihar 717, Maharashtra 553, Uttar Pradesh 424, Gujarat 421, Telangana 394, West Bengal 361, Rajasthan 345 and Madhya Pradesh 218 tests per day per million population, according to ministry data.  India's Covid-19 tally rose to 24,61,190 with 64,553 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the death toll climbed to 48,040 with 1,007 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-conducts-nearly-85-lakh-covid-19-tests-in-a-day-recovery-rate-rises-to-7117-873260.html
14-08-2020||National||India can emerge as great destination for countries searching for import alternatives: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said India can emerge as a great destination for countries that are searching for new alternatives for imports and exhorted industry players to tap this golden opportunity. In a bid to boost 'self-reliant India' endeavour, Gadkari urged industry bodies like FICCI to identify the sectors heavily reliant on imports, particularly from China, and look for substitutes towards indigenous production for export growth from India. "All sectors are facing crucial problems in the present situation as Covid-19 has created many complications. However, one of the blessing in disguise is that majority stakeholders are keenly interested to shift to new alternatives (for sourcing required products) and India can be a great destination for it," Gadkari said while interacting with MSME Member bodies and sectorial associations of FICCI. The Minister said China's 70 per cent of exports pertained to ten sectors and asked industry players to research on various sectors and come out with lists of probable industries where India can begin indigenous production and start exports. Asking industry to study and research on products China exported, the Minister said industry players should also study the success stories of different nations including the success of micro finance model in Bangladesh. He asked the industry to prepare a list of problems faced by them as far as finances were concerned and assured them to escalate these at proper platforms including at the Finance Ministry and Prime Minister's Office (PMO level). "There are problems MSMEs are facing, financial institutions are in the crisis... Liquidity is a big problem. We need foreign investment, public private investment and government support," he said. He also urged the industry to look beyond metropolises and developed cities to lay a network of industries and ventures in rural, far-flung and tribal areas which never grabbed attention and provided the example of Jamshedpur as to how just one industry could change of the face of the place and resulted in a smart city. The minister informed that the government is working on a scheme for inclusion of smallest units under the MSME ambit and providing for their micro-financial requirements. He also stressed the need for upgradation of technology by industry players and urged them to explore joint ventures to bring in foreign low cost capital. The Minister also stressed the need for performance audit of the ventures saying that performance audit was on par with financial audit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-emerge-as-great-destination-for-countries-searching-for-import-alternatives-nitin-gadkari-873267.html
14-08-2020||National||Pakistan Independence Day celebrated at High Commission||Pakistan's 74th Independence Day was celebrated at the country's High Commission here on Friday, observing all precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Pakistani mission said. All necessary Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were observed at the short ceremony with limited participation, the Pakistani High Commission said. Acting High Commissioner Syed Haider Shah presided over the flag-hoisting ceremony held on the Chancery's lawns. The messages of the President and the Prime Minister of Pakistan were read out on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-independence-day-celebrated-at-high-commission-873268.html
14-08-2020||National||AIIMS doctor's decomposed body found in rented accommodation in Delhi||The decomposed body of a 40-year-old AIIMS doctor was found hanging from the ceiling of his rented accommodation in south Delhi's Hauz Khas area on Friday afternoon, police said. Police received information about a foul smell emanating from a house in Gautam Nagar. "After reaching the spot, a decomposed body of a male was found hanging in a room on the second floor. The room was locked from inside. The deceased was later identified as Mohit Singhla," Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. He was doing research in the department of Pediatrics in AIIMS Hospital here and last attended office on Tuesday, the DCP said. He was a resident of Panchkula in Haryana and residing alone in the room since 2006, police said, adding that the proceeding under section 174 CrPC has been initiated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-doctors-decomposed-body-found-in-rented-accommodation-in-delhi-873270.html
14-08-2020||National||Independence Day: Top 10 messages, wishes to share with family and friends||India is all set to celebrate the country's 74th Independence Day on August 15. This date marks the end of colonial rule in India, making it a sovereign nation. Independence Day in India is always celebrated in a flamboyant manner as it includes parades, cultural extravaganza, flag hoisting, the PM's address to the nation among other activities. However, the 74th Independence Day might be a low-key affair due to the current Covid-19 pandemic. Nonetheless, citizens of the country can always celebrate the day by wishing each other with messages. Here are some messages that you can forward to you dear ones to wish them on this historic day: Credit: Pinterest||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-top-10-messages-wishes-to-share-with-family-and-friends-873273.html
14-08-2020||National||Youth uses pistol in video on social media, arrested||The Sahibabad police here arrested a youth after a video of his brandishing a pistol and firing in the air surfaced on social media, a senior official said on Friday. Police also seized the pistol and a live cartridge from him on Friday morning. Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said the accused has been identified as Hitesh Bansal, a resident of Shalimar Garden Extension-1. According to the SSP, Bansal confessed that he had put the video on social media to “create terror” in society. He has been booked under Section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others ) of the IPC, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-uses-pistol-in-video-on-social-media-arrested-873283.html
14-08-2020||National||We believe in peace but are ready to give befitting response to expansionism: Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday sent a subtle message to China through his address on the Independence Day eve, saying that India is capable of giving a "befitting response to any attempt of aggression" as he mentioned the "misadventure of expansion" by "some in our neighbourhood". In his address to the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day, he also referred to India's "superhuman efforts" to fight against Covid-19 that could be emulated by a "wider world", an assurance to foreign investors that India's quest for self-reliance is not meant to alienate or create distance from the world and the 'bhoomi pujan' for Ram temple in Ayodhya.  Kovind, also the Supreme Commander of the Indian armed forces, said while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge -- Covid-19 -- before humanity, "some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion".  Referring to the violent face-off in Galwan valley where Indian troops clashed with the Chinese military in mid-June, he said the "worthy sons of Bharat Mata" laid down their lives defending the borders. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clashes on June 15 on the India-China border. "The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley. Every Indian feels grateful to their family members. Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression," he said. The President said that India was fortunate to have Mahatma Gandhi as the guiding light of the freedom struggle. "We are fortunate that Mahatma Gandhi became the guiding light of our freedom movement. His quest for equality and justice is the mantra for our Republic. I am glad to see the younger generations re-discover Gandhiji," he said.  He said this year's Independence Day celebrations will be rather restrained and the reason is obvious as the whole world "confronts a deadly virus", which has disrupted all activities and taken a huge toll. "It has altered the world we lived in before the pandemic," he said. The President said the way India fought the pandemic is "worth emulating by the wider world". Commending the Centre, he said it was very reassuring that it responded effectively and well in time. "For a country so vast and diverse with high population density, meeting this challenge requires super-human efforts. All state governments took measures in accordance with local circumstances. People also supported whole-heartedly. With our committed efforts, we have succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives," he said. Emphasising that Covid-19 warriors deserve high praise, he said the nation is indebted to them and unfortunately many of them lost their lives while battling the pandemic. "They are our national heroes," he said. Referring to the start of construction of Ram Temple, he said it was "indeed a moment of pride for all" and people maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system.   "The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony. I congratulate all fellow citizens for their commendable conduct," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-believe-in-peace-but-are-ready-to-give-befitting-response-to-expansionism-ram-nath-kovind-873284.html
14-08-2020||National||Documentary film on India's Smart Cities Mission to premiere on Independence Day||A new documentary chronicling the "trailblazing journey" of India's mission to build Smart Cities will premiere on television on the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday. The 44-minute film will focus on four cities -- Surat, Visakhapatnam, Pune and Varanasi -- exemplifying the focus of the project in various spheres like infrastructure, transportation, technology, renewable energy, restoration and preservation of heritage. 'The Next Frontier: India's Smart Cities' will premiere on August 15 at 6 pm on National Geographic channel, the network said in a statement on Friday. Produced in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the film portrays how the Smart Cities Mission is creating the "next generation cities for tomorrow," it said. The documentary also chronicles the trailblazing journey of the Mission that aims to transform Indian cities, the network said. "With a rural to urban migration rate of 25-30 persons per minute, the World Economic Forum has predicted that 70 per cent of India's population may live in cities by 2050," the statement said. Today, the country sits at the cusp of a transformation, primarily led by the need for modern living, technology and cultural urban migration, it said. "The film offers a unique insight into these four exceptional cities as they rise to face the challenges of progressive India by thinking smartly," the statement said. Anuradha Aggarwal, Head - Infotainment, English, and Kids, Star India, said, "Despite burgeoning population, India has been at the centre of this paradigm of development. Viewers will learn about how innovation and technology are catalysing the growth of our nation and playing an instrumental role in preparing for the needs of the coming future." The Smart Cities Mission is an innovative initiative by the Government of India to drive economic growth and improve the quality of life of people by enabling local development and harnessing technology as a means to create smart outcomes for citizens. It initially began with 100 cities chosen from across the country. Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, said, "We hope this film deepens the understanding about India's Smart Cities Mission to the world. India is at the cusp of rapid urbanisation and our smart cities are harbinger of new ideas and transformative thinking in India's urban journey."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/documentary-film-on-indias-smart-cities-mission-to-premiere-on-independence-day-873287.html
14-08-2020||National||Can't remain an onlooker if judiciary is maligned: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that when a statement is made to malign the image of the judiciary, it would not remain a silent spectator. "When the authority of this court is itself under attack, the court would not be an onlooker," declared Justice Arun Mishra in judgment holding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for his tweets. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, pointed out it was well settled that fair criticism of the conduct of a judge, the institution of the judiciary and its functioning may not amount to contempt if it is made in good faith and in the public interest. No doubt, that when a statement is made against a judge as an individual, the contempt jurisdiction would not be available. However, when the statement is made against a judge as a judge and which has an adverse effect in the administration of justice, the court would certainly be entitled to invoke the contempt jurisdiction, the bench added. The court further explained if a citizen, in the exercise of his fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression, tends to scandalise judges and institution of administration of justice, or undermine the dignity and authority of this court and shake the public confidence in the judicial institutions, this would come within the ambit of ‘criminal contempt’. The bench quoted Justice Krishna Iyer, who said if the court considers the attack on the judge or judges to be scurrilous, offensive, intimidatory or malicious beyond condonable limits, the strong arm of the law must, in the name of public interest and public justice, strike a blow on him, who challenges the supremacy of the rule of law by fouling its source and stream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-remain-an-onlooker-if-judiciary-is-maligned-supreme-court-873290.html
14-08-2020||National||Scientists develop indigenous system for real-time remote monitoring of air quality parameters||Scientists at Gayatri Vidya Parishad-Scientific and Industrial Research Centre in Visakhapatnam have developed an indigenous system for real-time remote monitoring of air quality parameters, the Department of Science and Technology (DST) said on Friday. The Air Unique-quality Monitoring (AUM) system is an innovative application of the principles of laser backscattering, statistical mechanics, optoelectronics, artificial intelligence, machine/deep learning, and Internet of Things, a statement said. It can identify, classify and quantify various pollutants simultaneously (of orders of less than one part per billion) and meteorological parameters, with very high precision, sensitivity and accuracy, it said. With the support from DST's Clean Air Research Initiative, professor Rao Tatavarti, the director of Gayatri Vidya Parishad-Scientific and Industrial Research Centre (GVP-SIRC) and GVP College of Engineering in Visakhapatnam, has developed the system. Professor P Arulmozhivarman from the School of Electrical Engineering, VIT University in Vellore and a few others were part of Tatavarti's team. The AUM system was successfully evaluated during laboratory trials. It was also compared in the field with imported systems from France and Australia, and operated by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board under the aegis of the Central Pollution Control Board of India, the statement said. The system had CATS Eco-Systems, Nashik as the technology transfer partner for commercialisation. "It has been found to be highly sensitive and accurate and capable of simultaneous detection and quantification of all air quality parameters and offers a number of merits over any of the currently available conventional systems," the statement said. It is portable, compact, low powered and economical, works on plug and play systems, requires no setting up time, and no additional civil infrastructure for housing. The system also provides information on all gases and meteorological parameters simultaneously. "It is a non-intrusive remote, real-time monitoring system with very high sensitivities and accuracies and is capable of monitoring in both spatial and temporal domains, with very high sampling frequencies," the statement said. "Also, the data from spatially separated sensors can be seamlessly streamed to a cloud server, from where digestible real-time encrypted information on the dashboard is made available to users at any part of the world," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-develop-indigenous-system-for-real-time-remote-monitoring-of-air-quality-parameters-873293.html
14-08-2020||National||Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in India best in world, fatality rate lowest: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that India has done its best in mitigating the effects of Covid-19 pandemic and that its recovery rate for coronavirus patients is highest in the world, whereas the fatality rate is the lowest.  Starting with only one laboratory for testing coronavirus samples, there are now more than 1,400 laboratories in the country, Vardhan said as he virtually joined the 106th foundation day celebrations of the Delhi Medical Association (DMA), an official statement said.  "We have done our best in mitigating the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Our recovery rate is the highest in the world whereas the fatality rate is the lowest," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. He paid tributes to 245 doctors, nurses and paramedical workers (corona warriors) who lost their lives while doing their duty.  Vardhan further stated that India is committed to eliminate TB from India by 2025, five years ahead of the global target set up by the WHO.  He added that the government is committed to commission 1.5 lakh wellness centers under Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY programme in the country by the end of 2022. Vardhan also expressed his gratitude to the members of Delhi Medical Association for their sincere contribution in making the first 'Pulse Polio Campaign' successful in 1994.  Recalling DMA's contribution which helped in making India polio-free, the minister said, "There has not been even a single case of polio during the last nine years."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-in-india-best-in-world-fatality-rate-lowest-harsh-vardhan-873298.html
14-08-2020||National||Win in trust vote message for those trying to topple elected govts: Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said his government winning the confidence vote in the assembly is a message for the forces "trying to destabilise" elected governments in the country. The Congress government on Friday won the motion of confidence in the state assembly by voice vote. "Winning the trust vote in the assembly is a message to the forces that are trying to destabilise elected governments in the country. Their every tactic failed in Rajasthan, "Gehlot tweeted. "It is people’s unwavering trust in us and the unity of our Congress MLAs that has brought this victory," he added. Earlier in the day, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had exuded confidence of winning the trust vote after the return of the 19 dissident MLAs led by Sachin Pilot to the party-fold. "As the legislative assembly session begins today, It would be the victory of the people of Rajasthan and the unity of our Congress MLAs; it would be a victory of truth: Satyamev Jayate," Gehlot had tweeted. The Congress government had said it will seek a vote of confidence after the Opposition BJP decided to move a motion of no confidence against it. The session comes after a month-long political crisis in the state which started with the rebellion of Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him. At a CLP meeting on Thursday, Gehlot had urged the Congress MLAs to forget the acrimony of the past month and move on. In a House of 200, the party has 107 MLAs and enjoys the support of Independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/win-in-trust-vote-message-for-those-trying-to-topple-elected-govts-rajasthan-cm-873300.html
14-08-2020||National||Narendra Modi government's welfare schemes brought positive change by uplifting poor: J P Nadda||Applauding the welfare schemes launched by the Narendra Modi-led government in the last six years, BJP president JP Nadda on Friday said these programmes have brought positive change in the society by uplifting the poor and empowering the last man standing in the queue. Nadda said the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre has been working for overall development of the country and is realising the vision of party's founder and idealogue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. He was speaking at the second edition of Balramji Dass Tandon memorial lecture. Tandon was a BJP leader from Punjab and former Governor of Chattisgarh. Talking about Modi government's working, Nadda while mentioning several of its welfare schemes such as Ujjawala, Ujjala, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Nidhi said poor and marginalised sections of the society have availed maximum benefits from them. Through these schemes, the Narendra Modi government has brought positive change in the society by uplifting poor, empowering the last man standing in the queue and realising Deendayal Upadhyaya's vision, Nadda said. Recalling his association with Tandon, Nadda described him as the first generation leader of BJP who was committed to its ideology and said he always followed the politics of ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-governments-welfare-schemes-brought-positive-change-by-uplifting-poor-j-p-nadda-873301.html
14-08-2020||National||SC discharges Twitter in contempt act as it disabled tweets by Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Friday discharged Twitter for publishing contemptuous tweets by advocate Prashant Bhushan as the microblogging site contended it had got no editorial control and merely acted as a display board. "We accept the explanation given by Twitter, that it is only an intermediary and that it does not have any control over what the users post on the platform," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said. The court, which held Bhushan of having committed criminal contempt, noted the Twitter has also shown bona fides as it has disabled and blocked access to the two tweets posted on June 27 and 29, immediately after the cognizance was taken of the matter on July 22. In response to the court's contempt notice, Twitter said that it had got no editorial control on the tweets and merely acted as a display board. It was a global website providing a micro-blogging platform for self-expression of its users and to communicate, the Twitter said. It also submitted that it was merely an ‘intermediary’ within the meaning as provided under the Information Technology Act, 2000 and thus is not the author or originator of the tweets posted on its platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-discharges-twitter-in-contempt-act-as-it-disabled-tweets-by-prashant-bhushan-873302.html
14-08-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launches indigenously developed BEL Devices||On Thursday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched two electronics systems designed by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) which the company said were indigenously developed for use in various strategic applications. The launch of the Linear Variable Differential Transducer (LVDT) and the 1kW Transmitter Aerial Switching Rack were done remotely via video conferencing, as part of the Government of India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. The Linear Variable Differential Transducer (LVDT) is a Motion Sensing and Feedback Control device, which has been developed primarily for supply to DRDO labs Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE) and Research Centre Imarat (RCI). Due to its high accuracy of functional parameters, LVDT finds applications in Aerospace, Missiles, Solar, Aircraft Engines, Wind energy and Naval systems, and works in adverse climatic conditions, BEL said. The company added that the LVDT has been designed and developed for customised retrofit requirement. The development of this product is a huge step for India towards self-reliance and is an import substitute saving the Country Foreign Exchange (FE) nearly Rs. 100 Crores over the next two to three years’ time. The 1kW Transmitter Aerial Switching Rack (ASR) has been designed completely in-house by BEL, to be supplied as part of the Advanced Composite Communication System (ACCS) onboard Indian Naval ships. The configuration caters for switching four numbers of High Frequency (HF) Transmitters to four numbers of HF Antenna with Antenna Tuning Unit (ATU) in any combination. This enables users to switch any radio to any of the Antenna for redundancy. The system can be remotely controlled in the IP based Network. The ASR could substitute imports of the HF Aerial switching Unit from the United States and is likely to bring in foreign exchange savings of about Rs 30 lakhs per unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-launches-indigenously-developed-bel-devices-873309.html
14-08-2020||National||Air India officials go to US to receive custom-made B777 plane for VVIP travel||Senior officials of Air India have gone to the US to receive from Boeing a custom-made B777 aircraft that will be used to fly Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top Indian dignitaries, senior officials said on Friday. "Some senior officials of the central government are also part of the team that has gone to the US to receive the plane from Boeing," said an official of the national carrier. Another custom-made B777 plane is likely to be received from Boeing in September, the official added. It was expected that the delivery of these two planes, which are earmarked for VVIP travel only, would be done by July. However, due to Covid-19, their delivery has been delayed by a few weeks. During the travel of the VVIPs, the two B777 aircraft will be operated by pilots of the Indian Air Force and not of Air India, said another official. Currently, the prime minister, the president and the vice president fly on Air India's B747 planes, which have the call sign ''Air India One''. Air India pilots fly these B747 aircraft for the dignitaries and the Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) maintains them. When these B747 aircraft are not flying the dignitaries, they are used by the Indian national carrier for commercial operations. The new planes will be used for travel of the dignitaries only. These two aircraft were part of Air India's commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting them for VVIP travel. The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS). In February, the US agreed to sell the two defence systems to India at a cost of $190 million. The Centre has already initiated the process of divestment of its stake in Air India, which has a debt of over Rs 60,000 crore. However, the process has been postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-officials-go-to-us-to-receive-custom-made-b777-plane-for-vvip-travel-873312.html
14-08-2020||National||AYUSH ministry launches campaign to raise awareness about affordable practices for boosting immunity||The Ministry of AYUSH on Friday launched a three-month campaign aimed at increasing awareness about affordable and easy practices that can be adopted for enhancing immunity and preventing any disease. The campaign, called "Ayush for Immunity", was launched through a webinar which saw participation of more than 50,000 people, the AYUSH ministry said. A keynote address by spiritual guru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar wherein he stated that Ayush solutions could lead the entire world to healthier and happier lives was the highlight of the event, it said. The webinar was staged on Ayush Virtual Convention Centre (AVCC), the new digital communication platform of the ministry.   Sri Sri Ravi Shankar spoke about the need to enhance immunity and the requirement of a lifestyle change in the current scenario. He presented a larger vision of the potential life-enhancing influence of ayurvedic and other Ayush practices, the ministry said in its statement. Ministry of AYUSH Secretary Rajesh Kotecha elaborated on the theme of the event, which is accessible and affordable health for all, through Ayush solutions.  He emphasised the need for a behavioural change in people towards immunity enhancing steps, and highlighted the evidences which have established the positive role of traditional medicines and practices in enhancing immunity.  He further mentioned various initiatives that the ministry is planning to launch under the umbrella of "Ayush for Immunity" campaign.  Actor Milind Soman shared his views regarding health and fitness and encouraged citizens to practice healthy living which he said, requires minimal but steady effort.  Professor Tanuja Nesari, Director of All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), shared the recent experiences of the institute in preventive and curative activities as part of the fight against Covid-19, while Dr Geetha krishnan, Technical Officer, WHO, spoke on the concept of health in relation to the pandemic and how setting up a good infrastructure and adopting effective communication are crucial for avoiding spread of diseases and ill health, the statement said. The experts addressed the questions of the public and highlighted the key steps that can be taken to remain healthy through simple practices.  "A key objective of the event was to acquaint the people with valuable information about strengths of various Ayush-based solutions for enhancing immunity and preventing diseases. Experts stressed how simple measures adopted in daily lives can go a long way in preventing diseases," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministry-launches-campaign-to-raise-awareness-about-affordable-practices-for-boosting-immunity-873316.html
14-08-2020||National||AGR case: SC seeks details of spectrum sharing agreement between RCom & Reliance Jio||The Supreme Court Friday sought the details of spectrum sharing pact between Reliance Communications (RCom) and Reliance Jio and said as to why the company using the spectrum of the other firm cannot be asked to pay the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues to the government. Spectrum is a government property, not private, and anyone using it is liable to pay the dues, the apex court said. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah asked the counsels for Reliance Jio and RCom to place their spectrum sharing agreements on record. The bench also asked the Department of Telecom (DoT) to file the requisite documents in this regard and posted the matter for further hearing on August 17. The top court asked the DoT to place on record the details regarding the use of spectrum of other telecom companies, including Aircel, which are facing proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). During the hearing, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for resolution professional for RCom, said that the government has been informed about the spectrum sharing agreement which was done in 2016 and the required fees have been paid. He said that a part of the spectrum was lying idle with the company for a while and it has not traded, but has only shared it. The bench then said as to why it cannot ask Reliance Jio to pay the AGR related dues on behalf of RCom as the outstanding amount arises from the spectrum use and Jio has been using it for three years. When Divan stated that the lenders have approved UV Asset Reconstruction Company's resolution plan for RCom, the bench said it wanted to know who was backing UV ARC. Senior advocate KV Vishwanathan, appearing for Jio, said that the company has already paid its AGR related dues but on this question he needs to seek instruction. He tried to explain to the bench the spectrum sharing and spectrum usage guidelines, and said that the company was following all the rules and paying the requisite fees.   The bench said again as to how Reliance Jio can escape the liability when it is using the spectrum and sharing the revenue. On Aug 10, the top court had asked the DoT to apprise it as to how it plans to recover AGR related dues from telecom companies facing insolvency proceedings and whether spectrum given to these companies can be sold. The DoT had told the top court that their stand is that the spectrum cannot be sold by the telecom companies facing insolvency proceedings as it is not their property. The top court had said that it needs to ascertain the bona fides of the telecom companies who have gone under proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). It had said that the court wants to go into cause of initiation of insolvency for these telecom companies and wants to know about their liabilities and what was the urgency for pushing for insolvency. On July 20, the top court had made it clear it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR related dues of telecom companies which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. The apex court had observed that it was not a reasonable proposal that a period of 15 to 20 years be given to the telecom companies to pay AGR dues. It had reserved the verdict on the issue of timeline for staggered payment of AGR-related dues by telecom companies. The top court which on June 18 had asked the telecom companies including Bharti Airtel, Vodafone to file their books of accounts for the last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for paying the AGR dues. The top court had taken the submission of the Centre on record that there were “moratorium” in place with regard to some companies like RCom and Videocon as insolvency proceedings against them have started. It had sought details within seven days from the Centre with regard to the pendency of proceedings against some firms under the IBC and said that it would like to ensure whether IBC was being misused to “escape liabilities”. The Centre had earlier urged the top court that up to 20 years be given to telecom companies for the payment of dues in a staggered manner. On June 18, the top court was informed by the Centre that the DoT has decided to withdraw 96 per cent of the Rs 4 lakh crore demand for AGR related dues raised against non-telecom PSUs like GAIL. The apex court had in October 2019 delivered the verdict on the AGR issue for calculating government dues of telecom companies such as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. After the top court had rejected pleas by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking review of the judgement which widened the definition of AGR by including non-telecom revenues, the DoT had in March moved a plea seeking staggered payment over 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agr-case-sc-seeks-details-of-spectrum-sharing-agreement-between-rcom-reliance-jio-873318.html
14-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan finds himself on the wrong side of the law||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan, who played a stellar role in innumerable public interest cases, found himself on the wrong side of the law after having been found guilty of Contempt of Court on Friday. From Jain-Hawala diary case of the 1990s to 2G and Coal scam cases, Bhushan as a PIL lawyer had played a crucial role in making the judiciary act, when the executive had failed. He was also the lead counsel of NGO Samaj Parivartan Samudaya, which prompted the top court to check indiscriminate mining of iron ores in Karnataka. In the past several decades, Bhushan has been central to the litigations in almost all public interest cases in the Supreme Court. Of late, several of his PILs did not get the due success in the courts. Sahara Birla diary case, Mumbai judge B H Loya case, medical colleges bribery case, purchase of Rafale fighter jets were some of such instances. He has also been a staunch critic of the current dispensation. However, his two tweets made in June proved to be his nemesis as this time, the Supreme Court decided to pursue the matter seriously. A 2009 contempt case arising from his interview to Tehelka magazine, which was kept in cold storage for years, has also been revived for consideration by the Court on August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-finds-himself-on-the-wrong-side-of-the-law-873319.html
14-08-2020||National||32 CBI officers awarded presidential and police medals for distinguished services||A total of 32 CBI officers have been awarded the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service on the occasion of Independence Day, an official statement said Friday. While the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service has been awarded to six officers, the Police Medal for Meritorious Service has gone to 26 officers, it said. The officers awarded the President's Medal for Distinguished Service are: ASP Prasenjit Roy, DSP Surinder Singh Bhullar, and Head Constables Vijay Goswami, Vazir Singh, S Ravi and Shyambir Singh, it said. The recipients of Police Medal for Meritorious Service include DSPs Diwas Kumar, K. Lokho Moses; Inspectors Ashok Kumar Jha, Manoj Kumar, Rajesh Bhonsle; ASI Mahesh Vasant Patil. Head Constables Brijesh Kumar Tripathi, Chandra Shekhar Pandey, Kanwal Krishan Pandith, Pradeep Kumar Dash, Ram Ratan Gurjar, Sanjit Kumar Roy, Santosh Pralhad Mahajan, Shyam Chandra, Supriya Kumar Dutta, T Thirusarvanan, Uttamrao Nagorao Aagle, Budhdeo Oraon have also been given the award. Others who have been awarded are: Constables Ajeet Kumar Singh, Bhaiya Ranjan Kumar Singh, Dalbir Singh, Constable Hem Chander Tiwari, Joginder Singh, Rayapa Raju Mantena, Pop Singh, and Private Secretary in ACB, Chennai unit of the agency Vasantha Rangachari, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32-cbi-officers-awarded-presidential-and-police-medals-for-distinguished-services-873321.html
14-08-2020||National||Indian Railways gains lost ground, surpasses last year's loading for August by 7% so far||The railways is steadily gaining lost ground in freight loading by surpassing its last year's freight figures for August so far by 7 per cent, an achievement given that it was hit hard by the coronavirus crisis since March. According to official figures, the railways which first surpassed its last year's loading by just 0.3 per cent on July 27 as compared to the loading done on the same day in FY 2019-2020, repeated the feat on August 12 and August 13, by loading 14 per cent and 8 per cent more than what it did on these days last year. While on August 12, the railways loaded 3.12 MT of freight, last year on this day, it loaded 2.74 MT. The revenue for the day went up by 6 per cent or Rs 17.3 crore as compared to last year on the same day. Similarly the next day, it loaded 3.05 MT of freight which is around 8 per cent more than what it loaded on the same day in FY 2019-2020 when it had loaded 2.82 MT of goods. So far for the month, it has registered a seven per cent increase in loading. While its total loading for the first 13 days of August last year was 36.57 MT, this year during the same period its loading was 39.21 MT. The railways has also increased the speed of its freight trains. On August 12, the speed of its trains hit 47.05 kmph, while the next day it reached a high of 47.71 kmph as compared to around 24 kmph on these two days last year. The railways has set a target of achieving 50 per cent more freight loading in the current fiscal. Chairman Railway Board VK Yadav has maintained that a number of concessions and discounts are being given by the Indian Railways since last year to make its freight services more attractive for customers. The railways has achieved record loading of foodgrains, 80 per cent more than last year, and has introduced timetabled parcel services. The railways has also set up multi-disciplinary business development units (BDU) at the Railway Board and zonal levels. It has also empowered zonal chiefs to attract traffic. The business development teams (BDT) will advertise and give wide publicity for generating demand, formulate traffic development proposals to draw newer clients from the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-gains-lost-ground-surpasses-last-years-loading-for-august-by-7-so-far-873325.html
14-08-2020||National||India believes in peace but also capable of giving befitting response to any attempt of aggression: Kovind||In a veiled message to China amid the border standoff, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday asserted that while India believes in peace it is also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression as he said "some in our neighbourhood" tried to carry out "a misadventure of expansion". In his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day, Kovind also spoke about the 'Aatmanirbhar' initiative launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and allayed fears of foreign investors saying India's self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world, with which it would continue to engage. He also complimented the Modi government, noting it is very reassuring to note that the Centre while anticipating the tremendous challenge responded effectively and well in time. "For a country so vast and diverse with high population density, meeting this challenge requires super-human efforts." Without taking China's name, the President said, "while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge(COVID-19) before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion." He saluted the brave soldiers who laid down their lives defending the country's borders. "Those worthy sons of 'Bharat Mata' lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley. Every Indian feels grateful to their family members," he said. Twenty personnel of the Indian army were killed during clashes with the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15. "Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression. We are proud of the members of our Armed Forces, paramilitary forces and police personnel who protect the borders, and ensure our internal security." The President also said construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya "was indeed a moment of pride for all". Prime Minister Modi performed the 'Bhoomi Pujan' for the Ram temple on August 5. "People of the country maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system. The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through the judicial process. " All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-believes-in-peace-but-also-capable-of-giving-befitting-response-to-any-attempt-of-aggression-kovind-873327.html
14-08-2020||National||Independence Day: The evolution of the Indian flag to the tricolour we know||Tha national flag of a nation is synonymous with its ethos and is a matter of pride and great value. Great thought is put into designing these flags and every element of a flag has a symbolic meaning. A variant of the unofficial national flag was first recognised in 1906 during the national freedom struggle. Through several political, national developments and vicissitudes of time, the national flag evolved into the tricolour or the tiranga as we know it today. In India, the first flag was hoisted on August 7, 1906, in Calcutta. At that time, the flag flaunted only three horizontal stripes of red, yellow and green, with Vande Mataram written in the middle. Believed to have been designed by freedom activists Sachindra Prasad Bose and Hemchandra Kanungo, the red strip on the flag had sun and a crescent moon, and the green strip had eight half-open lotuses. The second flag was hoisted in Paris by Madame Cama and her band of exiled revolutionaries in 1907. Similar to the first flag, the modification in the second flag was that the top strip had only seven stars denoting the Saptarishi. This flag was also exhibited at a socialist conference in Berlin.  Dr Annie Besant and Lokmanya Tilak hoisted the third flag during the Home rule movement. This flag had five red and four green horizontal strips arranged alternately, with seven stars in the saptarishi configuration. The flag had a star and a crescent that occupied one corner of the flag while the other was taken by Union Jack. Arguably, understanding the need for a national flag, Gandhi, in 1921 had asked Pengali Venkayya to design a flag, with the symbol of the charka or the spinning wheel. The flag as we know it today is largely attributed to Venkayya. During the session of the All India Congress Committee which met at Vijaywada in 1921, Venkayya presented this flag, which was made of two colours: red and green, representing the two major communities i.e. Hindus and Muslims. To this, Gandhi apparently suggested the addition of a white strip to represent the remaining communities of India.   Some modifications later, the national flag was adopted in 1931. Red was replaced with saffron and the white strip moved to the middle. The center of the flag had the spinning wheel or charka. The national flag of independent India was largely similar to the one in 1931 with the exception of the Ashok chakra replacing the charka or spinning wheel. In the tricolour, The saffron on top symbolises courage, the white symbolises peace and the green stands for auspiciousness of the land. The dharma chakra at the centre stands for movement and growth, with the 24 spokes symbolizing 24 virtues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-the-evolution-of-the-indian-flag-to-the-tricolour-we-know-873332.html
14-08-2020||National||Lav Agarwal, face of Centre's Covid-19 response, tests positive for Covid-19||Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry, and the face of the government during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, on Friday announced that he had tested positive for the infectious disease. “Dear All, Just to inform that I have tested positive for Covid-19 and initiating home isolation as per guidelines,” Agarwal, who till recently used to address daily media briefings on the Covid-19 situation, said on Twitter. He requested all his friends, colleagues for self-monitoring, and added that contact tracing will be done by the Health Team. Besides the daily media briefings throughout April and May, Agarwal also visited several states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Bihar to assess the Covid-19 response of the state government and make suggestions in improving the same. The media briefing have now become less frequent and addressed by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lav-agarwal-face-of-centres-covid-19-response-tests-positive-for-covid-19-873334.html
14-08-2020||National||Khudiram Bose: The 18-year-old martyr who smiled at death||18 years, an age when the flower of youth begins to blossom, opening up a whole new world for a bewildered individual. But, can we imagine someone giving up his life at that age, for the sake of his country's freedom, to free his motherland from the clutches of the British imperial empire? On India's 74th Independence Day, this article aims to pay homage to one of the youngest revolutionaries of India. The hero named Khudiram Bose. Born on December 3, 1889, in the small village named Mohobani, in the Medinipur district of then undivided Bengal (present West Bengal), Khudiram was the fourth child in a family of three daughters. He lost his mother when he was six years old, and a year later, his father died. He joined a group named Anushilan Samiti, became a volunteer at the age of 15, and was arrested for distributing pamphlets against the British rule in India. When he was 16-year-old, Khudiram took part in planting bombs near the police stations and targeted government officials. In 1908, Anushilan Samiti hatched a plan to murder Douglas Kingsford, who was the Chief Magistrate of the Presidency Court of Alipore. Kingsford was known for his antipathy towards the Indian revolutionaries, and his effort to cripple the Bengali newspaper Jugantar drew severe criticism from many erudite people of that time but the group's first attempt to kill Kingsford by delivering him a book bomb failed flat. On 29 April 1908, they made another attempt. And it was to be executed by Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki, who was then 19-year-old. Khudiram and Prafulla adopted the name of Haren Sarkar and Dinesh Chandra Roy respectively and went to Muzzafarpur, where Kingsford was transferred as the District Judge. On the fateful day, Kingsford and his wife were playing bridge with the daughter and wife of Pringle Kennedy, a British author, and barrister. While heading home, Kingsford and his wife were in a carriage identical to the one carrying Kennedy and his family. As their carriage reached the eastern gate of the compound of the European Club, Khudiram and Prafulla ran towards the carriage and threw the bombs into the carriage. A loud explosion ensued and the carriage was taken to Kingsford's house. It was shattered and the Kennedy ladies sustained terrible injuries. Miss Kennedy died within an hour and Mrs. Kennedy died on 2 May. Khudiram Bose was arrested on the morning of 30th April, in the Wani station, where he went by walking 25 miles. He was suspected by two police constables when he asked for a glass of water at a tea stall. His dishevelled look led the constables to suspect that something was amiss, and later they found in his possession 37 rounds of ammunition, Rs. 30 in cash, a railway map and a page of the rail timetable, sealing his fate. Prafulla Chaki committed suicide while trying to escape from the police. The Wani station is now known as Khudiram Bose Pusa station. Khudiram had to give a statement of declaration to the magistrate. Unaware of the fact that Chaki was dead, Khudiram took full responsibility for the act to save his compatriot from the inevitable threat of gallows. But once the police brought Chaki's body, he realised the futility of his effort. After numerous hearings and trials, the British judges gave the verdict of the death sentence. Khudiram was hanged on 11 August 1908. At the time of his hanging, Khudiram was 18 years, 7 months, and 11 days old, making him one of the youngest revolutionaries in India. The region around the prison was thronged by a large crowd, and the funeral procession went through the city, with police guards holding back the crowd all along the central artery street. The people kept throwing their flowers on the body as the carriage passed by. Several newspapers, like Amrita Bazar Patrika, a prominent Bengali newspaper of that time and The Empire, an established British newspaper, reported that Khudiram was smiling while mounting the scaffold. The folklore will continue to burn with an aura of immortality, 112 years later. The legend of Khudiram Bose, who gave death a defiant smile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khudiram-bose-the-18-year-old-martyr-who-smiled-at-death-873340.html
14-08-2020||National||NCLAT sets aside insolvency proceedings against Ansal Properties and Infrastructure||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Friday set aside the insolvency proceedings against Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Ltd and ruled that the management of the company be handed over back to its board. A three-member NCLAT bench observed that a decree-holder cannot be treated as financial creditor for the purpose of triggering insolvency proceedings against a company. Generally, a decree is an official order issued by an authority concerned. The appellate tribunal set aside the orders of the Delhi bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which had on March 17 directed to initiate insolvency proceedings against Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Ltd (APIL) and appointed an interim resolution professional replacing the board of the company. NCLT’s direction had come over a petition filed by two flat buyers, who had jointly booked a unit at APIL’s Sushant Golf City in Lucknow. It admitted the insolvency plea against APIL based on the recovery certificate issued by the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP RERA) to them. However, the appellate tribunal said NCLT landed in “grave error in admitting the application” of the two home buyers, who claimed to be the ‘Financial Creditors’ in their capacity as ‘decree-holders’ against the real estate firm on account of non-payment of the amount due under the recovery certificate issued by UP RERA. According to NCLAT, the “execution of decree/ recovery of the amount due under Recovery Certificate would not justify triggering of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.” “We are of the considered view that the impugned order dated March 17, 2020 initiating Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process against Corporate Debtor cannot be sustained,” said NCLAT bench headed by Acting Chairperson Justice B L Bhat. ”The ‘Corporate Debtor' (APIL) is released from all the rigour of law and is allowed to function independently through its Board of Directors from immediate effect,” said NCLAT. NCLAT direction came over a petition filed by Sushil Ansal, a director and shareholder of the company challenging the NCLT order before it. NCLAT said a ‘decree-holder’ is undoubtedly covered by the definition of ‘Creditor’ under Section 3(10) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. However, such an entity "would not fall within the class of creditors classified as ‘Financial Creditor’ unless the debt was disbursed against the consideration for the time value of money or falls within any of the clauses thereof as the definition of ‘financial debt’ is inclusive in character",it noted. The NCLT order had come over a plea by two flat buyers, who had jointly booked a unit at Sushant Golf City in Lucknow. One of them had also booked a separate unit in the same project. As per the clauses of the two agreements between them in September 2014, APIL undertook to complete it within two years from the date of commencement of construction on receipt of sanction plan from the authority. The flat buyers were supposed to get possession in the next two years. However, APIL failed to complete the projects, following which both the allottees approached RERA, which issued recovery certificate against APIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nclat-sets-aside-insolvency-proceedings-against-ansal-properties-and-infrastructure-873344.html
14-08-2020||National||Allow e-way bill for intra-state transportation of gold: Group of Ministers||States can make e-way bill mandatory for transportation of gold within the respective states but implementing it for inter-state movement across India will not be feasible, a state-ministerial panel suggested on Friday. The group of ministers (GoM), comprising finance ministers of Kerala, Bihar, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka and West Bengal, set up to examine the feasibility of implementation of e-way bill for movement of gold and precious stones met via video conferencing. "It was decided that if any state wants to implement e-way bill for gold, they can do so for intra- or within the state transportation," Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi told PTI. During the meeting, while Kerala and Karnataka wanted e-way bill for inter-state movement of goods, Gujarat and Bihar felt it was not practical and feasible. Modi, who also holds Bihar's finance portfolio, also suggested e-invoicing for gold. "It was decided to further study starting e-invoice for gold to tackle evasion and the proposal would be discussed further," Modi said. The GoM, set up by the GST Council in November 2019, was also tasked to suggest alternative ways and mechanism to control tax evasion on gold. The final report of the GoM would be placed before the Council. Under the goods and services tax regime, e-way bills are required for inter-state transportation of goods valued over Rs 50,000. However, gold is exempted. In the electronic way (e-way) bill system, businesses and transporters have to produce before a GST inspector the e-way bill, if asked. Currently, e-way bills have a validity of one day for every 100 km. For over-dimensional cargo, like trucks, the validity is one day for every 20 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-e-way-bill-for-intra-state-transportation-of-gold-group-of-ministers-873359.html
14-08-2020||National||How the Press participated in India's freedom struggle||History books across India are filled with grand stories of the Indian independence struggle. Turn to any page of those books and you'll find tales of brave men and women who stood in open defiance of the British Raj even in the face of death and those who chose a more silent path. But there is another facet of this struggle, one that is not spoken of nearly as much as it should: the Press. The British Raj, as is known, was filled with great misery for the Indian citizen who lived under great duress and stress of being a mere colonial entity rather than their own being. Many newspapers did not take well to that reality and chose to highlight the plight of the people in hopes of creating a movement for swaraj. It began in 1780 with the first printed newspaper in India, the Bengal Gazette. Run by Irishman James Augustus Hicky, the paper was noted and had infamy for its satirical tone and repeated ridicule of the British Raj, something Hicky was proud of and escalated every time he was sued or otherwise impeded by its agents. Unfortunately, the paper ceased to function in 1782, but it left behind quite the legacy. As time went on, many newspapers took note of the Raj's strategy of using Hindu-Muslim discord as a weapon to distract people from any real attempt at revolting on a nationwide scale. In 1857, during the first war of independence, the newspaper Payam-e-Azadi took to spreading the message that the British would continue to divide and rule and that people had to stand up against it. Alongside that, existed three newspapers: Samachar Sudhavarashan, Doorbeen and Sultan-ul-Akhbar, which were suppressed for their critical view of the Raj. The British, of course, never took anything that might threaten their rule lying down. The Raj instituted a number of censorship measures from the early 1800s, at least one of which still survives to this day: the Sedition clause. But the Sedition clause was alone not enough for the British: they instituted the Vernacular Press Act in 1878, aimed squarely at suppressing non-English papers from criticising the Raj, for the voice against the colonial rule had risen greatly after the famine in 1876. As though a tit-for-tat, Indian newspapers too refused to take gag orders and threats of prison lying down. Perhaps it was the century-long arduous rule or simply because they were tired of it, the Press soldiered on, using creative means to circumvent censorship. One of the most notable examples of this is Nil Darpan, a play published in The Hindoo Patriot, which was a critical move leading to the Indigo revolt in 1859. One of the most infamous targets of the Sedition clause was Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who was tried and convicted thrice, one of which was defended - unsuccessfully - by none other than Muhammad Ali Jinnah. As the nationalist movement gathered steam going into the 1900s, especially after the establishment of the Indian National Congress - which had many prominent newspaper editors in its first sitting and as prominent leaders - the Raj began a major crackdown of the Press by passing one Act after another, like the  Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act of 1911, Press Act of 1910, and Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1908. The most disastrous of the Acts passed was the Press Act of 1910, which brought over 1,000 newspapers under prosecution and made the Raj's pockets heavier by Rs 5 lakh in form of securities and forfeitures. Near the last decades of the Raj, when the Civil Disobedience Movement was well underway and Mahatma Gandhi had taken out the Salt March, the Press (Emergency Powers) Act was passed in 1931 and strengthened during the Second World War. The Act gave provincial governments power to suppress propaganda for the Disobedience movement and was later used as a weapon to ban all talk of the Congress. As the War raged and Indians were drafted into the mess, the press in India formed the All-India Newspapers Editors’ Conference, with the aim to fight for the freedom of the press. Towards the end of the Raj, though, pre-censorship continued. This was most evident during the 1943 Bengal famine, which was notably reported by the Amrita Bazar Patrika. The Raj went so far as to ban the press from telling the country that it was banned from talking about the famine just so it could be brushed under the rug, possibly owing to the debate that Churchill's animosity towards Indians led to him refusing to grant, or reducing food supplies to the region despite pleas by Louis Mountbatten. The press, being the ever-clever entity it was, continued its resistance by using underground papers, radio, art and graffiti. This continued till the British finally abdicated from India, creating the two countries - India and Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-the-press-participated-in-indias-freedom-struggle-873361.html
14-08-2020||National||SC rejects Sanjay Chandra's bail plea, directs him to surrender by August 17||The Supreme Court Friday dismissed the bail plea of Unitech Ltd promoter Sanjay Chandra, who was last month granted interim bail for 30 days on "humanitarian grounds" as both his parents had tested positive for Covid-19, and asked him to surrender by August 17. The apex court also dismissed the bail application of Chandra’s brother Ajay Chandra, who is in jail since August 2017. They both are accused of allegedly siphoning off home buyers' money. “At this stage, we are clearly of the view that since the order dated October 30, 2017 has not been complied with, there is no question of this court directing the release of the applicants (Sanjay and Ajay Chandra) from custody,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said, adding, “Both the applications stand dismissed.” The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The bench had on July 7 this year granted interim bail for 30 days to Sanjay Chandra, who was in jail since August 2017. Later, the court had extended his interim bail till today. In its order passed on Friday, the apex court said, “Sanjay Chandra, who had been granted interim bail by the orders of this court dated July 7, 2020 and July 31, 2020 on the ground of the COVID status of his parents, shall surrender by August 17, 2020.” The bench was dealing with the applications in which both Sanjay and Ajay Chandra have claimed that they have complied with the condition imposed by apex court in its October 2017 order for grant of bail. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for them, said that the amount which has been deposited in the court’s registry was in excess of Rs 750 crores. “The applicants have had to suffer incarceration for a period of nearly three years despite the order enlarging them on bail, subject to conditions, as a result of their failure to meet the condition of deposit,” Rohatgi said. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for Delhi Police, opposed the applications and said the applicants were required to deposit Rs 750 crores on or before December 31, 2017. He referred to the January last year order of the court and said it had rejected the bail application and expressly observed that since the October 2017 conditions were imposed by a three-judge bench, it was not open to a bench of two judges to modify them. “We find that neither of the conditions for deposit have been complied with by the applicants. Admittedly, an amount of Rs 750 crores was not deposited by 31 December 2017. The amount which has been deposited in the Registry of this Court has been realised as a result of the demonetisation of the assets of Unitech Limited,” the bench noted. It noted that since the October 2017 order, significant events have taken place and the apex court had directed a forensic audit to be conducted by M/s Grant Thornton. “It would suffice to note that it was as a result of the findings in the forensic report that this court issued directions for the taking over of the management of Unitech Limited by a Board which has since been constituted by the Union of India,” it said. The bench noted that it had earlier directed the Centre to ensure that all aspects, which were adverted to in the forensic report, should be investigated by the competent agencies, including with regard to the aspect of money laundering. “Serious findings about siphoning of funds to offshore locations and in regard to the misdemeanour of the erstwhile management have been made in the report of the forensic auditors,” the bench said. The apex court directed Nataraj to file a comprehensive affidavit apprising it about the steps taken by investigating agencies in pursuance to the directions and report of the forensic auditors. The bench has posted the other applications filed in the matter for further hearing on August 24. The matter pertains to a criminal case which started initially by one complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects' -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- situated in Gurugram. On January 20 this year, in a respite to over 12,000 hassled home buyers of Unitech, the top court had allowed the Centre to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors. The apex court had approved the name of retired Haryana cadre IAS officer Yudvir Singh Malik as chairman and managing director (CMD) of the new board and directed that existing board of directors of the company would stand superseded. In 2018, the top court had directed a forensic audit of Unitech Ltd and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, Partner, Forensic and Investigation Services in M/s Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors had submitted their report which said that Unitech Ltd received around Rs 14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers mostly between 2006-2014 and around Rs 1,805 crore from six financial institutions for the construction of 74 projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-sanjay-chandras-bail-plea-directs-him-to-surrender-by-august-17-873365.html
14-08-2020||National||CRPF launches organ donation drive with AIIMS||The Central Reserve Police Force on Friday launched a mega campaign to raise awareness about organ donation amongst its about 3.25 lakh personnel, officials said. CRPF Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari launched the mission over a webinar session along with All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)  Director Dr Randeep Guleria and head of its Organ Retrieval Banking Organisation (ORBO) Dr Aarti Vij. The CRPF chief also filled up an online organ donation form during the launch event of the campaign that has been named 'e-sanjeevani', a senior officer said.  The voluntary mission will culminate on the national organ donation day on November 27 and has been planned keeping in mind the spirit of "serving the nation even after death".   Maheshwari and the two doctors stressed on the importance of organ donation during the launch session, he said. "This campaign targets the heart of the problem by creating awareness, dispelling fears, and attesting the acceptability of organ donation as a norm," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran had said on Thursday. "The campaign will be an online exercise in which personnel will be able to pledge donation of eyes, skin, lungs, heart, liver, pancreas, kidney, heart valves, intestine and blood vessels," Dhinakaran had said. The doctors from the AIIMS will work with CRPF doctors to organise webinars, seminars, workshops and awareness videos to encourage participation of CRPF personnel for the "noble and humane cause," he said.  The CRPF, which is in the thick of operations in the Left Wing Extremism affected parts of the country as well as terrorist violence-hit areas of the Kashmir Valley, also launched a programme for its specially-abled or 'divyang' personnel on Friday.   The force chief released a new standard operating procedure for the skilling of our personnel, the DIG said. The skill centre has been based at the CRPF group centre in Hyderabad that "will have a robust architecture to offer psycho-physical and socio-economic support" to those personnel who have been incapacitated in the line of duty. At least 189 CRPF personnel, have lost their limbs or have undergone amputation in the last 10 years while they were in the line of duty or operations. "The skilling and re-skilling training sessions will include a two months basic computer training so that the physically impaired warriors can work in the cyber systems and other administrative wings of the force," Dhinakaran said.   The force has said it will bear the "entire cost" of providing prosthetic limbs for the amputees. The force has also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Aditya Mehta Foundation to train these personnel in para-sports, he said.   The CRPF, with over 3.25 lakh personnel strength, is the lead internal security force of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-launches-organ-donation-drive-with-aiims-873368.html
14-08-2020||National||India welcomes normalisation of UAE-Israel ties||India on Friday welcomed normalisation of ties between the United Arab Emirates and Israel. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar received a call from the United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, who briefed him on the announcement made on Thursday about the full normalization of relations between UAE and Israel. “Deeply appreciate the call today from FM HH @ABZayed of UAE. Discussed the full normalisation of relations between UAE and Israel announced yesterday (Thursday),” Jaishankar posted on Twitter. “India has consistently supported peace, stability and development in West Asia, which is its extended neighbourhood,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. “We welcome the full normalisation of ties between UAE and Israel. Both nations are key strategic partners of India.” New Delhi also reiterated its traditional support for the cause of Palestine. “We hope to see early resumption of direct negotiations to find an acceptable two-state solution,” said Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-normalisation-of-uae-israel-ties-873374.html
14-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address nation from Red Fort on 74th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the iconic Red Fort on Saturday. According to a Defence ministry statement, the prime minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist the prime minister in unfurling the National Flag. On his arrival at 7.18 AM in front of the Lahore Gate of the Red Fort, the prime minister will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. The defence secretary will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC), Delhi Area, Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra to the prime minister. The GoC Delhi Area will then conduct the prime minister to the Saluting Base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, the statement said. The Guard of Honour will be positioned directly in front of the National Flag across the moat below the ramparts. This year, Army being the coordinating Service, the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. Army contingent in the prime minister's Guard will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the Navy contingent by Lt Commander K V R Reddy, while Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the Air Force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jitender Kumar Meena. After inspecting the Guard of Honour, the prime minister will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort where he will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. The GoC Delhi area will conduct the prime minister to the dais on the rampart to unfurl the National Flag. After the tri-colour is unfurled by the prime minister, the National Guard will give 'Rashtriya Salute' to the National Flag, the statement said. The unfurling of the tri-colour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand. The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police will present 'Rashtriya Salute' at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The Naval Contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, Air Force contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sudhanshu Dhama. After unfurling the National Flag, the prime minister will address the nation. After the speech of the prime minister is over, the National Cadet Corps cadets will sing the National Anthem. A total of 500 NCC cadets (Army, Navy and Air Force) from different schools will be taking part, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-from-red-fort-on-74th-independence-day-873378.html
14-08-2020||National||India, Nepal to hold talks under 'oversight mechanism' on Aug 17: MEA||India and Nepal will hold talks on August 17 under their "oversight mechanism'' for reviewing all bilateral economic and developmental projects in the Himalayan nation, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. This would be the first major engagement since bilateral ties came under strain after the Himalayan nation came up with a new political map in May. Asked about reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart K P Sharma Oli could have a telephonic conversation on August 15, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, "I have no information on this, I need to check." On whether the issue of floods in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar could come up for discussion in the upcoming bilateral "oversight mechanism" talks and if any high-level dialogue between the two countries is proposed, he said, "On the scheduled oversight mechanism, I think you are referring to the meeting which is to take place on August 17." This "oversight mechanism" was set up in 2016 to review all bilateral economic and developmental projects in Nepal, he said. This meeting will review all such projects across Nepal, Srivastava said. Earlier this week, official sources said Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal's Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi are scheduled to hold talks on August 17 in Kathmandu under the oversight mechanism. Asked about Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali's reported remarks that the 1947 agreement among India, Nepal and the United Kingdom that deals with the military service of Gorkha soldiers has become “redundant", Srivastava said, "We are aware of the remark, but we have no information on any official communication in this regard." Srivastava also asserted that he has made India's stance clear several times and had nothing more to add. In June, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it. In its reaction, after Nepal's lower house of Parliament approved the bill, India termed as untenable the "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims by the neighbouring country. India had said Nepal's action violates an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. Meanwhile, to a separate question on former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad raking up the Kashmir issue, Srivastava said, "You are aware of the outlook and position of Mahatir Mohamad on this issue." "As the saying goes, you are known by the company you keep," he said in an apparent reference to Mohammad's closeness to Pakistan. Asked if any development has taken place on the extradition of Zakir Naik, he said India was in touch with the Malaysian government on the issue. Naik, a 54-year-old radical Islamic preacher wanted by the Indian authorities for alleged money laundering and inciting extremism through hate speeches, left India in 2016 and subsequently moved to the largely Muslim Malaysia, where he was granted permanent residency when Mahathir was the prime minister. On the case of the Income Tax Department detaining a 42-year-old Chinese man, identified as Charlie Peng, alleged to be the kingpin of a money laundering racket, Srivastava said, "We have seen the reports and we are awaiting more information at this stage."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-to-hold-talks-under-oversight-mechanism-on-aug-17-mea-873389.html
14-08-2020||National||Chandrayaan-2 captures image of crater on Moon; ISRO names it after Vikram Sarabhai||Chandryaan-2 has captured images of the Moon and one of the craters has been named after Vikram Sarabhai, the father of the Indian space programme, a statement said on Friday. Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office Jitendra Singh said that as Sarabhai's birth centenary year completed on August 12, this is a thanksgiving tribute to the scientist. Singh added that the recent achievements of ISRO, which have placed India as a frontline nation of the world, is a vindication of Sarabhai's visionary dream. The Department of Space directly comes under the Prime Minister's Office. "The Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) has sought to pay tribute to him in a special way by announcing that Chandrayaan-2 Orbiter has captured the Moon images of 'Sarabhai Crater'," the statement quoting Singh said. The Sarabhai Crater is around 250 to 300 kilometres east of the crater where the Apollo 17 and Luna 21 Missions had landed. The statement said the Sarabhai Crater, captured in 3D images, shows that it has a depth of around 1.7 kilometres taken from its raised rim and the slope of crater walls is between 25 to 35 degrees. These findings will help space scientists understand further the process on the lunar region filled with lava. "Chandrayaan-2 continues to perform as per design and provides valuable scientific data. The public release of scientific data from Chandrayaan-2 for global use will begin in October 2020," it added. Planned to land on the South Pole of the Moon, Chandrayaan-2 was launched on July 22. However, the lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt. The orbiter of the mission is working fine and has been sending data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-2-captures-image-of-crater-on-moon-isro-names-it-after-vikram-sarabhai-873390.html
14-08-2020||National||NIA arrests 4 more accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||The NIA has arrested four more people for their alleged involvement in the Kerala gold smuggling case after their roles in the conspiracy and smuggling surfaced, an official said on Friday. The agency has so far arrested 20 people in the case of smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate in Kerala's capital Thiruvananthapuram, an NIA spokesperson said. Mohamed Anwar T M, Hamzath Abdu Salam, Hamjad Ali, all residents of Malappuram, and Samju T M of Kozhikode were arrested by the NIA on Thursday, the official said. During the custodial interrogation of accused Jalal A M, Mohammad Shafi, Said Alavi and Abdu PT, it was revealed that Anwar, Salam, Samju and Hamjad provided funds for procuring and smuggling gold into India, the official of the premier investigation agency said. Searches were carried out at their residences in six locations in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts on Friday in which digital devices and incriminating documents were seized, he said. The NIA took over the probe and registered a case on July 10 against four people, including a key woman suspect, for their alleged involvement in smuggling 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in a piece of diplomatic baggage in Kerala, the official said. Further investigation in the case was underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-4-more-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-873392.html
14-08-2020||National||Modi's tenure underscores his political maturity, capability to take all along: JP Nadda||Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has served the longest tenure as an elected head of a government, including his term as chief minister, among all PMs, BJP chief J P Nadda on Friday asserted it underscores his political maturity and ability to represent all sections of society. This also shows his capability to take along everyone, he said. "We are fortunate that the BJP and the country have such strong leadership. Under Modi's leadership, the BJP formed government in Gujarat thrice and in the country twice with a strong majority," Nadda said in a statement. Modi is the only leader who has, more than Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi, led an elected government for more than 18 years, he added. Modi has not only become the longest-serving non-Congress prime minister but he also has the longest tenure as head of an elected government, which includes his term of more than 12 years as Gujarat chief minister, among all PMs. BJP sources pointed out on Friday that Modi's term first as chief minister and now as prime minister is over 18 years and 306 days as of now. Nadda said Modi has been working day and night for the poor and deprived sections of society, besides women, farmers and youth since becoming prime minister more than six years back. It is a matter of immense pride for the BJP that Modi has become the longest-serving non-Congress prime minister of the country, the BJP president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modis-tenure-underscores-his-political-maturity-capability-to-take-all-along-jp-nadda-873394.html
14-08-2020||National||Pakistan confers award on Geelani; BJP says it shows Islamabad backs separatism in Kashmir||Pakistan conferring its highest civilian award on hardline Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani clearly shows that Islamabad supports separatism in Kashmir, a senior BJP leader said on Friday. Pakistan President Arif Alvi conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan on 90-year-old Geelani in absentia as the country celebrated its 74th Independence Day on Friday. "This award clearly shows Pakistan supports terrorism and separatism in Kashmir," senior BJP leader and former Deputy Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Kavinder Gupta said. "It also establishes that terrorism and anti-national elements in Kashmir are funded by Pakistan. It would be advisable that those receiving such honours from Pakistan should stay in that country only," Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-confers-award-on-geelani-bjp-says-it-shows-islamabad-backs-separatism-in-kashmir-873412.html
14-08-2020||National||Pakistan not only harbours terror outfits, but also encourages them: Ministry of External Affairs||India on Friday slammed Pakistan over reports that former UN-designated terrorist Gulbuddin Hekmatyar participated in an event hosted by that country's mission in Afghanistan, saying this was not new as Pakistan not only harbours terror outfits, but also encourages them. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India hopes that such participation in public events by a former UN-designated terrorist would not go unnoticed. Asked about reports that Pakistan got Hekmatyar to speak at an event of a Pakistani mission in Afghanistan, he said, "We have seen the media reports of the participation of the former UN-designated terrorist in an event organised by the government of Pakistan. This is nothing new, Pakistan not only harbours terror outfits, but also encourages them." In 2017, the United Nations removed Afghan warlord Hekmatyar from its list of designated terrorists, lifting the assets freeze, travel ban and arms embargo imposed on the insurgent leader who signed a peace pact with the Afghan government. On the Afghan peace process and the Afghanistan government's decision to release 400 Taliban prisoners, Srivastava said, "We have taken note of the development." "As far as India is concerned, we strongly support the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan. We also support the intra-Afghan negotiations," he said. To a separate question on whether the Indian mission has congratulated Kamala Harris, whose father is from Jamaica and mother an Indian, on being chosen as the running mate of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, Srivastava said, "In general we would not like to comment on the electoral process of any other country." On the Kerala Gold smuggling case, he said the matter is under investigation of the NIA and the MEA is extending all necessary facilitations for the investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-not-only-harbours-terror-outfits-but-also-encourages-them-ministry-of-external-affairs-873423.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||BJP’s Mallah reach out suits its OBC and Hindutva politics||By nominating Jai Prakash Nishad for the Rajya Sabha by-election from Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has made one more conscious effort to reach out to the Mallah or Kevat (boatmen) community, which has nearly 5% votes and influences result in over 100 Assembly segments in the state. The RS by-election, which is scheduled to be held on August 24, was necessitated following the demise of Samajwadi Party’s Beni Prasad Verma, who hailed from the Kurmi community, the second most dominant OBC community in UP after Yadavs. Nishad is a former BSP legislator. He joined the saffron party like several other leaders from his community after the BJP government came to power at Centre in 2014. Former Rajya Sabha MP Narendra Kashyap, belonging to the Nishad community, who joined BJP in 2016, said there is a need to give “more representation” to Mallah in politics and the community look towards the BJP with more anticipation. “There are 100 Assembly seats in the state, where the number of Mallah voters range from 15,000 to 70,000 and they can tilt the results either way. They are divided into 27 sub-castes and are known as Kashyap in Western UP,” he said. In 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to the community while launching 11 solar-powered “e-boats” in Varanasi and named India’s new satellite NAVIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) to honour the contribution of the “courageous boatmen (naavik)”. During the 2019 LS polls, the then BJP president Amit Shah promised to build an 80-feet tall statue of Nishadraj in Allahabad. Mallahs fit into BJP’s Hindutva politics as they have made consistent efforts to widen the party’s political base and make deep inroads in most backward classes (MBCs). The BJP has repeatedly referred to the pantheon of Kevatraj of the Ramayana and even during the August 5 groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple, the VHP made reverential references to the Kevatraj’s connection with Lord Ram. In UP, the most well-known Mallah politician was Phoolan Devi, who after being elected MP for the second time from the Samajwadi Party was shot dead in Delhi in 2001. She had formed the Eklavya Sena to fight for the rights of the community. The Mallahs have been seeking larger political representation for quite some time. In December 2016, several leaders of the community held a protest in the national capital seeking due representation — first a sub-quota within 27% OBC reservation and ultimately SC status. In June 2019, the Yogi Adityanath government includedMallahs among 17 castes in the list of Scheduled Castes, a decision which was stayed by the Allahabad High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-s-mallah-reach-out-suits-its-obc-and-hindutva-politics-873056.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||BSP issues whip to MLAs to vote against Gehlot||Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party has issued a whip to six of its Rajasthan MLAs, who had joined the Congress, to vote against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's government in the trust vote he is expected to seek on Friday. "All six MLAs have been directed under para 2(1)(a) of the Xth Schedule to vote against the Congress Party in any No-Confidence motion or any other proceedings to be held during the Assembly session of Rajasthan Assembly and if they violate the same they will face disqualification under para 2(1)(b) of the Xth Schedule," a BSP statement said. On Thursday, the Supreme Court had declined to stay a September 2019 decision by Rajasthan Assembly Speaker CP Joshi allowing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress party. The six MLAs, Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. However, they all joined the Congress in September 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-issues-whip-to-mlas-to-vote-against-gehlot-873113.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||SC judgement on Prashant Bhushan 'weakens' India's Constitutional democracy: Sitaram Yechury||The Supreme Court judgement on Friday holding activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets has weakened India's Constitutional democracy, alleged CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. The Supreme Court held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. Holding that Bhushan attempted to scandalise the entire institution of the Supreme Court, the top court said: "If such an attack is not dealt with, with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations." "Whether one agrees with the precise formulation of Mr Prashant Bhushan’s tweets or not, the Supreme Court Judgement convicting him of Contempt is alarming. It brings into the ambit of Contempt, bona-fide criticism of the role played by Supreme Court as a Constitutional authority," Yechury said. "The Judgement will prevent open and free discussion on the role of the Supreme Court in India’s democracy. This weakens India’s Constitutional democracy," he said in a series of tweets. He also said that the judgement also brings within its scope, genuine criticism of its present day functioning and approach. "Hitherto, such statements were protected speech under Article 19 (1)(a) under the Constitution and were not considered contemptuous," he said. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said: "The tweets which are based on the distorted facts, in our considered view, amount to committing criminal contempt." "In the result, we hold alleged contemnor No.1 - Mr. Prashant Bhushan guilty of having committed criminal contempt of this Court."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-judgement-on-prashant-bhushan-weakens-indias-constitutional-democracy-sitaram-yechury-873288.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||I am the 'strongest warrior' of Congress, will protect party at all costs: Sachin Pilot||Hitting out at the Opposition over its criticism of the recent political developments in Rajasthan, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday described himself as the "strongest warrior" of the Congress and said he would protect his party at all costs. Pilot, who has returned to the Congress fold after a month-long rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, made the remarks during the debate on a motion of confidence moved by the ruling party in the Rajasthan Assembly. During the debate, Deputy Leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore mentioned Pilot's name in various matters, including the recent political developments in the state and a Special Operations Group (SOG) notice issued to him. The notice was sent to Pilot after the Rajasthan Police claimed to have stumbled upon a plot to topple the Congress government. "They are taking my name repeatedly. Prior to my seat being changed, I was safe and part of the government. Then I thought why our Speaker and chief whip have given me a seat here? I thought for two minutes and then saw that this is a border. "On one side is the ruling party and on the other is the Opposition. Who is sent to the border? The strongest warrior is sent," Pilot said, interrupting Rathore. Pilot's seat in the House was changed after he was removed as the deputy chief minister. Earlier, he used to sit next to the chief minister. "Many things have been said during the discussion on trust vote and many more will be said. Over time, everything will be revealed," Pilot said. "But I want to say that whatever I or my companions had to say, we have told the doctor about our complaints... After getting the treatment, all of us today... 125 people are standing in the House," he said. From his new seat, he added, he will ensure the safety of his party. Following the intervention of the party high command, Pilot and 18 rebel MLAs supporting him participated in a Congress Legislature Party meeting held here on Thursday. Earlier, Pilot had also met Gehlot separately. In a House of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the support of Independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members. The trust motion in favour of Gehlot governmment was later passed by majority. Speaking to reporters later outside the House, Pilot said it is not important where one sits but what matters is what people have in their heart and mind about him.  He said the sitting arrangement is decided by the Speaker and the party and he would not like to comment on it.  "Earlier, I was part of the government and now I am not. It is not important where you sit but it matters what people have in heart and mind," he said. The former chief deputy chief minister asserted that he is fully committed to the state "till his last breath" no matter what speculations and rumours are spread about him.  The government and the party will reap the benefit from the path chosen by the party high command, he said, adding a roadmap will be revealed soon and concerns will be dealt in a satisfactory manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-am-the-strongest-warrior-of-congress-will-protect-party-at-all-costs-sachin-pilot-873314.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||Fadnavis set to play 'active' role in BJP's preparedness for Bihar polls||Former Maharashtra chief minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis is set to play a key role in his party's preparation for the Bihar Assembly polls, a significant development that comes amid some disquiet in the saffron alliance in the state. BJP sources said Fadnavis has been roped in by the party leadership for the poll preparedness and had recently attended a Bihar core committee meeting of the party. "He has already begun his work and will play an active role. A formal announcement regarding his responsibility may be made later by party president J P Nadda," a BJP source said. The development also comes at a time when Bihar and Maharashtra governments have been trading charges over the handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case by the Mumbai Police. The matter has taken on an emotive dimension in Bihar, the home state of the actor. Fadnavis has been heading the BJP's attack on the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, accusing it of mishandling the case and pushing for a CBI probe. In Bihar, two BJP allies, Chirag Paswan-headed Lok Janshakti Party and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United), have been at loggerheads in the state. The LJP has conveyed to the BJP leadership, the sources said, its uneasiness about the manner in which the issues raised by it have been dealt with. Chirag Paswan had recently met Nadda and spoken about a host of issues, they said. The BJP has been playing a balancing role between its two partners. It has already announced that Kumar will be the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav has so far been the main pointsman of the party for Bihar affairs. He is also the BJP in-charge for the state. Party sources said Fadnavis may be made the Bihar election in-charge once the Election Commission announces the schedule. The BJP has a practice of entrusting its key leaders with the responsibility of handling state elections. Yadav was the party's in-charge for Maharashtra Assembly polls last year. Late BJP leader Ananth Kumar was the party's in-charge for the Bihar Assembly polls in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fadnavis-set-to-play-active-role-in-bjps-preparedness-for-bihar-polls-873324.html
14-08-2020||National Politics||Manipur Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh accepts resignation of Congress MLA Paonam Brojen, 5 others||Speaker of Manipur Legislative Assembly Yumnam Khemchand Singh on Friday accepted the resignation of Congress MLA Paonam Brojen, who along with five other party legislators had given up membership of the House and also quit the party. While resignations of the five Congress MLAs were accepted by the speaker earlier, the matter of the sixth one was kept pending since his disqualification case was pending with the Speaker's Tribunal. The Speaker's Tribunal has dismissed the disqualification case pending against Paonam Brojen under the 10th Scheduled of Indian Constitution prior to acceptance of his resignation from the membership of the state assembly, the speaker told reporters here. Brojen represented Wangjing Tentha assembly constituency in the house. Six Congress MLAs had submitted their resignations from the membership of Manipur Legislative Assembly on Monday last, a little after the end of the one-day monsoon session during which the BJP-led government headed by N Biren Singh had comfortably won the confidence vote. The speaker further said that allegations made by the applicants as well as documents furnished by them to prove that Brojen had joined BJP could not be authenticated, so the Speaker's Tribunal dismissed the case. The six were among the eight Congress legislators who had defied a party whip and skipped the special session of the assembly on August 10 when trust vote was undertaken by the chief minister. The very next day they had bid goodbye to the party too by submitting resignations at the state Congress office here. Besides Brojen, the five other Congress MLAs were Okram Henry Singh - nephew of Congress Legislature Party leader Okram Ibobi Singh- Oinam Lukhoi, Md Abdul Nasir, Ngamthang Haokip and Ginsuanhau. The rest two, who had stayed away from the day-long special session of the house were - Md Fazur Rahman and Yamthong Haokip, who had informed the speaker that they were in home quarantine. Rahman later tested positive and was admitted to a hospital for the virus. Congress which had won a total of 28 seats to emerge as the single largest party in the 60-member Manipur house after the 2017 polls saw members deserting it from time to time. Soon after the election, one of its legislator Thounaojam Shyamkumar was disqualified under the anti-defection law for joining BJP. Further, three Congress MLAs - Kshetrimayum Biren Singh, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh and Sanasam Bira Singh- were disqualified from membership of Manipur Legislative Assembly by the speaker. And early this week, six have resigned from the assembly and also given up membership of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manipur-speaker-yumnam-khemchand-singh-accepts-resignation-of-congress-mla-paonam-brojen-5-others-873345.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Ahead of Rajasthan trust vote, here’s how the numbers stack up||With the truce between Sachin Pilot and the Ashok Gehlot marking the end of the rebellion in the Congress ranks in Rajasthan, all eyes are set on the no-confidence motion which will be placed in Rajasthan Assembly session beginning on Friday. The Congress, which has 107 MLAs, on Thursday announced it will move a confidence motion in the Assembly. However, late in the evening, the BSP issued a whip to six MLAs to vote against the Congress party. The move also comes close on the heels of the Supreme Court allowing the six BSP MLAs to take part in the trust vote. Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan Assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria had on Thursday said the BJP will move a no-confidence motion against the Gehlot government. Pilot had in July openly rebelled against Chief Minister Gehlot along with 18 other party MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan chief. If a Chief Minister moves a confidence motion, it will supersede the no-confidence motion moved by any other member of the assembly. Also, House rules dictate that a no-confidence motion cannot be moved against a government for six months once it sails through a no-confidence motion. Ahead of the trust vote, here’s how the numbers stack up in the Rajasthan Assembly: Assembly Strength: 200 Majority Mark: 101 Gehlot-led government: 125 MLAsCongress: 107 (19 from Pilot camp, 6 from BSP)RLD: 1Independent: 13BTP: 2Left: 2 Opposition: 75 MLAsBJP: 72RLP: 3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-rajasthan-trust-vote-here-s-how-the-numbers-stack-up-873095.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Two policemen killed in Srinagar militant attack||On the eve of Independence Day, two cops were killed and one was injured when militants attacked a police party in Nowgam area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Friday. “#Terrorists fired #indiscriminately upon a police party near #Nowgam Bypass. 03 police personnel injured. They were shifted to hospital for treatment where 02 among them attained #martyrdom. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow,” Jammu and Kashmir Police tweeted. The slain policemen were identified as Ishfaq Ayoub and Fayaz Ahmed while the one injured is Mohammad Ashraf. Immediately after the attack, security forces rushed to the area and launched a search operation to nab the assailants. The attack came a day before Independence Day and at a time when teh whole of Kashmir is on high alert, especially Srinagar city. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar had on Thursday said that fool proof security arrangements were in place to thwart militant strikes and to conduct Independence Day functions smoothly. Talking to reporters at the site of the incident, the IGP said that Jaish-e-Muhammad outfit carried the attack. “The terrorists have been identified and they will be neutralized soon,” he said. Sources said after today’s attack, the security arrangements across the Valley have been further intensified to prevent militants from disrupting Independence Day celebrations on August 15. There have been four encounters between militants and security forces in Srinagar this year in which eight ultras have been killed. Besides, on May 20, militants killed two BSF men in Pandach area in the outskirts of Srinagar and snatched their weapons. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations told DH that to keep the ‘waning’ morale of militants high, Nowgam-like attacks may happen in the city in coming months also. “Militants are of asymmetrical techniques like hit-and-run as a reaction to a major crackdown on them. The militant handlers want to keep the city on the boil. However, we will thwart all their attempts,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-policemen-killed-in-srinagar-militant-attack-873119.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Confidence motion moved in Rajasthan Assembly||Rajasthan Parliamentary Affair Minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday moved a motion of confidence in the Rajasthan Assembly. Initiating the debate on the motion, Dhariwal blamed the Centre for trying to "topple" the governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, and Goa, using money and power, but said a similar attempt in Rajasthan would not succeed. Referring to Akbar, he said the Mughal emperor had to taste defeat in Mewar of Rajasthan during his quest to expand his empire. Similarly, BJP's attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government were defeated, he added. In a House of 200, the Congress party has 107 MLAs and the support of Independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/confidence-motion-moved-in-rajasthan-assembly-873120.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||It will be victory of truth in Rajasthan Assembly, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said it would be "a victory of truth" during the assembly session that began on Friday. The Congress government has said Gehlot will seek a vote of confidence after the opposition BJP said it will move a motion of no confidence against it. The session comes after a month-long political crisis in the state which started with the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs. With the disgruntled MLAs back in the party-fold, following the intervention of the top leadership, the Congress is likely to pass the floor test. Pilot was sacked as the state’s Deputy Chief Minister and Gehlot referred to him as “useless”, using the Hindi term “nikamma”. At a CLP meeting Thursday, Gehlot urged Congress MLAs to forget the acrimony of the past month and move on. "As the Legislative Assembly session begins today, It would be the victory of the people of Rajasthan and the unity of our Congress MLAs, it would be a victory of truth: Satyamev Jayate," Gehlot tweeted Friday. The House, which began at 11 am, has been adjourned till 1 pm. In a House of 200, the party has 107 MLAs and the support of independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/it-will-be-victory-of-truth-in-rajasthan-assembly-says-ashok-gehlot-873126.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Minor fire breaks out at LNJP hospital in Delhi||A minor fire broke out at LNJP Hospital in central Delhi on Friday morning, officials said. The Fire Department said it received information about the blaze around 11 am. "At 11.05 am a fire in electric wires at gate no 2 of gyanic ward of LNJP hosp was received, fire was immediately brought under control by DFS. No damage to hosp," Atul Garg, the director of Delhi Fire Services, tweeted. According to an official from LNJP, some electric wires were hanging low and they came in contact with water that had collected due to rains on Thursday. He said a minor fire broke out at 11.30 am. A fire tender was sent to the hospital, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-lnjp-hospital-in-delhi-873143.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Salary contribution by Uttarakhand MLAs to fight Covid-19 made mandatory||The Uttarakhand government has brought an ordinance making it compulsory for all members of the state assembly to contribute 30 per cent of their salary and allowances towards the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. The ordinance was brought at a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday. "According to the ordinance every MLA will have to contribute 30 per cent of his salary and perks towards the fight against the Corona crisis with effect from April 2020 to March 2021," state government spokesman and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik told reporters after the meeting. A 30 per cent cut will be imposed on the salary, constituency and secretarial allowances of all legislators for one year, he said. The meeting also decided to hold a three-day session of the state assembly in Dehradun from Sept 23-25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/salary-contribution-by-uttarakhand-mlas-to-fight-covid-19-made-mandatory-873154.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh MLA detained for an alleged extortion case by Madhya Pradesh police||The Madhya Pradesh police on Friday detained an Uttar Pradesh MLA who is wanted in connection with an alleged extortion case in the adjoining state, a senior official said. Vijay Mishra, the Nishad Party MLA from the Gyanpur seat, was detained at the Tanodia police post on a request from UP's Bhadohi district police, he said. "We had received a communication from the Bhadohi police seeking help in arresting Mishra, and therefore, we have detained him," he added.  "He was on his way to Kota (in Rajasthan) via Ujjain," Agar Malwa district Superintendent of Police (SP) Rakesh Sagar told reporters. A case related to extortion was registered against the legislator by the Uttar Pradesh police and he is wanted in that connection, the SP said. "After detaining him, we have informed the Bhadohi police about it. Now, we are waiting for communication so that he can be handed over to them as per legal procedures," Sagar said. When asked, the SP clarified that Mishra has been detained and not arrested by the police here. Further action in the matter will be taken by the Bhadohi police, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-mla-detained-for-an-alleged-extortion-case-by-madhya-pradesh-police-873177.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Former Congress MP Surendra Prakash Goel passes away||Former Congress MP Surendra Prakash Goel passed away on Friday morning due to Covid-19 complications, his family said. He was 74. He had tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted for treatment on July 27 in Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi. His son Shushant Goel told PTI that his father breathed his last on Friday morning around 6.30 am. Goel began his political career in 1970. He was elected chairman of Ghaziabad city board in 1973 and then became chairman of the then newly constituted municipality in 1989. He was elected as an MLA on a Congress ticket in 2002. Two years later, Goel was elected as a Lok Sabha member. He defeated his nearest BJP rival Ramesh Chand Tomar who had represented the Ghaziabad-Hapur constituency for four terms. In the 2009 general elections, Goel came in third place as BJP leader and current Defence Minister Rajnath Singh won from the Ghaziabad seat. Known for his extroverted nature and popularity with the masses, political leaders and the public alike have expressed grief over Goel's death. Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways and Ghaziabad MP General (retired) V K Singh condoled the Congress leader's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-former-congress-mp-surendra-prakash-goel-passes-away-873190.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Over 4,000 invited for Independence Day event at Red Fort, precautionary measures in place: Defence Ministry||It said the seating arrangement has been made under the guiding principle of “Do Gaz ki Doori” (maintaining distance of two yards) between any two guests. It said members of the guard of honour have been under quarantine. "With an eye on safety, NCC (National Cadet Corps) cadets have been invited to witness the event (instead of young school children) and they will be seated at Gyanpath," it noted. All invitees have been requested to wear masks, it said, adding that an adequate number of masks are being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. "Similarly, the availability of hand sanitizers at pre-defined locations has been done. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees," the ministry said. In order to facilitate people's seamless movement and to avoid crowding, seating enclosures and walkways have been laid with wooden flooring and carpeting, it said. Additional door frame metal detectors with adequately spaced markings have been provided to avoid queuing and to ensure smooth passage for all the invitees, it mentioned. "Most of the parking areas have been brick-lined and paved in order to ensure smooth entry and exit of vehicles to the maximum feasible extent," it said. Thermal screening at all entry points for the invitees has been planned, it mentioned. It said a thorough sanitization of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is being carried out on a regular basis. The ministry said the participation is only through invitation and those who do not have formal invites should "refrain from coming to the venue". "About 4000 plus invites have been issued to officials, diplomats, members of public, media etc," it added. Ceremonial drills, it said, have also factored in due social distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures. The ministry said, "Adequate medical booths at four locations, one near the Rampart, one in Madhavdas Park and two in 15 August Park have been set up to cater to any attendee who is detected having any symptoms related to Covid-19 during entry." Ambulances would also be stationed at these four locations, it added. India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed 24 lakh on Friday after 64,553 more people tested positive and the recoveries rose to over 17 lakh, the Health Ministry said. With 17,51,555 people defeating the disease, the recovery rate has surged to 71.17 percent. The caseload increased to 24,61,190, while the death toll climbed to 48,040 with 1,007 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-4000-invited-for-independence-day-event-at-red-fort-precautionary-measures-in-place-defence-ministry-873191.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Heavy rains cause waterlogging in parts of Rajasthan||Heavy rains lashed Rajasthan on Friday, inundating low-lying areas and paralysing normal life. Several parts of Jaipur were waterlogged and scores of vehicles were stranded on roads after the city received excessive rainfall for almost three hours. According to a spokesperson of the MeT Department, Jaipur recorded 80 mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 11.30 am. Shabad of Baran district received 127mm rainfall, Dausa 124 mm, Karauli 101 mm, Bamanwas 76 mm and Sanchore 32 mm, he said. The weather office has forecast moderate rainfall at many places accompanied with heavy to very heavy rains at a few places in Jaipur during the next three hours. The MeT department has alerted for localised flooding of susceptible informal settlements, low-lying areas and underpasses. Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain are likely to occur at a few places in Jaipur, Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk districts and adjoining areas, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-cause-waterlogging-in-parts-of-rajasthan-873199.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||One out of five prisoners in Kashmir's largest jail tests Covid-19 positive||One in five prisoners at the largest jail in Indian Kashmir has tested positive for the coronavirus, authorities said on Friday, as the health ministry reported a daily nationwide rise of more than 60,000 cases for the third straight day. India is the world's third worst-hit country, behind only the United States and Brazil, with more than 2.4 million confirmed coronavirus cases, according to a Reuters tally. And numbers are expected to rise in coming weeks, as infections move deeper into the vast hinterland. Authorities at the central jail in Kashmir's main city of Srinagar said they were preparing to shift some prisoners after 102 of the 480 tested positive. "We are taking extra care and all new entrants are being tested and then quarantined for two weeks," V.K. Singh, Kashmir's Additional Director General of Prisons, told Reuters. The Kashmir valley has reported more than 20,000 cases, of which nearly 5,500 people remain currently infected. Racked by a decades-long insurgency, Kashmir is claimed in whole by India and neighbouring foe Pakistan but ruled in part by each. Indian-ruled Kashmir has been put under a cycle of coronavirus-related lockdowns since late March. But cases are continuing to rise, putting pressure on medical infrastructure, doctors said. Dr Nisarul Hassan, an associate professor at Srinagar's Government Medical College that has around 2,200 beds, of which some 350 are for Covid-19 patients, said resources were stretched. "Our hospitals are full of Covid-19 patients. We are running out of oxygen beds," he said, "Patients have to wait for ventilators as there are not enough of them." Like many other Indian cities, Srinagar's administration has also converted some buildings into temporary coronavirus facilities adding 3,000 beds, with another 2,000 beds in the pipeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-out-of-five-prisoners-in-kashmirs-largest-jail-tests-covid-19-positive-873217.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Army recovers cache of arms, ammunition in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district||The Army recovered a cache of arms and ammunition during a search operation in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official spokesperson said on Friday. The search operation was launched in Trenarian in Dogi Pahad area of the north Kashmir district on Tuesday based on inputs about the presence of a cache of weapons and ammunition in the area, the Army spokesperson said. The cache was recovered on Thursday, he said. According to the spokesperson, three pistols with magazines and ammunition, 73 AK rounds, two detonators, 15 grenades and Pakistani currency were recovered during the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-recovers-cache-of-arms-ammunition-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-district-873223.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan can't tolerate the peace in Jammu & Kashmir: DGP Dilbag Singh||Pakistan and its proxies cannot tolerate the peaceful atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir, Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Friday after terrorists shot dead two policemen and wounded another on the outskirts of Srinagar. Singh, however, asserted that the efforts to strengthen peace in the union territory would continue. The DGP was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a wreath-laying ceremony of the two police personnel killed when militants fired indiscriminately upon a police party in Nowgam area here earlier in the day. “We have placed extended deployments at many places in the city and outside it for the August 15 (Independence Day) function. We were also increasing the deployment on the outskirts (of the city). It is unfortunate that a deployment team was attacked on the outskirts of the city in Nowgam and two jawans were killed and another injured,” Singh told reporters. The DGP said Pakistan and its proxies cannot tolerate the peaceful atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir and often create hurdles in the path towards peace. “We are all aware of the situation in Kashmir where the terrorists regularly try to target civilians, police and forces and sometimes they succeed, but at the same time, the police and forces keep on taking actions to improve the situation,” he said. “We will intensify the (anti-militancy) operations in the coming days, but such incidents take place because Pakistan and its proxies cannot tolerate the peaceful atmosphere here. Such conspiracies are hatched from across the border and they try to create hurdles in the way to peace. However, I am confident that our efforts to strengthen peace will continue,” he added. Singh said the security forces are focused on strengthening security in the valley for the Independence Day function on Saturday. Talking about the arrangements, he said, “We will use drones and camera-fitted vehicles to monitor the situation. We are trying to improve the use of gadgetry and in the coming days, CCTV coverage in the city and other places will be increased. The other things like physical deployment and surveillance are being employed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-cant-tolerate-the-peace-in-jammu-kashmir-dgp-dilbag-singh-873224.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||'Warrior' Sachin Pilot by his side, Ashok Gehlot wins trust vote in Rajasthan||Congress-led government in Rajasthan Chief on Friday won the trust vote in the state Assembly, putting an end to the month-long political uncertainty in the state due to Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership. The motion of confidence, moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal, was passed by a voice vote after the BJP said it did not have the numbers required and hit out at the Congress for keeping the entire state in limbo over factional troubles. “This should put a full stop to all suspicions that were rising about the numerical strength of the government,” Pilot told reporters soon after the motion of confidence was adopted in the state Assembly. In the same breath, he also sent a reminder to the Congress leadership of implementing the roadmap agreed upon to settle the concerns flagged by him about Gehlot’s leadership style. “A roadmap has been prepared for all the issues that were being raised. I have complete faith that the roadmap will be announced timely,” Pilot said. Pilot, who had rebelled against Gehlot, agreed to drop his rebellion on Monday after talks with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and an assurance from Congress President Sonia Gandhi that issues raised by him would be addressed in a time bound manner. Pilot was removed from the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he refused to attend legislature party meetings convened by Gehlot on July 13. In the Assembly, Pilot was seated at the fringes of the Congress benches, drawing jibes from the opposition. “Now I am next to the opposition. I have been sent to the sarhad (border). That is because only the bravest and strongest warrior is sent to the border. There may be bombardment at this border, but I will be the shield, club, spear for the party,” Pilot said. The three-hour debate saw some heated moments as BJP attacked the Congress and accused it of holding the state to ransom due to internal differences within the party. Speaker C P Joshi was seen strongly chastising the Treasury benches, particularly the parliamentary affairs minister, for failing to maintain decorum in the House. The Speaker also threatened to walk out of the House if the ruling and the opposition benches did not conduct themselves in a dignified manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/warrior-sachin-pilot-by-his-side-ashok-gehlot-wins-trust-vote-in-rajasthan-873225.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||I have not deviated from Congress stand on Ram temple: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath on Friday said he has just toed his partys line on the Ram temple issue and called himself a "devout Hindu" who has respect for all other faiths. Nath was reacting to a Congress MP from Kerala writing to party president Sonia Gandhi against senior leaders extending support to the construction of the temple in Ayodhya for which 'bhoomi pujan' was performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5. T N Prathapan, the party's Lok Sabha MP from Thrissur, in the letter to Gandhi, had questioned the support senior Congress leaders Nath and Digvijaya Singh extended to the construction of the temple, saying it is like "bowing low for temporary successes". An unfazed Nath said he has not deviated from the long -held party stand on the Ayodhya issue. I have stuck to the stand taken by the first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru ji and former PM Rajiv Gandhi on Ram temple. Nothing more should be read into it (recent statements on the issue)," he told PTI at his residence when asked about Prathapan's letter. Rajiv ji got it (locks of Ram temple at Ayodhya) opened. We were against the demolition of the Babri mosque. The Congress stand was clear that we will abide by the court's decision on it. That is it, the former chief minister said. "I had got the biggest Hanuman Temple built in Chhindwara (his home district). I am a devout Hindu who has g immense respect for all other faiths," he said. Has the BJP patented Hinduism? Have they taken the agency for religion and Lord Ram? the former Union minister asked. Nath had hosted 'Hanuman Chalisa' at his house here on the eve of the August 5 ground-breaking ceremony for the new Ram temple in Ayodhya. He had also announced to send 11 silver bricks for the Ram temple construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-have-not-deviated-from-congress-stand-on-ram-temple-kamal-nath-873238.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar highway remains closed for second day||The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway remained closed for the second consecutive day on Friday due to a massive landslide triggered by heavy rains in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district, officials said. Vehicular traffic on the 270-km highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was suspended on Friday, leaving hundreds of trucks and other vehicles stranded, officials said. The highway was blocked by a major landslide in Mehaar area on Thursday, they said. The clearance operation is going on in full swing to restore traffic movement, the officials said. Over 1,000 vehicles were stranded on both sides and traffic was stopped at Qazigund and Udhampur Chanderkote soon after the highway was blocked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-highway-remains-closed-for-second-day-873258.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||President Ram Nath Kovind approves gallantry award for defence personnel Independence Day eve, 4 get Shaurya Chakra||On the eve of Independence Day, President Ram Nath Kovind approved gallantry awards for defence personnel, including Shaurya Chakra to three from the Army for counter-terrorist operations in Jammu and Kashmir, the defence ministry said on Friday. Wing Commander Vishak Nair from the Indian Air Force was also awarded the Shaurya Chakra. Those from the Army who have been awarded the Shaurya Chakra are Lt. Col. Krishan Singh Rawat from the elite Special Forces, Major Anil Urs and Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey. Thirty-one Army personnel too have been awarded the Sena (gallantry) medal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-ram-nath-kovind-approves-gallantry-award-for-defence-personnel-independence-day-eve-4-get-shaurya-chakra-873262.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||'Corona warriors' to be felicitated on I-Day in Chhattisgarh||Frontline workers who have been battling the Covid-19 pandemic will be felicitated during the 74th Independence Day celebrations in all district headquarters of Chhattisgarh, an official said on Friday. Considering the pandemic, Independence Day programmes on Saturday will be held with limited attendance and no cultural presentations, the official said. A state-level function will be held at the Police Parade ground in capital Raipur, where Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will hoist the national flag at 9 am, while his cabinet ministers and parliamentary secretaries will do the same in districts headquarters, the public relations department official here said. The Chief Minister will receive the guard of honour from various units of security personnel before delivering his address to citizens, he said. "Corona warriors" including doctors, policemen, health and sanitation workers will be felicitated for their selfless service during the pandemic at the state and district-level programmes, he said. No cultural performances will be held during the celebrations and school children are strictly prohibited from attending the events, the official said. The state government has decided not to hold public programmes at tehsil and Janpad levels, he said, adding that Janpad Panchayat presidents will unfurl the national flag at Janpad offices and mayors at the municipality offices. A similar protocol will be followed by panchayat and village heads, the official said. Meanwhile, security has been stepped up in the state, especially in naxal-affected areas ahead of Independence Day, police said. Security forces deployed in the naxal-hit Bastar region have been patrolling, laying mobile check posts and carrying out night ambushes in the interior areas and along inter-district and interstate borders to prevent untoward incidents, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-warriors-to-be-felicitated-on-i-day-in-chhattisgarh-873263.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||SC refuses to appoint commission to probe mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic||The Supreme Court on Friday said that it was not in favour of a roving inquiry into a plea by retired bureaucrats into alleged "gross mismanagement" of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat declined to issue any order on the petition filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of K P Fabian and others. Minutes after being held guilty for contempt of court, Bhushan along with senior advocate Dushyant Dave appeared before the court through video conferencing. The counsel claimed the Covid-19 crisis has been handled in a non-transparent manner by the government. In other democracies, Parliament was functioning. There were no details available on public domain about the functioning of the committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act, Dave claimed. Dave said the government organised an event for the US President Donald Trump when the pandemic was already a threat. "The lockdown has not contained coronavirus. There is some serious issue," he said. The bench, however, said it was not in favour of appointing a commission of inquiry but could examine other pleas by the petitioners. The petitioners, namely M G Devasahayam, Meena Gupta, Somsundar Burra, Amit Bhaduri and Madhu Bhaduri, sought an inquiry into the failure of the government to take early measures for containment of the disease, abrupt and arbitrary declaration of lockdown, failure of lockdown to contain transmission of the disease and misery wrought upon ordinary citizens, owing to unplanned and sudden nature of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-appoint-commission-to-probe-mismanagement-of-covid-19-pandemic-873276.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Over 650 villages in 15 Uttar Pradesh districts hit by floods||Over 650 villages in 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods and 384 of them have been cut off from other parts of the state, an official said on Friday. The Sharda river at Lakhimpur Kheri's Palliakalan and the Saryu at Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar are flowing above the danger mark, Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal told reporters. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure cleaning and cutting of bushes near relief camps to prevent people from incidents of snakebites, Goyal said. "A total of 674 villages in the 15 districts are affected and 384 of these villages have got marooned," he said. The 15 districts hit by the deluge are Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kheri, Kushinagar, Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar and Sitapur. Till Thursday, the floods had affected 16 districts in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-650-villages-in-15-uttar-pradesh-districts-hit-by-floods-873286.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||ITBP awards men who fought with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, Army prefers to wait||Applauding the braves involved in the skirmishes on the China front in May-June including the fierce Galwan Valley clash with the PLA soldiers, Indo-Tibetan Border Police on Friday announced 21 gallantry medals for its troops who fought shoulder-to-shoulder along with the army personnel in eastern Ladakh. The ITBP also provided what may be a rare official glimpse into the June 15 clash in which 20 Indian soldiers including the commanding officer of an Army battalion and a significant number of People’s Liberation Army med were killed in brutal hand-to-hand combat. The para-military troops specially trained in high-altitude policing and mountain warfare effectively used shields to protect them from PLA stone pelting, but also responded fiercely to PLA advancing troops in order to bring the situation under control. Along with the Army soldiers, they also brought the injured Indian soldiers to the rear for safety. “Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimal casualties by giving befitting replies to the stone-pelters of the PLA. At places, they gave a determined stand-off for 17 to 20 hours throughout the intervening night,” the ITBP said in a statement. On June 15th when Indian Army and ITBP soldiers went to Patrol Point-14 in the Galwan valley in east Ladakh to check removal of some of the Chinese structures as mutually agreed before, they were ambushed by the PLA troops. The fight that continued for hours led to the death of 20 army men including Col B Santosh Babu of 16 Bihar Regiment. ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear. ITBP also awarded 294 personnel with the DGs commendation rolls for their role on the China front. The Indian Army, however, did not recommend anyone involved in the Galwan clash for the gallantry awards this time but sources pointed out that the soldiers deployed in eastern Ladakh would be considered for such an award on January 26, 2021. The nation’s second-highest peacetime gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, was posthumously awarded to Abdul Rashid Kalas, head constable, Jammu and Kashmir police for his role in an operation to kill two Jaish-e-Mohammed local commanders who masterminded the Pulwama terror attack last year. There are nine recipients of Shaurya Chakra – three from the army, one from the air force and five from various central paramilitary and police organisations under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Four out of the five MHA recipients will receive the award posthumously. Three Indian Army soldiers received Shuarya Chakra for the exemplary courage they showed while fighting the enemy on the Pakistan front. In addition, five army personnel received the Bar to Send Medal (winning the medal for the second time) and 60 got Sena Medal for gallantry (including eight posthumous).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/itbp-awards-men-who-fought-with-chinese-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-army-prefers-to-wait-873310.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Muscleman UP MLA arrested from MP, daughter fears repeat of 'Vikas Dubey' incident||Muscleman Uttar Pradesh lawmaker Vijay Mishra, who was wanted in connection with a case of assault and house grabbing, was arrested from Madhya Pradesh on Friday. As the UP Police prepared to take Mishra, an MLA from Gyanpur Assembly seat, to Bhadohi, his home town, about 250 kilometres from here, to be produced before a court, his daughter Reema Mishra apprehended that he could also meet the fate of gangster Vikas Dubey, who had been gunned down in an encounter with the police last month. "Kindly ensure that the vehicle carrying my father does not overturn," Reema said, apparently referring to the police version after Vikas Dubey's encounter. The police had then claimed that Vikas tried to escape after snatching the pistol of a policeman when the vehicle carrying him overturned amid heavy rain near Kanpur town and opened fire at the policemen when challenged. He was killed in retaliatory firing by the police. Mishra, who was an MLA from Nishad Party, had in a video which went viral, said that the present regime wanted to 'eliminate' him as he hailed from Brahmin community. "My only fault is that I am a Brahmin... I am a four-time MLA... The police have been harassing me and my family members... They are being implicated in false cases," Mishra said. Mishra, who faced over 60 cases including those of murder, abduction and extortion, alleged that the police were planning to arrest him and then "kill him in a fake encounter".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muscleman-up-mla-arrested-from-mp-daughter-fears-repeat-of-vikas-dubey-incident-873315.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||If squeaky clean why threatened by reconstituting of grievance redressal committee: Delhi High Court to Delhi University||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Delhi University why it felt "threatened" by the judicial order reconstituting its Grievance Redressal Committee (GRC) by adding two lawyers and a retired high court judge and dropping two academicians if everything was "squeaky clean". A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that DU appeared less concerned about impinging of its integrity as claimed in its plea challenging the August 7 order reconstituting the GRC, and more worried that outsiders were part of the committee. "If you (DU) are so squeaky clean, then why are you feeling so threatened? Why are you taking it personally? The committee would only be looking into grievances of the students," the court said during the hearing of the university's appeal against the August 7 order of a single judge. The varsity contended that the reconstituting of its GRC reflects poorly on its reputation and that of the committee's earlier members. It urged the bench to allow it to perform its functions without any outside interference or someone else coming in to do its job. The varsity also suggested that the earlier four-member committee be retained and it can be headed by a retired high court judge. However, the bench declined to accept the suggestion. It, instead, suggested an alternative -- that one of the dropped members can be made part of the reconstituted GRC turning it into a six-member body with the chairperson, who will be a retired HC judge, having the casting vote -- which was accepted by DU. Thereafter, the bench included professor S C Rai, who was earlier dropped from the GRC, as the sixth member of the committee and directed that it will be functional from Friday. The court said numbers of all the members of the committee be furnished to the chairperson and directed that the GRC will assemble virtually for its meeting on August 17 or as directed by the chairperson.  Only to this extent, the bench modified the August 7 order of the single judge who had reconstituted the GRC as a five-member body headed by an HC judge. The bench, in its order, also clarified that reconstitution of the GRC neither impinges on the integrity of the appellant-university nor does it intrude on its authority.  "In fact, selecting members of the committee who are not a part of the University, but have sufficient experience at hand, would only add to its stature and endorse the impartiality of the process more so when it is headed by a retired judge of the High Court," the court said. It also said that the aforesaid order has been passed "only to allay the apprehensions of the appellant-university that any aspersion has been cast on its integrity merely because the single judge reconstituted the committee. "The entire purpose of adding external members to the committee appears to be to make it independent and pellucid, which can hardly be faulted," the bench said while disposing of the appeal by the varsity. Meanwhile, in related proceedings before the single judge on an application by the GRC, claiming that the varsity was not cooperating with its functioning, DU officials assured Justice Prathiba M Singh that the committee would be functioning as per her order of August 7. In view of the assurance given by DU, Justice Singh disposed of the application moved by GRC. The August 7 order had come on a plea by Anupam and others challenging the university's decision to hold online Open Book Examination (OBE), as per the UGC guidelines, for final year undergraduate courses. The exams commenced from August 10 and are scheduled to go on till August 31.   The students who will be left out of online OBE will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held sometime in September, DU had told the court earlier. The single judge had also reconstituted the five-member grievance redressal committee under the aegis of retired Justice Prathiba Rani for dealing with all the grievances of students and had said that the panel will function till OBE continues and the students' complaints need to be addressed within five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-squeaky-clean-why-threatened-by-reconstituting-of-grievance-redressal-committee-delhi-high-court-to-delhi-university-873333.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||I-DAY: CRPF officer who served in Kashmir awarded gallantry medal 7th time in 4 yrs||CRPF officer Naresh Kumar was on Friday awarded yet another gallantry medal, his seventh in the last four years, for leading his troops in an operation that resulted in the killing of three terrorists who attacked a security force camp near the Srinagar airport in 2017. The assistant commandant, 35, who joined the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in 2013, has been decorated with the "6th bar to Police Medal for Gallantry" on the eve of the Independence Day. "I am elated with the news of the latest medal. I wish to keep serving my country and this is what I donned my uniform for," Kumar, who is now posted in Delhi, told PTI. The CRPF, country's largest paramilitary force with over 3.25 lakh personnel, has bagged the second highest 55 gallantry medals this time after 81 of Jammu and Kashmir Police. The lead internal security force bagged the most bravery medals among the paramilitary forces. Kumar, who hails from Hoshiarpur in Punjab, was first awarded with a gallantry medal in 2017 and has been heading the elite quick action team (QAT) of the central force in the Kashmir Valley till recently. "I joined Kashmir as soon as I passed out from the academy. I wish to go back to Kashmir on posting again," he said. The CRPF called Kumar an officer with "sharp tactical acumen and indomitable courage". The officer holds a B.Tech from Punjabi University, Patiala and his wife, also his batchmate, Assistant Commandant Sheetal Rawat serves in the CRPF. The CRPF QAT is virtually a part of every counter-terrorist operation conducted by the joint forces that include the state police and the Army. "This year alone, the valley QAT has been adorned with more than 15 gallantry medals," a CRPF spokesperson said. Kumar's successor and present QAT commander AC L Ibpmcho Singh and his colleague constable Devsant Kumar were awarded their third and second gallantry medals, respectively. Former CRPF Inspector General (Kashmir) Ravideep Singh Sahi has also been awarded the Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), as per the awardees list issued by the Union home ministry on Friday. "Out of the 55 gallantry medals awarded to the force, 41 were awarded for operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 14 relate to the operations against maoists in Chhattisgarh," the spokesperson said.   A team of  the 208th battalion of CoBRA commandos that undertook a fierce gunbattle with Naxals in the Left Wing Extremism affected Sukma district of Chhattisgarh and reportedly killed nine ultras in 2016 has also been given eight bravery medals, including three posthumously. The force has been awarded 63 medals for meritorious and distinguished service that includes Deputy Inspectors General Annie Abraham and Yogyan Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-day-crpf-officer-who-served-in-kashmir-awarded-gallantry-medal-7th-time-in-4-yrs-873336.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||1,192 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi's tally past 1.5 lakh; death toll climbs to 4,178||The coronavirus tally in the national capital crossed the 1.50 lakh-mark on Friday with 1,192 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours, while 11 new fatalities in the same period pushed the death toll to 4,178, authorities said. According to the latest health bulletin released by the Delhi government, 5,721 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 9,324 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 15,045 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, a dip from the average of around 20,000 tests usually conducted on weekdays, according to the data. The number of tests conducted on Thursday stood at 15,356, it said. A total of 12,73,140 tests have been conducted so far. The number of tests done per million, as on Friday, was 67,007, it said. The positivity rate on Friday stood at 7.92 per cent while the recovery rate was 89.68 per cent. The total number of cases stood at 1,50,652, while the number of active cases was 11,366, up from 10,975 the previous day, the bulletin said. As many as 5,882 patients are in home isolation, it said. It said 1,35,108 patients have either recovered, been discharged or have migrated out. The number of containment zones stands at 523, it said. According to the bulletin, out of the total number of 14,125 beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 10,753 are vacant. Also, 3,846 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. Delhi recorded 956 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, raising the city's infection tally to over 1.49 lakh, while the death toll from the disease stood at 4,167.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1192-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhis-tally-past-15-lakh-death-toll-climbs-to-4178-873352.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Entered Jamia to restore order disrupted by arson and destruction of property: Police to HC||The police on Friday told the Delhi High Court that it had entered the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university to restore order which was disrupted by incidents of arson and destruction of public property during the student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December last. The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi during the hearing of a batch of petitions which have alleged that ruthless and excessive use of force and aggression was unleashed by the police and paramilitary forces on students at the university. The pleas have sought setting up of an SIT or a Commission of Inquiry (CoI) to look into the violence at JMI in December last year in relation to student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Lekhi, continuing his arguments from where he had left it on August 5, said that the police entered the campus with a "legitimate objective" which was to restore order.   Merely because the place was a university and people involved in the violence were students does not mean that that action taken by police was uncalled for, he said and added that any such contention was a "flawed argument". He said the university or any autonomous body cannot be seen as "terra incognita" (unknown territory) when such incidents take place. He further said the batch of petitions have been filed by two sets of petitioners -- one set comprising of those who were not affected by the violence but came to court based on news reports of alleged brutality by police and the other group was of people who were affected by the violence but did not follow the proper procedure for filing such matters. He said that news reports cannot be relied upon as evidence as though they might be genuine, but they might not be accurate. He also reiterated that there would be no entitlement to compensation to those injured in the violence, as sought in some of the petitions, as for that there has to be an admission of breach or a finding of wrongdoing by the police which are issues that are still being examined. The ASG also said the petitions do not refer to the charge sheets filed in the matter and are entirely silent about them. He further said that no enquiry as sought by the petitioners can be granted in the instant matter. Lekhi will continue his arguments on August 21. PTI HMP RKS RKS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entered-jamia-to-restore-order-disrupted-by-arson-and-destruction-of-property-police-to-hc-873367.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||President Ram Nath Kovind's remarks encapsulate the spirit of 130 crore Indians: PM Narendra Modi||Hailing President Ram Nath Kovind's Independence Day eve speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that his remarks encapsulate the spirit of 130 crore Indians and highlight the path ahead to build a strong, prosperous and united nation.  "Insightful speech by Rashtrapati Ji. His remarks encapsulate the spirit of 130 crore Indians and highlight the path ahead to build a strong, prosperous and united nation," Modi tweeted after the President's speech.  In his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day, President Kovind said while India believes in peace it is also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression as shown by its troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh after "some in our neighbourhood" tried to carry out their "misadventure of expansion", in a veiled message to China. He also spoke about the 'Aatmanirbhar' initiative launched by the prime minister, and allayed fears of foreign investors, saying India's self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world, with which it would continue to engage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-ram-nath-kovinds-remarks-encapsulate-the-spirit-of-130-crore-indians-pm-narendra-modi-873370.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha meets VCs, urges them to work for overall improvement of varsities||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday asked vice-chancellors of various universities in the Union Territory to prepare a roadmap to usher in a qualitative improvement in the overall functioning of varsities and adopt JK- centric changes as per the new education policy, an official spokesman said. The LG also called for imparting training to varsity teachers even outside the Union Territory for the transformation of the learning system, the spokesman said. The Lt Governor was chairing a meeting at the Raj Bhavan here to review the functioning of the universities, he said. Sinha sought suggestions and recommendations from the vice-chancellors on how J&K could be benefitted from the new education policy and what challenges it faces in its implementation, the spokesman said. He said the LG stressed on the importance of preparing an effective strategy for the implementation of grants under RUSA and asked the VCs to submit a detailed report on five unique initiatives taken by the universities in last one, two and three years and the impact of these initiatives on the teaching and learning programmes. Sinha also directed VCs to submit a report on faculty recruitment and promotion against sanctioned strength, the number of admissions against approved seats, the status of statutory body meetings, besides any issue pending with Chancellor's office like nominations, approval etc. The Lt Governor observed that J&K has a rich culture and ancient history and sought suggestions for their promotion, the spokesman said. He said Sinha called for enhancing the quality of education while ensuring gender equality and educational welfare of the downtrodden and underprivileged sections of the society. The LG enquired about the extension of benefits of the Universities to locals and the UT. On technology-based learning, the Lt Governor stressed on optimum utilization of all available technology-based learning platforms, besides updating e-learning tools and other ICT technology-based teaching programmes to connect the students and faculty with enhanced educational resource platforms. He sought feedback on how effective and pragmatic these plans are. Sinha also called for laying special focus on linking education with local and outside industry, capacity building, job-oriented courses for the students to meet the modern-day requirements, besides focusing on new and traditional skill development simultaneously, the spokesman said. He said the LG also enquired the universities about research and other activities on subjects incorporated within the curriculum with strong connections with the real world such as environment, water, local fruit growing and marketing, transportation, improvement of tourism etc through various marketing and hospitality-based learning and teaching programmes. Sinha urged the VCs to take comprehensive measures for strengthening the academic and research environment in universities, besides upgrading infrastructural facilities and various academic and research programmes on varied subjects with special focus on most recent advancements. During the meeting, the vice-chancellors gave a detailed briefing about the functioning of the universities and various innovative and reformative measures taken to develop them as centres of quality teaching and research activities, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-lg-manoj-sinha-meets-vcs-urges-them-to-work-for-overall-improvement-of-varsities-873375.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Niti Aayog partners Nasscom to launch AI-based module for school students||Niti Aayog's Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) in collaboration with IT industry body Nasscom on Friday launched an artificial intelligence-based module for school students to empower youngest minds and drive innovations in the country to the next level. The AIM is a flagship initiative set up by the Niti Aayog to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the country, based on a detailed study and deliberations on innovation and entrepreneurial needs of India in the years ahead. This module is the next step in bringing artificial intelligence (AI) to Indian classrooms and is a successor to the AI base module launched in February this year, an official statement said. The 'AI Step-up Module' provides a comprehensive set of 'learn it yourself' advanced modules to those who wish to expand their knowledge base after becoming familiar with the basics of the AI discipline through the AI base module, it added.         According to the statement, the module is designed in an attractive graphical manner that is comprehensible for all students belonging to rural and urban areas.          Speaking at the event, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the 'AI Step-up Module' is the future of this country as it targets the youth which in itself is path-breaking.        Kant urged the youth to take this opportunity positively and explore the module to create valuable solutions which would pave way for the country to truly become 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.  Nasscom President Debjani Ghosh said that the rapid advancement of technology, such as AI and robotics, has penetrated all industries, including education.        The module is a directed step by the government in building citizens and a workforce that is aware of AI and can work with AI, the statement said adding that it has been created keeping the age group of its intended audience in mind so that they can be easily understood by any individual who has just been exposed to the idea of AI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/niti-aayog-partners-nasscom-to-launch-ai-based-module-for-school-students-873383.html
14-08-2020||North and Central||Jamia Millia Islamia establishes endowment in memory of ex-VC Mushirul Hasan||Jamia Millia Islamia on Friday established an endowment as a mark of respect for its former vice-chancellor and noted historian Professor Mushirul Hasan. “The Mushirul Hasan Endowment (MHE) was created a day before Professor Hasan’s birth anniversary on August 15,” a statement from the varsity said. “The Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) established the endowment as Professor Zoya Hasan, wife of late Professor Mushirul Hasan, wanted to establish it for which she proposed to donate Rs 1.5 crore to the university,” it said. Professor Hasan devoted a major part of his academic life to the varsity where he taught history for long and served as its pro-vice-chancellor and eventually as the vice-chancellor. The endowment will be used for awarding the Annual Mushirul Hasan Post-Doctoral Fellowship, two Post-graduate Merit-cum-means Mushirul Hasan Scholarships and organising the Annual Mushirul Hasan Memorial Seminar on any theme related to contemporary history, society and politics of India, the statement said. For administering the endowment, a nine-member committee headed by JMI Vice-Chancellor Professor Najma Akhtar has been constituted by the university. Professor Hasan passed away in 2018 after prolonged illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-millia-islamia-establishes-endowment-in-memory-of-ex-vc-mushirul-hasan-873416.html
14-08-2020||Oasis||Time for truth||The universe has a way of checking the indiscreet and exploitative ways of mankind periodically. Of late, it has manifested itself as an invisible microbe and is taunting the uppity attitude of our race. Oftentimes, when the mind is riddled with fear and doubt; it resorts to various means to resolve its uncertainties. When the rationale of science and medicine fails to provide answers, the faithful seek solution and solace through worship and prayers.  As far as India is concerned, the believers turn to one or many of the gods from the pantheon, each of them who have the special ability to alleviate specific ills. In such times as these, when bogged down by baffling illnesses and challenges devotees turn to lord Sudarshana to quell the obstacle and throw open the path of progress. Kings, leaders, communities and householders perform the Sudarshana Homam as prescribed by the Shastras in a view to seeking relief. History chronicles that about six centuries ago, Nigamanta Vedanta Desikar a Vaishnavite, scholar, seer and saint composed a powerful prayer in Sanskrit popularly known as Sudarshana Ashtakam. The seer disseminated the same among the local populace that was being bogged down by a pandemic. It is strongly believed that the continuous chanting of these eight potent verses ensconced not merely the essence of the ruling deity but also promised the one who chanted them liberation from the problems that perplexed them.  For those who are new to the subject, it will help to know that Sudarshana Chakra or the celestial serrated disc which is considered to be an integral part of Lord Vishnu was actually created by the divine architect Vishwakarma. It is said that he fashioned the disc using a slice of the effulgent sunbeam and gifted it to lord Vishnu who used it from time to time to behead the pestilences which harassed the earthlings in the form of demons.  The fact that this powerful weapon was granted the status of a god and act independently by the lord himself speaks about the supremacy of Sudarshana.  An etymological interpretation of the deity’s name will help us decode the mystery of life itself. When pursued in earnest, Su-Darshana will not only show us the way out of the maze but will help us to arrive at the supreme Truth or Goodness. The time for a reckoning with the truth has arrived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/time-for-truth-873042.html
14-08-2020||Opinion||Renewed attention to Andaman and Nicobar welcome||Economic development and opportunities in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (ANI) are set to undergo a sea-change with the launch of a submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai to Port Blair, the capital of ANI. The undersea cable connection, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated recently, also links Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep, Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island and Rangat. High-speed broadband connectivity will not only boost the local economy but also enable the island’s residents to avail the benefits of e-governance, tele-medicine and tele-education. The government also plans to develop a trans-shipment port at Great Nicobar. The development of ANI has always been a topic of debate. While some want the fruits of development to reach the people of this Bay of Bengal archipelago, others fear that the impact of modernity would adversely impact the identity, health and even survival of the ANI’s endangered indigenous communities. As a result, the ANI has suffered neglect. In recent decades, there have been efforts to improve travel and other connectivity to boost local economies. The Rs 1,224-crore submarine OFC project will take forward these efforts. The ANI is strategic territory. It provides India with reach into the heart of the Bay of Bengal, right up to the mouth of the Straits of Malacca, a key channel through which East Asian countries conduct trade. Much of China’s oil imports from the Persian Gulf and Africa is transported via the Malacca Straits. This has given rise to China’s ‘Malaccan Dilemma’ due to the vulnerability of its economy in the event of a closure of the Malaccan Straits. A strong Indian presence at the mouth of this strait – India has been building its military capabilities on the ANI since the early 1990s – will provide India with strategic options in the event of conflict with hostile powers. Importantly, developing military and port infrastructure on the ANI will give muscle to India’s Act East policy and its strategic ambitions in the Indo-Pacific. India’s Act East Policy and its earlier avatar the ‘Look East policy’ are almost three decades old now. However, their implementation has lacked energy. Last year, Modi invited leaders of the BIMSTEC grouping to his government’s swearing-in, signalling Delhi’s renewed attention to the region. Implementation of the OFC project benefited from this renewed interest; it has been completed ahead of schedule. However, it is important for Delhi to sustain the momentum. If India is keen to be regarded as a serious Indo-Pacific power, it needs to develop connectivity to areas, waters and lands that link it to this region and the proposed trade port.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/renewed-attention-to-andaman-and-nicobar-welcome-873033.html
14-08-2020||Opinion||Democracy subverted again||Murky politics has again won in Manipur, where a BJP-led coalition government headed by N Biren Singh has secured a confidence vote after eight Congress MLAs from the opposition stayed away from the Assembly session defying the party whip to vote against the government. Six of the eight MLAs have resigned their membership of the Assembly since then, and others may soon do so. The presence of the MLAs in the House and their vote against the government may not have made a difference to the outcome, because the BJP-led government had taken other measures also to ensure that it had a majority in the House. This was by reducing the effective strength of the House from 60 to 53 by disqualifying ruling coalition MLAs who had rebelled against the chief minister. Four MLAs were disqualified under the anti-defection law and three others resigned.  Manipulating the membership of the Assembly through resignations and disqualifications has become the modus operandi to evade the anti-defection law and to ensure majority in the House. Manipur has seen the most flagrant violations and misuse of the anti-deflection law, and the Supreme Court has had to intervene in the past to make the Speaker discharge his responsibility under the law. The court had to remove a minister against whom a disqualification petition had been pending for three years and bar him from entering the Assembly. The Speaker disqualified four opposition legislators in June this year and ensured the victory of the ruling coalition candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections. There have been many other instances of Speakers acting wrongly in other states. But the problem is not just about the conduct of Speakers but about parties using the Speaker’s office to subvert the law.  In state after state the Constitution, the laws, democratic practices and accepted norms of political conduct have been subverted and the people’s will, expressed through elections, thwarted. This trend has badly vitiated politics and public life in the last few years, and the BJP has been mainly responsible for this. In the Assembly elections in Manipur in 2017, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party but it was the BJP which formed the government, and it is holding on to power through various manipulations. Governments which were formed after elections in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh were toppled and the Rajasthan government has just managed to survive. If only one party can form the government, irrespective of who wins the elections, we can no longer claim to be democratic. The spirit of democracy is defeated when resignations, disqualifications and other tactics are wrongly used to gain power or to retain it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/democracy-subverted-again-873034.html
14-08-2020||Opinion||BJP’s CM face quandary in Bengal could prove costly||In most parliamentary democracies of the world, not just in presidential systems like the United States of America or Brazil, a voter goes to the polling booth with full knowledge of who will lead the government if his or her preferred party wins. But in India, the ‘party’ has become so important that often it does not care to declare its ‘face’ for the polls. It is arguably a legacy of Leftism that believed in an almighty party, but now even the culturally right-wing BJP follows this trend. This is also the story in Bengal, where the Saffron camp has not yet declared who will lead the government if it comes to power in the May 2021 Assembly elections.  It is not known, statistically speaking, whether the majority of the voters in Bengal look at the leader while voting for the Lok Sabha or Assembly elections. Soon after Jyoti Basu retired, and Buddhadeb Bhattacharya took over, the Left got nearly 48 per cent of the vote in the 2001 Assembly polls. It was just one per cent less than what Basu had secured in 1996. It meant that Left voters voted independent of who would lead the government. In a few years, however, that seemed to change. The juggernaut of the 34-year-long Left rule was defeated by the one-woman army of Mamata Banerjee in 2011. That time, and again in 2016, people voted for 'Didi'.  This has probably emerged as a new trend now in the state and people will be asking who will lead the BJP government if it comes to power. In fact, facing the poll without providing an answer may prove costly for the Saffron party in quite a few seats. It can be argued that in the 2019 election, a sizable section voted for Naredra Modi, and not the BJP. The party had almost 40 per cent of the vote in Bengal in 2019. Going by this logic, the party will require a  face for the Assembly election too if it wants to increase its vote share, which is essential for winning Bengal.  But it appears as if the BJP is in a quandary about who can provide it with this winning leadership. So far, organisationally, the party has been led by its state president Dilip Ghosh, its tallest leader. The RSS has projected him in rural Bengal as an OBC (Sadgope) leader as an answer to the upper caste leaders who led  Bengal since independence. But to increase its vote percentage, it needs to spread its tentacles to Kolkata and adjacent districts which account for about one-third of the total seats (294) in the Bengal Assembly. Many in the party feel Ghosh is not an acceptable face in this region. He is viewed as brash and outspoken by nature, and he has in the past given voice to positions that sound like they are rooted in religious obscurantism. For instance, he said a few months ago that the milk of the Indian cow contained gold. So, some in the BJP-RSS combine feel it is better to face the polls without a face, if only to balance between the OBC card that brings vote and the arrogance and lack of modern vocabulary that could repel voters in Kolkata and surrounding areas. Many others feel someone else must be projected to attract voters. But in that case, who will lead the BJP? Mukul Roy, once a prominent face who came over from Mamata Banerjee’s TMC, is sidelined thanks to an older generation of BJP leaders and the RSS combine. The only other face, a sober and intellectual one, is Swapan Dasgupta, a journalist and a former close associate of L K Advani. However, the problem with him is that he is not seen as a popular vote-getter. One wonders whether ‘the right choice’ will join the BJP towards the end of 2020 and solve their problem. The person in question is Bengal’s most well-known sportsman and a national icon, Sourav Ganguly. His elevation to the post of BCCI chief, thanks to the patronage of BJP boss Amit Shah, has kept alive the speculation that Ganguly will be called in as the captain at the last moment. But, the BJP is not known to back a person who is from outside the BJP-RSS ecosystem for the post of chief minister. So, will Sourav be an exception, or will he be used just as a superstar campaigner? There are far too many questions and too few answers at this point. Perhaps answers will be more forthcoming when the election campaign reaches a higher pitch in November, after the Durga Puja season is over. At the moment, Mamata Banerjee is down due to the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan and the spread of Covid-19. However, she is a superb political fighter, and a veteran warrior who smashed what could be described as the biggest monolith of modern India, the CPM in Bengal. To defeat her, BJP probably needs a combination of ‘Dada’ and ‘Dilip-da’. But whether they have the courage to go with this approach needs to be seen.  (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-s-cm-face-quandary-in-bengal-could-prove-costly-873075.html
14-08-2020||Panorama||Kamala Harris, who could be US President one day||Kamala Harris’ first act as a political candidate was knocking out a former boxer: the progressive San Francisco district attorney who had been her boss. Her freshman Senate term has been defined by committee performances so lacerating that Trump administration officials have complained of her lawyerly velocity. “I’m not able to be rushed this fast,” a flustered Jeff Sessions once said to her. “It makes me nervous.” And in Harris’ most memorable turn as a presidential contender, speaking with practised precision to the man who Tuesday chose her as his running mate, she began with a less than charitable disclaimer — “I do not believe you are a racist” — before flattening him with the “but …” “It was a debate,” she has said repeatedly since then, offering no apology for campaign combat. That is San Francisco politics, friends say. That is Kamala Devi Harris. In announcing Harris, 55, as his vice-presidential nominee, Joe Biden told supporters she was the person best equipped to “take this fight” to President Donald Trump, making space in a campaign premised on restoring American decency for a willing brawler who learned early in her career that fortune would not favor the meek among Black women in her lines of work. “She had to be savvy to find a way,” said Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey, who has known Harris for more than two decades. “There was no path laid out for her. She had to find her way through the kind of set of obstacles that most people in the positions that she’s held have not had to ever deal with.” It is this dexterity, people close to her say, that has most powered Harris’ rise — and can be most frustrating to those who wish her electoral fearlessness were accompanied by policy audacity to match. Caustic when she needs to be but cautious on substantive issues more often than many liberals would like, Harris has spent her public life negotiating disparate orbits, fluent in both activist and establishment circles without ever feeling entirely anchored to either. Despite her early departure from the race last year, allies have long retained an unshakable belief in her talents as a prospective future standard-bearer for the party. “I’m crying,” said Amelia Ashley-Ward, a friend and the publisher of The Sun-Reporter, a publication aimed at the African American community in San Francisco. “When I first met Kamala Harris, I always felt that God had something a little extra for her.” For Harris, the firstborn daughter of immigrant academics from India and Jamaica, political activism was a kind of birthright. Her maternal grandparents fought for Indian independence from British rule and educated rural women about contraception. Her parents protested for civil and voting rights as doctoral students at the University of California, Berkeley. As a toddler, she was pushed along with the crowds at protests and marches in her stroller, later recalling early memories of “a sea of legs moving about, of the energy and the shouts and the chants.” Her parents hosted civil rights leaders and started weekly study groups to discuss the books of Black authors and grassroots organizers, from the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa to the preaching of Malcolm X. Her mother, Harris wrote in her 2019 memoir, “was born with a sense of justice imprinted on her soul.” As her mother had no relatives in the country, the Black community in Oakland became her family, even after she had divorced from Harris’ father, a Jamaican who came to the United States to study economics. Harris and her younger sister sang in the children’s choir at a Black church and studied the arts at Rainbow Sign, a pioneering Black cultural centre. After school, they spent time at a child-care centre run by a neighbour in the basement of their apartment building, learning about Black leaders such as Frederick Douglass, George Washington Carver and Sojourner Truth. As a first-grader, Harris joined the second elementary school class in Berkeley to be desegregated by busing, making her an early test subject for a contentious liberal policy. It was a part of her history that exploded into controversy during a Democratic primary debate when she challenged Biden’s past stance on busing and his warm remembrances of working with segregationist senators. Those early experiences had a formative impact on Harris’ professional path, pushing her away from the outsider politics of her childhood and into the Democratic establishment that she came to believe had greater power to effect change. “The reason I made a very conscious decision to become a prosecutor is that I am the child of people who, like those today, were marching and shouting on the streets for justice,” she said in the recent interview. “When I made the decision to become a prosecutor, it was a very conscious decision. And the decision I made was, I’m going to try and go inside the system, where I don’t have to ask permission to change what needs to be changed.” Initially, this was not glamorous work. In the 1990s, she joined prosecutors’ offices in Alameda County and, later, San Francisco, where she oversaw the career criminal unit. Her boss there was an old-guard liberal, Terence Hallinan, whose hold on the job grew precarious as Harris considered her own political future. Urged to challenge Hallinan by peers who said the office was poorly managed, Harris found herself effectively running to his right, telling voters in their 2003 contest that there was nothing progressive about being “soft on crime.” But Harris’ bid was trailed by insinuations that she was beholden to a much older ex-boyfriend, Willie Brown, who also happened to be the mayor of San Francisco (and a prominent endorser featured on her campaign literature). To defuse such attacks, Harris resolved to strike back twice as hard, airing her rival’s own sensational baggage and at one point appearing to suggest that she would not hesitate to investigate him for public corruption after replacing him. On the trail during the 2020 primary, Harris often recounted being asked to describe “what it’s like to be the first woman fill-in-the-blank,” explaining to chuckling crowds that she could not answer the question because she has never been anyone else. But she was sure, she added, that “a man could do the job just as well.” (If Biden wins in November, Harris will break another barrier, enshrining her husband, Doug Emhoff, as the country’s first “second gentleman.”) In her presidential bid, Harris tried to bridge her personal biography with her professional history, with a logo that paid homage to Shirley Chisholm’s groundbreaking campaign as the first woman to seek the Democratic nomination for president and a slogan referring to her own time as a prosecutor: “Kamala Harris For The People.” This merger did not go as smoothly as advisers had hoped. During her campaign — and more recently, as the death of George Floyd spawned global protests over racial injustice and policing — Harris worked to reconcile her activist childhood with her work in elected office, described by critics as too incremental on criminal justice. In interviews in recent months, Harris praised the Black Lives Matter movement for forcing a change in prosecutors’ offices. “One of the differences between when I became a prosecutor and started and now, is the incredible leadership, and effective leadership, of Black Lives Matter,” she said in June. “That movement put the pressure and the advocacy and the activism from the outside to counteract the obstacles from the inside that were invested in status quo and not only reluctant to change but opposed to change.” Harris has long leaned on a favorite saying: “No good public policy ends with an exclamation point.” If that makes her a question mark now on certain issues of the day, some Democrats reason, there are probably worse qualities in a running mate. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/kamala-harris-who-could-be-us-president-one-day-873036.html
14-08-2020||Panorama||Do Covid-19 lives matter more than others?||It has turned the world topsy-turvy. The economy is in crisis, the healthcare industry is struggling to survive, tourism, hospitality and the airline industries are completely bankrupt. Our children are falling behind and the simple pleasures of life like visiting friends and family, going on holidays, going to restaurants, malls, and movie theatres seem like a distant dream. The disease has even cast a shadow over death; funeral processions have given way to Zoom funerals. Covid-19 is undoubtedly a serious problem and the government and the medical community (myself included) agreed that we needed to take drastic steps like the lockdown to try and contain the virus. Unfortunately, while coronavirus has taken centre stage, all the other illnesses have been relegated to the back burner and they are causing immeasurable suffering. It is a very infectious disease but its mortality rate is low compared to other viral illnesses like Ebola, Smallpox and SARS. Coronavirus has claimed around 30,000 lives in a country of nearly 1.4 billion.  Most of our healthcare budget and medical resources have been diverted to Covid-19 care at the cost of other diseases which have higher morbidity, mortality and affect more people.  While decisive action was the need of the hour, we have now been battling the disease for a few months and we must incorporate the lessons we’ve learned and re-evaluated our position. We quarantined or isolated millions of people, locked down entire countries, banned air, sea and land travel, built several disease-specific hospitals, Covid-19 Care Centers, added ambulances, and ramped up testing. Now let’s look at some statistics of Covid-19 compared to the other illnesses in our country:  From the data, we can conclude that Covid-19 accounts for a very small fraction of deaths in our country and yet a disproportionate amount of our finite resources are being allocated to battle Covid-19, at the expense of several other diseases that have significant mortality. Even the most advanced countries like the USA and the UK were not able to effectively control Covid-19 despite spending trillions of dollars and the countries are on the verge of a massive economic slump. The question India has to answer is can we afford to spend billions to combat Covid-19 when the true cost is measured not just in dollars, but also involves sacrificing the care of the patients with other illnesses? India has faced numerous contagious epidemics like SARS, H1N1, HIV and many others. However, Covid-19 is the only epidemic we’ve ever seen where hospital footfalls have decreased by 60-80% because patients with non-Covid-19 illness fear going or are unable to go to a hospital.  Non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, obesity are deadly, especially if untreated and the care of these patients is being interrupted. This disruption has not just compromised the care of the sick. Many children around the world are unable to follow their vaccination schedules, which leaves them and society as a whole vulnerable to many otherwise preventable, communicable diseases. Giving up is never the answer and we cannot let Covid-19 run amok but since we don’t know exactly how long Covid-19 will be around, it may be time to try modify our approach which entails: Common sense precautions - social/physical distancing, wearing of masks, cough etiquette, repeated hand washing, keeping your surroundings hygienic and avoiding large gatherings.  Non-hospital care for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients Reserving hospital beds only for the moderately and severely ill patients Protecting healthcare workers by educating them on personal protective measures, use of PPE and practicing universal precautions Reverse isolation of vulnerable people like the elderly, diabetics, patients with cancer, people on immunosuppressants, CKD, etc. Enlisting the media to combat fear psychosis and stigmatization. With these measures, we could not only overcome the Covid-19 pandemic but also bring back continuity of care for patients with other diseases.  I’ve always considered myself extremely fortunate because my job saves lives. Many of us in the medical community have been struggling because the acute shortage of beds means turning away patients we could have saved. We can save so many lives by making sure the care of non-Covid patients is not interrupted.  But we need everyone to do their part. With the combined power of the government, technology, awareness programs and personal responsibility, we can create a safe-environment in hospitals for every patient. The lives of Covid-19 patients are precious, as are the lives of every other patient. No pandemic lasts forever and we will get through this one as well. Until then, let’s make sure we adopt a balanced approach and take care of all patients as best we can. (The writer is Chairman, Manipal Hospitals)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/do-covid-19-lives-matter-more-than-others-873039.html
14-08-2020||Panorama||Covid-19 can affect your heart||While the recovery and mortality rates are encouraging and present a picture of this pandemic not being as deadly as initially thought, the learning over time is saying otherwise. The effect of the virus does not stop with the pass-through asymptomatic or mild/moderate infection that most of the victims recover from quickly. It is now becoming increasingly clear that it attacks almost every vital organ of the body, not just the lungs, and leaves a lasting impact that manifests in different ways over time.  While as much as 80% of those infected by Covid-19 can suffer from permanent debilitating and even potentially fatal heart conditions according to the JAMA papers, inflammation and tissue damage are seen in all vital organs.  There are some critical facts that you need to understand. Covid-19 attacks you in three ways. First, it is a systemic disease. It means it attacks the tissues of every single organ in the body – from the brain to the heart to the kidneys. It is not localised to only the lungs as believed in the initial days of the pandemic. Second, it causes severe inflammation, leading the body’s immune system to overwork and over-express itself. The cytokine storm, as this condition is known as, can be fatal. Third, it causes micro blood clots in all the vital organs. These clots in the cardiac microcirculation lead to a heart attack. Around 14 per cent of Covid-19 cases come to the hospital with a heart attack. This is an acute form of the disease.  Two papers presented in JAMA by two different teams of researchers showed worrying results. One team conducted autopsies on Covid-19 victims. It revealed that in 80% of the cases, there was evidence of the virus replicating in the tissues of the heart. This showed that the heart is affected by the infection. The other team studied the hearts of those who had recovered fully from the infection 70 days earlier. The study showed that even though the patients had been Covid-19 negative for over two months, their hearts were still inflamed. This means that even though there was no virus replication, the body’s immune system’s response has continued for over two months. This is very worrying because if this inflammation persists for a longer time, it will weaken the tissues, leading to heart failure.  The alarming fact here is that a majority of those studied were younger – around 50 years of age, and with only mild or moderate symptoms. Most of these patients did not require hospitalisation. This study indicates that a large number of those who have recovered from the infection – asymptomatic, mild, moderate or severe – are potentially heading towards heart involvement. What can you do to protect your heart? Absolutely nothing. This is, therefore, a time to be extraordinarily careful. The infection has entered the community.  Avoid every visit or outdoor activity that you can. This is a dangerous virus, and it is showing no signs of weakening. With the lockdowns lifted, the cases are spiking. Those who oppose lockdowns citing economic concerns articulate the view that it is time to consider this another strain of flu and get on with life as usual. Nothing can be further from the truth. This is no common flu. It is a deadly virus that will continue to devastate lives and economies long after the vaccine comes and the pandemic is gone. The only option for you now is the age-old saying – prevention is better than cure. Stay indoors as far as possible, eat healthily and never leave home without a mask. That’s the only way to beat Covid-19. (The writer is an interventional cardiologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-can-affect-your-heart-873041.html
14-08-2020||Right in the Middle||The maverick||As a child, he played with goats and calves. He went to municipal schools, fared poorly in studies and failed in examinations. Somehow, he stumbled into college. His parents used influence to get him an engineering seat. It ended hopelessly. Careers took the same route. He lost jobs as fast as he got them. The family shrugged him off as good for nothing.   He spent his time in second-hand bookshops, absorbing the finest thoughts ever written. He bagged no ranks or medals but glimpsed at the wisdom of great minds that shaped his own. They also shaped his priorities. He discovered the joy of owning nothing. He left the door of his one-room tenement open, knowing that thieves would be wasting their time breaking in. In his penniless days, he turned to music. Since he could not afford teachers, he bought himself a bamboo flute on which he practised for hours, days, weeks until he was able to coax the masterpieces of great composers out of the cheap little contraption. Owning neither money, titles or position, he was able to walk free and live as he pleased. A curious fate thrust him into the highest circles although he still counted auto drivers and vegetable vendors among his friends. A short stint in C Rajagopalachari’s “SWARAJYA” established a lasting friendship with the Governor-General of the country. Marriage opened the door to the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. But he did not feel awed. He had a healthy irreverence of titles. He kept distinguished guests waiting on his wedding day while he went to invite his barber who was an important person in his life. He could ignore a VVIP guest during a wedding to sit with the gottuvadhyam players and compliment them. He epitomized Bernard Shaw’s dictum of treating flower girls like duchesses and duchesses like flower girls.  When he died yesterday, in a faraway country, in the plush surroundings of his last home. I remembered him saying, “I am the poor father of a rich daughter!” He accepted the new-found wealthy life with the same indifference as he did his earlier poverty and hardship. The person who failed in examinations flopped in careers and written off as a fiasco had found the greatest gift in life – wisdom to live happily in all circumstances. And, to see the absurd in every situation. I can see him chuckling somewhere at this moment “So I finally made it to DH after all those rejection slips!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-maverick-873043.html
14-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu takes to yoga therapy to destress Covid-19 patients||Yoga is being used as a therapy as part of treatment of Covid-19 patients at various centres in Tamil Nadu in a bid to address depression and also suicidal tendencies among some of those infected. Yoga and Naturopathy experts were being involved in the treatment of asymptomatic patients and those with mild and moderate symptoms of Covid-19 at 145 centres along with allopathy. Also, 'Pranayama,' which promotes lung functioning, is taught to the patients to help them breathe easy, according to Dr N Kathiresan, a Yoga and Naturopathy doctor involved in treating patients at the Government Covid-19 Care Centre (CCC) at Guindy here. This dedicated 750-bedded CCC has a specialised Intensive Care Unit unit with ventilator support, is equipped with CT scan and other emergency management equipment and was launched on July 7 by chief minister K Palaniswami. It provides 24X7 care facilities with doctors, staff nurses, and other frontline health workers besides yoga and naturopathy as part of integrated treatment protocol. "Yoga and Naturopathy, a system of Indian Medicine work on the vitality of patients. Various treatments including saltwater gargling, steam inhalation, aroma therapy like eucalyptus, basil oils, and acupressure are given to the patients to enhance their immunity," Dr Kathiresan said. Dr Arunthathi, another physician involved in the team that provides Yoga and Naturopathy intervention in this hospital, said the system was being used in 145 centres in the state. As per a report on the 'Arokyam scheme' launched by the chief minister a few months ago, over one lakh patients had benefited through the Indian system of medicine, which prevented them from further developing symptoms of Covid-19. As a part of immune enhancer, decoction with natural immune-boosting herbs such as tulsi, ginger, pepper, turmeric, and adimaduram (licorice) are given daily to the patients. They were also advised to take sunbaths regularly to enhance their immunity, the experts said. Little did Dr K Srinivasan, an anesthesiologist and Assistant Professor, MMC, attached to the Institute of Child Health, Egmore, realise that he would contract coronavirus and develop lung infection, despite taking utmost precaution. He said he was shocked to find he contracted the virus after handling over 400 cases. "I developed lung complications and began to spread the infection to my wife and others at home. I was referred to the government facility at King's Institute and here the Yoga and Naturopathy doctors taught me the importance of respiratory breathing and helped me to recuperate fast." Another coronavirus positive patient, Sakthivel, was admitted with breathing complications and was on oxygen support initially. "Gradually, I was taught pranayama and a few days later, I have found my voice," Sakthivel, who is on the road to recovery, said. Dr Kathiresan said the patients are not just treated at the CCC but educated. "Here we don't treat the patients. We educate them on how to breathe, how to eat, how to sleep and the importance of water, diet and physical activities," he said. "We have been handling complicated cases too. From my personal experience of handling over 3,000 Covid-19 cases so far, I have noticed that the respiratory problems could be addressed through pranayama and yoga. Many patients recovered within 3-4 days. We advise the persons who have recovered to practise pranayama," he added. Dr Kathiresan, Assistant Professor at the city-based Government Yoga and Naturopathy Medical College, said director of Indian Medicine Ganesh and Joint Director Dr N Manavalan have been the motivating spirit||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-takes-to-yoga-therapy-to-destress-covid-19-patients-873137.html
14-08-2020||South||Telangana registers 1,921 fresh Covid-19 cases; Tally rises to 88,396||Telangana reported 1,921 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of positive cases in the State to 88,396. The death toll rose to 674 with nine more fatalities, a State government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 13. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the hotbed of coronavirus cases in the State, continued to witness a low number of fresh infections with only 356 cases being reported. The GHMC was followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri (168), Rangareddy (134) and Sangareddy (90). Except for Narayanpet (6), all the remaining 32 districts in the State reported positive cases in double digits. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the State was 0.76 per cent, while it was 1.96 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far was 64,284, while 23,438 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state was 72.72 percent, while it was 70.76 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 16,439. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 per cent, it said. The bulletin said 22,046 samples were tested on August 13. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 7,11,196. The samples tested per million population was 19,156, it said. Giving age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.10 percent were male, while 34.90 percent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 24.6 per cent (male-17.2 and female-7.4). The 31-40 years age group was followed by the 21-30 group with 22.9 percent (male-14.8 and female-8.1). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,501 and 4,615 and 1,668 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in the government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. The bulletin also said 323 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. It provided a list of laboratories, rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, the list of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-registers-1921-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-88396-873145.html
14-08-2020||South||Centre reviews progress of flagship programmes in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||The Centre has reviewed the progress of its flagship programmes, including PMAY (U), AMRUT, Swachh Bharat Mission, Smart Cities Mission and PM SVANidhi scheme, in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, an official said on Friday. The official said that Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra held a meeting with top officers of these two states on Thursday and reviewed the progress of flagship programmes which also included the implementation of RERA and Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi. According to the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, Andhra Pradesh has so far provided 3.33 lakh water tap connections under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation (AMRUT). "To enhance substantial sewerage network coverage, 1.3 lakh new household sewer connections are proposed to be provided by the end of the mission period. So far, 65,000 sewer connections have been provided by the state," the official said. Reviewed progress of urban flagship missions viz SBM-U, PMAY-U, AMRUT, Smart Cities & DAY-NULM in Telangana & Andhra Pradesh today through video conference. In the meeting, the secretary was informed that Andhra Pradesh has tied up with Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL) for replacement of conventional streetlights with LED lights in 32 cities. All identified 6,30,000 streetlights have been replaced in the state. The official said that under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), the state has taken approval for 20.15 lakh houses, adding that all urban local bodies have been certified Open defecation free. About Telangana, the official said that under the AMRUT Mission, out of 9.01 lakhs new household water tap connections proposed to be provided through AMRUT and convergence, 2.76 lakh connections have already been provided by the state. The state has tied up with EESL for an energy audit of water pumps and completed the audit in 11 Mission cities. "Out of identified 6.23 lakh streetlights in 12 cities, 6.65 lakh street lights have been replaced with energy-efficient LED lights," the official also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-reviews-progress-of-flagship-programmes-in-andhra-pradesh-telangana-873160.html
14-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami flags off LED vehicles for Covid-19 awareness||Continuing with several ongoing initiatives to fight against Covid-19, Palaniswami inaugurated the awareness campaign by 30 small size cargo vans with big screens, an initiative of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Two vehicles would be deployed in each of the 15 zones of the city, a government release said. The Chief Minister's address on virus awareness, and short films from the Health department and GCC would be broadcast to help people understand better about the pathogen and stay safe by following norms. Palaniswami launched a drive to distribute awareness pamphlets to people on Covid-19, dengue and the need for rainwater harvesting structures in view of the onset of monsoon. The leaflets would be given to the people by 12,000 field workers of the GCC who are engaged in daily door to door survey to detect flu-like symptoms. Ten lakh brochures would be distributed for Covid-19, and an equal number for dengue and a similar count for saving rainwater as well, it said. Of the 3.20 lakh people who have tested positive for coronavirus so far in Tamil Nadu, 1.13 lakh were from here as on Thursday. The Chief Minister also greeted about one lakh people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the metropolis through a recorded message sent to their mobile phones. The ongoing initiatives to tackle the virus spread includes 500 to 550 fever camps on a daily basis here to aid early detection of people with symptoms so that they could be treated on time appropriately. So far, the GCC has conducted 31,702 fever camps and 17.86 lakh people have been benefited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-flags-off-led-vehicles-for-covid-19-awareness-873164.html
14-08-2020||South||Kerala likely to see 10,000-20,000 Covid-19 cases per day during August-September: Health Ministry||Kerala is likely to witness a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the months of August and September with daily infections expected to touch between 10,000 to 20,000, State Health Minister KK Shailaja said. "Experts have opined that during the months of August and September we may witness a surge in Covid-19 cases. We may report between 10,000 to 20,000 cases per day," she said in a video campaign urging the youth to join the "Covid Brigade" to halt the pandemic spread. Noting that the death rate graph will start rising if the positive cases shoot up, the Minister said it should be stopped. "We must also understand that the death toll will increase with the rise in the number of cases. So, we need to put a hold on the rise in cases. For that, people must cooperate. They should strictly follow the health protocol of wearing masks, hand washing and social distancing in order to break the chain of the virus from spreading," Shailaja said. India's first Covid-19 case was reported from the southern state on January 30 when a woman medical student tested positive on her return to the state from Wuhan in China, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus. The second and third cases in the country were also Wuhan returnees. On May 5, the state had 500 cases, which doubled to 1000 by May 27. On July 4, Kerala reported 5000 cases, by July 16 the state breached the 10,000-mark and by July 28, over 20,000 cases were reported. On Thursday, Kerala recorded 1,564 cases, taking the total infection tally to 39,708. Three deaths were also reported yesterday taking the toll to 129. Appealing the youth to join the 'Covid Brigade,' which will become a model to the world, she said thousands of health workers and other personnel are fighting the pandemic. There is a need for more volunteers -- both medical and non-medical -- to come forward and join the war against the disease. Practitioners of modern medicine, as well as Ayurveda, homoeopathy, dental along with lab technicians, pharmacists and nurses, can join the brigade. "People from non-medical fields like MSW, MHA, MBA holders, are required for the fight and they should also register for joining our Covid Brigade. All those who wish to volunteer should register for joining. This historic move will be a model to the world," she pointed out. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on July 23, announced the formation of the 'Covid Brigade' consisting of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and volunteers to man the First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC). "More people are needed to strengthen Covid defensive operations in view of the rising numbers of cases. We have worked out an integrated action plan," Vijayan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-likely-to-see-10000-20000-covid-19-cases-per-day-during-august-september-health-ministry-873166.html
14-08-2020||South||GMCH to treat 'highly-critical' Covid-19 patients||The Goa government on Friday announced the restructuring of its Covid-19 treatment facilities by offering three wards at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for "highly critical" patients. The other two designated treatment facilities, ESI Hospital in Margao (South Goa) and Sub District Hospital in Ponda (North Goa), will treat asymptomatic patients or those with moderate symptoms, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. Speaking to reporters, Rane also said that the first two Covid-19 patients who underwent plasma therapy have tested negative for the infection. Goa has recorded 10,494 Covid-19 infections and 91 casualties till Thursday. Nearly 96 per cent of Covid-19 patients in the state are asymptomatic, the minister said. The state government has decided to provide three wards at the GMCH for the treatment of "highly critical" Covid-19 patients, he said. Critical patients who are admitted at ESI Hospital will be shifted to the GMCH for treatment under supervision of experts, he said, adding that the arrangement will help in preventing fatalities. Considering the spike in Covid-19 cases, it will now be mandatory for people to undergo antigen testing before being admitted to the GMCH for non-Covid-19 treatments, the minister said. Rane also warned housing societies of stern action if they stigmatise infected persons who are placed under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gmch-to-treat-highly-critical-covid-19-patients-873196.html
14-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM to inaugurate Chennai's dynamic lighting project||Several key flyovers and subways in this metropolis would soon sport dynamic lighting, displaying splashes of different hues to suit specific occasions with Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday inaugurating a Rs 33 crore beautification project. The dynamic lighting system would illuminate flyovers and subways at 37 places with a variety of colours, which will change seamlessly, setting a new ambience and mood to suit occasions such as Independence Day. Marking the project launch at the Secretariat in the Fort St George premises, he turned on the lighting system at the iconic Napier Bridge and the busy Dr Radhakrishnan Salai flyover. It was taken up to "enhance the appearance, look and feel of the bridges, flyovers and the city", the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) said. As many as 15 flyovers/Grade Separators one Road Over Bridge, 16 vehicular subways and five pedestrian subways will have the dynamic lighting, it said. The GCC, in a statement, said on special occasions like Independence Day the bridges can be lit up showcasing the tri-colour. "On important occasions such as Autism Day, Breast Cancer Awareness Day, Glaucoma, Down Syndrome, etc, the bridges can be lit according to the colours that signify the causes and could create awareness among the general public," it said. The work of illuminating all the bridges has already started and will be completed soon. Once these locations are illuminated with dynamic lighting, it will enhance the beauty of the bridges and its surroundings, the GCC said. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani, Chief Secretary K Shanmugam participated in the inaugural function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-to-inaugurate-chennais-dynamic-lighting-project-873229.html
14-08-2020||South||Malappuram district collector among 24 test positive for Covid-19; Kerala CM goes on self quarantine||With Malappuram district collector, district police chief and 22 other officials testing positive for Covid-19, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and couple of ministers have decided to go on self-quarantine. Rescue and relief measures of the crashed Air India Express flight was strongly suspected to be the source of infection of the district collector and police chief, as the region was a containment zone at the time of the crash, and two passengers later tested positive for Covid-19. Malappuram district collector Gopalakrishnan, around 20 other staff of the collectorate and district police chief Abdul Karim were tested Covid-19 positive so far, while tests were being conducted among all those who took part in the rescue operation, including airport staff and local people. The Chief Minister decided to remain on home quarantine as he closely interacted with the district collector and police chief during his visit to the crash spot. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had also visited the accident spot along with the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malappuram-district-collector-among-24-test-positive-for-covid-19-kerala-cm-goes-on-self-quarantine-873250.html
14-08-2020||South||TN Governor Banwarilal Purohit tests negative for Covid-19||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who was under treatment for Covid-19, on Friday tested negative, a private hospital here said. "We are very pleased to inform that Governor Banwarilal Purohit has tested negative for Covid-19 today. His grit and determination has helped in his speedy recovery and he continues to remain active," Kauvery Hospital said in a statement. The 80-year old Purohit had tested positive for the virus on August 2 and had been advised home isolation since his infection was mild. Doctors from Kauvery Hospital monitored his health on a round the clock basis at the Raj Bhavan. Days after he tested positive the hospital had said he continued to be "asymptomatic, active and doing well." He was being monitored continuously by its medical team, the hospital had said. Last month, eighty-four security and fire services personnel deployed in Raj Bhavan had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-governor-banwarilal-purohit-tests-negative-for-covid-19-873289.html
14-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government eases travel curbs, issuance of e-pass||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday ordered issuance of e-pass from August 17 for hassle-free inter-district travel and appealed to the people to use the e-pass responsibly. The members of the public who apply for e-pass with details of their aadhaar or ration card to travel across the state for important work would get permission immediately, an official release said here. This decision has been taken considering public good, Palaniswami said and appealed to the people to use the greater leeway responsibly and avoid unnecessary journeys. "I appeal to people to apply for e-pass and travel only for journeys that are unavoidable," he said and urged the public to cooperate with the government by following the Covid-19 norms to help prevent the virus spread. The government's move comes days after a matter related to the issuance of passes had reached theMadras High Court. Also, the DMK chief M K Stalin had demanded the government to do away with the system and questioned the state for sticking to the regulation when the Centre itself had said that such passes were not compulsory. On August 6, Palaniswami, replying to a question on e-passes, had said, "Issuance of passes has been simplified and an additional team is deployed for the task. The restriction mandating e-pass is only to see that people do not travel unnecessarily." Police had arrested at least eight men in the state over complaints like alleged creation of fake e-pass, luring people to approach them to get the passes and facilitation of passes for a bribe. While five, including two government employees, were held in Chennai, two were arrested in Tiruchirapalli and one was held in Vellore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-eases-travel-curbs-issuance-of-e-pass-873307.html
14-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh government announces revised dates for CET exam 2020||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday announced the revised schedule for conducting various Common Entrance Tests-2020, for admission into various professional courses, from September 10 to October 5. State Education Minister A Suresh said the Engineering, Agriculture and Medical CET would be held from September 17 to 25 (except 20), the Integrated CET on September 10 and 11. The Post-Graduate CET would be held from September 28 to 30, Education CET on October 1 (forenoon) and Law CET (afternoon). The APPE CET would be conducted from October 2 to 5, the minister said. These CETs were originally supposed to be conducted in July-August but were postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-announces-revised-dates-for-cet-exam-2020-873338.html
14-08-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown lifted in Thiruvananthapuram city limits||The over a month-long Covid-19 induced lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram corporation limits will be lifted from midnight following which malls, hypermarkets and salonswill open Saturday morning. The order will be effective only in non-containment zones, a circular from the District Collector, Dr Navjot Khosa said. Lockdown was imposed in the corporation limits on July 5. All central and state government offices and other public and private establishments, banks and other financial establishments can function with 50 per cent staff. All shops can open from 7 am to 7 pm, while restaurants and cafes can open only till 9 pm for takeaway counters/parcels. Home delivery will also be allowed upto 9 pm, the circular stated. All hotels can open except for conference and banquet halls. "Malls, hypermarkets, salons, beauty parlours, barber shops are permitted to be opened. They should strictly adhere to standard operating procedure issued by the District Collector," the circular stated. While games, sports activities and gyms can resume observing strict Covid-19 protocol, bars and beer parlours can open with only takeaway services. Permission has also been granted to open all congested markets, including those selling fish, with strict entry-exit protocols. The maximum number of people who can be allowed at a time inside the market, parking and entry-exit will be regulated by police, the circular said. A maximum number of 50 people would be allowed to attend weddings and 20 for funerals in the city except in containment zones. However, educational institutions, including tuition and coaching centres, auditoriums, assembly halls, cinema halls, entertainment parks, besides social, religious, political, entertainment, academic and sports events and large gatherings will not be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-lifted-in-thiruvananthapuram-city-limits-873393.html
14-08-2020||State||SSLC topper's 'slushy road' to success||The road to access education and achieve success was never a cakewalk for Anush A L, who bagged the first rank by scoring a perfect 625 out of 625 marks in the SSLC examinations. From Anush’s house in Yennemajal to Bogayyanakere in Balpa village in Kadaba taluk, the three kilometre-long stretch is a mud road with plenty of potholes. Anush is forced to walk on this unmetalled main road and travel further 15 kms in the school bus in order to reach his school, Kumaraswamy English medium school, at Vidyanagar in Subrahmanya. Year after year, the residents who send their children to schools dump stones in order to fill up potholes and make the main road motorable, said Dinesh Yennemajalu. During monsoon, the miseries of residents increases as the stretch turns into a slushy road. The rainwater flowing on the road, in the absence of culverts, makes it difficult for both vehicles and pedestrians to walk on the slushy road, villagers lamented. Anush highlights the miseries they faced while walking through the slush. His friends from the SC/ST Colony recollected how they all had to got down and pushed the school bus stuck in the slush. School Bus Driver Satish K Rai Gejje said he used to pick up students from Bogayyanakere as he could not drive any further. Even the 15 kms road from Balpa to the school is not a smooth ride, Satish added. Incidentally, five years ago Balpa village was adopted by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel under Prime Minister’s ‘Samsad Adarsha Grama’. Kateel also had declared on implementing Rs 20-cr worth developmental programmes in Balpa. A year ago, villagers had staged protests and complained to the government about the bad roads in Yennemajal, Beedigudde and Addabailu, health facilities and poor mobile network. “There was no response even from our MLA S Angara,” Dinesh said. As Dinesh and others look forward to getting their woes redressed, the achievement of children like Anush is a beacon of hope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-toppers-slushy-road-to-success-873012.html
14-08-2020||State||'Compensation for people who lost houses'||Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan visited the areas affected by floods in Shanivarasanthe and Kodlipet in Somwarpet taluk recently. He reviewed damages caused to the crops and houses due to the downpour in Chennapura Colony, Ijalapura, Bittiganahalli, Madre, Handli, Kittur and Badubanahalli villages. Ranjan meanwhile directed the officials concerned to carry out urgent relief works in Shunthi village where a retaining wall had collapsed. The MLA assured the flood victims of providing compensation from the government towards the houses which have been completely damaged. The revenue officers should provide a report on the damaged houses, he said. Stating that the Basavanakoppa road has been converted into an all-season road at a cost of Rs 80 lakh, Ranjan assured that the road would be brought under PWD. Also, a retaining wall has been built at Basavanakoppa bridge at a cost of Rs 10 lakh, he added. Zilla Panchayat vice president Lokeshwari Gopal, Taluk Panchayat vice president Abhimanyu Kumar, Zilla Panchayat member Sarojamma, Taluk Panchayat member Kushalappa, Tahsildar Govindaraju, Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Sunil, PWD Assistant Executive Engineer Mohan Kumar and Zilla Panchayat AEE Veerendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/compensation-for-people-who-lost-houses-873014.html
14-08-2020||State||19 K'taka officers get President's Police Medal||This Independence Day, a total of 19 police officers from the state will be conferred with the President’s Police medals. While 18 of them, including eight DySPs, two police inspectors and three PSIs, will be awarded the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service, V L N Prasanna Kumar, the ASI attached with CID, Bengaluru, will get the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service. List of awardees (Meritorious Service) R Hemanth Kumar (DySP-SIT Lokayukta); Parameshwar Hegde (DySP- Economic Offences, CID); Manjunath Rajanna (DySP-ACB, Mandya); H M Shailendra (DySP-Somwarpet sub-division); Arun Nagegowda (DySP-Srirangapatna sub-division); H M Sathish (ACP-Traffic North, Bengaluru); H B Ramesh Kumar (DySP-State Intelligence); P Umesh (DySP-Police Training School, Mysuru); C N Diwakara (CPI-Madikeri Rural); G N Rudresh (RPI, KSRP); Lakshminarayan B A (SI-Special Branch, Bengaluru); M H Chandrashekar (RSI-KSRP, Bengaluru); K Jayaprakash (SI-Wireless, M’luru City Control Room); H Nanjundaiah (ASI-DCRB CB’Pur); Ateeq-ur-Rahman (ASI-Agumbe, Shivamogga); Ramanjanaiah (ASI-KB Cross, Tumakuru); R N Balikai (ASI-Ranebennur Rural) and K Honnappa (head constable-Bengaluru. VLN Prasanna Kumar (ASI-CID) has been named for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/19-ktaka-officers-get-presidents-police-medal-873398.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Finally, MCC to set up Ward- Level Committees, Area Sabhas||A decade-long dream was realised after Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Council on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution to set up Ward Committees and Area Sabhas as per The Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2011. The members were informed that besides the High Court’s orders on setting up the Ward-Level Committees, the Corporation had also received circulars from government and directions from District Legal Services Authority and Lokayukta in this regard. The agenda on the formation of the WLCs was first discussed in the meeting held on August 28, 2014. MCC had directed a three-member committee, led by senior Corporator Lancelot Pinto, to study the pros and cons of setting up the WLCs and submit a report. The three-member committee had visited Mysuru but did not submit any report. “MCC’s resolution is a big boost for citizen participation in the Corporation,” said Nigel Albuquerque of MCC Civic Group which had filed a petition on setting up of the WLCs in High Court. “Today is a great victory for accountability, responsibility and transparency,” he stressed. Activist and a retired employee of MCC Padmanabh Ullal said, “Finally, we can proudly say that we are in a real democratic setup.” Nigel said the MCC, on the lines of Hubli-Dharwad Corporation, should upload applications on their website and invite residents of the MCC to download applications and submit it. “They should not allow Corporators to select members for the committees,” he said. Tariff reduced Mayor Diwaker Pandeshwar kept his promise and in his first meeting reduced the tariff on water and cess on solid waste, which was increased a year ago. Corporator Praveenchandra Alva welcomed the Mayor’s decision to reduce the tariff on water and solid waste cess. He urged the MCC to waive water bills issued to consumers during the lockdownperiod. Congress Corporators staged a dharna as Mayor had permitted only the leader of opposition to raise questions during the Council meeting. Corporator A-C Vinayraj holding the rule book accused the MCC of trampling the rights of corporators. Deputy Mayor Padmavathy, MLAs D Vedavyas Kamath, Dr Y Bharath Shetty among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/finally-mcc-to-set-up-ward-level-committees-area-sabhas-873010.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 insurance claims: Karnataka among top 5||Among the 90,000 insurance claims received for Covid-19 in India, Karnataka's Covid patients have made the fifth highest number of claims with 6,800 claims, revealed Sashidharan Nair, Technical Advisor (Health) of the General Insurance Council to DH. Understandably, Maharashtra with the highest number of Coronavirus cases, made 44,000 Covid insurance claims followed by Tamil Nadu with 12,000, Delhi 10,000 and Gujarat 7,600. Considering the tech population of the state, a lot of them have corporate insurance covers and hence the higher percentage of insured population. Earlier this month, amid spurt in Covid-19 cases in the country, the insurance regulator IRDAI mandated all insurers to launch Corona Kavach health insurance policy for both individuals and families. This is a standard policy created specifically to provide health insurance for coronavirus treatment. Dr Sashidharan Nair told DH, "The claims depend on the insured population. Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat have relatively higher proportion of insured population. Karnataka has software companies and industries where there is corporate insurance. Wherever there are more MNCs, people are well-placed. The lower strata of the population cannot afford to pay premiums. Covid Kavach offers coverage upto Rs. 3 lakh." Krishnan Ramachandran, MD & CEO, Max Bupa Health Insurance, told DH that at Max Bupa, has received over 2,300 Covid related claims so far, of which 8-10% of claims have been received from Karnataka from cities like Bangalore, Mysore, etc. Eighty percent of the people who have purchased the policy, Corona Kavach, so far have opted for 9.5 months duration, 15% customers have opted for 6.5 months period and 5% have taken the policy for 3.5 months. "Our internal data shows that customers from Bangalore and Hyderabad are prioritising health insurance purchase much more as compared to other cities. We have seen a 90% growth in health insurance policies being purchased online in the city which shows that Bangaloreans are prioritizing health insurance purchase in light of Covid," Ramachandran said. Further, as per a Covid-19 survey done by the company recently, it found that 57% of people in Bengaluru have a strong preference for comprehensive health insurance plans for protection against any unforeseen medical emergencies. "Earlier only 21% people were interested in purchasing health insurance to protect against new-age diseases and medical emergencies, whereas now 70% of the people surveyed consider health insurance as a necessity in being more prepared to fight unforeseen pandemic like Covid-19," he added. The survey also found that 73% of the respondents are willing to pay more premium to get coverage for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-insurance-claims-karnataka-among-top-5-873016.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks VTU to consider online exam for final year engineering||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday asked the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) to consider online exams as an option in addition to the offline examination for final year engineering students. The court observed that there is still a lot of time for the university to make a decision since the examination is scheduled to begin on September 15. The court was hearing a petition filed by final year students of Bangalore Institute of Technology. The petition challenged the directive of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete the examination process by the end of September. The bench said the university needs to address the grievances of the students. During the hearing, the bench also directed the university to take the assistance of experts in conducting online examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-vtu-to-consider-online-exam-for-final-year-engineering-873017.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Bengaluru still struggling in contact tracing||Karnataka’s efforts to trace Covid-19 patients’ contacts is improving with the help of booth-level interventions and use of technology, authorities said, but the situation in worst-hit Bengaluru Urban remains a concern.  The latest official data paints a mixed picture on the effectiveness of contact tracing, which is a key aspect in containing the pandemic. IAS officer Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of the State Covid-19 War Room, said higher the number of contacts per person, the better the contact tracing programme is. “Else, if identification and quarantining does not take place, they spread Covid-19,” he said. At the top of the contact, tracing pyramid is Chamarajanagar district with 16 people traced for every Covid-19 patient. Davangere and Mandya follow with 10.9 and 9.6 contacts respectively.  “Primary contacts get traced within two hours. Tracing secondary contacts is the challenge,” Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said. “Earlier, there was a backlog in test reports that came in the way of contact tracing. But if you see now, the numbers are looking good.” On the flip side, contact tracing data over 10 days from July 26 to August 5 shows Bengaluru Rural languishing at the bottom with 1.57 contacts per patient. In Bengaluru Urban, which has the largest number of total cases in the state, an average of 4.4 contacts are traced per patient. But how many contacts per person are required to authenticate the efficiency of contact tracing? “Five is ideal,” explained Manoj Kumar Meena, IAS, Special Zonal officer for Bengaluru’s East Zone. The numbers for Bengaluru nevertheless constitute an improvement compared to previous weeks, Moudgil added. “It used to be less than one contact per patient before. Deployment of booth-level officers and the use of the Contact Tracing App has made a difference,” he said. Room for improvement However, Bengaluru needs to up its game if it wants to rein in the pandemic. Several zones are still fumbling when it comes to tracing contacts. According to the State War Room, only an average of 2.59 primary contacts is generated in total across all eight zonal areas. A slightly larger number of 3.20 secondary contacts are generated. R R Nagar generates only 3.6 contacts per patient followed by Bommanhalli, which is generating an average of 4.15 contacts per patient. “This is not a particular challenge [limited to] Bommanahalli,” explained Captain P Mannivannan, Special Officer for Bommanahalli. “All zones are having a similar problem except South Zone, which has done well.” According to data, South Zone, where Moudgil is also the special officer, is generating 10.16 contacts per patient, outshined only by Dasarahalli which is generating 15.10 contacts. The primary reason why zones are lagging is that many patients refuse to divulge who they have met and where Moudgil explained. “Many are irresponsible and selfish. They don’t want their friends to blame them that they were put into quarantine due to information given by them,” he said.  Unknown transmission According to a highly placed source, authorities have given up on identifying individual sources of the disease. The result is 87,521 Covid-positive people in the state with the unknown transmission. “By adding incomplete contact tracing to this equation, we could see unknown clusters continuing to feed the transmission of the disease within communities,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-bengaluru-still-struggling-in-contact-tracing-873018.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP President JP Nadda lays foundation of BJP district offices in Karnataka||In his address to Karnataka BJP leaders after ground-breaking ceremony of party offices in the state through a virtual ceremony, Nadda also praised the state party unit for its welfare works during the lockdown.  Nadda said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wanted that the BJP should have its own office in every district across the country after the party came to power at the Centre in 2014. Work on it has been going on since then, the BJP president said, adding that the party has now 500 offices. The party will have 300 more offices in the future, he added.  "An office isn't just a building. It is the centre of tradition and inspires people to join a party. A political worker develops working there," Nadda said, recalling that as a party member he used to call people to meet him in party offices.  He also hailed Modi's stewardship of the fight against Covid-19 and said the recovery rate has risen to nearly 69 per cent.  In the beginning, India used to do just 1,500 tests a day but it is now performing over six lakh tests every day, he said.  "PM Modi did not just address health issues, but also economic issues. On 26 March, PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana was announced. It would provide 80 crore people foodgrains until November at a cost of Rs 1.70 lakh crore," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-president-jp-nadda-lays-foundation-of-bjp-district-offices-in-karnataka-873152.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2,000 PG medicos to add to Covid-19 healthcare workforce in Karnataka, says K Sudhakar||Post Graduate medical results will be published in a couple of days and 2,000 additional PG medicos who will undergo internship will be available for Covid-19 duties in the state, Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The Minister said this while speaking at the inauguration of Covid-19 testing lab and post-graduate orientation classes at BGS Global hospital near Kengeri here, his office said in a release. Sudhakar said under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has done extremely well in containing coronavirus in India. "Compared to the US and other western countries India lacks medical infrastructure, but still we have managed to keep mortality rate very low," he said. Addressing the medicos, the minister said the medical profession is a very noble profession and doctors should keep their professional ethics and values always high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2000-pg-medicos-to-add-to-covid-19-healthcare-workforce-in-karnataka-says-k-sudhakar-873278.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Salary delays put Karnataka varsities' staff to hardships||The inordinate delay in disbursal of salaries is causing untold hardships to the teaching and non-teaching staff of the state-run universities. This has been the case for the past three months. This has become a norm, more so, after the government started depositing the salaries straight into the accounts of the staff through human resource management system (HRMS) system  The varsity employees have not received their salaries for the month of July even two weeks after the payday.  A senior lecturer of Kuvempu University, Shivamogga, told DH, “It’s been 15 days and we have not received our salaries. The government at least should think about the D group employees and their commitments.” However, the authorities of Bangalore and Tumkur varsities, dug deep into their internal resources to pay the Group D employees their wages. Prof Y S Siddegowda, vice chancellor of Tumkur University said, “We have paid the salaries using our internal resources as it was delayed by the government and causing inconvenience to staff.” Speaking to DH, a senior official of Bangalore University, said, “Earlier, the salaries were paid by respective universities, and the government used to release funds for salaries once in three months. Since June, the Higher Education department is paying the salaries of varsity staff through the HRMS mode.” Meanwhile, sources in Higher Education department said, the cadre of some of the university employees were not matching with HRMS and hence there’s been a trouble in transferring money through treasury. “The cadre like vice chancellor, registrar are not in HRMS. And even the upper age limit in HRMS ends at 60 whereas the retirement age for university employees has been extended to 62 years and for vice chancellors it is up to 67 years,” explained a source. Meanwhile, heads of some of the universities felt this move by the government has disturbed the autonomy of the universities and that the government should not interfere in it, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/salary-delays-put-karnataka-varsities-staff-to-hardships-873348.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government orders simple, no-frills Ganesh Chaturthi||The Karnataka government on Friday ordered curbs on the way Ganesh Chaturthi can be celebrated on August 22, keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. In an order issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, celebrating the festival will be restricted to just temples and homes “in a simple manner with devotion." ”The installation of Ganesha idols in public places (roads or playgrounds) will not be allowed. Taking out processions with idols has been prohibited. “For no reason will immersion of idols be allowed in rivers, lakes, ponds, wells or kalyanis is not allowed,” the order stated, adding that Ganesha idols brought home must be immersed at home itself. Temples that are celebrating the festival must follow sanitization and administer thermal screening on disciples. Those visiting temples must wear face masks and maintain 6-feet distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-orders-simple-no-frills-ganesh-chaturthi-873355.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka slashes cost of RT-PCR tests by Rs 500||The Karnataka government's Covid-19 task force has decided to reduce the cost of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests by Rs 500, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Friday. The cost of RT-PCR tests for those referred from government hospitals to private labs have been reduced from Rs 2,000 to Rs 1,500 and for those going directly to private labs from Rs 3,000 to Rs 2,500, the DCM's office quoted him as saying after the task force meeting. He said, at the meeting it was also decided to purchase 20 lakh new rapid antigen test kits and 18 lakh RT- PCR test kits. Stating that the ICMR has warned about infections increasing in state capital Bengaluru, and necessary precautionary measures are being taken, Narayan said, it was decided at the meeting to purchase equipment worth Rs 12 crore to start 115 bed ICU at the KC General Hospital in the city. All necessary measures are being taken to bring down the death rate, for which certain tests should be done. If it is difficult to conduct such tests at government hospitals, it will done at private labs,the minister said. "By doing such tests, the stage of disease can be identified so as to administer required treatment and thereby bring down the death rate," he said, adding that plasma therapy will be extended across the state and necessary arrangements will be made for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-slashes-cost-of-rt-pcr-tests-by-rs-500-873369.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government yet to foot Rs 19.18 crore Covid-19 bills||Since June 23, 6,485 bills have been raised by private hospitals across the state who have treated the government quota of Covid-19 patients. To date, the government has paid only 459 Covid-19 bills for Rs 1.3 crore. It is yet to foot 4,875 bills worth Rs 19.18 crore. The starting price of treating a Covid-19 patient in a general ward per day is Rs 5,200 as per the rate fixed by the government. In the notification issued by the state government dated June 23, it was mandated to reserve 50 percent of the beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients referred by public health authorities. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "50 hospitals in Bengaluru have submitted bills. Total claims submitted in the state are 6,485. Paid claims are 459 for Rs. 1.3 crores. 4,875 claims are under process for Rs. 19.18 crores." For treating a Covid-19 patient for ten days, it would cost at least Rs 52,000. For a week, it would cost at least Rs. 36,400 per patient. On Thursday, in a meeting with Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), the government agency entrusted with paying the hospitals, private hospitals raised the issue of payment. Dr. Ravindra Ramaiah from Suguna Hospital and President, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said, "Suguna Hospital has raised 34 bills worth Rs 16 lakh with SAST. The hospital currently has 18 patients and so far we have got 56 government Covid-19 patients' referrals. The majority of the patients were in the Rs. 7,000 bracket, the price fixed for high dependency units. The bill of one ICU patient who died was also raised. Some of them got discharged in three days or four days." "Till 23 June, there were no referrals from the government. The referrals started in mid-July. The discharges have happened towards the end of July. Within 12 hours, the bills are supposed to be uploaded and they promised to pay us within three days. The bills have landed with SAST in the last week of July," said Ramaiah. Dr. HM Prasanna of Pristine Hospital told DH that the hospital had raised bills worth Rs. 2.5 lakh for four discharged patients that is yet to be paid by SAST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-yet-to-foot-rs-1918-crore-covid-19-bills-873386.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Biggest single-day spike of 7,908 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike of 7,908 Covid-19 cases on Friday. The day's tally took the state’s case count to 2,11,108. The state also recorded 104 more Covid-19 deaths, as the toll swelled to 3,717. As on August 14, the state has 79,201 active cases. With a total of 6,940 patients walking out of hospitals across the state post-recovery, on Friday, the total number of recoveries went up to 1.28 lakh. The state, on Friday, tested 56,638 samples - 27,216 RTPCR tests and 29,422 rapid antigen tests. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,452 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours. The virus-hit Ballari witnessed 608 new cases while Shivamogga saw 413 new infections. As many as 20 districts reported fresh infections in three figures while the remaining nine districts recorded cases in two digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-biggest-single-day-spike-of-7908-new-covid-19-cases-873388.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Government moves to keep citizen data safe during Covid-19 pandemic||In the absence of a data protection law in India, Karnataka has taken the first leap on this front by issuing comprehensive guidelines to safeguard citizen data collected by the government during the Covid-19 pandemic. The e-Governance department has issued a circular and a 39-page document - Processes, Procedures in Application Hosting and Best Practices in Data Protection - in response to concerns that were raised within the government on the safety of personal data. The push for this came from the Chief Minister’s e-governance advisor Beluru Sudarshana who said he was alarmed with the amount of data various government departments started collecting from citizens during the pandemic. “With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, many government departments started their own helplines and services for citizens: Patients, labourers, farmers, students, the old-aged and so on,” Sudarshana told DH. “And under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, because of the emergency situation, these services were given to 3rd party providers. Who knows where they store the data? So, there were concerns expressed on data protection,” he said. The e-Governance department has now asked all departments that have tied up with private companies for the development of IT applications to sign a non-disclosure agreement. It should be followed “in letter and spirit” and “non‐compliance should be considered as a serious breach of contract,” the e-Governance department has said. Departments may also choose to host or deploy their applications at the Karnataka State Data Centre, which houses the government’s core IT infrastructure that promises a secure environment. The e-Governance department has relied on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, which the Modi administration has introduced in the Lok Sabha. Drawing from the Bill, all departments have been told to obtain user consent before collecting their information, with an option not to provide sensitive personal data and to withdraw consent. This becomes significant as the Health department, recently, breached the privacy of several people who were under quarantine by releasing their personal details. The Bill identifies financial data, information on caste, tribe, religious and political beliefs as sensitive personal data, along with passwords, sexual orientation, medical records among others. Sudarshana, who was instrumental in the creation of the government’s Covid-19 dashboard, said he will write to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to capitalize on the circular. “We have acted even before the Bill is passed in Parliament. So, we should go ahead and formulate a policy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-moves-to-keep-citizen-data-safe-during-covid-19-pandemic-873401.html
14-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Justify Seva Sindhu registration for travellers: HC to Karnataka govt||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the state government to justify making self-registration on Seva Sindhu portal mandatory for inter-state travellers. The court passed the order on a PIL challenging restrictions imposed by the state authorities at the Tamil Nadu border near Hosur.  A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi was hearing PIL filed by advocate M Indira Priyadharshini. According to the petitioner, the prevailing guidelines by the state government issued on June 8, 2020, self registration on Seva Sindhu portal is mandatory for travellers entering into the state. The petitioner contended that thousands of citizens, who live within a radius of 25 km on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, travel daily on work. They cannot furnish the identity card for obtaining e-pass and those working in unorganised sectors in Karnataka had to face hardship. “The state government will have to justify making mandatory self-registration on Seva Sindhu portal. Under the guidelines issued by the National Executive Committee no power has been conferred on the state government. The state government shall file a statement of objections justifying the action of making self-registration on Seva Sindhu app mandatory,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/justify-seva-sindhu-registration-for-travellers-hc-to-karnataka-govt-873403.html
14-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Farmers attempt to lay siege to Suresh Angadi's office||Farmers opposing the new Land Reforms Act attempted to lay siege to the office of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi near Channamma Circle here on Friday. Farmers raised slogans against the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa government and demanded an immediate roll back of the new law that was detrimental to their interests. Farmers under the banner of Karnataka Rajya Rait Sangha and Hasiru Sene staged sit-in protest at Channamma Circle. They displayed placards and raised slogans against the state government for implementing the law that was against the interest of farmers. Farmers gained entry in the premises of CADA office and attempted to lay siege to the union minister's office, but police prevented them from entering inside. Farmers submitted memorandum to Angadi urging him to impress upon the state government to withdraw the new law that was not in the interest of farmers. They also cautioned to intensify their protest at village-level if the state government failed to withdraw the anti-farmer law. Sangha leaders Chonappa Pujari, Jayashree Gurannavar, Raghavendra Nayak, Ashok Yamakanamaradi and others led the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/farmers-attempt-to-lay-siege-to-suresh-angadis-office-873171.html
14-08-2020||West||In Maharashtra's Gadiwat village, children speak Japanese||A fascination for robotics and technology has pushed students of a Zilla Parishad-run school in a remote village of Maharashtra's Aurangabad district to learn Japanese. Gadiwat village, located 25km from Aurangabad city, may not have access to good roads and other necessary infrastructure, but Internet connectivity has proven to be a boon for children studying at the local Zilla Parishad school. In September last year, the government-run school decided to launch a foreign language programme, under which students from Classes 4 to 8 were asked to choose a language they would like to learn. "Surprisingly, most of them said they were interested in robotics and technology and were keen to learn Japanese," Dadasaheb Navpute, a secondary teacher at the school, told PTI. Despite having no proper course material and professional guidance for teaching Japanese, the school administration managed to gather information from videos and translation applications on the Internet, he said. However, the school has now roped in Sunil Jogdeo, an Aurangabad-based language expert, who has been conducting Japanese classes for free. On learning about the initiative, Jogdeo approached the school with a plan to conduct hour-long evening classes virtually. "I have conducted 20 to 22 sessions since July. Children are dedicated and eager to learn. It is amazing how much they have picked up in this short span," Jogdeo said. Since every student does not have access to a smartphone for the online classes, the school has come up with the concept of 'vishay mitra' (subject friend), under which children who attend the sessions can teach their classmates. "Ever since the online classes with Jogdeo started in July, children have been speaking with each other in Japanese," school headmaster Padmakar Huljute said with delight. The success of the programme is evident when Vaishnavi Kolge, daughter of a farmer-couple, rattles off complete sentences in Japanese to introduce herself. "We first learnt some basic words and now we are gradually learning how to communicate in complete sentences," the Class 8 student said. Meanwhile, education extension officer of Aurangabad Zilla Parishad Ramesh Thakur said there were more than 350 students at the school, of which 70 have been learning Japanese. The initiative was an attempt to give international standard education to children, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtras-gadiwat-village-children-speak-japanese-873092.html
14-08-2020||West||Constable killed, another injured in Naxal attack in Maharashtra||A constable was killed and his colleague injured in a Naxal attack in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Friday morning, police said. A police official said as per preliminary information, the incident took place in Koti village under Bhamaragadh taluka of the Naxal-hit district, around 170km from here in eastern Maharashtra. The two constables had gone to a shop, where they were attacked by an "action team" of Naxals, he said. "One of the constables was martyred, while the other got injured in the incident," he said. The slain constable was identified as Dushyant Nandeshwar and his injured colleague as Vinod Bhosle, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/constable-killed-another-injured-in-naxal-attack-in-maharashtra-873165.html
14-08-2020||West||National Green Tribunal asks 4 firms to pay Rs 286 core for creating 'gas chamber' like condition in Mumbai||The National Green Tribunal has held four companies, including BPCL and HPCL, responsible for creating "gas chamber" like condition" in Mahul, Ambapada and Chembur areas in Mumbai and directed them to pay Rs 286.2 crore for the damaged caused to the environment. The NGT said though there may be many reasons for presence of Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the atmosphere like vehicular emissions, it cannot be denied that Sea Lord Containers Ltd (SLCL), Aegis Logistics Ltd (ALL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) contribute substantially and predominantly to the VOCs in Mahul and Ambapada villages.  “The prolonged exposure to hazardous air pollutants even at miniscule level may weaken the lungs and other organs. Conditions prevailing in the area are sometimes likened to that of 'Gas Chamber',” the tribunal said. It was only because of these reasons that the companies had been taking actions to arrest the fugitive emissions which were particularly noticeable after 2015 and of late the industries have acted on implementation of action plan, the NGT said.  It accepted the computation of fine by the Central Pollution Control Board and directed them to keep the amount in separate accounts. The green panel said: “CPCB has accordingly assessed the values of VOCs emissions based upon the data provided to them by the companies.  “In view of the submissions made by the CPCB and above discussion, the objections of the units regarding use of data prior to control measures and the incorrect application of the formula and methodology are untenable.” The NGT said it was satisfied that all the objections raised by the respondent companies have been duly considered by the CPCB's in-house Technical Committee and the correctness of the conclusion arrived at by the CPCB. The NGT directed HPCL to pay 76.5 crore, BPCL 67.5 crore, AEGIS 142 crore and SLCL Rs 0.2 crore. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said a ten-member joint committee comprising two senior nominees of CPCB, representative of Environment Ministry, state pollution control board, District Magistrate, NEERI, TISS, Mumbai, IIT Mumbai, KEM Hospital, Mumbai and a nominee of Health Secretary Maharashtra, may prepare action plan for restoration measures. “The State PCB will be nodal agency. Plan may, in particular, provide for dealing with health issues of the inhabitants and measures for control of pollution in the area, treating Ambapada, Mahul, Chembur and contiguous area (as may be specified by the Committee) to be Special Air Pollution Control Area for the restoration plan,” the bench said. The joint Committee will be free to take assistance from any other expert/institution and invite the respondents to key meetings.  “It will be open to the Committee to hold virtual meetings. Absence of one or more members for any reason may not hold up the functioning of the Committee if other members feel appropriate to proceed further in such absence. The plan may be executed under the same Committee through the respondents themselves or otherwise,” the bench said. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Mumbai resident Charudatt Koli seeking execution for control of air pollution in the Mahul, Ambapada and Chembur areas in Mumbai particularly by the companies. Major contributors to the air pollution were said to be the logistic services, storing oil, gas and chemical items, as well as oil companies releasing emissions of VOCs during loading, storage and unloading or handling of hazardous chemicals at various stages, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/national-green-tribunal-asks-4-firms-to-pay-rs-286-core-for-creating-gas-chamber-like-condition-in-mumbai-873172.html
14-08-2020||West||Not conducive to reopen temples amid coronavirus crisis, says Bombay High Court||Observing that the current situation was "not at all conducive" to reopening of places of worship, the Bombay High Court on Friday refused to pass any interim order directing that temples in Maharashtra be opened for public. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice P V Tavade said the Covid-19 situation in the state had not improved and people must, therefore, pray at home. The bench was hearing public interest litigation filed through advocate Dipesh Siroya seeking that the Maharashtra government be directed to reopen temples for the public. The state government could open temples and allow only a limited number of worshippers at a time in accordance with its Covid-19 lockdown guidelines, Siroya argued. The bench, however, asked Siroya which temple he considered personally, to be the "biggest?" "The biggest temple is humanity," Siroya said. To which, the bench responded saying, "If you have any love for humanity, do not press for such prayers then." "For the love and safety of humanity, pray at home," it said. The state government pointed out that on August 12, it had submitted a detailed reply before another bench of the high court explaining how Covid-19 cases were still on the rise and that opening temples or any other places of worship was not feasible currently. The state government said it had prohibited public gatherings for celebrations for Gudi Padwa and Janmashtami, and people had been asked to pray at home. When Siroya pointed out that several other states had reopened some places of worship, and that the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra was improving, the bench said, it did not think the situation had improved. "If the situation improves, this temple of justice will be the first to open its doors to the public. The current situation is not at all conducive to opening doors (of places of worship) to the public," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-conducive-to-reopen-temples-amid-coronavirus-crisis-says-bombay-high-court-873176.html
14-08-2020||West||Will hold virtual hearings on RTI appeals amid pandemic: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation||The Mumbai civic body on Friday told the Bombay High Court it would conduct virtual hearing on first and second appeals filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act so that applicants do not have to appear physically to argue their matters amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Yamuna Parekh, appearing for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S P Tavade, that circulars have been issued stating that all the first and second appellate officers will conduct hearings on the RTI appeals via video conferencing. "This would be a temporary arrangement given the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the situation improves, physical hearing would resume," Parekh told the court. The court had last month directed the corporation to ensure that its offices, hearing first and second appeals filed under the RTI Act, are provided with video-conferencing facilities. The direction was given on a public interest litigation filed by advocate Mayur Faria, claiming that the BMC was insisting on people to appear before it physically to argue their first appeals filed under the RTI instead of holding it via video-conferencing. Faria said that in view of the prevalent pandemic, theBMCshould hear matters virtually as it would not be possible or might be risky for a person to travel to the concerned ward office. Faria cited an example of an appeal filed by him before the BMC's A ward and said the executive engineer of the ward was now insisting that he appear before him for the hearing. The court on Friday accepted the BMCs decision and disposed of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-hold-virtual-hearings-on-rti-appeals-amid-pandemic-brihanmumbai-municipal-corporation-873231.html
14-08-2020||West||GoAir appoints Kaushik Khona as CEO||Wadia Group-promoted GoAir on Friday again appointed Kaushik Khona as Chief Executive Officer in place of Vinay Dube, as the struggling budget carrier changed its CEO for the third time in less than two years. Khona was at the helm of GoAir from April 2009 to June 2011. His appointment also comes at a time when the carrier is facing strong headwinds in business, mainly due to slump in passenger demand and flight operations being hit by the coronavirus pandemic. A qualified resolution professional and an independent director, Khona has more than 32 years of corporate experience, according to a statement. "Vinay Dube has ceased to be in the employment of GoAir with immediate effect and hence ceases to be the CEO of the company. "The Nominations & Remuneration Committee and the Board met today and have appointed Kaushik Khona as CEO with immediate effect," GoAir said in the statement on Friday. GoAir said that his corporate professional experience had also served the Wadia Group for almost four years from 2008 to 2011, including as the airline's CEO. Dube joined GoAir as an advisor in August 2019 and was elevated as the CEO in February 2020. Prior to him, former Easyjet executive Cornelis Vrieswijk was at the helm and quit in February 2019. For the one-year period starting from February 2019, the airline's promoter Jeh Wadia officiated as the CEO. Vrieswijk was brought in to head the airline in 2018 after its then CEO Wolfgang Prock-Schauer joined bigger rival IndiGo as its Chief Operating Officer. In July, GoAir flew 79,000 people and accounted for 3.8 per cent of the total domestic air passenger traffic. "After his successful stay at Wadia Group, he has also turnaround several businesses at Dunlop tyre group including at diverse geographies in Germany, UK and India. He also successfully carried out extensive corporate restructuring for a shipping venture and a financial and business restructuring for a German-India JV in renewable energy," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goair-appoints-kaushik-khona-as-ceo-873233.html
14-08-2020||West||Widespread rains lash Gujarat, more likely to continue; 13 NDRF teams deployed||Thirteen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed across Gujarat as widespread rainfall inundated several parts of the state on Friday and the showers are likely to continue for the next few days as per the regional weather forecasting centre. At least 225 roads, including 12 state highways, were closed following a heavy spell of rains in many parts of the state in the last two days, the Gujarat government said in a statement on Friday. "We have deployed 13 NDRF teams across the state in view of the heavy rainfall forecast. District administrations are ready to tackle any situation," Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Pankaj Kumar said. On Thursday night, the NDRF and Morbi district administration rescued six villagers, who were stuck in a causeway on a seasonal river near Amran village in the district, Kumar said. Several rivers across the state are swelling due to the inflow of water. Many residential areas of Surat city and adjoining areas were flooded following a heavy spell of rain since morning. As many as 100 people stranded in low-lying areas such as Parvat Patiya and Puna Gam of Surat city were shifted to safer places on Friday, an official said. According to the government release, seven talukas of Surat district received highest rainfall in the state between 6 am and 2 pm. Mangrol tehsil of Surat district received the highest rainfall of 188 mm between 6 am and 2 pm, followed by Kamrej at 126 mm, Umerpada at 117 mm, Surat city at 105 mm, Olpad at 98 mm, Mandvi at 96 mm and Bardoli at 67 mm. Heavy rains also lashed other parts of the state, including Gir-Somnath, Junagadh and Jamnagar districts of Saurashtra; Bharuch, Narmada and Tapi of south Gujarat and Botad, Chhotaudepur and Vadodara of central Gujarat. "Gujarat has already received 70 per cent of its total rainfall as on today. It was 40 per cent a week back. Thanks to the low-pressure system, Gujarat has received widespread rainfall in the last 24 hours," said Jayanta Sarkar, director of state meteorological centre. "Widespread rains are expected to continue in the next five days, with heavy showers in several parts of the state on Friday and Saturday," he said, adding that fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea due to rough conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/widespread-rains-lash-gujarat-more-likely-to-continue-13-ndrf-teams-deployed-873253.html
14-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Ganpati special trains to start from Independence Day||Coinciding with the Independence Day festivities, the Indian Railways would run special trains to the Konkan region for the Ganesh festival. The 11-day festival starts on 22 August on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 1 September on Anant Chaturdashi. The coastal Konkan belt and the golden triangle of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, is in a way the focal point of celebrations in the state is with the maximum public celebrations being held here. Lakhs of people travel from Mumbai to Konkan destinations during the festival. Last week, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had asked Indian Railways for Ganpati specials but then put the decision on hold. However, Friday, it gave permission to start booking and launch special services. The Central Railway and WesternIt is becoming a difficult choice for the MVA partners and there are several issues like people's demand, people's opposition, and the threat of Covid-19 spread. Both, Central Railway and Western Railway accordingly made plans to operate special trains from 11 August-5 September. The trains were to run from Chhatrapati Shivaji MaharajTerminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on CR and Bandra Terminus and Mumbai Central on WR. Nearly, 200-odd services would be run by CR and WR. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation is running buses from the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) districts which include Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The passengers would have to get their Covid-19 swab tests done. The financial capital of Mumbai and its suburbs have a close connection with the south Konkan districts Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, as more than 20 lakh people from the twin districts work and stay in Mumbai. This comes as an exception to the existing guidelines as inter-district travel in Maharashtra except for the Mumbai metropolitan region is not allowed. Those who desire to travel need to obtain e-passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ganpati-special-trains-to-start-from-independence-day-873269.html
14-08-2020||West||Maharashtra's first tele-ICU unit starts||As Covid-19 cases mount, Maharashtra's first tele-ICU facility was inaugurated on Friday coinciding with the Independence Day festivities. Maharashtra's public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope inaugurated the first tele-ICU facility at a sub-district hospital of Bhiwandi in Thane district. Similar facilities will be opened in Akola, Jalna, Jalgaon, Solapur and Aurangabad that will be located in medical colleges or government hospitals. "This will help in reducing the number of deaths because of Covid-19," Tope said after the online inauguration. The condition of the patient could be checked via a monitor attached to each bed by expert doctors who would then suggest the best line of treatment. The technology has been provided by Mediascape Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-first-tele-icu-unit-starts-873295.html
14-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar reviews Covid-19 situation in Pune||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the Pune district administration to ensure timely medical treatment to coronavirus patients. Pawar, who is also the district guardian minister, chaired a review meeting with senior officials to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. The deputy chief minister noted that plasma therapy was providing relief to critical patients and the government has also provided necessary infrastructure for it. It is necessary to inform people about the benefits of plasma therapy and ensure timely treatment to patients, Pawar told officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ajit-pawar-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-pune-873354.html
14-08-2020||West||It's family matter: Rohit Pawar on NCP chief rebuking Parth Pawar||Two days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar censured his grandnephew Parth Pawar for seeking a CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, Parth's cousin Rohit on Friday termed the episode as a "family matter". While Parth is the son of Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Rohit, MLA from Karjat-Jamkhed, is son of Rajendra Pawar, another nephew of the NCP president. "It is a family matter. Saheb (Sharad Pawar) has made comments on it, it is a family matter," Rohit Pawar told reporters in Ahmednagar, refusing to say anything more. Sharad Pawar had said on Wednesday that he gave no importance to Parth's demand for a CBI probe. Rohit, however, spoke about "politicization" of Rajput's alleged suicide against the backdrop of coming elections in Bihar, the actor's home state. "Today, news came that a Maharashtra BJP leader will oversee the BJP's election preparations in Bihar," he said, apparently referring to Devendra Fadnavis. "The BJP had been raising the issue (Rajput's death). The issue was being politicized from the beginning and now there is clarity (about why it was politicized)," the NCP MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/its-family-matter-rohit-pawar-on-ncp-chief-rebuking-parth-pawar-873360.html
