15-08-2020||First Edit||Make caste census data public||The Karnataka government does not find itself in an enviable position with the High Court directing it to make its stand clear on the Social and Educational Survey-2015, in other words the caste census, conducted when Siddaramaiah was chief minister. The census has become a hot potato that no government wants to handle as it brings into question the numerical dominance of certain communities that have traditionally held sway over electoral politics in the state. While the avowed purpose of the survey was to identify the contours of the backward communities to tailor programmes for their welfare, Siddaramaiah was forced to shelve the report after some leaders of prominent communities accused the government of fudging the figures with an eye on the 2018 Assembly polls. His successors, H D Kumaraswamy and B S Yediyurappa, too, put the report in cold storage. Caste census is not new in India, though the last such exercise was held under the British in 1931. The caste column was discontinued from the census after Independence, in tune with the country’s secular character. However, there was also a need to ensure social justice, as the Constitution mandated. Hence, from 1961, the survey included SC/STs but completely ignored OBCs. Subsequently, after a discussion in Parliament, the Manmohan Singh government included caste in the 2011 census. This report, too, was withheld for a few years, indicating how caste numbers have become a difficult issue to handle. Karnataka invested over Rs 150 crore on the survey. It is unfortunate that the report is not being utilised to ensure the ends of social justice only because its findings may be inconvenient to certain powerful communities. A recent request by the Department of Planning and Statistics to access a portion of the information for the “purpose of sustainable development goal indicators”, was also rejected by the government. According to the survey, which was partially leaked, but never officially released, SC/STs, Muslims and Kurubas now constitute close to 50% of the population and outnumber Lingayats and Vokkaligas, who have dominated the political scene in the state by the virtue of their perceived numbers. Leaders of these communities fear that they may be reduced to playing second fiddle if the report is officially released or accepted. The government, on its part, is apprehensive that certain sub-sects, whose population has increased, may demand a bigger share in the reservation pie. With caste politics coming to the fore, the very purpose for which the survey was commissioned, that is, to empower the disadvantaged sections of the society, is lost. No matter what the politics of it is, the data that has been collected must be made public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/make-caste-census-data-public-873469.html
15-08-2020||In Perspective||Promises and pitfalls of liberal education||We may trace current interest in liberal education in our country to private initiatives among some groups of teachers and professionals at the beginning of the present century. This interest coincided with the liberalisation of our economy and the decline of our public universities. Delhi University was the first public university to experiment with a four-year undergraduate programme based on the US system of higher education. Just within a year, following the UGC directive, the programme had to be rolled back in 2014. Against this backdrop, the importance given to liberal education in the draft National Education Policy (NEP) 2019 assumes considerable significance. It is noteworthy that the idea was mooted amongst groups of teachers and professionals who had had an association with or were alumni of our leading engineering and management institutions like the IITs and the IIMs and had some acquaintance with the US system of higher education. The core team of Indira J Parikh, the founding President of FLAME (Foundation For Liberal And Management Education), now FLAME University, Pune, consisted of former professors and alumni of IIM Ahmedabad. And the founders of Ashoka University, Sonipat, are all products of the institutions mentioned above or the US system of higher education. Thus, we can safely say that the idea sprang from the realisation of the inadequacy of training being provided in our top engineering and management institutions that failed to produce rounded individuals. Though they made excellent managers, technicians, and scientists, their perspective was narrow, and they were ignorant of our culture and civilization. The solution lay, it was felt, in broadening the base of our professional education that, besides vocational and skill-based training, would give students grounding in ethics and our culture and society. "Liberal education" seemed to be the answer to remedy the situation. This century has been described as a post-industrial society that will need people with a wide variety of qualities. Only a liberal education can produce people who are proficient in their job and are also mindful of cultural differences and equipped for the 21st century's challenges. Now, there are around a dozen private universities in our country that offer programmes in liberal education. It is heartening to note that fascination for skill-based technical and vocational education is on the wane, and the upwardly mobile middle classes no longer seem to be opposed to liberal arts education. However, its reach remains limited to the elite sections of our society. The idea of a broad-based education that duly recognizes the importance of liberal arts is not entirely a novelty in our country. The Radhakrishnan Commission Report written in 1949 said, “If we wish to bring about a savage upheaval in our society, a raksasa raj, all that we need to do is to give vocational and technical education and starve the spirit. We will have a number of scientists without conscience, technicians without taste who find a void within themselves, a moral vacuum and a desperate need to substitute something, anything, for their lost endeavour and purpose”. In subsequent years, independent India's higher education came to be characterised by the binary of general education in the arts and sciences on the one hand, and professional training on the other, and attempts were made to bring liberal education elements in institutions of professional education. Four points deserve particular attention while pondering over the prospects of liberal education in our country. Firstly, we need to see that our experiment in liberal education doesn’t become a blind imitation of the US system. This imitation seems to be a real possibility. Thus, while the Americans might find the idea of having a Centre For North American Studies on their campuses unexciting, we feel fascinated by the idea of having a Centre For South Asian Studies on our campuses! Aakash Singh Rathore derides Ashoka University for lauding itself as ‘an ivy-league university in India’ and for hiring faculty who are out-and-out ‘mimic men’.         Secondly, practical considerations warrant that courses in humanities and social sciences be tied in with professional courses. However, a note of caution is needed here – any attempt at making them an appendage of vocational education will result in the instrumentalization of liberal education. This instrumentalisation may be an imminent possibility if academic leadership is tilted in favour of a techno-managerial approach that focuses on objectivity, scientism, quantification, deliverables, performance, etc. Instrumentalisation will defeat the very purpose of liberal education. And applying the yardsticks of professional courses and natural sciences and straight jacketing will kill the soul of humanities and social sciences. Thirdly, if the record on the role of the State in education is anything to go by, we may safely say that academic governance in our country remains deeply influenced by the ideological preferences of the government of the day. Our institutions of higher education have fought against arbitrary dictates passed by regulatory bodies. In recent years our campuses have come under siege, and our leading universities have been branded as "anti-national". It is precisely the liberal and critical nature of these institutions and their refusal to become subservient to the government of the day that is behind the government's discomfort with these places of higher learning. Finally, the nature of the relationship between philanthropists and academia will probably make or break the liberal education project in institutions that started with philanthropic initiatives. Are our great philanthropists willing to put their trust in the academic community?  And are some of our great teachers willing to do mediation and provide leadership to these institutions? We academics, needless to say, need to display the virtues of credibility, integrity, and independence to earn the trust of philanthropists! (The writer teaches courses in Basic Spanish and Political Science at FLAME University, Pune)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/promises-and-pitfalls-of-liberal-education-873471.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: 163 test positive, 1 death in Mandya||With one more death, the total number of people who have succumbed to the infection has increased to 32 in Mandya district. The district reported 163 positive cases on Friday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 3,179. This includes 63 from Mandya, nine from Srirangapatna, 22 from Pandavapura, 24 from Malavalli, 34 from Maddur, six from KR Pet six, five from Nagamangala and one from other districts. All are being treated at the district and taluk hospitals and Covid Care Centres. In all, 1,759 people have been discharged. There are 1,387 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-163-test-positive-1-death-in-mandya-873432.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar sees 55 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||The district has reported two deaths and 55 fresh cases on Friday. A 64-year-old man of Chamarajanagar town and a 55-year-old man of Gundlupet taluk have succumbed. A total of 30 patients died until now but, as per the district administration, 18 died of Covid and 12 died of non-Covid.  The total positive cases have increased to 1,487 and the district has 410 active cases. The total discharges are 1,047. As many as 68 persons were discharged on Friday. Out of 55 cases, 14 are from Chamarajanagar taluk, 24 from Kollegal and seven each from Hanur and three cases reported from Yalandur taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-sees-55-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-873435.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 deaths, 291 fresh Covid-19 cases in Mysuru||The district recorded 10 more Covid-19 deaths and 291 positive cases on Friday. With this, the death toll has increased to 284 and total positive cases to 9,280. The district has a total of 3,166 active cases. All the deceased were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). As many as 412 persons recovered and discharged on Friday. Until now, a total of 5,830 patients have recovered. Of 291 fresh cases, 161 are contacts of infected, 71 ILI, three SARI and 55 persons have travel history. The Health department authorities have observed a total of 49,845 persons. While 22,300 completed isolation period of 14 days, 24,379 are under isolation. The district administration has declared 92 fresh containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-deaths-291-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-mysuru-873436.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KRS reaches 124 feet, expected to fill today||The Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, is just half-feet short of reaching the maximum level of 124.80 ft, as on Friday evening. The water level as on August 14 was 124.25 ft. The dam is expected to reach the maximum level on Saturday morning, according to Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials. Due to the copious rainfall in the Cauvery basin, the dam has received 16 ft water in the last 10 days. The inflow, as on Friday evening was 10,941 cusecs and 3,864 cusecs outflow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krs-reaches-124-feet-expected-to-fill-today-873443.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||RTO, Treasury office sealed down||The Health department sealed down Regional Transport Office (Mysuru East) and the office of the District Treasury, as a few employees tested positive for Covid-19, on Friday. While a superintendent working at the RTO tested positive, an employee at the Treasury Office tested positive. Both the offices were sealed down for sanitisation purpose.    An RTO said the superintendent was on leave for last one week as he had developed health issues. The offices will be reopened on Monday as Saturday and Sunday are holidays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rto-treasury-office-sealed-down-873446.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘SDPI, PFI should be banned’||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar alleged that the SDPI played a major role in the violence at DG Halli of Bengaluru. “There are demands for a ban on SDPI and PFI. I endorse them,” he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, there is information about the SDPI involved in the violence. “Thus, many want to ban the outfits. It is the right time to take a firm decision on the ban. The Home Minister would discuss the issue with the Union government and would take a decision,” Suresh Kumar said. There are plans to enact a law on the lines of Uttar Pradesh, where the leaders and office-bearers of the political parties or organisation are held accountable for the incident and the compensation is awarded to affected persons for the loss of property.  There are High Court and Supreme Court directions in this regard. The courts have clarified that any damage to public property during a bandh call, has to be borne by the organisations which give a call for the bandh, he replied to a query. Commenting on reopening of educational institutions, the minister said, it is not possible to open any school and college before August 31. We are awaiting the directions of the Union government. Once it is available, a decision would be announced, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sdpi-pfi-should-be-banned-873454.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Jain Foundation hosts digital Paryushan from today||Jain Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation devoted to spread the core values of Jainism, is hosting a special digital event to commemorate Paryushan, an important Jain festival from Saturday. The programme can be viewed on ‘The Jain Foundation App’ from August 15 to 22. During the annual event of Paryushan, Jains increase their level of spiritual intensity through tools of fasting and prayer as well as meditation, said Ramesh Kumar Shah, founder of RK Trust, a philanthropic arm of RK Group. The programme commences with a live darshan at 7 am, followed by Pravachan at 9 am and 3.30 pm by Deepak Bardoli, followed by Bhakti at 8.30 pm and Aarti at 9.45 pm on all eight days. It will be streamed live from Adani Shantigram Jain Temple, Shantigram, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, said Neel Shah, founder of Aura and AGM, SPR Constructions. The Jain Foundation is the brain child of Ramesh Kumar Shah and co-created by Neel Shah. The Jain Foundation App can be downloaded on www.jainfoundation.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jain-foundation-hosts-digital-paryushan-from-today-873458.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||In a first, Karnataka launches crop survey app: K S Eshwarappa||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa claimed that for the first time in the country, the government launched crop survey app that gives clear picture of the crops sown and the type of irrigation adopted for the same across all the farm lands in the state. He was speaking at Independence Day programme after unfurling national flag at DAR grounds in the city on Saturday. He said the vision of the project is to be the means to create one single, verfied source of truth for farmer and crop data in the state that can be utilised by multiple departments and other agents in the eco-system. This would ensure consistency in records across all databases like RTC etc. The goal is to ensure that all the systems have access to accurate and up-to-date farmer, crop data in a timely manner. He appealed to farmers to utilise the app and upload the accurate details for the survey. He said Esuru village in Shikaripur taluk  has the legacy of declaring independence first in the country. Five freedom fighters were martyred in 1942. In this way, Shivamogga district has occupied a key spot in the freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-a-first-karnataka-launches-crop-survey-app-k-s-eshwarappa-873621.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ban organisations engaged in anti-social activities: Basavaraj Horatti||In the wake right-wing activists' demand for a ban on SDPI and PFI with regard to Bengaluru violence, JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti on Saturday said that there is nothing wrong in banning any organisation engaged in anti-social activities if it is found guilty after the investigation. "Violence in Bengaluru is due to the failure of the government, as it would not have happened if precautions were taken when there was information about the planning for that incident. Such violence has become a black-spot for the state. Now, it has become like digging the well after the fire erupted," he said. He added that political blame-game even during Covid-19 situation and violence is very unfortunate. After a thorough investigation into the Bengaluru violence incident, life imprisonment should be given to those who are guilty. Mere votes have become important for politicians today, and values are lost in politics. State and people's interests should be the priority for politicians, while votes and party should come next. Politics should be done only during elections, and all parties should work together in other times for the welfare of people, Horatti noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-organisations-engaged-in-anti-social-activities-basavaraj-horatti-873622.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Vijayanagar will become new district by 2021: Anand Singh||Forest Minister Anand Singh exuded confidence that Vijayanagar will become a new district by 2021.  Speaking after hoisting a 150-feet height tricolour to mark the Independence Day at 6:15 am at Rotary Circle here on Saturday, he said we got Independence after the sacrifice of several freedom fighters. After Vijayanagar becomes a new district, nation's big national flag will be unfurled at the municipal ground here, he told.  The minister has contributed Rs 50 lakh to build a flag post at Rotary Circle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayanagar-will-become-new-district-by-2021-anand-singh-873624.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gold ornaments of deceased person returned after family approaches police||Gold ornaments of a woman who passed away during treatment were allegedly returned by a hospital after the family members approached jurisdictional police on Friday evening. The woman, identified as Parvati from Ramdurg, had been admitted in a private hospital near old PB Road for treatment on Thursday evening and she succumbed on Friday. While taking the body for last rites, family members inquired with the hospital staff for the gold ornaments, but they expressed ignorance and denied having knowledge. Despite repeated pleas by family members, hospital staff did not budge. In the evening family members of deceased approached jurisdictional police after which hospital staff returned mangalsutra and earrings of the deceased, weighing about 20 grams. Jurisdictional Market police said no complaint was filed as hospital returned the gold ornaments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-ornaments-of-deceased-person-returned-after-family-approaches-police-873626.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi SP tests Covid-19 positive||Belagavi Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi has tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. In a message, Nimbargi informed that he has tested Covid-19 positive during random testing and additional superintendent of police will take care of day-to-day policing. He has asked those who have come in his contact to get tested themselves. Earlier in the day, Nimbargi had participated in the independence day programme along with Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and other officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-sp-tests-covid-19-positive-873651.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Handloom, silk products to be available online soon'||On the corporate model of Priyadarshini handlooms which is selling handloom and silk products, five high-tech stalls will soon be opened in Bengaluru on a pilot basis, said Textiles and Minority Welfare Minister Srimanth Patil. Speaking to reporters after hoisting the National flag on the occasion of Independence Day here on Saturday, he stated Priyadarshini stalls have been neglected. A private agency has been tasked to identify locations to establish stalls by giving them a modern touch and to set up stalls. If this project gets success, it will be extended across the state, he told. In order to make handlooms, famous silk sarees and other products available online, a meeting with the officials of Flipkart and Amazon has already been held. A Memorandum of Understanding will soon be entered with Amazon by giving a final shape to the discussions and the products will be made available online to the customers. Cloths to be prepared by skilled weavers get demand with online sell, Patil opined. The government has decided to confer annual award to five skilled weavers every year. The award carries cash prize and a citation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/handloom-silk-products-to-be-available-online-soon-873762.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) leaders launch protest against Land amendment Act||Opposing amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, APMC and Labour Acts, the JD(S), led by party supremo H D Deve Gowda, launched a protest in Hassan on Friday. All the party MLAs, leaders and workers gathered near the Hemavathy statue in the city, and took out a peaceful march till the Deputy Commissioner’s office and staged a protest. Speaking on the occasion, Deve Gowda said, “The protest, which has been launched in Hassan, will be held across the state. We will not sit quietly hereafter. The experts have been advising not to venture out due to the fear of spread of Coronavirus. Who knows when the death will come? We will not allow to loot the lands of the farmers. I will respond to their problems and stage a protest in front of the Vidhana Soudha. Let them arrest me,” he challenged. The party state president H K Kumaraswamy, MLAs A T Ramaswamy, K S Lingesh, H D Revanna, C N Balakrishna, K M Shivalingegowda and MP Prajwal Revanna addressed the party workers, braving the rains. Memorandum presented Later, a delegation led by Deve Gowda, presented a memorandum to the Chief Minister and the Governor through Deputy Commissioner R Girish, demanding to withdraw the amendments which will affect the farming and labour sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-leaders-launch-protest-against-land-amendment-act-873440.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress leaders' provocative speeches resulted in attack: A H Vishwanath||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath slammed Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and former Speaker Ramesh Kumar and said that their speeches during the protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is responsible for the riots and arson in DJ Halli and KG Halli of Bengaluru. Vishwanath was reacting to the attack on the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy over a defamatory response to a post. The Congress leaders are playing politics and their MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan is visiting the houses of the people who attacked the MLA’s house. No Congress leader has visited the house of Srinivasamurthy. Congress and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) are playing politics in the issue, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-leaders-provocative-speeches-resulted-in-attack-a-h-vishwanath-873457.html
15-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Who is he to blame Congress, DK Shivakumar asks of Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Saturday launched a tirade against Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai for blaming the Pulakeshinagar riots on his party. “The Home Minister has blamed the internal rift in the Congress. Who is he to say that? If there is any internal rift, it’s in the BJP,” Shivakumar told reporters after hoisting the national flag at a party event on the occasion of Independence Day. The BJP government is trying to cover-up the fact that it was one of their party workers whose social media post led to violence, Shivakumar said.“In three hours, they could’ve provided the required protection. By allowing the incident to happen, they’re trying to paint a caste picture,” he said, referring to the BJP’s attempt to portray the riots as an attack on Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy who is a Dalit. “Akhanda is our MLA. The entire party is with him and we’re asking the government to take strict action against those involved (in rioting that destroyed his house). We will cooperate,” he added. Shivakumar also charged that authorities were trying to pressurize Murthy and the party’s councillors in giving statements in a particular way. “We won’t sit quiet and we will not tolerate this.” He also said that the state witnessed communal riots whenever the BJP came to power. “Congress is inevitable for India. Only the Congress can save and unite the nation at a time when there’s no peace, the Constitution is under threat and people are fighting for secularism,” Shivakumar said. “I’m confident that in the next election, Congress people will hoist the tricolour on Red Fort.” Shivakumar expressed regret for addressing Bommai in the singular while speaking to reporters. “I have respect for Bommai and the position of the Home Minister that he occupies. It was not on purpose that I referred to him in the singular. It happened inadvertently during the flow of words,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/who-is-he-to-blame-congress-dk-shivakumar-asks-of-basavaraj-bommai-873667.html
15-08-2020||Main Article||Covid-19 and silent suffering||Death comes suddenly for only about 10% of people; for the rest, it arrives as a slow, progressive deterioration or illness which allows for some healing of the survivors’ wounds. But in Covid-19, death comes in the cruellest fashion – sudden and without any healing touch or last hug from a loved one. Even the last rituals are denied here. This leads to what in medical parlance is talked of as pathological grief where normal healing doesn’t happen. A support system has to be offered right now–not only for the next-of-kin to embrace acceptance and closure but also for the dignity of the dead. We can offer more sophistry, technology and advanced care but this is meaningless without the healing touch and the personal hand for a fellow human being in distress. We have allowed the global healthcare system to deteriorate to an entity that cures many diseases but ignores human suffering completely, and unfortunately, adds to suffering significantly. Health is defined as “complete physical, social and mental wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.”  If the treatment offered to a disease does cure it, but leaves the person a nervous wreck unable to function, and if it leaves the family financially destroyed, even denying education to the next generation, is it improving health? On the other hand, is it not actually destroying health? The four fundamental principles of medical ethics are autonomy, beneficence (doing good), non-maleficence (not doing harm) and distributive justice. In the context of Covid-19, we have not had a lot of opportunities to discuss these much but even amidst all our busy activities, it would be good to take a good look at them. Someday when you are ill, you are likely to be taken to a hospital. Ethically, nobody has a right to do anything to your body without your expressed permission. That is theory. As Snenscheut said, “In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice, but in practice, there is”. In the real healthcare world, once you are on a trolley, you are likely to be wheeled into room after room, from lab to imaging room to specialist after specialist, and you become an insignificant entity in the whole exercise. If you have to have an operation, your consent may be sought; but if you are a bit drowsy at that time, as it is very likely in current practice, then the system may proceed with the consent from your next of kin. So, some violation of autonomy happens routinely in healthcare in the most advanced systems. In one report from Britain, they discovered that the elderly who were admitted for a short-term medical problem were routinely catheterised (to empty the urinary bladder into a bag, so that they do not go to the toilet to urinate). This is because there were not enough nurses or support staff to accompany the seniors to the toilet! The result--independent people became dependent patients and usually never returned to a pre hospitalisation life. If those are sins of commission, in India we have more of sins of omission. This routine violation of your right over yourself is amplified many times in Covid-19. First, autonomy is restricted because understandably some such restriction is essential for the greater common good. This means separation from family, possibly never to see them again. The family is denied the right for a final hug before a cremation. This violation, to a large extent, is justified because mankind needs to be protected. But at least the healthcare system needs to be cautious that such a violation is happening and needs to minimise its impact. We cannot be oblivious to such monumental excesses. Beneficence and non-maleficence are rather obvious principles of ‘doing good’ and ‘not doing harm’. While isolation would be ethically acceptable, it is vitally important to ensure that the medical system minimises harm. And in this context, we should not be thinking only about treating the disease; there is no cure for the disease anyway. We should be thinking about the well-being of the person and for this, mental and social well-being are vitally important. If healthcare is physical, social and mental well-being, doctors and nurses need to be educated in scientific management of pain, breathlessness, delirium and other manifestations of Covid-19. This would have happened automatically if medical and nursing education had included palliative care; but it is only from 2019 that at least a part of it was included in the medical curriculum. And apart from doctors and nurses, certainly, a category of healthcare workers are needed to look after the social and mental well-being. The least we can do is to find out how the patient feels and to connect the person over a smartphone with relatives periodically. And also identify anxiety and depression that may become so bad that it may have gone on to a state of a disease needing medical treatment. The principle of justice demands fair allocation of available resources including the government kitty and the time of healthcare professionals. But fortunately, giving attention to wellbeing is not expensive. Services of medical social workers or counsellors with some online training will cost a fraction of what it costs to engage doctors. And it will actually reduce healthcare costs by freeing up the time of doctors and nurses to a significant extent. The World Health Assembly resolution 73 on 19 May 2020, asked all member countries to include palliative care in their Covid-19 treatment plans. We seem to have been too busy to give much thought to this. But for relieving the suffering of those infected with the virus and for the mental health of the survivors, the bereaved and of the next generation, a policy decision is needed to follow the World Health Assembly resolution, to give basic online palliative care education to Covid-19 treating healthcare professionals and to make essential medicines available. (Dr Rajagopal is Chairman, Pallium India, and Director, Trivandrum Institute of Palliative Sciences, a WHO Collaborating Centre on Access to Pain Relief. Rattanani is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covid-19-and-silent-suffering-873470.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Lit Fest 2020: Writers speak on their beginning||The panellists of the session ‘Writers on Their Beginnings’ of the Mysuru Literature Festival 2020 was a mix of varied cultures and ethnicities of the sub-continent. V V Ganeshananthan, spoke from Minneapolis in the United States, is the author of the novel ‘Love Marriage’, which was longlisted for the Orange Prize and named one of Washington Post Book World’s Best of 2008.  She teaches fiction and nonfiction writing in the MFA programme at the University of Minnesota. She is a Sri Lankan Tamil. Preeta Samarasan, who spoke from France, is a Malaysian Tamil. She is the author of the novel ‘Evening Is The Whole Day’ as well as of numerous short stories and essays. ‘Shelf Awareness’ Soniah Kamal, who spoke from Atlanta, in the United States, is an award-winning novelist, essayist, public speaker and a lifetime member of Jane Austen Society of North America (JASNA). Her novel ‘Unmarriageable: Pride & Prejudice in Pakistan’ is featured on PBS Books. ‘Publishers Weekly’ hails it a ‘must-read for devout Austenites’. ‘Shelf Awareness’ says, if Jane Austen lived in modern-day Pakistan, this is the version of ‘Pride and Prejudice’, she might have written’.  Tania James, who spoke from Washington, DC, the United States, is a US-born Malayali. She is the author of ‘The Tusk That Did the Damage’, ‘Aerogrammes and Other Stories’, and ‘Atlas of Unknowns’. Tusk was named a Best Book of 2015 by The San Francisco Chronicle, The Guardian, and NPR, and was shortlisted for the International Dylan Thomas Prize.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-lit-fest-2020-writers-speak-on-their-beginning-873430.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||Not decided about Dasara, says Somashekar||No discussion has been held on the celebration of Mysuru Dasara, as the state is reeling under Covid-19 and floods, said District in charge Minister S T Somashekar. The government’s priority is to tackle Covid-19 and to compensate the flood-hit victims. It has not yet decided about the Dasara celebrations. “I have not discussed with the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about it,” Somashekar said and added that it would be discussed in the upcoming session. Bengaluru clash Commenting on the recent violence in Bengaluru, the minister said, that the state government has taken the issue seriously and is planning to confiscate the property of the people, who damaged public property during the clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/not-decided-about-dasara-says-somashekar-873437.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||Constituency-wise meeting to assess damages, says S T Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Friday said that he will conduct constituency-wise meetings to assess the damages of property and crops due to rains and floods in the district. He was speaking to reporters after holding a discussion with people’s representatives and officials about the damages at the Zilla Panchayat. The minister said respective MLAs and tahsildars have provided the information about the damages due to floods and rain.  “I will visit all taluks in the coming weeks to assess the loss,” he said. The loss due to natural calamity is yet to be ascertained and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed to submit a detailed report. The survey will be conducted soon after the rain subsides, he said. A few MLAs complained that funds announced for last year’s flood damages are yet to be released. The minister assured of taking measures to release funds. MLC A H Vishwanath said the district is facing floods continuously since three years and there is a need for a permanent solution. He asked the officials about the measures taken for a permanent solution.Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said though the district administration is ready to provide land to relocate people from flood-affected areas, they are not ready to move. Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan said the problems of flood are intense on the banks of River Kapila and construction of a floodwall at vantage places will be permanent solution. MLAs G T Devegowda, H P Manjunath, Ashvin Kumar, MLC R Dharmasena, ZP chief B C Parimala Shyam, SP C B Ryshyanth and Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/constituency-wise-meeting-to-assess-damages-says-s-t-somashekar-873450.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||Eye problems in kids on rise due to excessive use of e-gadgets||For this 12-year-old girl, the use of electronic gadgets, particularly mobile phone, for a little longer duration due to Covid-19 crisis, costed high. She is now diagnosed with digital eye strain. Like her, many children are suffering from several health issues due to excessive use of gadgets since March. According to medical professionals, eye-related issues have turned into a major problem among children and youth, due to excessive use of e-gadgets. Limited use of gadgets is only solution for healthy eyes, they said. Initially, the girl complained of headache and blurred vision for a week. On examination she did not have any refractive error. She was advised to limit her screen time. She was prescribed some eye drops and anti-migraine meditation. But her complaints persisted and she is diagnosed of digital eye strain. She is advised to refrain from using computers, mobiles, other digital devices and reading for long, for a few days. The child’s mother said the girl was not addicted either to laptops or mobile phones before the outbreak of Covid-19. “My daughter started using mobile phone for nearly six hours a day during the lockdown to practice art and craft. She suffered eye problem due to excessive use of e-gadgets,” she said. “She used to reduce brightness and concentrate on the phone screen. She suffered blurred vision after she started watching online classes. She had problems before the online classes commenced. As parents, we want them to be occupied and allow them to use gadgets. It is a big mistake,” she says. An ophthalmologist in a private clinic said such cases are on the rise. “Earlier, our patients were people above 40 years. Now youths and children are complaining of eye problems. The cases were more during lockdown. Earlier, we used to get hardly 10 cases a day. Now, it has almost doubled,” he said. According to a doctor with KR Hospital, children using e-gadgets is not a good thing. But, due to certain reasons, it is inevitable. Gadgets should be used cautiously. Keep them at an arm’s distance. Parents should keep a watch on children to avoid suffering due to acute health issues in future, he said. The doctor advises the students who attend online classes, to use laptops rather than smart phones. Eyes suffer strain due to continuous use of gadgets and users must take a break in between.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/eye-problems-in-kids-on-rise-due-to-excessive-use-of-e-gadgets-873451.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||Child marriage: Officials rescue girl at Didagi village||The officials rescued a girl from child marriage at Didagi village here on Friday. A wedding was arranged between a girl, belonging to a nomadic tribe, aged 14 years and nine months and a 25-year-old man. Learning about the incident, the officials visited the house of the minor girl, at 6 am on Friday, and educated the parents that it was illegal. The girl was rescued and placed at Balamandira for girls in Hassan, said Child Protection Officer of Channarayapatna taluk Vijay Kumar. District helpline coordinator Hemanth and Child Development department officer Mamatha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/child-marriage-officials-rescue-girl-at-didagi-village-873453.html
15-08-2020||Mysuru||E-poster competition on ‘Covid-19 Pandemic’||JSS College for Women, Saraswathipuram, Mysuru, has organised an e-poster competition on ‘Covid-19 Pandemic’. Principal K V Suresha said that the competition is hosted by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and PG departments of Economics, Commerce and Chemistry of JSS College for Women (Autonomous). The last date for submission of the poster for participation in the poster presentation competition is August 25. All participants will get E-Certificates. Registration link:https://forms.gle/A3AZ8CwDqRGWGvwF9 Submission link: https://forms.gle/8NXLqMg56qVdZsKV6 Contact: H R Arpitha on 97430 90747, E Vijaya Sekhar on 97048 26834 or Mahesh Bhat on 95380 65170.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/e-poster-competition-on-covid-19-pandemic-873456.html
15-08-2020||National||Independence Day: India's journey through the decades||As India walks into its 74th year of independence, we take a look at the seven decades that have gone by, highlighting some of the major events that helped shape the nation.  With the fervour of freedom on one side and the aftermath of the partition on the other, a young India in 1947 tackled its own share of trials in the initial few years -- a war with Pakistan over Kashmir within the first year of independence, integration of the states that form the Union of India today and amid that, building a nation that could stand the test of time, among several others. We take a look at some events that shaped India in the decades that followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-indias-journey-through-the-decades-873431.html
15-08-2020||National||74th Independence Day Quiz: How well do you know India?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/74th-independence-day-quiz-how-well-do-you-know-india-873473.html
15-08-2020||National||Independence Day Speech: What was India & Pakistan's focus in 2019||India and Pakistan attained freedom from the British colonial rule on August 15. They celebrated their first Independence Day on the same day in 1947. Pakistan, however, celebrates its Independence Day on August 14.  In 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave his sixth Independence Day speech, trademark safa, at the Red Fort, fresh from his re-election with a thumping mandate. He touched on a host of issues, right from his government's landmark decision on Jammu and Kashmir, the state of the economy, the water crisis, plastic usage and the digital economy. It is notable that PM Modi, even though spoke about Jammu and Kashmir and the Triple Talaq Bill, did not mention Pakistan in his speech. Meanwhile, his Pakistan counterpart, Imran Khan's speech on August 14 in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, was predominantly about the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The Government of India, on August 5, 2019, revoked Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and later bifurcated the state into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Article 370, Triple Talaq and the $5 trillion economy Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave his sixth Independence Day speech spoke about his government's landmark decision on Jammu and Kashmir, the state of the economy, the water crisis, plastic usage and the digital economy.  "The old system in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh led to corruption, nepotism but there was injustice when it came to rights of women, children, Dalits, tribal communities. The dreams of sanitation workers were incomplete. How can we accept this?" said PM Modi. He said that Article 370 and 35A being revoked is a step towards realizing Sardar Patel's dream. Modi pitched the abrogation of Article 370 as a step towards 'one nation, one Constitution', and that a fresh approach on the matter was necessary as several efforts made by previous governments had failed to yield the desired results. On the Triple Talaq Bill, PM said that Muslim countries removed the archaic triple talaq, but we hesitated to give the same rights to our Muslim women. "When we can ban Sati, make laws to prevent female infanticide, why can we not empower Muslim women by removing triple talaq?" asked Modi. "Those who give protection to terrorism and support it must be exposed. Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka also are affected by terrorism. All countries in the world need to come together to fight this menace," he said, excluding the western international neighbour. "To some, the target of nearly doubling the size of the Indian economy to $5 trillion in five years may seem difficult. But when we have in five years (of BJP rule) added $1 trillion as compared to $2 trillion size achieved in 70 years of independence, then this target is achievable," he said on India's economic developmental goal. He also pointed out that Rs 3.5 lakh crore was allocated for the Jal Jivan Mission. "﻿It is unfortunate that a lot of people lack access to water even after 70 years of Independence," PM said. PM also focused on the population explosion, which still remains to be a big problem India is facing. Society must be enlightened on the ill-effects of population explosion, and the governments of India must work together so we don't leave behind a broken, unhealthy society, he said. Imran Khan's Speech: 'Azad Kashmir' on the table Pakistan, on the other hand, observed India's Independence Day on Aug. 15 as a "Black Day" last year, with flags flown half-mast on government buildings in protest over the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5. Prime Minister Imran Khan used his address celebrating Independence Day to accuse India of planning military action in the disputed Kashmir region. Khan made his maiden trip as PM to Muzaffarabad on that day and told the regional Parliament that India had planned a more extensive action than that of February 2019, when its fighter jets struck inside Pakistan, following an escalation in tension between the nations. He vowed to become the voice of Kashmir and raise the issue at every global forum, including the United Nations, as he questioned the silence of the international community on the situation in the region. "The world's eye is on Kashmir and on Pakistan...I will be the ambassador who raises Kashmir's voice at every international forum," he said. In his speech, Khan said PM Modi has "committed a strategic blunder, he has played his last card. It will cost a lot to Modi and the BJP because they have internationalised the issue of Kashmir." "Whatever was done during the curfew by India, we will tell the international community that you are responsible. Whichever forum we get, I will be the ambassador and bring up Kashmir at every forum," Khan said. "They have made a more horrendous plan to divert world attention from their move in Kashmir, they plan action in Azad Kashmir," Khan said, referring to the portion held by Pakistan. "The Pakistani army is fully aware that they (India) have made a plan of taking action in Azad Kashmir," he said. "You take action and this is my message: every brick will be countered with a stone," Khan said. "We will respond to whatever you do, we will go till the end." "Our message to international organisations that were formed to prevent wars is that if this war takes place, you will be responsible," Khan said. Khan even compared the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to the German Nazi Party. "Independence Day is an opportunity for great happiness, but today we are saddened by the plight of our Kashmiri brothers in occupied Jammu and Kashmir who are victims of Indian oppression," Khan said in an earlier statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-speech-what-was-india-pakistans-focus-in-2019-873478.html
15-08-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: The voice of 103-year-old freedom fighter H S Doreswamy||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, listen to what freedom fighter H S Doreswamy has to say about the country as India celebrates its 74th Independence Day.  Dear listener, It's August the 15 and we at Deccan Herald wish you a Happy Independence Day. India as a country has come to be 73 years old. Today in DH Radio, we are joined by a man who is called the conscience of Karnataka, at 103 he is still going strong. He is none other than a freedom fighter, Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy. DH's S R Ramakrishna spoke to Doreswamy and here are the excerpts: Doreswamy: The Congress fought for freedom under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi. It promised to eradicate poverty immediately after gaining Independence. More than 72 years have gone by, but still, income disparity is high. People are suffering a lot.  Now, with a new law, the (Karnataka) government is out to allow the industrialists and the rich to buy agricultural land without any restrictions. In Devaraj Urs' time, land reform laws were passed, and land was handed over to the tiller. Unfortunately, the disparity remained: even after the redistribution, the landlords owned huge tracts of land. There should be a ceiling. Now, we are going in for privatisation. We are hungry for foreign investment. There should be a limit to this exercise. We should take help from foreigners only in areas where we have no expertise. We should not give away everything to foreigners. The government isn't thinking beyond investment and profit. When the steel factory (in Bhadravati) fell on bad days, (legendary engineer) Visvesvaraya requested the Maharaja (of Mysore) to make him the chairman. He brought four or five people from America and told them they would get the salary they ask for, but they would have to share their know-how with our people and leave after four or five years. This must be the vision. As for the information technology and software sector, it is bringing in a lot by way of taxes. Someone should tell us whether it is good for us or bad for us. But what is happening is lop-sided development. The government is using the pandemic to do many things under its shadows. It is subverting the Constitution. The Hindutva brigade is dividing people, and is on the path of destroying the country. This should be arrested. I was planning to organise 500 Muslims and 500 Hindus for a 'jail bharo' programme next year. That is the reason politicians started defaming me. There should be a change before the 2024 elections. I am 103, and I don't know if I can do it but it should be done. The Congress is in a pathetic shape. If the Gandhi family is leading it, they should do it seriously. There are other competent people, and they can be given the authority. The problem is, they do everything from Delhi. Nehru used to visit every state once a year, stay there, and interact with everyone in the region. It's not the same Congress. The defeated Congress should stand up once again. I have hope in journalism. It should educate people about basic things. We take things for granted. People are not aware of many things. Like we used to in our time, journalism should organise people. We should educate voters on how to vote. After this government came to power, on some pretext or the other, many journalists have been killed. The pandemic has affected migrant labourers badly, and they will come back to the cities. They need help. The government has done a good job of giving rations to the poor, but I fear about what might happen after October-November, when the supplies will stop. I request the government to look into this. We should ban politics done on the basis of religion. It is fine for Pakistan, a theocratic state. We have a Constitution that gives equal rights to all. We should go by the rule of law, and not by the whims and fancies of people in power. Institutions have been destroyed. How do we become self-dependent? We must do the manufacturing. If we take up research and development in all areas, we can achieve development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-the-voice-of-103-year-old-freedom-fighter-h-s-doreswamy-873487.html
15-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 15||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 25 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  25,87,634 as of August 14 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):      50,016   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 18,08,936  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-15-873489.html
15-08-2020||National||Watch Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort and PM Narendra Modi's speech here||Delivering his seventh straight Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the call for "Atmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) has captured people's imagination and become a "mantra" for everyone, as he pushed for raising India's share in the global economy. For how long India will keep exporting raw materials and import finished products, Modi said in his address to the nation on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort, and asked citizens to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. He also listed out a number of reform measures undertaken by his government which has resulted in a record Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watch-independence-day-celebrations-at-red-fort-and-pm-narendra-modis-speech-here-873490.html
15-08-2020||National||Google Doodle commemorates India's 74th Independence Day||Google marked the 74th Independence Day of India with a Doodle artwork representing its rich musical legacy, which dates back over 6,000 years. Illustrated by Mumbai-based guest artist Sachin Ghanekar, today's Google Doodle features several iconic Indian folk instruments, including the versatile double-reeded shehnai, tutari, dhol, veena, bansuri and sarangi.  "The musical diversity represented by this unique collection (of instruments) reflects the patchwork of Indian cultures that is celebrated across the nation today," notes Google. Google also unveiled a unique re-creation of the national anthem of India. In a one-of-a-kind AI-powered musical experiment, between August 1-10, in collaboration with Prasar Bharati and Virtual Bharat, Google invited users from across India to sing the national anthem and used it to create a resounding version of the national anthem sung by the citizens of India. Independence Day is a matter of pride for every citizen, and for Sachin Ghanekar as an artist, it signifies the freedom to express your ideas, views, thoughts and opinions. Sharing his thoughts behind the making of the Doodle, Ghanekar told Google that his inspiration was the diversity of India. "This rich cultural fabric meticulously woven together always amazes me. I hope this Doodle reminds people of our rich heritage and how privileged we are to be a part of it. For the execution of the Doodle, I included various musical instruments, drawing inspiration from various Indian art forms like Kalamkari, Madhubani, Warli, Gond, Phad, and Pichwai to bring this idea to life," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-doodle-commemorates-indias-74th-independence-day-873492.html
15-08-2020||National||'Vocal for local' should be free India's mindset: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed confidence that India will be able to achieve its Atma Nirbhar Bharat goal during his independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort.  "I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal," PM Narendra Modi said. He said that amid Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians took the resolve to be self-reliant and 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat'. "This dream is turning into a pledge. Atma Nirbhar Bharat has become a 'mantra' for the 130 crore Indians today," PM Modi said.  The prime minister that the mindset of free India should be 'vocal for local'. "We should appreciate our local products, if we don't do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged," PM Modi said. During his speech, PM Modi lauded the sacrifices of jawans and Covid-19 warriors.  Recalling India's struggle for freedom from the British Raj, PM said, "It never happened that there was any part during the time period of India's slavery that no attempt was made to free the country or nobody made sacrifices for freedom."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vocal-for-local-should-be-free-indias-mindset-pm-873495.html
15-08-2020||National||A socially distanced Independence Day celebrations in times of Covid-19||Known otherwise to witness bustling crowd across many age groups, the annual grand event at the historic Red Fort was scaled down this year in keeping with prescribed safety protocols to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus that has wreaked havoc across the world. At the main entrance, the limited number of guests invited for the event underwent thermal scanning by security personnel donning personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, while hands-free sanitiser dispenser was kept near security gates. Inside, chairs were placed in a careful matrix across all enclosures. Each seat had a sanitiser kit, a hand towel kept on the backrest along with the programme pamphlet. Social distancing norms were also in place on the rampart where the VVIPs were seated. Every year, a sea of school children add youthful energy to the grand event, but amid the coronavirus scare, they were not present on the occasion this year. "Today, our children are not here with us. The coronavirus pandemic has halted all of us," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Colourful carpets in enclosure and aisles contrast seating and walking areas, and posters bearing social distancing norms messages like 'keep six feet distance', 'wear a mask', dot the venue. Guests, security staff, VIPs, all were sporting masks as prescribed under the safety norms. Some guests were even seen sporting designer masks to add to the uniqueness of the event that embraces the 'new normal' brought in by the coronavirus pandemic. Delhi has been one of the worst-affected cities in the country as far as the spread of the virus is concerned. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital has crossed 1.5 lakh, while 4,178 people have died in the state due to the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-socially-distanced-independence-day-celebrations-in-times-of-covid-19-873501.html
15-08-2020||National||'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' has become mantra for everyone: PM Modi||Delivering his seventh straight Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the call for "Atma Nirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) has captured people's imagination and become a "mantra" for everyone, as he pushed for raising India's share in the global economy. For how long India will keep exporting raw materials and import finished products, Modi asked during his address to the nation on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort, and told citizens to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. He also listed out a number of reform measures undertaken by his government which has resulted in a record Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country last year. The prime minister began his address by paying tributes to freedom fighters and security forces while also remembering Aurobindo Ghose, a freedom fighter and spiritual philosopher whose birth anniversary falls today. Hailing 'corona warriors', including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers who have been continuously fighting the coronavirus pandemic, he said, the country will achieve victory over coronavirus with the resolve of its over 130 crore citizens. In the midst of coronavirus pandemic, Indians resolve to become self-reliant, the prime minister said, adding this is not a word but mantra for all people. Speaking of self-reliant India, he said many concerns are raised about it and acknowledged challenges ahead but asserted that there are "crores of solutions" offered by the country's citizens to "lakhs of challenges". Vocal for local should be the mantra of the free India, he said. He said his government has freed farmers of their contraints, and they can now trade their products freely at their terms. India's freedom struggle, he said, became a challenge to forces of expansionism while attempts were made for hundreds of years by various rulers to root out India's culture and traditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-has-become-mantra-for-everyone-pm-modi-873507.html
15-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Confirmation awaited on what to celebrate? August 5 or August 15?||Delivering his seventh straight Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the call for "Atma Nirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) has captured people's imagination and become a "mantra" for everyone, as he pushed for raising India's share in the global economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-confirmation-awaited-on-what-to-celebrate-august-5-or-august-15-873513.html
15-08-2020||National||National Digital Health Mission: All you need to know||While addressing India’s 74th Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, launched the National Digital Health Mission on Saturday.  The “completely technology-based" initiative is set to revolutionise the Indian health sector, the Prime Minister said, explaining that under the project every Indian would get an ID card that would contain all relevant information about their medical history. In his seventh Independence Day speech, the prime minister said that records of every health test, disease, medication and other details will be kept under a health ID. "Every Indian will get a Health ID card. Every time you visit a doctor or a pharmacy, everything will be logged in this health card. From the doctor's appointment to the medication advised, everything will be available in your health profile," PM Modi said. Launching the flagship programme which comes under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), the prime minister added, "Technology will be judiciously used to reduce challenges in treatments. Whether it is making a doctor's appointment, depositing money or running around for documents in the hospital, the mission will help remove all such challenges." Here is everything you need to know about the National Digital Health Mission: One Nation One Health Card Scheme The blueprint of the programme was launched last year by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Reports say that under the scheme, if and when a card-holder gets a test, diagnosis or treatment done for any medical condition, the reports will be saved in the card. This will save the card-holder from the effort of carrying their medical reports or records everywhere they go. Doctors will also be able to access the medical records of their patients through the unique ID of the card. Hospitals, nursing homes and other health centres will enjoy the above-mentioned benefits of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM). The government has said that it will ensure the security and privacy of personal information. ‘Great progress towards digitisation of healthcare “The core vision of the NDHM is to turn India into a digital health nation… There is a clear focus on learning the best practices from medically-advanced nations, which have made great progress towards digitisation of healthcare,” said Dr K K Aggarwal, President, Heart Care Foundation of India (HCFI) and Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO). Aggarwal added that in case of any medical emergency or requirement, the data can be digitally shared with the service providers at any place in the country. “It can eliminate the problems caused by the lack of awareness about a patient’s medical history. The implementation of the scheme, therefore, will require massive cooperation and structuring,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-digital-health-mission-all-you-need-to-know-873520.html
15-08-2020||National||Strive for Atma Nirbhar Bharat, use vast resources to make for the world, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India must become self-reliant and use its vast natural resources to produce for the domestic as well as the global market. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day, Modi said in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build a 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. "I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal," he said. The prime minister said the country received record foreign direct investments during the last fiscal and even during the coronavirus pandemic, big global companies are looking towards India. He said the FDI growth was recorded at 18 per cent last fiscal. Modi reiterated in his address 'Vocal for Local' call and said that India should strive for meeting needs of the world as well and wondered how long the country would continue to export raw materials and import finished products. He said India has vast natural resources and need of the hour was value addition. "Now we have to move ahead with the mantra of make for the world along with Make-in-India," he said. He further said 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' does not mean only reducing dependence on imports, but strengthening India's capacity, creativity and skills. Addressing for the seventh time in a row from the Red Fort, he said there are numerous challenges in becoming self-reliant, but there are millions of solutions as well. "India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey," Modi said. Citing an example what India can do, Modi said before the Covid-19 panedmic, the country was not making N-95 masks, PPE and ventillators, but now it is in a position to export such items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strive-for-atma-nirbhar-bharat-use-vast-resources-to-make-for-the-world-says-pm-873524.html
15-08-2020||National||Atma Nirbhar Bharat at centre of PM Modi's Independence Day speech||'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' was the centrepiece of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day address as he presented a broad outline for spurring India's growth in diverse sectors and asserted that the coronavirus pandemic cannot halt the country's march towards self-reliance. In his seventh straight Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, Modi made a host of new announcements on Saturday including the launch of a national digital health mission under which health IDs will be given to everyone, connecting all six lakh villages with optical fibres in 100 days and promised the holding of assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the delimitation exercise was over. Modi also chose the occasion to deliver a warning to India's hostile neighbours saying the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those who challenged the country's sovereignty "from LoC to LAC" in their own language. In a reference to the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, Modi said: "Respect for India's sovereignty is supreme for us and the world has seen in Ladakh what our brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort." "Whether it is terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both with determination," Modi said. Dressed in his customary 'kurta pyjama' and safa, the prime minister, in his nearly 90-minute address, dwelt at length on his 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign and gave a call for reducing imports and pushing exports of finished products in place raw material, saying the country will have to move forward with the mantra of 'Make in India' as well as 'Make for World'. 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is no longer merely a word but has become a mantra and captured people's imagination, he said. Modi also touched upon the much-anticipated issue of vaccine for Covid-19 and said three vaccines are in various phases of trials in the country. He said that a roadmap is ready to innoculate all citizens at the shortest possible time with their mass production after scientists give a green signal. He also listed out a number of reform measures undertaken by his government which have resulted in a record Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country last year. The prime minister began his address by paying tributes to freedom fighters and security forces while also remembering Aurobindo Ghose, a freedom fighter and spiritual philosopher whose birth anniversary falls today. Hailing 'corona warriors', including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers who have been continuously fighting the coronavirus pandemic, he said the country will achieve victory over coronavirus with the resolve of its over 130 crore citizens. In the midst of coronavirus pandemic, Indians have resolved to become self-reliant, the prime minister said, adding this is not a word but a mantra for all people. Speaking of self-reliant India, he said many concerns are raised about it and acknowledged challenges ahead but asserted that there are "crores of solutions" offered by the country's citizens to "lakhs of challenges". Vocal for local should be the mantra of India, he said. He said his government has freed farmers of their constraints, and they can now trade their products freely on their terms. India's freedom struggle, he said, became a challenge to forces of expansionism while attempts were made for hundreds of years by various rulers to root out India's culture and traditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-at-centre-of-pm-modis-independence-day-speech-873526.html
15-08-2020||National||5 crore women got sanitary pads at Re 1: PM Narendra Modi||In his address to the nation on the 74th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about women empowerment, adding that about five crore women got sanitary pads at Re 1. "The government is constantly concerned about the health of India’s daughters and sisters. Through 6,000 the Janaushudi centres, about five crore women availed sanitary pads at Re 1," PM Modi said. Twitterati hailed the prime minister for speaking about menstruation and “breaking taboos”. He added in his speech that the money earned through the sale of the pads would be used at the right time by the committees formed for the weddings of Indian “daughters and sisters”. "We have worked for women empowerment. Navy and Airforce are taking women in combat, women are now leaders, we abolished triple talaq," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-crore-women-got-sanitary-pads-at-re-1-pm-narendra-modi-873527.html
15-08-2020||National||Overcast condition leads to sultry weather in Delhi on Independence Day||Overcast condition on Saturday morning shielded the national capital from a blazing sun, but high humidity levels caused inconvenience to the residents as they celebrated Independence Day. Humidity level shot up to 95 per cent by 8:30 pm, according to the India Meteorological Department. At the Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation, dignitaries were seen using colourful hand-fans crafted by tribal artisans. Others used cotton towels to wipe off the sweat. The attendees were also provided raincoats in anticipation of showers.  The IMD had predicted generally cloudy skies and light to moderate rainfall in the city on Saturday. On Thursday, the national capital witnessed an incessant spell of rains, heaviest in this monsoon so far, which submerged parts of the city in waist-deep water and threw traffic out of gear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overcast-condition-leads-to-sultry-weather-in-delhi-on-independence-day-873528.html
15-08-2020||National||Remembering the women who fought for India’s freedom||Indian women who were freedom fighters not only challenged imperialism and colonialism but also the social norms of the era, which severely restricted their agency. Along with being freedom fighters, they were also social reformers.  Here are a few such women: Basanti Devi (1880 - 1974) - Devi jumped into the freedom struggle in 1921, after the arrest of her husband Chittaranjan Das. She participated in movements like the Khilafat movement and the civil disobedience movement. She was also one of the founding members of the Nari Karma Mandira, a centre aimed at educating women. She collected gold coins for the Tilak Swaraj Fund and shortly went to prison for selling Khadi in Kolkata. Her arrest resulted in nationwide outrage. She ran the weekly publication, Bangalar Katha, after the arrest of her husband. She headed the Bengal Provincial Congress as its President and was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 1973.  Ashalata Sen (1894 - 1986) -  was born in Noakhali, modern Bangladesh. Her first nationalistic poem was published when she was as young as 10 years old. She also wrote the books Uchchhvas, Utsa, Vidyut and Chhotoder Chhada. She was highly inspired by Mahatma Gandhi and the non-cooperation movement.  Aruna Asaf Ali (1909 - 96)  - She was born to a restaurant owner. She studied at Lahore’s Sacred Heart Convent. Aruna Asaf married a lawyer by the name of Asaf Ali, who was 23 years her senior and belonged to a different religion. After she married Asaf Ali, she was rejected by much of her family. It was her husband who defended Batukeshwar Dutt and Bhagat Singh in the Lahore Conspiracy Case. She was jailed for actively engaging during the salt satyagraha movement and remained there till 1931. She was jailed several times over the course of her lifetime. On August 9, she unfurled the Indian flag following which the British announced a reward to identify her; she had to go underground. She served as Delhi’s first mayor.  In her last days, she was associated with the Communist Party of India.  Sarojini Naidu (1879 - 1949)  - she wrote her first piece of work at the age of 12 titled Maher Muneer. She helped establish the Women's Indian Association  (WIA) with other social reformers of her age and travelled the length and breadth of the country giving speeches to invigorate women. In 1925, she became the president of the Indian National Congress and by the 1930s, had already become a known figure recognised for fighting for the cause of freedom. She also served as the Governor of Agra and Awadh from 1947- 49.  Annie Besant (1847 - 1933)  - Annie Besant was a British citizen who first visited India in 1893 and soon became involved in its Independence movement. She established the Indian Home Rule League and later served as the president of the same. She died in India in 1933.  Bhikaiji Cama (1861 - 1936) - She unfurled the first Indian tricolour on foreign land whilst in Germany. While residing in London, she became acquainted with Dadabhai Naoroji and joined the Indian National Congress. Fearing deportation, she moved from London to Paris and helped revolutionary activities from there. She helped publish the newspaper, Bande Mataram, copies of which were smuggled back into India. She was imprisoned for three years during the First World War. She was finally allowed to return to India in 1935. She died after one year of returning back to her homeland.  Lakshmi Sahgal (1914 - 2012)  - the young doctor enrolled in the INA and played a key role in convincing Subhash Chandra Bose to set up an all women regiment. The regiment, called Rani Lakshmi Bai regiment, was eventually headed by Sahgal. Later, she married Colonel Prem Sahgal, who was also part of the INA and relocated to Kanpur, where she set up her medical practice. She worked actively during the Partition riots, the anti-Sikh riots, the Bhopal gas tragedy and more. By the 1970s, Sahgal had joined the CPI(M). She said, “My way of thinking was already communist, and I never wanted to earn a lot of money, or acquire a lot of property or wealth.”  Begum Hazrat Mahal (1820 - 1879 approximately)  -  the Begum of Oudh ruled over the city of Nawabs. After her husband, Nawab Wajid Ali was exiled to Calcutta, the reins of the city fell into the hands of the begum. She declared her son as the next Nawab and took charge of affairs, ruling as the regent for nearly 10 months. She is an iconic figure, remembered for her spirit and zeal, who put up a strong fight against the British during the 1857 revolt. She breathed her last in Nepal, where she spent her days after the revolt was crushed.  Ramadevi Choudhary (1899 - 1958) - she joined the independence movement in 1921. Highly influenced by Mahatma Gandhi, she went door to door to convince people to join the non-cooperation movement. She actively took part in the salt satyagraha and was imprisoned several times during her struggle for freedom. Even after independence, she continued to work for social causes. She set up training centres for tribals, worked for famine relief, actively protested against the emergency, and much more during the course of her lifetime.  Malati Choudhury(1904 - 98) - She studied at Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva Bharati and was deeply influenced by his ideas. She started adult-education programs with her husband, Nabakrushna Choudhury, and together the couple engaged in social activities. They actively participated in the salt satyagraha movement. Choudhury was arrested several times in her lifetimes, in 1926, 1931 and 1942. After independence, she served as a member of the Constituent Assembly of India. While her husband served as the Chief Minister of Orissa, she continued to pursue a lifetime of activism and social work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remembering-the-women-who-fought-for-india-s-freedom-873533.html
15-08-2020||National||Independence Day speech: PM Modi warns China over border tensions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi issued a new warning to China over deadly border tensions on Saturday, using his most important speech of the year to promise to build a stronger military. With talks on easing a military build-up in their Himalayan border region at a stalemate, Modi told an Independence Day ceremony that India's sovereignty was "supreme" and that relations with neighbours depended on security and trust. Attendance at the historic Red Fort in New Delhi for the speech was cut by more than half to 4,000 people, all of whom sat two metres (six feet) apart because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Hindu nationalist prime minister mentioned confrontations with Pakistan and China on their disputed borders, but without naming either country. "Anyone who has cast an eye on the country's sovereignty, the country's army has answered them in their own language," he said. "India's integrity is supreme for us. What we can do, what our soldiers can do -- everyone saw that in Ladakh," referring to a border clash with Chinese troops in the Ladakh region of the Himalayas on June 15. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash, which saw the two sides fighting with batons, stones and bare fists. China has also acknowledged that it suffered casualties but without giving numbers. The two sides have blamed each other for the fighting and tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, who also fought a border war in 1962, have since been sent to the region. Modi has insisted that no land was lost in the battle but military experts have used satellite images to counter that Chinese troops occupy frontier territory that India had claimed for decades. India has in turn used economic weapons against China. It has banned at least 59 apps, including the major video-sharing platform TikTok, and taken other measures to freeze Chinese firms out of contracts and block its imports. Modi said that relations with neighbours are now linked to "security, progress and trust". "A neighbour isn't just someone who shares our geography but those who share our hearts. Where the relationship is respected, it becomes warmer," he said. The 1.4-million-strong military would be built up, he added. "India is just as committed to its security and strengthening its army as the attempts it has made for peace and harmony," he said, stressing efforts to make India "self-reliant" in defence production. Modi also said that his priority was getting India out of the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. India is expected to pass 50,000 deaths in the coming days and three million cases within a week. It has the fastest-growing caseload in the world and is now only behind Brazil and the United States in terms of total case numbers. With the economy expected to shrink this year, Modi reaffirmed an election promise to spend 1.3 trillion dollars on 7,000 infrastructure projects "to get us out of the pandemic situation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-speech-pm-modi-warns-china-over-border-tensions-873538.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Modi's Independence speech spirited, inspiring, reflects vision, says JP Nadda||The spirited and inspiring speech by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day reflects his vision, mission and resolve to build an all-inclusive and stronger self-reliant India, BJP President J P Nadda said. Delivering his seventh straight Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Modi on Saturday said the call for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' has captured people's imagination and become a "mantra" for everyone, as he pushed for raising India's share in global economy. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi asked citizens to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. Lauding him, Nadda said the prime minister's speech reflects his vision, mission and resolve to build an all inclusive and stronger 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. "A very spirited and inspiring speech by PM Narendra Modi ji on the 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort. PM Modi ji's speech reflects his vision, mission and resolve to build an all inclusive and stronger Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Nadda tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-independence-speech-spirited-inspiring-reflects-vision-says-jp-nadda-873544.html
15-08-2020||National||Mass production of Covid-19 vaccine to begin once scientists give nod: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said mass production of Covid-19 vaccine will begin in India once scientists give their nod, and a roadmap was ready to ensure it reaches everyone in the country in the shortest possible time. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 74th Independence Day, Modi said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of trials in the country, adding the talent of India's scientists is like that of 'rishi munis'. He said whenever there is talk of Covid-19, the question that comes to everyone's mind is that when will a vaccine be ready. "I want to tell people, the talent of our scientists is like that of 'rishi munis' and they are working very hard in laboratories. Three vaccines are in various stages of testing. When scientists will give us the green signal, they will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it," Modi said. A roadmap has been prepared to ensure that the vaccine reaches everyone in the country in the shortest possible time with mass production, he said. Three vaccine candidates are in different stages of human clinical trials in India. The Phase I and II human clinical trials of two of them, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and Zydus Cadila Ltd, are currently underway. The Serum Institute of India has been permitted for conducting Phase II and III human clinical trials of the third vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University. The Pune-based Institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mass-production-of-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-once-scientists-give-nod-pm-narendra-modi-873546.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi launches National Digital Health Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will store the individual's medical records. In his Independence Day address, the Prime Minister said the Mission will help reduce problems in getting treatment in various health facilities in the country and herald a new revolution in the sector. "From today, a big campaign is being launched in which technology will play a big role. The National Digital Health Mission is being launched today. This will bring a new revolution in India's health sector and it will help reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology," he said. "Every Indian will be given a health ID. This health ID will work as each Indian's health account," Modi said. Every test, disease and diagnosis, and medical reports along with medicines will be stored in every citizen's health ID. These health issues will be resolved through this National Digital Health Mission, Modi said while announcing the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-launches-national-digital-health-mission-873547.html
15-08-2020||National||From LoC to LAC, armed forces gave befitting replies: PM Narendra Modi ||Indian soldiers have given a befitting reply to those who challenged the country's sovereignty "from LoC to LAC", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, in a subtle message to Pakistan and China. In his seventh straight Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, the Prime Minister said the country is fighting terrorism as well as expansionism with determination. Asserting that the respect for India's sovereignty is supreme and that the world has seen in Ladakh what India's brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve, Modi said, "I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort." "From LoC to LAC, anyone who cast an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces of the country responded in the language they understand," Modi said, adding the whole country is united in protecting the sovereignty of the country. The Prime Minister's comments came in the midst of India's festering border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and rising incidents of ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash with Chinese armies in Galwan Valley. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-loc-to-lac-armed-forces-gave-befitting-replies-pm-narendra-modi-873552.html
15-08-2020||National||India’s Independence Day and its link with Japan||The year is 1947 but the date isn’t August 15. The Indian Independence Bill was introduced in the British House of Commons on July 4, 1947. It was formally passed after receiving the Royal Assent on July 18, 1947, when it became the Indian Independence Act, which was defined as "An Act to make provision for the setting up in India of two independent Dominions, to substitute other provisions for certain provisions of the Government of India Act, 1947".  What was the hold-up then? The answer lies with the last Viceroy of India Lord Louis Mountbatten, who was entrusted with the task of drawing up a plan for the transfer of power as well as the partition. As mentioned in Freedom at Midnight, a 1975 book by French author Dominique Lapierre and American writer Larry Collins, Mountbatten had announced the date of transfer and partition at a press conference on June 4, 1947. About 300 journalists – all the way from the USSR, China, Europe and the USA to their Indian counterparts – were in attendance. It was only the second time that a Viceroy in British India had addressed a press conference and it also happened to be the last. However, the date Aug. 15, 1947, was chosen and announced by Lord Mountbatten. The choice of date is said to be Mountbatten’s own initiative, often referred to as a spontaneous one. The advanced date did come as a surprise to many but had a deeper significance for the British and Mountbatten himself. This is where the Japan link comes in. Aug. 15, 1947, happened to be the second anniversary of Imperial Japan’s surrender to the Allies in World War II. Referred to as the Victory over Japan Day, it officially marked the end of the war, months after the fighting had stopped in Europe. Japan’s surrender was also special for Mountbatten because of his active participation in the war against the Japanese as a British Royal Navy officer in Burma (now Myanmar). That reason aside, the book also has the last Viceroy recollecting, “I had to force the pace. I knew I had to force parliament to get the bill through before their summer recess to hold the thing together. We were sitting on the edge of a volcano, on a fused bomb, and we didn’t know when the fuse would go off.” Churchill disagreed with the name ‘Independence Bill’ Writing to then British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, Leader of the Opposition Conservative Party Winston Churchill had objected to the bill drawn up to grant independence to India being called the ‘Independence Bill’.  "…The essence of the Mountbatten proposals and the only reason why I gave support to them is because they establish the phase of Dominion status," wrote Churchill in a letter to Attlee on July 1, 1947, just three days before the Bill was introduced in the House of Commons. "Dominion status is not the same as Independence, although it may be freely used to establish independence. It is not true that a community is independent when its Ministers have in fact taken the Oath of Allegiance to The King.”  Calling it a “measure of grave constitutional importance”, Churchill said that a correct, formal procedure and nomenclature must be observed. “The correct title would be, it seems to me, The Indian Dominions Bill," Churchill continued, asking Attlee to consider alternatives. "I should, however, be quite willing to support it if it were called, The India Bill, 1947 or The India Self-Government Bill."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-independence-day-and-its-link-with-japan-873554.html
15-08-2020||National||Expansion of NCC ensured in 173 coastal and border districts: PM Modi||The expansion of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) has been ensured in 173 border and coastal districts and nearly one lakh new cadets will get special traning under the mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. One-third of the one lakh new cadets will be girls, the prime minister said in his Independence Day speech "Now, expansion of the NCC has been ensured in 173 border and coastal districts. Under this mission, one lakh NCC cadets will receive special training. Of this, one-third will be girls," Modi told the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expansion-of-ncc-ensured-in-173-coastal-and-border-districts-pm-modi-873555.html
15-08-2020||National||PM's Independence Day speech reinforces resolve of self-reliant India: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister and senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech on the occasion of Independence Day reinforces the resolve of a self-reliant India. Delivering his seventh straight Independence Day speech, Modi said the call for 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) has captured people's imagination and become a "mantra" for everyone, as he pushed for raising the country's share in the global economy. Modi addressed the nation on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort, and asked the citizens to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. Lauding the prime minister's call, Singh said there may be challenges but there is also the ability to solve all the problems. "Today, on the occasion of Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address reinforces the resolve of self-reliant India. There may be challenges in this resolution, but there is the ability to solve all the problems within this country," the defence minister said in a tweet in Hindi. Noting that a self-reliant India is necessary for the welfare of the world, Singh said all Indians should have the determination to make the country's role and contribution in the world impactful. "Self-reliant India is necessary for the welfare of the world. All Indians should have the determination to make India's role and contribution in the world impactful. Today, the prime minister has made it clear that the country has the skills and capability on which India can give new direction and momentum to the global economy," he said in another tweet. Singh said he welcomes the roadmap set by the prime minister for a self-reliant India. "The prime minister believes that we have to turn the disaster of coronavirus into an opportunity. Today, he has laid a new framework of development in front of the country, due to which the feeling is strengthened that this seemingly impossible task will also be possible. I welcome the roadmap given today for self-reliant India," the defence minister said. विश्व कल्याण के लिए आत्मनिर्भर भारत ज़रूरी है। विश्व में भारत की भूमिका और योगदान प्रभावी हो यह संकल्प हम सभी भारतीयों को लेना चाहिये। आज प्रधानमंत्रीजी ने स्पष्ट किया है कि देश में वो कौशल और सामर्थ्य है जिसके बल पर भारत वैश्विक अर्थव्यवस्था को नई दिशा और गति दे सकता है। About the Modi's announcement of National Digital Health Mission, Singh it will bring revolutionary changes in the health sector. "Giving priority to health in India which is facing the coronavirus crisis, the prime minister has announced National Digital Health Mission. With the help of one digital ID, all citizens will be able to get treatment from anywhere. This scheme will bring revolutionary changes in the health sector," he tweeted. Singh said under the campaign of expansion of the NCC, the defence ministry will provide to 1 lakh new cadets at the earliest. "From the ramparts of the Red Fort, the prime minister has announced the expansion of NCC to 173 border and coastal districts of the country. The Ministry of Defence is fully prepared to do this work on a priority basis. Under this campaign, special training will be given to one lakh new NCC cadets at the earliest," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-independence-day-speech-reinforces-resolve-of-self-reliant-india-rajnath-singh-873560.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Modi focuses on healthcare, self-reliance in Independence Day speech||The thrust of Modi’s 96-minute address on 74th Independence Day was on achieving self-reliance with a message also to ‘Make for the World’ along with ‘Make in India’ and announced a Rs 100 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline Project to move India towards modernity at a fast pace. “I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal,” he said, in his seventh consecutive address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. The biggest announcement of the day was the announcement of the National Digital Health Mission that will allot to each citizen a unique health identification number. “Every Indian will be given a health ID which will contain all your information. What disease you suffer from, which doctor has been consulted, what medicines you are on,” Modi said announcing the move which he said would revolutionise the healthcare system. The prime minister said Indian scientists were working on three vaccine candidates for Covid-19 and the government had prepared a roadmap to make it available to every Indian as soon as possible. “As soon as our scientists give a green signal, a Made in India Covid-19 vaccine will be made available,” the prime minister said. On Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said the newly-created union territory was on the path of development and hoped the union territory would soon have its own chief minister and council of ministers. “Delimitation process is underway in Jammu & Kashmir. Once that is done, we expect elections to be held in the future and MLAs, ministers and the chief minister to join the developmental journey,” the prime minister said. Attendance at the Red Fort for the Independence Day celebrations was curtailed and ministers, diplomats and other guests were seated six feet apart, most of them covering their faces with masks because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister made no direct reference to Pakistan or China, but asserted that India’s sovereignty was “supreme” and those casting an eye on it have been given a befitting response. “From LoC to LAC, whoever has tried to challenge the sovereignty of our country got a befitting response from our soldiers in their own language,” Modi said. “The world has seen in Ladakh what our jawans can do and what the country can do,” the prime minister said in an apparent reference to the Galwan Valley clashes. Modi also announced connecting each of the six lakh villages across the country through optic fibre within the next 1,000 days, a special campaign to reduce pollution in 100 cities and Project Lion and Project Dolphin for protecting Asiatic Lions and riverine and oceanic dolphins, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-focuses-on-healthcare-self-reliance-in-independence-day-speech-873571.html
15-08-2020||National||Independence Day at Red Fort scaled down, many seats remain empty||The Red Fort lawns that remains filled to the brim on Independence Day, saw many vacant seats this year with the attendees wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, displaying an image of the "new normal" in times of the coronavirus pandemic. The Independence Day event at the historic Red Fort, where prime minister unfurls the tricolour and delivers a speech to the nation, was scaled down this year. Around 4,000 invites, a quarter of the usual, were issued to officers, diplomats, local leaders and others. Still, a number of seats across all enclosures remained empty. A security official said they expected that a few seats would remain empty considering the Covid-19 situation. "The number of invitees was one-fourth the normal. Still, lesser number of people turned up. Adequate arrangements were made to ensure physical distancing and masks, sanitisers and gloves provided to all the attendees," he said. A kit containing a mask, a small bottle of hand sanitiser and a pair of gloves were kept on all chairs which were positioned at a distance of 6 feet to maintain the prescribed distance. A hand towel was kept on the back rest of the chairs along with the programme pamphlet.  School children, who would attend the event dressed in the colours of the national flag, were missing this time. Instead, 500 NCC cadets were invited to the event. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who would often venture among the schoolchildren and shake hands with them at the end of the event, said, "Today, our children are not here with us. The pandemic has halted all of us." Colourful carpets in enclosure and aisles contrast seating and walking areas, and posters bearing social distancing norms messages like 'keep six ft distance', 'wear a mask', dot the venue. Senior-most cabinet ministers were seated on the upper dais. Guests, security staff, VIPs, all were sporting masks as prescribed under the safety norms. Some guests were even seen sporting designer masks to add to the uniqueness of the event that embraces the 'new normal' brought in by the coronavirus pandemic. Delhi has been one of the worst-affected cities in the country as far as the spread of the virus is concerned. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital has crossed 1.5 lakh, while 4,178 people have died due to the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-at-red-fort-scaled-down-many-seats-remain-empty-873573.html
15-08-2020||National||How tricolour meal in Jharkhand is helping fight malnutrition||For residents of Kasudih village in Deoghar, 243 kilometres from Ranchi, the tricolour doesn't just represent our national flag, but signifies nutrition and good health.  The villagers focus on consuming tricolour meals, where the saffron comes from lentils, green from leafy vegetables and white from rice and milk. This is a drastic shift from their usual diet of just rice and potato, the staple food of many people in the region. The wave of change came after a local NGO, Centre for World Solidarity (CWS), made them aware of how their diet was one of the key factors behind high incidents of infant deaths in the district.  In 2013, the district reported a high number of infant deaths, drawing the attention of CWS to the prevalence of malnutrition there. A hunger-mapping exercise by the CWS in 50 villages of the district, which houses over 14 lakh people, revealed that 14.6 percent of the population reported to be chronically ill, 20.5 percent was malnourished and 64.9 percent had some kind of disease. An analysis of their diet revealed that 90 percent of households mainly ate starchy foods while the protein consumption was low in 60 percent of the population. Even though leafy vegetables were easily available in the area, the majority of the produce was sent off to the markets to be sold. The findings helped activists and nutritionists of the CWS to educate villagers about a balanced diet and to introduce them to tricolour meals that would help boost their immunity and fight malnutrition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-tricolour-meal-in-jharkhand-is-helping-fight-malnutrition-873574.html
15-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator support||The condition of former president Pranab Mukherjee remained unchanged on Saturday and he continued to be on ventilator support, doctors attending on him said. They said his vital and clinical parameters are stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists. The 84-year-old former president was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on Monday and was operated upon for the removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19. "The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee's office also posted pictures of the former president unfurling the national flag on Independence Day in the past and wishing fellow citizens on the day. "On behalf of #CitizenMukherjee, his office recalls some of the recent Independence Day celebrations, he so enthusiastically participated in and would have never missed. Today also the Tricolor flies high. "As he recuperates, let us re-pledge ourselves to a free, democratic and plural India that he stands for and hope that he is back to celebrate these core values of our Nationhood at the earliest," his office tweeted on his behalf. His daughter and Congress leader Sharmistha Mukherjee also tweeted pictures of Mukherjee unfurling the national flag in the past. "In his childhood, my dad and my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind," she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-support-873576.html
15-08-2020||National||Meet Abdul Gaffar, the man who serves his nation by sewing national flags||The entire country is draped with the tricolour as India celebrates its 74th Independence Day. As the national flag flutters proudly across the country and evokes a sense of patriotism, the hands that create the flags remain largely unknown to the world. Abdul Gaffar's story is a tale of those flag-makers who serve the country with their sewing machines.  Seventy-year-old Abdul Gaffar is a 'Jhande Wale' (one who sells flags) in Delhi's Sadar Bazar. He has been sewing national flags for the last 50 years and takes immense pride in his work. "Main ye desh ke liye karta hu (I do this for my country)," he says.  The tradition did not start with Abdul Gaffar, however. The practice of sewing national flags began long ago with his ancestors.  "It was started by my grandfather Mohammad Hussain who used to make flags from khadi during India's freedom struggle," Gaffar says. "In those days, Bengal used to supply khadi material, but the supply line dried up with time. It was my grandfather's little contribution to India's freedom struggle. After him, my father Abdul Rahman took over the mantle and later passed it on to me. "   Gaffar himself used to make flags during the Emergency period of the 1970s. It was a volatile situation but his business boomed amid those gloomy days. "It was a very difficult situation, the entire society was in danger," he recalls. "Fortunately, we did not face any difficulty in our work, and had to make a lot of flags as everybody wanted to hoist something or the other with the face of Indira Gandhi in them."    The Covid-19 outbreak has had a severe impact on the global economy. Businesses have faltered and Gaffar has also been hit hard. "The pandemic has affected my business, reducing it by 10%," he laments. "The business has picked up in the last two to three days, but that is certainly not enough. Even the national flags we made last year have not sold out completely, some will be left even after Aug. 15. "Earlier, the bigger flags that cost around Rs 7,000 used to sell a lot, but this year I have managed to sell only about 10. We used to send flags to other parts of India as well, but this time it has not been possible."  The days were better not that long ago. Gaffar's voice quivers with joy while remembering it. "It was a very profitable business before this pandemic," he says. "Especially during the elections, we had to work round the clock to finish the orders within the deadline." There's now also a tinge of sadness. "We are making flags for the Bihar and Bengal elections. Let's see how things work." Gaffar says he shows no partiality when making flags for political parties. "We make flags for all political parties, even for the parties down south," he says. "There is no special favour for anyone." His sense of patriotism remains his guiding principle. "We don't make any flag that is offensive to the country," he says.   Gaffar also makes flags that are as cheap as four to 12 rupees as he likes to cater to all classes of society. "I give flags for free to some people on Independence Day, especially to the poor people," Gaffar says. "It is my service to society." Gaffar opines that the Independence Day this year will be quieter, with people choosing to stay indoors. Nevertheless, celebrations will continue within the homes. "Every year on this day, we celebrate at home, cook some delicious dishes," he muses. "Relatives come to our house, ladies wear tricolour dresses and some apply tricolour stickers on their cheeks. We celebrate this occasion grandly, for you see we are a huge family. All of us pray for our country together."  And what about the future? "My brothers are also involved in this, ye silsila jari rahega (the legacy will continue)," Gaffar says. "I have one daughter, she is married. Even her husband is in this business. We will continue to sew the national flag for years to come." No matter the challenges, Gaffar chooses to hold his head high as a servant of the land. "I am proud to be doing something for my country," he adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-abdul-gaffar-the-man-who-serves-his-nation-by-sewing-national-flags-873578.html
15-08-2020||National||Modi tacitly refers to threat from Pakistan, China on I-Day, says India is fighting terror, expansionism from LoC to LAC||India is fighting both terrorism and expansionism, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, tacitly referring to the twin challenges posed by Pakistan and China to the security and sovereignty of the nation. “Whoever challenged the sovereignty of India, be it on the LoC (Line of Control with Pakistan) or on the LAC (the Line of Actual Control with China), our valiant soldiers gave them a befitting reply in their own languages,” the Prime Minister said from the rampart of the Red Fort after hoisting the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day. He was obviously referring to the responses by the Indian Army and the paramilitary forces, not only against violation of ceasefire by Pakistan Army personnel along the LoC but also against the attempts by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC. The nation is celebrating its 74th Independence Day even as the more-than-100-day-long military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh continues. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in a violent face-off with the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15. Though the PLA too suffered casualties, the Chinese Government did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the clash. The stand-off, which started with the Chinese PLA’s transgression into the territory of India, took the relations between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low, particularly after the clash in Galwan Valley. “India’s sovereignty is supreme and the world has seen in Ladakh what our gallant soldiers can do to protect it, what the country can do,” the prime minister said. He was apparently referring to the Indian Army’s response to attack by the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley. The Pakistan Army too stepped up flouting the truce along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir to facilitate infiltration of the terrorists into India. The Indian Army stepped up preparedness to deal with any move that the Pakistan Army might make to take advantage of the military stand-off between India and China. “Be it terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both,” the Prime Minister said, even as he avoided directly referring to Pakistan and China. He said that the faith of the global community in the nation had increased. India recently winning a non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council with the support of 184 of the total 193 members of the international organization was a sign of this faith, said the prime minister. China and Pakistan have been running a diplomatic campaign against India over the past one year, opposing India’s August 5, 2019 move to strip its erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state of its special status and to reorganize it into two Union Territories. With support from the United States, Russia, France and the United Kingdom, New Delhi, however, resisted multiple attempts by China and Pakistan to embarrass India by bringing the issue of the J&K back on the agenda of the Security Council. “We have raised the trust of the world community in us. This happens when India itself is strong and secure,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-tacitly-refers-to-threat-from-pakistan-china-on-i-day-says-india-is-fighting-terror-expansionism-from-loc-to-lac-873593.html
15-08-2020||National||75% Indians do not believe corruption, bribery will reduce in two years: Survey||Close to 75% of Indians do not believe that corruption and bribery will not slide down from the current state in the next two years before the country celebrates 75 years of Independence, according to a survey. The survey of around 62,000 responses from over 280 districts claimed only 26% of the respondents felt that they are witnessing the situation improving with the incidents of corruption decreasing. However, the survey by Local Circles claimed, 44% felt that the situation would remain as it is while 28% were of the view that it would further "deteriorate". "When compared to survey results from the last two years, it looks like a larger number of Indians have turned pessimistic about India’s ability to reduce bribery and corruption before it turns 75," it said. In the 2018 survey, only 29% people felt that the situation would remain the same while it was 31% last year as against 44% this time. The survey findings come against the backdrop of the Centre preparing a vision document for creating a new corruption and poverty-free India by December 2022. India has slipped two spots and stood at the 80th position in ‘Corruption Perception Index 2019’ by the Transparency International. "This portrays a worrisome situation in the country which needs immediate attention," the survey report said. However, people are still optimistic about the growing clout of India in the world with 69% believing that they see an improvement in the next two years while 11% said they see it declining and 16% feeling that it will stay the same as it is currently. Here too, the positive response has declined "a bit" compared to 79% each believing a rise in India's influence in 2018 and 2019. With Covid-19 battering the economy, the survey asked whether they foresee a recovery from the impact of Covid-19 by 2022. Only 37% said they feel the economy would recover completely and surpass the pre-Covid-19 GDP level, while 17% said the economy will recover completely but will not surpass it. The survey said 27% felt the economy will recover significantly but not completely and 16% said the recovery will be limited while 2% said the economy will not recover at all. "This means that 54% citizens foresee India recovering completely from Covid-19 economic impact in the next two years. Among other indicators, GST collection in July 2020 were lower than those in May 2020, indicating that the economy could take longer than expected to come back to pre-pandemic levels. With multiple rounds of economic measures announced, the Government is however optimistic that the country’s economy would make a full recovery sooner as they continue to announce various new policies and fiscalsupport," it said. To the question on social stability, the survey said 26% said it will improve, 43% felt it will stay the same and 28% believes it will deteriorate. The survey results showed a sharp dip in the proportion of people believing an improvement in social stability when compared with the 2018 and 2019 figures. The percentage of people who said social stability in the country would improve, stood at 43% and 42% in 2018 and 2019, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-indians-do-not-believe-corruption-bribery-will-reduce-in-two-years-survey-873601.html
15-08-2020||National||Oli calls PM Modi, first time after India-Nepal ties soured over territorial row||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart in Kathmandu, K P Sharma Oli, spoke to each other over phone on Saturday – for the first time after Nepal ratcheted up its territorial dispute with India and the relations between the two neighbours soured. Oli called Modi to greet him on behalf of the government and people of Nepal on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day of India. He also congratulated his counterpart in New Delhi for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for a two-year term, beginning January 2021. Modi thanked Nepalese Prime Minister for his call. He also recalled the civilizational and cultural links between India and Nepal, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. The courtesy call from Kathmandu to New Delhi came almost three months after the Oli Government lodged protest over a new 80-kilometer-long road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to the Lipulekh Pass – an India-Nepal-China tri-junction boundary point. It alleged that the road passed through Nepal – a claim dismissed by India. Kathmandu, however, went ahead, published a new map, which showed nearly 400 sq km of India’s areas in Kalapani, Lipulekh Pass and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. It also got the Nepalese Parliament amend the country’s constitution to endorse the new map. New Delhi suspects that Beijing played a role in making the Oli Government ratchet up the India-Nepal territorial dispute – at a time when Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is engaged in a military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Modi and Oli on Saturday also discussed “mutual solidarity” in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries. The Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, a spokesperson of the MEA said in New Delhi. The two leaders had last spoken to each other over phone on April 10, just a few weeks before Nepal protested against the new road built by India. New Delhi's envoy to Kathmandu, Vinay Mohan Kwatra, is likely to hold a meeting with Nepalese Foreign Secretary Shankar Das Bairagi on Monday to review the progress of the development projects funded by the Government of India in the neighbouring country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oli-calls-pm-modi-first-time-after-india-nepal-ties-soured-over-territorial-row-873614.html
15-08-2020||National||Karnataka Home Minister blaming Congress for riots to cover up his 'failure': Congress State Chief Shivakumar||The Congress in Karnataka on Saturday slammed Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai over his alleged failure to prevent the violence in Bengaluru that left three dead, and said he sought to blame the 'internal strife' in the grand old party for the incident. "I read the Home Minister's statement.. Who is he? Any authority or sub-inspector or has he been appointed as the commissioner of police? Who is he to talk about investigating the corporators, blackmail and threaten them by serving notices to them?" Congress state chief D K Shivakumar asked. He was addressing reporters here after hoisting tricolour at his party office on the occasion of the Independence Day. Bommai had on Friday alleged that internal squabble in Congress and SDPI's larger conspiracy to disturb law and order were among the reasons behind the recent violence in Pulakeshinagar constituency here. Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLA's residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister. Shivakumar, a former minister, further said the BJP-led government in the state was trying to give the riots a caste colour only to 'cover up' its failure. Alleging that communal violence takes place whenever BJP comes to power, the state Congress chief said the Sringeri incident was planned by BJP and Bajrang Dal. He was referring to the incident that occurred two days ago in Sringeri, where a flag was found atop a statue of Adiguru Shankaracharya leading to tension in the temple town. A man, who had allegedly picked up a poster from the nearby mosque and threw it on Shankaracharya's statue under the influence of liquor has been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-home-minister-blaming-congress-for-riots-to-cover-up-his-failure-congress-state-chief-shivakumar-873629.html
15-08-2020||National||Record 57,381 Covid-19 patients discharged in a day; recovery rate rises to 71.61%: Health ministry||The number of people in India who have recuperated from Covid-19 went past 18 lakh on Saturday with a record 57,381 patients discharged in 24 hours pushing the recovery rate to 71.61 per cent, according to the health ministry data. India's 'test, track and treat' strategy has achieved another peak with 8,68,679 Covid-19 tests done in 24 hours taking the cumulative tests done till Friday to more than 2.85 crores, the ministry said. Twelve states and union territories have reported their recovery rates above the national average. In 30 states and UTs, the Covid-19 recovery rate is more than 50 per cent, it highlighted. Delhi has the highest recovery rate of 89.87 per cent followed by Tamil Nadu at 81.62 per cent, Gujarat 77.53 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 74.70 per cent, West Bengal 73.25 per cent, Rajasthan 72.84 per cent, Telangana 72.72 per cent and Odisha 71.98 per cent. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, the total number of recoveries have surged to 18,08,936. "The gap between the number of recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has increased and crossed 11 lakh (11,40,716 today). This is a result of coordinated efforts of the Centre, state and UTs which has led to a continuous increase in average daily recoveries," the ministry said. There are 6,68,220 active Covid-19 cases, the actual caseload of the country, which is 26.45 per cent of the total cases. They are under active medical supervision, the health ministry said. Focus on effective treatment in hospitals, supervised home isolation, use of non-invasive oxygen support, improved services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment, up-gradation of clinical management skills of doctors treating Covid-19 patients have in tandem resulted in seamless efficient patient management, it said. "This has ensured that India's Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is maintained below the global average. It is on a continuous positive slide and currently stands at 1.94 per cent," the ministry said. The graded and evolving response has resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing net in the country. To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network is being continuously strengthened which now consists of 1,465 labs of which 968 are in the government sector and 497 private. India's Covid-19 tally reached 25,26,192 on Saturday with a spike of 65,002 cases, while the death toll climbed to 49,036 with 996 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the health ministry data updated on Saturday 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-57381-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-a-day-recovery-rate-rises-to-7161-health-ministry-873636.html
15-08-2020||National||Government to complete works of laying optical fiber networks in next 1,000 days||The government will complete the works of connecting all villages with optical fiber networks in the next 1,000 days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 74th Independence Day, PM Modi also announced that high-speed internet connectivity via submarine optical fiber cable will be extended to Lakshadweep in this period. Pointing that only 60 village panchayats were connected with optical fiber before 2014, the PM said, "In the last 5 years, 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optical fiber. In the coming 1000 days, every village of the nation will be connected with optical fiber." Lakshadweep too would be connected with submarine optical fiber cable in the next 1,000 days, he said. He recently inaugurated the first-ever 2313 km undersea optical fiber cable project between Chennai-Port Blair. He had laid the foundation for the project on December 30, 2018. The Bharat Net project, aimed at providing internet connectivity to all 2.5 lakh gram panchayats (GPs) has picked up pace in recent years but still running behind schedule. It initially began as the National Optical Fibre Network in October 2011, has been delayed due to various reasons. The Centre has been seeking states to support Bharat Net scheme and requested them to examine the right of way issues for promoting the development of a robust telecom network. The PM  also announced a new policy on cybersecurity to be unveiled shortly amid threats emanating from cyberspace. He said the country is witnessing an expansion of roads and the internet at unprecedented and rapid speed, from the peaks of Himalayas to islands in the Indian Ocean. Referring to digital India, he said the importance of the mission has been realised during the Covid-19 pandemic. "In the last month only, transactions worth about Rs 3 lakh crore took place through BHIM UPI alone," he said. The PM also said that new projects are being taken up in some of the islands keeping in mind their geographical location and their significance in the development of the nation. "We have chosen some islands for rapid development. Recently, we connected Andaman and Nicobar Islands with an undersea cable for better internet. Next, we will connect Lakshadweep," PM said. While commenting on announcement of high speed Internet services in Lakshadweep Islands, IT and Telecom Minister  Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted saying that the  Prime Minister has set a target of 1000 days to provide submarine optical fibre connectivity to these islands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-complete-works-of-laying-optical-fiber-networks-in-next-1000-days-873638.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Modi announces health IDs for all under new mission; roadmap ready to ensure Covid-19 vaccine reaches everyone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday unveiled an ambitious National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services and also announced that the country has made plans for mass-producing Covid-19 vaccine once scientists give a green signal. In his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the prime minister said the health ID will store every individual's medical records and the Mission will herald a new revolution in the health sector. "From today, a major campaign is being launched in which technology will play a big role. The National Digital Health Mission is being launched today. This will bring a new revolution in India's health sector and it will help reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology," he said. "Every Indian will be given a health ID, which will work as each Indian's health account," Modi said, adding that it would ease problems faced by citizens in getting healthcare access. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments. The Mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country. Modi said the country has prepared a roadmap to ensure that a Covid-19 vaccine reaches everyone in the shortest possible time. He said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of trials in the country. The prime minister said whenever there is talk of Covid-19, the question that comes to everyone's mind is - when will a vaccine be ready. "I want to tell people, the talent of our scientists is like that of 'rishi munis' and they are working very hard in laboratories. Three vaccines are in various stages of testing. When scientists will give us the green signal, it will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it," Modi said while addressing the nation on its 74th Independence Day. The phase-1 and 2 human clinical trials of two of the vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), and Zydus Cadila Ltd, are currently underway. The Serum Institute of India has been permitted for conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the third vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University. The Pune-based institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine. The prime minister reassured the nation that “we will win" against the coronavirus pandemic and a "strong will" will lead to victory. Modi said the focus on the health sector has increased during the coronavirus era and the biggest lesson that has been learnt is that of being self-reliant in the health sector. He said that the country is now producing PPE kits, N95 masks, ventilators, etc. which were not being manufactured domestically.  The increase in production capacity of such world-class items also echoed in his call “vocal for local”. "We have to move forward to achieve that aim. Before coronavirus there was only one lab for testing (for Covid-19), today there is a network of 1,400 labs across the country. When the coronavirus crisis broke out only 300 tests could be carried out in a day, but in a short period we have shown our strength and we have come to a point where we carried out seven lakh tests in a day," he said. The PM said new AIIMS and new medical colleges are being built and efforts are being made towards modernisation. "In five years in MBBS/MD, 45,000 more seats have been created for students," he said. Of the over 1.5 lakh wellness centres envisaged in villages, more than one-third are already operational and have been of great help during the pandemic. "Wellness centres have played an important role in villages during the corona period," he said. The prime minister also paid tributes to Covid warriors on the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. "On behalf of the entire country, I wish to thank the efforts of all corona-warriors. All those healthcare workers, doctors and nurses, ambulance drivers and all those working in this fight against the pandemic, who have worked tirelessly to serve the nation," Modi said. He expressed confidence that Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) will improve the effectiveness of services in the health sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-announces-health-ids-for-all-under-new-mission-roadmap-ready-to-ensure-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-everyone-873640.html
15-08-2020||National||By 2022, India must be Atma Nirbhar in every sense of the word: Vice President Naidu||On this Independence Day, every Indian, especially the youth, must resolve to be at the forefront to fight attempts by forces that try to create dissensions among the people, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Saturday. In a Facebook post to mark the 74th Independence Day, he said for India to achieve new heights of development and prosperity, every citizen, including people in public life, must perform their duty. "As we approach the 75th anniversary of Independence, it is time for an objective introspection. At this juncture, we must ask ourselves what we aspire to achieve as a nation by 2022," Naidu observed. "By 2022, India must be aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) in every sense of the word. We all must work with renewed vigour and determination to eradicate poverty, end social and gender discrimination and eliminate corruption," he said. The vice president said India needs a cultural renaissance and a refreshing flowering of literature and artistic expression in its national languages. "As the country moves forward with renewed determination and the tremendous energy of 130 crore people to transform and build a 'new India', we are confident of regaining our past glory and becoming an ideal parliamentary democracy," he said. "On this Independence Day, let us also remember with gratitude the countless men and women whose sacrifices brought us freedom. We must always be grateful to them for their selfless efforts -- the fruits of which are being reaped by us now as citizens of a sovereign and vibrant parliamentary democracy," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/by-2022-india-must-be-atma-nirbhar-in-every-sense-of-the-word-vice-president-naidu-873655.html
15-08-2020||National||Indian envoy in UK hails Indian diaspora 'loving bridge' on Independence Day||The Indian High Commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, on Saturday hailed the “loving bridge” of global Indians that rallied round during the coronavirus lockdown to help fellow Indians in need as she led Independence Day celebrations in London. Her message, which reflected on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reference to the Indian diaspora as a “Living Bridge”, also highlighted the important role played by people of Indian origin as well as the Indian High Commission in London during the pandemic. “Our countrymen and women threw open their doors and hearts to help students and others during the lockdown. This is the spirit of our diaspora, not only a Living Bridge, but also a loving one,” said Kumar, in a message released to mark the 74th Independence Day. “The High Commission of India complemented the selfless efforts of our diaspora and worked day and night to help more than 28,000 stranded Indians reach their homes in India and bring back over 14,000 British citizens. We continue our efforts to help the remaining numbers,” she said. The envoy, who took charge as the Indian envoy to the UK recently, went on to lead the Independence Day celebrations with a flag hoisting ceremony at India House, broadcast live via Facebook given the Covid-19 restrictions. She delivered the address of the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, at an event attended by a small group of High Commission diplomats and officials. “This year, we shall have to be careful, follow local regulations and avoid unnecessary social contacts or large gatherings. Our first priority is to be responsible citizens and protect ourselves and our families from any untoward situation,” said Kumar. “I, therefore, request you all to do everything you can to keep good health and a high morale. In fact, I strongly encourage you to adopt the fitness strategy launched by the Right Honourable Prime Minister of the UK (Boris Johnson) on a Hero cycle made in India,” she added. The virtually telecast celebrations included congratulatory video messages from the UK government, delivered by Lord Tariq Ahmad, the Minister for South Asia in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), as well as from members of the Indian community in the UK including Indian-origin entrepreneurs Lord Swraj Paul, Lord Rami Ranger and Lord Karan Bilimoria, and Baroness Usha Prashar, Chair of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) UK Council. "Now more than ever, India needs the world and the world needs India," said Lord Jitesh Gadhia in his message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-envoy-in-uk-hails-indian-diaspora-loving-bridge-on-independence-day-873659.html
15-08-2020||National||Did India really achieve freedom in 1947?||Was India truly independent in 1947? On the midnight of Aug. 15, Jawaharlal Nehru delivered his iconic ‘Tryst with Destiny’ speech that inspired millions and India was considered a free nation. India was, however, only bestowed dominion status and did not become an actual independent nation until 1950. In those three years, this meant that India still pledged allegiance to the Crown of the British Empire, King George VI, and Lord Mountbatten was India’s Governor-General whilst Nehru was sworn in as the Prime Minister of the nation. The dominion status also meant that India was equal in status to the rest of the British Empire. Leaders who weren’t elected by the people were sworn in in the name of King George VI as the Emperor of India. The Indian Army was still headed by a British field marshall. Judges in courts across India were still appointed by the British. The day the country’s Constitution came into effect, Jan. 30, 1950, was the day that India broke free from monarchy in actuality and became a sovereign democratic republic.  On Feb. 20, 1947, Clement Attlee, the then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, said that India would be granted “full self-government” by June 30, 1948. Lord Mountbatten was later appointed to oversee the constitution-making process as he was a member of the royal family and a leading British naval officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-india-really-achieve-freedom-in-1947-873663.html
15-08-2020||National||Rs 110 lakh crore will be spent under National Infrastructure Pipeline Project: PM Modi||To boost the economy, Rs 110 lakh crore will be spent under the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Addressing the nation on the 74th Independence Day from Red Fort, the Prime Minister said, "There is a need to give a new direction to the overall infrastructural development of the country to move India towards modernity at a fast pace. This need will be met through the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project." For this, about 7,000 projects have been identified in different sectors. This will also give a new direction and a fresh momentum to the overall infrastructure development of the country. It will also play a crucial role in pulling the country out of the impact of Covid-19, he said. The project was announced last year to bolster investment in the infrastructure sector. The investment will be made between 2020 and 2025 financial year and it involves both the private and public sectors. The time has come to eliminate silos in infrastructure development and a big plan has been prepared for multi-modal connectivity infrastructure, the PM said. For the first time, the EMI of a home loan is getting a rebate of up to 6 lakh rupees during the payment period. Just last year, a fund of Rs 25,000 crore has been established to complete thousands of incomplete houses, he said. Modi also recalled the contributions of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in expanding the road network through Golden Quadrilateral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-110-lakh-crore-will-be-spent-under-national-infrastructure-pipeline-project-pm-modi-873673.html
15-08-2020||National||Bihar becomes 8th state to cross 1 lakh Covid-19 tally-mark||Bihar on Saturday became the eighth state in the country to have reported more than one lakh Covid-19 cases, marking a 10-fold rise in its tally within a period of a month and a half. The state's Covid-19 death toll rose to 515 after 15 people succumbed to the disease, a bulletin issued by the department said. With 3,536 fresh infections, the total caseload of Bihar has gone up to 1,01,906, it said. The state also conducted record 1.61 lakh sample tests in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are the other seven states that had reported more than one lakh coronavirus cases. Bihar had breached the 1,000-mark on July 1 and the number of positive cases has risen at an explosive rate since then. The health department, however, insisted that the spike has been, to a large extent, on account of a huge improvement in the testing rate during the period. The testing rate in Bihar used to be under 10,000 per day till about a month ago. It began to look up in the past few weeks and crossed one lakh on August 12 and has been steadily rising since then. The total number of tests conducted in the state, since the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak in March, has now reached 16.12 lakhs, the bulletin said. The number of fresh cases that led the state's tally to breach the six-digit-mark was 3,536, of which Patna (493) accounted for more than 10 percent. Named after the capital city, the district has been worst-hit in terms of overall tally (16,366), fatalities (96) and active cases (4,022). It also has the highest number of patients (12,248) who have recovered from the disease. Among the 38 districts, Kaimur became the 36th to touch the four-digit-mark in terms of tally, leaving only Arwal (997) and Sheohar (546) with less than one thousand cases. Muzaffarpur became only the second district, after Patna, to have reported more than 4,000 cases, finishing with a tally of 4,147, including 21 deaths. Besides, eight districts Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Nalanda, East Champaran, Rohtas and Saran - have tallies in excess of 3,000. The casualty figure rose by 15 on the day, as two deaths each were reported from Patna, Munger, West Champaran, Saran and Siwan districts, while Arwal, Bhojpur, Gaya, Jamui and Supaul registered one fatality each, the bulletin said. The state's recovery rate, which had dipped below 65 percent a week ago, has started showing improvement and it now stands at 67.39 percent. The total number of recovered cases is 68,675, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-becomes-8th-state-to-cross-1-lakh-covid-19-tally-mark-873676.html
15-08-2020||National||CJAR condemns decision to convict Prashant Bhushan; asks SC to reconsider judgment||The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms on Saturday condemned the Supreme Court's judgment of August 14 holding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt. It said his tweets being expressions of anguish and a bonafide criticism of the court and the Chief Justice of India, were fully protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and cannot be stifled by a such a conviction. In a statement, the group having a retired judge, Justice P B Sawant, former law minister, and senior advocate Shanti Bhushan among others as their patrons, called upon each and every sitting judge of the Supreme Court to reconsider this decision. It said the judgment has, more than anything, harmed the court’s own prestige and dignity in the eyes of the public. "When the functioning of the court has been disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and important cases concerning the rights of millions are being adjourned for weeks and months, the haste with which the court has proceeded to hear and convict Bhushan is unseemly and sends a message of stern consequence to those who choose to express themselves in manners that are not palatable to judges," it said. The Supreme Court has enjoyed a hallowed status due to the work of progressive and thoughtful judges who have expanded human rights and defended liberty. Respect and dignity cannot be demanded from citizens on the threat of contempt, it contended. Maintaining that criminal contempt to prop up the court’s dignity was an archaic and obsolete law, the group said once hailed as one of the “most powerful Constitutional courts” in the world, it was unfortunate that the court was intolerant of even the most temperate and well-intentioned criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cjar-condemns-decision-to-convict-prashant-bhushan-asks-sc-to-reconsider-judgment-873682.html
15-08-2020||National||I-Day: Woman Army officer assists PM Narendra Modi in unfurling tricolour at Red Fort||A woman Army officer, Major Shweta Pandey, assisted Prime Minister Narendra Modi in unfurling the national flag atop the ramparts of the Red Fort during the 74th Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. It was only fitting as the prime minister spoke about women empowerment and their achievements in his address to the nation. Women are toiling in coal mines, but India's daughters are also flying fighter planes and touching the skies, he said. Hailing from Lucknow, Major Pandey was commissioned in the Army in March 2012 from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai. She is an alumna of City Montessori School, Lucknow, and holds a B.Tech degree in computer science. She is an achiever, officials said. At the training academy, she won the Garhwal Rifles medal for topping in tactics. She has won over 75 medals and 250 certificates in various national and international events during her school and college days. Major Pandey's father Raj Ratan Pandey served as an additional director in the finance department of the Uttar Pradesh government and her mother Amita Pandey is a professor of Sanskrit and Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-day-woman-army-officer-assists-pm-narendra-modi-in-unfurling-tricolour-at-red-fort-873687.html
15-08-2020||National||Fact Check: Did PETA India torture elephants?||A 1:31 minute video showing an elephant being transported in a truck has gone viral on social media. In the video, the elephant struggles to stay inside the truck and tries to get off midway. Indu Makkal Katchi, right-wing Hindu nationalist party in Tamil Nadu, accused PETA India of torturing elephants. PETA India works under the aegis of the American animal rights organisation PETA. The video has been viewed over 58,000 times and retweeted over 3,700 times as of this writing. This is how PETA India took away kanchi mutt elephants. Facebook page ‘The Sanghi Millennial’ also posted the video with the same claim on August 8. The post also mentioned that the video is of 2019 and that PETA India continues to take away animals from temples in this manner. The video was viewed over 1,800 times.       This is how the NGO took the Sandhya few years ago When the Mahot a woman came running and called out her name, Sandhya broke the truck and jumped out. Injuring her self.    The timeline of the whole episode is the following – the temple functionaries sent the three elephants to Marakkanam camp in 2016. After residing there for three and a half years, they were shifted to the forest department’s elephant habilitation centre in Tiruchirappalli based on a judgement by the Madras High Court. The story has no connection whatsoever with PETA India. The video shared by Indu Makkam Katchi accusing PETA India is actually from 2016 when the elephants were being transported from the temple to Marakkanam camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-peta-india-torture-elephants-873691.html
15-08-2020||National||Two cr families provided with piped drinking water in last one year: PM Narendra Modi||In the last one year, two crore families, especially tribals living in forests and far-flung areas, have been provided piped drinking water under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. The JJM was announced by the prime minister last year and it aims to provide piped-water to rural households. "I am very proud to tell you that our dream of making pure drinking water available to all the people is getting realised. The solution to several health problems is directly linked to pure drinking water. It also contributes to the nation's economy. That's why we started the Jal Jeevan Mission. "Today, I am happy to say that everyday we are able to supply piped-water to over one lakh houses. And in the last one year, we have been able to provide water to two crore families, especially to the tribals living in forests and far-flung areas," he said in his Independence Day speech. The prime minister added that JMM has created an environment of healthy competition in the country among districts, cities and also among states. "Everyone is hoping that the prime minister's dream of Jal Jeevan Mission is accomplished at the earliest in their respective areas. The new strength of cooperative and competitive federalism has been associated with the Jal Jeevan Mission and we are moving forward with it," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-cr-families-provided-with-piped-drinking-water-in-last-one-year-pm-narendra-modi-873697.html
15-08-2020||National||Mammoth steps taken to make country self-reliant in defence sector: PM Narendra Modi||India has as much commitment to make its security apparatus and Army strong as it has for establishing peace and harmony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, stressing that mammoth steps have been taken to make the country self-reliant in the defence sector. In his Independence Day speech, Modi said recently, import of more than 100 military equipment has been stopped. "From missiles to light military helicopters, from assault rifles to transport aircraft - all will be made in India. Our Tejas is getting ready to equip itself as per the modern requirements, for putting up a show of its majesty, speed and strength," he said. Tejas is the indigenous Light Combat Aircraft which has been also been inducted in the Indian Air Force. Modi noted that border and coastal infrastructure play a pivotal role in national security. Emphasis is being laid on connectivity in every direction, be it the Himalayan peaks, or the islands of Indian Ocean. New roads are being constructed everywhere, from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, keeping in mind national security, he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mammoth-steps-taken-to-make-country-self-reliant-in-defence-sector-pm-narendra-modi-873699.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Modi rues absence of children at Red Fort during Independence Day celebrations||Clad in thematic wear, every Independence Day they sit on the lawns of the Red Fort in a colourful pattern drawing the attention of the crowd, but on Saturday, school-going children were conspicuous by their absence at the venue. Children are vulnerable to the coronavirus infection and so, in view of the containment measures adopted for the event, they did not take part in the celebrations this year, which were significantly scaled down due to the Covid-19 situation. "Today, our children are not here with us. The coronavirus pandemic has halted all of us," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Everyone felt their absence as children clap and cheer loudly throughout the event, but this time, it was a rather quiet affair in keeping with the Covid-19 safety protocols. While there were a few school students from the higher classes among the NCC cadets who took part in the celebrations, they too said the absence of the children could be felt. Popular among children, Modi has a penchant to interact with the crowd at a close distance, especially the children, and every year at the Independence Day celebrations, he invariably breaks the security protocol to shake hands with the children, who wait to meet and greet him with bated breath. Scores of school children add youthful energy to the grand event every year, but amid the coronavirus scare, they were not present on the occasion this year. Sporting a saffron and cream headgear with a half-sleeve kurta and a churidar, the prime minister delivered his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech that lasted for 86 minutes, during which he unveiled his vision of an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" to make India a global manufacturing hub. The grand annual event was scaled down this year in keeping with the safety protocols to contain the spread of the coronavirus that has wreaked havoc across the world. A number of seats across all enclosures remained empty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-rues-absence-of-children-at-red-fort-during-independence-day-celebrations-873701.html
15-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi announces National Digital Health Mission on Independence Day||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, PM Modi announces National Digital Health Mission; Russia produces the first batch of its new vaccine for Covid-19 and Traffic seen at Bengaluru as people leave the city ahead of the weekend holiday combined with the auspicious last Saturday of Shravana.  Here are the top news of today, Saturday: August 15, 2020: India is fighting both terrorism and expansionism, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, tacitly referring to the twin challenges posed by Pakistan and China to the security and sovereignty of the nation.“Whoever challenged the sovereignty of India, be it on the LoC (Line of Control with Pakistan) or on the LAC (the Line of Actual Control with China), our valiant soldiers gave them a befitting reply in their own languages,” the Prime Minister said from the rampart of the Red Fort after hoisting the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day. He was obviously referring to the responses by the Indian Army and the paramilitary forces, not only against violation of ceasefire by Pakistan Army personnel along the LoC but also against the attempts by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC. The nation is celebrating its 74th Independence Day even as the more-than-100-day-long military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh still continues. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in a violent face-off with the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15. Though the PLA too suffered casualties, the Chinese Government did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the clash.  The stand-off, which started with the Chinese PLA’s transgression into the territory of India, took the relations between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low, particularly after the clash in Galwan Valley.  “India’s sovereignty is supreme and the world has seen in Ladakh what our gallant soldiers can do to protect it, what the country can do,” the Prime Minister said. He was apparently referring to the Indian Army’s response to attack by the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley. The Pakistan Army too stepped up flouting the truce along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir to facilitate infiltration of the terrorists into India. The Indian Army stepped up preparedness to deal with any move that the Pakistan Army might make to take advantage of the military stand-off between India and China. “Be it terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both,” the Prime Minister said, even as he avoided directly referring to Pakistan and China. He said that the faith of the global community in the nation had increased. India recently winning a non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council with the support of 184 of the total 193 members of the international organization was a sign of this faith, said the Prime Minister. I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal,” he said, in his seventh consecutive address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. The biggest announcement of the day was the announcement of the National Digital Health Mission that will allot each citizen with a unique health identification number. "Every Indian will be given a health ID which will contain all your information. What disease you suffer from, which doctor has been consulted, what medicines you are on,” Modi said announcing the move which he said would revolutionise the healthcare system.The prime minister said Indian scientists were working on three vaccine candidates against Covid-19 and the government had prepared a roadmap to akig it available to every Indian as soon as possible. “As soon as our scientists give a green signal, a Made in India Covid-19 vaccine will be made available,” the prime minister said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart in Kathmandu, K P Sharma Oli, spoke to each other over the phone on Saturday – for the first time after Nepal ratcheted up its territorial dispute with India and the relations between the two neighbours soured. Oli called Modi to greet him on behalf of the government and people of Nepal on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day of India. He also congratulated his counterpart in New Delhi for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for a two-year term, beginning January 2021. Modi thanked Nepalese Prime Minister for his call. He also recalled the civilizational and cultural links between India and Nepal, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. The courtesy call from Kathmandu to New Delhi came almost three months after the Oli Government lodged protest over a new 80-kilometer-long road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to the Lipulekh Pass – an India-Nepal-China tri-junction boundary point. It alleged that the road passed through Nepal – a claim dismissed by India. Kathmandu, however, went ahead, published a new map, which showed nearly 400 sq kms of India’s areas in Kalapani, Lipulekh Pass and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. It also got the Nepalese Parliament amend the country’s constitution to endorse the new map. Russia has produced the first batch of its new vaccine for Covid-19, the Interfax news agency quoted the health ministry as saying on Saturday, hours after the ministry reported the start of manufacturing. Some scientists said they fear that with this fast regulatory approval Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety amid the global race to develop a vaccine against the disease. Russia has said the vaccine, the first for the coronavirus to go into production, will be rolled out by the end of this month. Its approval comes before trials that would normally involve thousands of participants, commonly known as Phase III. Such trials are usually considered essential precursors for a vaccine to secure regulatory approval. The vaccine has been named "Sputnik V" in homage to the world's first satellite launched by the Soviet Union. President Vladimir Putin has assured the public that it is safe, adding that one of his daughters had taken it as a volunteer and felt good afterwards. Moscow's Gamaleya Institute, which developed the vaccine, said previously that Russia would be producing about 5 million doses a month by December-January, Interfax said.  Using state-of-the-art computer simulations, scientists have identified a preexisting drug, used to treat multiple diseases, including bipolar disorders and hearing loss, that could prevent the novel coronavirus from replicating in host cells, an advance that may lead to a therapeutic solution against Covid-19. The study, published in the journal Science Advances, assessed the molecule main protease, Mpro, of the novel coronavirus which is a key enzyme that plays a central role in its life cycle. According to the researchers, including those from the University of Chicago in the US, Mpro facilitates the virus' ability to make proteins from its genetic material -- RNA -- and enables the pathogen to replicate within the host cell. Using their expertise in modelling biological molecules, the scientists rapidly screened thousands of existing compounds for potential use against the virus. An electric short circuit caused the centralised oxygen line to stop at CV Raman General Hospital in Indiranagar, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. As many as 20 Covid-19 patients in the High Dependency Unit (HDU) were evacuated in an emergency and shifted to three other hospitals in the city in the wee hours of Saturday. The hospital currently has 175 Covid-19 beds and has 80-90 patients. The oxygen supply was cut to 20 Covid-19 patients whose oxygen saturation was low. Immediately beds were identified in other hospitals, and patients had to traverse significant distances across the city to get to other health facilities when time was of essence. 16 Covid-19 patients were sent to Victoria Hospital near K R Market, which is 10 km away from CV Raman General hospital. One Covid-19 patient was shifted to the ICU at Vydehi Hospital in Whitefield, 13 km away, and one patient was put on a ventilator in an ICU in Fortis Hospital, Cunningham Road, eight km away. Two patients were shifted to Mahaveer Jain Hospital, Millers Road, seven km away from CV Raman General Hospital. Dr Bhaskar Vijaykumar, a radiologist, deputed as nodal officer in BBMP East Zone who is the overall in-charge of the zonal control room told DH, "The supply was cut around 10.30 pm on Friday. We got the information at around 10:45 pm-11 pm. Ambulances reached the hospital at 11:15 pm. We completed shifting the patients by 12.15 am." Bumper to bumper traffic was seen at Nelamangala Toll as weekend holiday combined with the auspicious last Saturday of Shravana led to a sudden increase in the number of vehicles exiting Bengaluru, with even ambulances stuck in the jam. Notorious for its jams during the weekends, holidays and festival eve, Nelamangala toll had been relatively free since the beginning of Covid-19 crisis in March. The only exception was on the eve of lockdowns, especially when people left Bengaluru to escape the one-week lockdown from July 14. Sources in the toll plaza said a steady stream of vehicles started leaving Bengaluru early on Saturday morning. By 8 am, there were long queues at the toll booth. Within the next two hours, the entire plaza was choked with the seven exit points struggling. All exit points at the plaza are equipped with the FASTag. However, toll officials were not available for comment on the reason for the delay. A source said many people go to temples for poojas during the last Saturday of the auspicious month of Shravana. "Add to that the closure of government and private offices on account of Independence Day and the number of people leaving the city goes up further," he said, adding that even ambulances were stuck for a brief period in the long snarl that stretched to Gorguntepalya flyover. The traffic, however, was streamlined at the next toll plaza near Nelamangala. NHAI has plans to increase the exit gates at the Doddakarenahalli plaza near Nelamangala to ensure free flow of traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modi-announces-national-digital-health-mission-on-independence-day-873720.html
15-08-2020||National||Once we get vaccine, Covid warriors will be first ones to get dose: MoS Health||Scientists are working hard on coronavirus vaccine and if their efforts bear fruit, Covid-19 warriors will be the first ones to get the dose, Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Saturday. Interacting with reporters on the sidelines of the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort here, he also hailed the National Digital Health Mission unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation. "This is a historic day for the country's health sector. On the auspicious occasion of our Independence Day, our PM announced this mission. This will bring widespread change in the field of health," Choubey said. Modi on Saturday unveiled the ambitious National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services and he also announced that the country has made plans for mass-producing Covid-19 vaccine once scientists give a green signal. "Our scientists are working very hard on it. Three vaccines against Covid-19 are in various stages of testing. And, if we do succeed in getting a vaccine, our Covid warriors will be the first one to receive the dose," the minister of state for health said. Modi in his address said, "When scientists will give us the green signal, it will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it." "So, our PM has spelt it out that this government is determined to fight its way out of the coronavirus crisis," Chaubey said. Asked about the health ID card for each citizen that will be provided under the National Digital Health Mission, the Union minister said it will facilitate heathcare access to people. "The card will carry the medical history of the patient, and a doctor will be able to access prior information on ailments and treatment, if any, and begin treatment," he said. Choubey said if a citizen travels from Patna to Bangalore, a doctor in the southern city will be able to access health-related data on the Patna patient, and respond faster. Modi in his address said this mission will bring a new revolution in India's health sector and it will reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments.   The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country. On coronavirus vaccine, Modi said the country has prepared a roadmap to ensure that a Covid-19 vaccine reaches everyone in the shortest possible time. He said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of trials in the country.  The phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials of two of the vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), and Zydus Cadila Ltd, are currently underway.  The Serum Institute of India has been permitted to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the third vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University. The Pune-based institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/once-we-get-vaccine-covid-warriors-will-be-first-ones-to-get-dose-mos-health-873722.html
15-08-2020||National||PM Modi announces National Digital Health Mission for seamless access to healthcare||With health concerns uppermost on everyone’s mind amidst the coronavirus crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday used his 74th Independence Day address to roll out a National Digital Health Mission, under which a unique health account would be created for every Indian citizen for seamless and hassle-free access to healthcare anywhere in the country. “Every Indian will be given a Health ID, which will work like a Health Account for every Indian. This account will contain details of every test, every disease and the doctors visited. It will also have information on the results of diagnostic tests and the medicines that have been prescribed,” Modi said in his address. “The National Digital Health Mission will eliminate all the difficulties related to appointments with a doctor, depositing money, making a slip in the hospital, etc. We are devising a system which will help each and every citizen to make a better and informed decision.” The scheme will be rolled out through a pilot launch in the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep, according to a statement from the National Health Agency that will implement the mission. “Based on the initial learning in the UTs, we will gradually work in partnership with the States to launch the NDHM," said union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Joining in the scheme would be voluntary. According to the blueprint of the NDHM prepared by the Union Health Ministry, the key components of such a digital health care system are Unique Health Identifier (UHID), privacy and consent management, national portability, electronic health records, applicable standards and regulations, health analytics and multiple access channels like call centres, India Digital Health portal and MyHealth App. Modi also announced a Rs 100 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline Project to move India towards modernity at a fast pace besides linking lakhs of villages with an optical fibre cable network. The government will complete the works of connecting all villages with an optical fibre network in the next 1,000 days. The island territory of Lakshadweep will also be connected using submarine-based optical fibre cable. Pointing that only 5 dozen village panchayats were connected with optical fibre before 2014, the PM said "in the last 5 years, 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optical fibre. In the coming 1000 days, every village of the nation will be connected with optical fibre." The Bharat Net project, aimed at providing internet connectivity to 2.5 lakh gram panchayats (GPs) has picked up pace in recent years but is still running behind schedule. The project, which initially began as the National Optical Fibre Network in October 2011,has been delayed for various reasons. The Centre has been seeking support from the states on the Bharat Net programme and requested them examine right of way issues for promoting development of a robust telecom network. The PM also announced a new policy on cyber security to be unveiled shortly amid threats emanating from cyber space.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-announces-national-digital-health-mission-for-seamless-access-to-healthcare-873737.html
15-08-2020||National||Jio-RCom spectrum sharing deal not connected with AGR liability: Sources||Reliance Jio's four-year-old telecom spectrum sharing deal with Reliance Communications (RCom) is not connected with the latter's past statutory dues that pertain to the period prior to 2016 when Jio wasn't even in operation, sources close to the company said. A Supreme Court bench had on Friday sought to know why Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) must not pay adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of Reliance Communications since it has been using the latter's spectrum since 2016. A source, refusing to be quoted as the matter is sub-judice, said RJIL in April 2016 entered into a pact to share a part of the spectrum held by RCom and its unit Reliance Telecom Ltd (RTL). The shared spectrum was limited to the 800 MHz band and was strictly in accordance with the Department of Telecom's (DoT) spectrum sharing guidelines. RCom's 2G, 3G and 4G spectrum in 1,800 MHz band are not being shared. The AGR dues of RCom and RTL are in no manner connected with this shared spectrum, the source said, adding that the AGR has been paid by both RCom/RTL and RJIL on the revenue generated from the shared spectrum. The AGR dues related to 2G/3G business of RCom/RTL, which it was carrying out prior to 2016, the time when RJIL was not even operational, the source said. Not just RJIL, even Airtel had bought Aircel's 4G airwaves in the 2,300 MHz band and Videocon's 4G spectrum in the 1,800 MHz band through the spectrum trading route in 2016. The source said the quantum of spectrum used by RJIL is around 38% of the total spectrum currently held by RCom. RCom continues to hold spectrum in 900 MHz band, 1,800 MHz band, and 2100 MHz, which is not being shared with RJIL. Over 85% of the value of the shared spectrum has been already fully paid and realised by the government. Moreover, the right to use 85% of the shared spectrum value is expiring in July 2021. Both RJIL and RCom continue to discharge in full their statutory liabilities in respect of revenue from the shared spectrum. Further, both the firms continue to pay additional spectrum usage charges to the government towards the spectrum sharing arrangement, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jio-rcom-spectrum-sharing-deal-not-connected-with-agr-liability-sources-873747.html
15-08-2020||National||National Digital Health Mission rolled out on pilot mode in 6 union territories||The ambitious National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services has been rolled out on a pilot mode in six union territories. The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, has been given the mandate by the government to design, build, roll-out and implement the NDHM in the country. The six union territories where the mission was rolled out through a pilot launch are Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep, the NHA said in a statement. In his Independence Day address, the prime minister said that under NDHM every Indian citizen will get a health ID which will store every individual's medical records and the Mission will herald a new revolution in the health sector. "From today, a major campaign is being launched in which technology will play a big role. The National Digital Health Mission is being launched today. This will bring a new revolution in India's health sector and it will help reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology," he said. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments. The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country. Welcoming the historic announcement by the prime minister, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "Based on the initial learnings in the UTs, we will gradually work in partnership with the states to launch the NDHM. I seek the whole-hearted support, inputs and cooperation of doctors, healthcare facilities, citizens and state governments to adopt this game-changing scheme." The NDHM is a holistic, voluntary healthcare programme that will reduce the existing gap between various stakeholders such as doctors, hospitals and other healthcare providers, pharmacies, insurance companies, and citizens by bringing them together and connecting them in an integrated digital health infrastructure, the NHA statement said. The NDHM comprises six key building blocks or digital systems - HealthID, DigiDoctor, Health Facility Registry, Personal Health Records, e-Pharmacy andTelemedicine - that will enable access to timely, safe and affordable healthcare through a 'citizen-centric' approach, it said. All of these digital products except e-Pharmacy and telemedicine have been deployed and are up and running. Providing details on the key components of NDHM, NHA CEO Dr Indu Bhushan said, "The core building blocks of NDHM such as Health ID, Digi-Doctor and Health Facility Registry shall be owned, operated and maintained by the government of India. Private stakeholders will have an equal opportunity to integrate with these building blocks and create their own products for the market. However, core activities and verifications, for example, generation of Health ID or approval of a doctor/facility shall remain with the government." Additional components, like Personal Health Record (PHR) and Electronic Medical Record (EMR) solutions can be developed by private players as well, in line with guidelines that will be issued. All such products by private participants shall be as per official guidelines taking care of security, privacy and standards of the NDHM ecosystem, he elaborated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-digital-health-mission-rolled-out-on-pilot-mode-in-6-union-territories-873765.html
15-08-2020||National||Public sentiment demanded that CBI probe Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said it was a "public sentiment" that the probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death be conducted by the CBI even though he believes in capability of the Maharashtra Police. Governments of Maharashtra and Bihar have locked horns over the jurisdiction to investigate the Rajput case. The Bihar government had recommended a CBI probe, days after Patna police registered an FIR against the late actor's Mumbai-based girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty on the charge of abetment of suicide. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 this year. "I have worked with the Maharashtra Police for the last five years, so I know their capabilities. However, sometimes, police function under political pressure which should not happen," the former chief minister told reporters when asked whether he believes in the Maharashtra police. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a covid care centre for journalists. Fadnavis said the supreme court will pass an appropriate order in the matter so that no comparison is made between the Maharashtra and the Bihar Police in the case. "I have been saying since the first day that Maharashtra police are the best," he added. "The kind of situation arose in (Sushant case)...a public sentiment got created that this case should go to the CBI. That is why it has gone to the supreme court," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-sentiment-demanded-that-cbi-probe-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-devendra-fadnavis-873767.html
15-08-2020||National||Hope Mahendra Singh Dhoni to continue contributing to Indian cricket, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday thanked former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his unparalleled contributions to the Indian cricket and hoped that he will continue to contribute in strengthening the game. Shah also said that with Dhoni's retirement from international cricket, the world will miss his helicopter shots. "I join millions of cricket fans across the globe to thank @msdhoni for his unparalleled contributions to Indian Cricket. His cool temperament has turned several hot encounters in India's favour. Under his captaincy India was crowned World Champions twice in different formats," he tweeted. The home minister said Dhoni has mesmerised millions through his unique style of cricket. "I hope he will continue to contribute towards strengthening Indian cricket in the times to come. Best wishes for his future endeavours. World cricket will miss the helicopter shots, Mahi!" he said. Dhoni, the two-time World Cup-winning former India captain, retired from international cricket on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-mahendra-singh-dhoni-to-continue-contributing-to-indian-cricket-says-amit-shah-873777.html
15-08-2020||National||Dhoni symbolizes courage of youths from small towns: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday called former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni a symbol of courage for crores of youths coming from small towns. "Mahendra Singh Dhoni is not just a cricketer, he is the `courage' for crores of youths who come from small towns and ordinary families and have the passion to do something big. "One thing every ambitious Indian should learn from his life is `It's Never Too Late'," Chouhan tweeted. Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, a cricket enthusiast and former chairman of Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association, called himself a Dhoni fan. "What a magnificent career, #Dhoni!; as a fan myself, I am grateful to you for having achieved the many milestones for Indian cricket! Best wishes," Scindia said in a tweet. In another tweet, Chouhan also wished Suresh Raina, who too announced his retirement from international cricket on Saturday. "Dear @ImRaina (Suresh Raina), it was fun to watch your tremendous fielding and great batting. I still remember your exciting innings played against England in 2006 and South Africa in 2010 and Australia in 2016. "My best wishes for your future life," Chouhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhoni-symbolizes-courage-of-youths-from-small-towns-shivraj-singh-chouhan-873793.html
15-08-2020||National||Congress launches video series on party's history, contribution to India||The Congress on Saturday launched a video series titled 'Dharohar' which will look back at the party's history and its contributions to India during its nearly 135-year-old history. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi shared two videos on his Twitter handle. "The Congress is proud to present a new video series - 'Dharohar' - a look back at the history of Congress and its contributions to India - from the freedom struggle to the emergence of India as a superpower in just 70 years of its independence," the Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and AICC social media department head Rohan Gupta said in a statement. "The Indian National Congress was formed on 28th December 1885 - an organisation that gave voice to the voiceless and led the fight for India's freedom," they said. With leaders from all walks of life dedicating their lives to India, the Congress has always been by the people, for the people and of the people, they said. The Congress has been at the forefront in the efforts to create an India which is a global leader in industry, agriculture, science, technology, health, military, culture and all this without ever compromising on its secular and democratic nature, the statement said. "'Dharohar' will look back at the 135 year legacy of this robust history - of India and the ideas that went into making it because the idea of Congress is the idea of India," it said. "For Congress is not only India's past and present but also its future," the statement said. The first episode looked at the formation of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-launches-video-series-on-partys-history-contribution-to-india-873800.html
15-08-2020||National||Dhoni's contribution to sport unique, inspiring: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday lauded former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni's contribution to the sport. "I have had a long association with the game of Cricket and in appointing M S Dhoni as captain we were sure he would be one of India's most successful captains," Pawar, a former BCCI president, said. "His contribution to cricket is unique and inspiring, and his record exemplary. My good wishes will always be with him," Pawar added. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar extended best wishes to the cricketer. "One of India's finest Wicket-keeper-Batsman & Captain, M.S. Dhoni has announced retirement from International Cricket. All the best for his future! #MSDhoni," Pawar tweeted. Maharashtra Youth Congress chief Satyajeet Tambe said the "legend" will be missed in international cricket. "Being a master strategist, @msdhoni has wondrous reading of match situations even under immense pressure. Yet he was not only captain cool himself, he was the cause for calmness in other teammates too. "Dhoni, a Legend, will be missed in international cricket," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhonis-contribution-to-sport-unique-inspiring-sharad-pawar-873815.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||All villages to be connected with optical fibre in next 1,000 days: PM Modi||Every village in the nation will be connected with optical fibre in coming 1,000 days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. In his Independence Day speech, the prime minister said only five dozen village panchayats were connected with optical fibre before 2014. In the last five years, 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optical fibre. In the coming 1,000 days, every village of the nation will be connected with optical fibre, he said. The prime minister, who launched the submarine Optical Fibre Cable between Chennai and Port Blair, said similar optical fibre will also be laid to connect Laxshadweep also. Aimed at providing internet connectivity to all 2.5 lakh gram panchayats (GPs), Bharat Net programme has picked up pace in recent years but it is still running behind the schedule. The project, which initially began as the National Optical Fibre Network in October 2011, has been delayed for over 92 months now. The government fixed the new deadline in August 2021. As on January this year, against the target of providing last-mile connectivity to 1.5 lakh gram panchayat (GPs), only about 7.45 percent were completed. Against the target of 3.11 lakh km of optical fibre cable laying, only about 92,283 km of the cable was laid down, as of December end. The Centre has been seeking states to support Bharat Net scheme and it has requested them to examine the right of promoting the development of a robust telecom network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-villages-to-be-connected-with-optical-fibre-in-next-1000-days-pm-modi-873525.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis brings anti-defection law back in focus||While the political uncertainty over the desert state is over for the time being with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot winning a trust vote, the month-long high voltage political drama starting with the revolt of 18 MLAs of Pilot camp once again brought in sharp focus the need to further strengthen the anti-defection law. After the trust vote was over, Gehlot alleged that the BJP conspired to engineer defections in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh but got exposed in Rajasthan. Not only analysts and parties have drawn attention towards it but the matter has umpteen times also drawn the attention of the judiciary.   "The Anti Defection Law has turned a retail activity into a wholesale affair. It has failed to curb the menace of defections since it was inserted into the Constitution,” Congress MP Manish Tewari told DH. Tewari, however, added, “Conversely it has taken democracy out of the legislative institutions. It has made elected representatives the slaves of whip driven tyranny both on the treasury and Opposition benches. It does not allow legislators and Parliamentarians to vote according to common sense, conscience or Constituency.” He said that the rigours of the 10th Schedule should be limited to only those instruments that impact the stability of the government or totally repealed. Concerns over horse-trading ringed loud when the Lok Sabha secretariat held deliberations with state legislatures in December last year in Dehradun where states underlined the need to amend and add more teeth to the 10th schedule. In November 2018, the Supreme Court, had while setting aside Karnataka Speaker Ramesh Kumar’s order to disallow 17 disqualified legislators to contest polls in the state Assembly’s current term, also echoed the growing concern of horse-trading in politics, which has continued unabated despite a tough law introduced under 10th schedule to check “Aaya Ram Gaya Ram’ politics. It felt that Parliament is required to reconsider strengthening certain aspects of the Tenth Schedule so that such undemocratic practices are discouraged. The term “Aaya Ram Gaya Ram (somebody came, somebody left) owes its origin to Haryana where MLA Gaya Lal had in 1967 changed his party thrice in one day, switching from Congress to United Front, then again to Congress and then finally to United Front. Twenty-three years after the Anti-Defection Act of 1985 came laying tough conditions like at least two-third members of a party have to be in favour of a 'merger' in another party or formation of a separate group from the parent body, the 2008 Operation Lotus exposed the chinks in the armour of this seemingly tough law. This successful circumvention of the anti-defection law, and opened a new door for the shortcut to power. Operation “Kamal” (Lotus), ensured how the BJP with 110 seats and running short of just three for a simple majority in the House managed majority after a number of Congress MLAs resigned, bringing the majority mark in the House. They later contested on BJP ticket. It played out again in Karnataka in 2019 when nearly a dozen and half MLAs from both parties from Congress and JD(S), got expelled and were elected again from the rival party. In MP, Kamal Nath government of Congress fell in March 2020 when Jyotiradiya Scindia quit Congress and joined the BJP, triggering the resignation of nearly two dozen MLAs, which reduced Congress numbers and brought BJP to power. There were also instances of defections by two-third of the strength of a party. Twelve of 18 Congress MLAs in Telangana quit the party and joined TRS in June last year. In July 2019, 10 of 15 Congress MLAs from Goa joined the BJP. In 2016, 43 of 44 Congress MLAs, including Chief Minister Pema Khandu, had deserted the parent party and joined the People’s Party of Arunachal. Defections did not spare even Rajya Sabha, where single members from parties straightway defected to the other party. Four of six TDP MPs joined the BJP in a go in June 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-brings-anti-defection-law-back-in-focus-873541.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Why are people in power scared of naming China? asks Congress||The Congress on Saturday asked why those sitting in power are scared of naming China which has entered Indian territory, and said every Congress worker and every Indian is proud of the armed forces. Talking to reporters after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said all Indians should ask the government this Independence Day what it was doing to protect the country and push China back. In his speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the Prime Minister said India's soldiers had given a fitting reply to those who had challenged the country's sovereignty, from "LoC to LAC". Modi, who did not name China, added that the whole country is united in protecting the sovereignty of the country. "Each and every Congress worker and all 130 crore Indians are proud of our armed forces and have full faith in them. We salute the armed forces for giving China an apt reply every time there has been an attack. But what about those who are sitting in power. Why are they scared of mentioning China'ś name?" Surjewala asked. "At a time when China has entered Indian territory, every Indian needs to ask the government what it is doing to push China back and protect the country. On this Independence Day, they should ask this. That is the true sense of democracy," the Congress leader added. He said it is important to question the government on whether it believes in the mandate of the people and if there is the freedom to speak freely in the country. "Does our government believe in democracy? Does our government believe in public opinion? Do we have the freedom to speak, think, to travel, to wear what we like, to earn our livelihood or has that been curbed?" Surjewala asked. The foundation of an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), he said, was laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and our freedom fighters. "But a government which is selling public sector undertakings, handing over railways and airports to private players and attacking everything from LIC to FCI, will that government be able to keep the freedom of this country safe? It is the duty of the government and every citizen to keep the freedom of the country safe,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-are-people-in-power-scared-of-naming-china-asks-congress-873556.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||CPI(M) pledges to continue its fight to defend constitution on Independence Day||Extending greetings to the people of the country on Independence Day, the CPI(M) on Saturday said it will continue its fight to defend the Constitution of India which was "under severe strain". Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort and asked citizens to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. "We pledge to continue our fight in defence of the constitution and against attack on fundamental rights. This freedom was hard-earned and any attempt to curb it will be fought back," the Left party said on Twitter. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said this Independence Day it is the duty of all to renew the pledge to secure all kinds of freedom. "Greetings on Independence Day! Today is the day to renew our pledge to secure all types of freedoms -- economic, social, political -- for Indians of all regions, faiths, languages, genders and beliefs, especially in these times when our Constitutional Republic is under severe strain," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-pledges-to-continue-its-fight-to-defend-constitution-on-independence-day-873559.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Make in India but also for the world: PM Modi's vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat||Unveiling his vision of 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the goal is to make India a global manufacturing hub while a Rs 110-lakh crore pipeline of national infrastructure projects is being created to boost the economy and create jobs. Addressing the nation on the country's 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the 17th-century Red Fort, he said India received record foreign investment in the last fiscal when FDI rose 18 per cent. Companies were looking to invest in the nation even during the corona crisis. "How long can the raw material be sent out of our country and finished products imported," he asked. "Atma Nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) is not only about cutting imports but also raising our capacity, creativity and skills," the prime minister said. The vision, he said, is not just to make in India but make for the world. "Today world's biggest companies are looking at India," he said in his 86-minute speech. "Now along with 'Make in India', we will have to move ahead with the mantra of 'Make for World'." He cited the example of India during the corona crisis becoming an export surplus nation in the manufacturing of N-95 face masks, PPE kits and ventilators. From just one corona testing lab, India now has 1,400 labs. "Our policies, our process, our products should be the best," he said. Asia's third-largest economy's main focus will be the creation of a pipeline of national infrastructure projects worth more than Rs 110 lakh crore, Modi said. "About 7,000 projects in different sectors have been identified. This will be a type of infrastructure revolution." Stating that working in silos in the infrastructure space has ended, he said a large scheme to connect the country through a multi-modal connectivity infrastructure is ready. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) project will play a crucial role in pulling the country out of the impact of Covid-19, he said. Vocal for local, re-skill and up-skill campaigns will be the main pillars, he said. "I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal," the prime minister said. On his government's response to mitigate economic hardships caused by the coronavirus outbreak and ensuing lockdowns, Modi said 7 crore families were given free cooking gas LPG cylinders, over 80 crore people got free ration and close to Rs 90,000 crore transferred into bank accounts. The moratorium on EMI payment during the pandemic period has resulted in a rebate totaling Rs 6 lakh crore over the loan period, he said adding that Rs 25,000 crore fund was created for completion of unfinished real estate projects. "During the corona crisis over 80 crore Indians received free foodgrains, Rs 90,000 crore was transferred into accounts of the needy, a feat unthinkable till a few years ago," he said. Highlighting his government's reform measures, the prime minister said one nation one tax (GST), insolvency and bankruptcy code (IBC) and bank mergers were the cornerstone of the six-year rule. Only five dozen village panchayats were connected with optical fibre in 2014. This has increased to 1.5 lakh in the last five years. "In the coming 1,000 days (less than 3 years), all the 6 lakh villages in the country will be connected with optical fibre network (to bring digital connectivity to rural masses)," he said. Also, Lakshadweep Islands will be connected with submarine optical fiber cable just like Andaman and Nicobar Islands to usher in high-speed internet and mobile connectivity. A blueprint of a national cybersecurity policy is ready to guard the nation against cyber threats, he said without giving details. "One of the main priorities of Atma Nirbhar Bharat is self-reliant agriculture and self-reliant farmer," he said highlighting the recent announcement of Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to create modern agri-infrastructure as well as the reforms that allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. There was a time when India imported grains, but today farmers are producing enough not just for the country but also for those in need across the world, he said adding the farm sector needs to evolve in line with the requirements of the world. "Value addition is required for our farm sector." Ethanol product has increased from just 40 crore litres five years back to over 200 crore litres, which is being used to mix in petrol, helping cut oil import bill as well as save the environment. "In the midst of the corona pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build an Atma Nirbhar Bharat," he said adding that he is confident that India will realise this dream.  Modi said India has always believed that the entire world is one family. "While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey," the prime minister noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/make-in-india-but-also-for-the-world-pm-modis-vision-of-atma-nirbhar-bharat-873561.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 25 lakh with 65,002 cases||A spike of 65,002 cases took India’s Covid-19 tally past 25 lakh on Saturday, just a day after it crossed the 24 lakh mark, while the number of fatalities neared 50,000 with 996 deaths, Union Health Ministry data showed. According to figures from the ministry, 18.08 lakh people have so far recuperated from the disease, pushing the recovery rate to 71.61 per cent.  India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new instances of the infection. The Covid-19 caseload stood at 25,26,192, while the death-toll climbed to 49,036, data updated on Saturday at 8 am showed. Case fatality rate has declined to 1.94 per cent. There are 6,68,220,active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, which is 26.45 per cent of the total caseload, while the number of recoveries has risen to 18,08,936. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 2,85,63,095 samples have been tested up to August 14. Of these, 8,68,679 were examined on Friday, the highest in a day so far.    Of the 996 fresh deaths reported, 364 are from Maharashtra, 117 from Tamil Nadu, 104 from Karnataka, 97 from Andhra Pradesh, 60 from West Bengal, 55  from Uttar Pradesh, 25 from Punjab, 16 each from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, 15 each from Gujarat and Jharkhand, 13 from Rajasthan, 11 each from Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir and 10 each from Kerala, Odisha and Telangana. Besides, seven fatalities have been reported from Haryana, six from Assam, four each from Puducherry, Tripura and Uttarakhand, two each from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Goa while Arunachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered one fatality each. Of the total 49,036 deaths, Maharashtra counts for the maximum with 19,427, followed by 5,514 in Tamil Nadu, 4,178 in Delhi, 3,717 in Karnataka, 2,746 in Gujarat, 2,475 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,335 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,319 in West Bengal and 1,081 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 846 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 731 in Punjab, 684 in Telangana, 520 in Jammu and Kashmir, 518 in Haryana, 442 in Bihar, 324 in Odisha, 224 in Jharkhand, 175 in Assam, 147 in Uttarakhand and 139 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 130 deaths, Puducherry 106, Goa 93, Tripura 50, Chandigarh 28, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 24, Himachal Pradesh 19,   Manipur 13, Ladakh nine, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. According to the Health Ministry, more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-25-lakh-with-65002-cases-873572.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Independence Day | Advani unfurls the tricolour at home||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party leader L K Advani unfurled the tricolour at his residence on Saturday to mark the country's Independence Day. The 92-year-old former deputy prime minister has been unfurling the national flag at his residence in the national capital on Independence Day and Republic Day for several decades. India celebrated its 74th Independence Day on Saturday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolling out a broad roadmap for the country to become self-reliant in his seventh address from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/independence-day-advani-unfurls-the-tricolour-at-home-873580.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||PM Modi announces project for conservation of dolphins||Ten years after Gangetic Dolphins were declared national aquatic animals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday a conservation project for the species. The 'Project Dolphin' aims to give a stronger impetus for conservation of the aquatic mammals in the lines of 'Project Tiger' and 'Project Elephant'. According to the environment ministry, the project envisages to address conservation concerns and empower the stakeholders such as the river-dependent population in reducing the pollution and allowing sustainable fishery and river-based other livelihood options through scientifically oriented conservation methods. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 74th Independence Day, Modi said, "We will launch 'Project Dolphin' for protecting ocean and Gangetic dolphins." The ministry said it is a 10-year-long project led by Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. The Gangetic river dolphin is a species of freshwater dolphins primarily found in the Ganga and Brahmaputra rivers and their tributaries in India, Bangladesh and Nepal. In India, these dolphins are sighted in long deep river reaches in Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.  There are around ,3700 Gangetic River Dolphins in Indian river systems, according to official figures.  As river dolphins act as indicators of healthy river ecosystems, their conservation would also ensure controlling river pollution and improving the availability of fishes and enhancing economies of local communities through sustainable fishery, the ministry said. They were declared National Aquatic Species in 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-announces-project-for-conservation-of-dolphins-873604.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Delhi LG Anil Baijal hoists tricolour flag at Lt Governor Secretariat||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal hoisted the tricolour at the LG Secretariat on Saturday to mark the country's Independence Day. The LG also offered his greetings and warms wishes to all on this occasion. "As we pay homage to the freedom fighters and unsung heroes of freedom struggle who sacrificed their lives for this hard-earned freedom, let us all renew our pledge to serve the nation with even greater sincerity and devotion," Baijal was quoted as saying at the event. India celebrated its 74th Independence Day on Saturday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolling out a broad roadmap for the country to become self-reliant in his seventh address from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-lg-anil-baijal-hoists-tricolour-flag-at-lt-governor-secretariat-873630.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Will soon launch project to conserve Asiatic Lions: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that his government will soon launch a project to conserve Asiatic Lions and its landscape in a holistic manner. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 74th Independence Day, Modi reminded people about Project Tiger and Project Elephant that were launched previously. Project Lion will entail habitat development, engage modern technologies in lion management and address the issue of diseases among lions and its associated species through advanced world-class research and veterinary care, according to the environment ministry. The project will address human-wildlife conflict and will be inclusive involving local communities living in the vicinity of Lion landscape and will also provide livelihood opportunities, a spokesperson of the ministry said. In his speech, the prime minister said in recent times, the population of tigers and lions has significantly gone up. A report released by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change earlier this year said that there has been a 29 per cent increase in the population of Asiatic Lions that live in Gujarat's Gir forest. The number has gone up from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020, it said. According to 2018 census, India's wild tiger population has increased by more than 30 per cent in four years. The country now has 2,967 tigers, up from 2,226 in 2014, it said. Modi termed the increased figures a "historic achievement" and asserted that India was one of the biggest and safest habitats for tigers in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-soon-launch-project-to-conserve-asiatic-lions-pm-modi-873647.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||VP Venkaiah Naidu condoles death of former prez Shankar Dayal Sharma's wife Vimla Sharma||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday condoled the death of Vimla Sharma, wife of former president Shankar Dayal Sharma. "Saddened to hear about the demise of Smt. Vimala Sharma, wife of former President, Dr Shanker Dayal Sharma. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family members," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. Shankar Dayal Sharma served as the president between 1992 and 1997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vp-venkaiah-naidu-condoles-death-of-former-prez-shankar-dayal-sharmas-wife-vimla-sharma-873662.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Special campaign being worked out to reduce pollution in 100 selected cities: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that a special campaign was being worked out to reduce pollution in 100 selected cities of the country. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 74th Independence Day, Modi referred to the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which was launched in 2019, said the campaign will be with a "holistic approach".  "A special campaign with a holistic approach is also being worked out to reduce pollution in 100 selected cities of the country," he said. The NCAP was launched by the MOEFCC on January 10 last year as a time-bound national-level strategy to address the air pollution problem across the country in a comprehensive manner. In its endeavour to implement the NCAP, the Centre had also constituted a steering committee in April last year which comprises chief secretaries of over 20 states and union territories, including Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir, as its members. A spokesperson from the Environment Ministry said there was no new programme on air pollution but the Prime Minister was referring to the NCAP launched last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/special-campaign-being-worked-out-to-reduce-pollution-in-100-selected-cities-pm-modi-873675.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar rues 'uninformed criticisms', highlights feats in final I-Day speech before polls||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday expressed distress over "uninformed criticisms" faced by his government and stressed on the need to apprise people of the abysmal condition the state was in before he took over so that they had a better idea of his accomplishments. Addressing the Independence Day celebrations at the historic Gandhi Maidan, for the last time before he seeks re-election for the fourth consecutive term, Kumar spoke at length about the strides made by his government, besides unveiling populist measures like new vacancies for teachers and extending the EPF facility to those already in service. "It has become a fashion these days to tweet anything while sitting at home, without having any idea of what has been achieved," he said towards the end of his speech, which lasted well beyond an hour. Those who have been training their guns at the current dispensation in the state include rivals like RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, aides-turned-adversaries like Prashant Kishor and disgruntled alliance partners like LJP chief Chirag Paswan. "The people, especially our younger generation need to know how things were like 15 years ago. I keep telling this to our officials also. Roads used to be barely visible amid endless potholes. Power supply was in a mess. We changed all that," the chief minister said. He had assumed power in the state in 2005, shifting base to Patna from New Delhi where he had a long stint as a parliamentarian and served as a cabinet minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. In his speech, Kumar sought to sum up his various accomplishments, including acclaimed schemes for school girls, the controversial but gumptious decision to completely ban sale and consumption of alcohol, environment conservation drives and efforts to preserve and showcase the state's rich cultural heritage. He also sought to reach out to 'niyojit' (hired on contract but regularised thereafter) teachers, whose number is huge in the state, where the earlier system of their recruitment through the public service commission was scrapped long back, resulting in a loss of parity in terms of pay and other perks compared with their older counterparts. "All the teachers at schools run by panchayats and municipal bodies will get the benefit of Employees' Provident Fund. A decision has been taken and notification will come out soon. "Besides, we have decided to set up schools at panchayat levels and to run these, we are going to hire more than 39,000 teachers," the CM said. The announcement is expected to be received with some cheers, crucial in an election year, by thousands of young men and women who have cleared their Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) but left haplessly waiting for getting a share in the job market. Before commencing his marathon speech, the 69-year-old chief minister unfurled the tricolour and inspected the ceremonious parades taken out on the occasion. Celebrations were subdued this year with fewer people allowed entry to ensure social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The attendees and dignitaries were also seen wearing face masks. Earlier, Kumar unfurled the national flag at his official residence - 1, Anney Marg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-rues-uninformed-criticisms-highlights-feats-in-final-i-day-speech-before-polls-873679.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate 'Atal Tunnel' in Rohtang next month: Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur on Independence Day||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said the 'Atal Tunnel' in Rohtang would be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by the end of September this year. Thakur stated this while presiding over a state-level Independence Day function at the historic Dhalpur Maidan in Kullu district. Thakur said the 8.8-km-long tunnel was about to be completed and it would be dedicated by the prime minister to the nation by the end of September this year. The chief minister hoisted the national flag and took salute at the march past by the contingents of police, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Home-Guards and Sashastra Seema Bal cadets. Deputy Superintendent of Police Veeny Minhas commanded the parade.   "The country is in secure hands of Modi as with his timely decisions, India with a population of 135 crore has reported only about 50,000 deaths due to Covid-19 till date as compared to 7.60 lakh deaths in 15 most developed countries with a total population of 142 crores," he added. Thakur said the 'Atal Tunnel' would be developed as a major tourist attraction and the state government is contemplating to start a 'Vistadom' bus for tourists there. The union government in December last year named the strategic tunnel under the Rohtang Pass in Himachal Pradesh after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in a tribute to him on his 95th birth anniversary. The tunnel will be the world's longest above an altitude of 3,000 metres and will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km. Once thrown open, the tunnel will provide all-weather connectivity to remote border areas of Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh which otherwise remain cut-off from the rest of the country for about six months during winters. Thakur also thanked the corona-warriors for their valuable contribution and people of the state for their cooperation to comply with the guidelines given by the government from time-to-time. The 74th Independence Day was celebrated with enthusiasm and gaiety in the state by maintaining social distancing in the wake of the pandemic.   Functions were organised at state, district and sub-divisional levels to mark the occasion.  The chief minister paid rich tributes to the brave soldiers of the state, who laid down their lives recently in the Galwan Valley attack in Ladakh. He also thanked the people of the state for generously contributing towards the CM's Covid-19 relief fund. He said that an amount of Rs 82.48 crore was contributed towards the fund out of which Rs 22.08 crore were spent on Covidcare.  He presented Himachal Gaurav Puraskar-2020 to noted writer and photographer Birbal Sharma, noted singer from Mandi Balkrishan Sharma, noted doctor Mangat Ram Dogra and folk singer Narender Thakur. Thakur accorded 'Preranastrot Puraskar' to Sandeep Kumar of Bharwain area of Una district and Sushma Verma, a women international cricket player from Shimla district. He also flagged off 'Nasha Nivaran Van' on the occasion. State Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, MP Ramswaroop Sharma, MLAs Surinder Shourie, Kishori Lal, Jawahar Thakur and Sunder Singh Thakur were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-atal-tunnel-in-rohtang-next-month-himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur-on-independence-day-873711.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||O Panneerselvam gets ‘EPS as CM nominee’ campaign stopped for now||Breaks, albeit for now, have been applied on ‘EPS as Chief Ministerial candidate’ campaign in the AIADMK. AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Saturday managed to get a joint statement released with his deputy in party and boss in the government, Edappadi K Palaniswami, issuing a diktat to leaders not to talk or give media interviews regarding policy decisions of the party. "Views of party office-bearers aired in the past few days without any need has become a point of debate. Everyone should maintain the military discipline that was enforced in the party during Amma’s (J Jayalalithaa’s) time by accepting the decision of the High Command. The leadership will take policy decisions, including the question of alliance, in a democratic manner keeping in mind sentiments of party cadre,” the statement said. The joint statement came at the end of a six-hour long marathon talks 14 senior ministers and two party leaders held with OPS and EPS separately, more than once during the day, after it was clear that all was not well with the CM and his deputy. Though the statement asked party cadres and leaders to focus on working towards ensuring the party is elected to power for a third consecutive term in 2021, the issue of whether to project a CM face remains unsettled. Panneerselvam, who stood for Jayalalithaa twice when she had to quit as CM in 2001 and 2014, has lost much of his bargaining power and ground in the party and the government after his rebellion against Sasikala that saw Palaniswami occupying the Chief Minister’s chair. Over the week, OPS was upset with the debate on the issue of the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate triggered by statements of three ministers who indirectly favoured continuation of the current arrangement – Palaniswami as CM and Panneerselvam as coordinator of the party. As if the open statement by the ministers were not enough, the Chief Minister’s open declaration, in his Independence Day speech, that he will continue to work for the wellbeing of the people of Tamil Nadu also perturbed OPS. Adding to the fuel was posters that sprung in OPS’ home district of Theni terming him as the “one and only Chief Minister who has the blessings of late J Jayalalithaa.” As things went out of control, the ministers met OPS at his residence and told him the need to settle the issue and end the confusion. OPS, according to sources, expressed his displeasure at ministers and senior leaders “airing their personal opinion” on policy decisions of the party without consulting the leadership. He also insisted that a joint statement should be issued by him and the CM to put an end to the controversy after which the ministers met EPS. “The ministers told the CM and Dy. CM that there was an urgent need to put up a united face as elections are less than a year away in the state. Since the assembly elections are quite crucial for the party, they insisted upon immediate resolution of the issue,” a senior leader told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/o-panneerselvam-gets-eps-as-cm-nominee-campaign-stopped-for-now-873727.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Democracy put to test under Narendra Modi's rule: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying democracy was going through a test under his rule. “Friends, we have tested our democratic values from time to time in the last 74 years of independence and have continuously matured them. Today it seems that the government is standing contrary to democratic system, constitutional values and established traditions. It is also a test for Indian democracy,” Gandhi said in a statement here. She said that as a “responsible opposition”, it was the responsibility of the Congress to make every “effort and struggle” to keep India’s democratic values intact. “Today every countryman needs to look into the conscience and ask what freedom means? Is there freedom in the country today to write, to speak, to ask questions, to disagree, to have views, to seek accountability? As a responsible opposition, it is our responsibility that we make every effort and struggle to keep India’s democratic independence intact,” said Gandhi in a statement. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala attacked Modi, asking why was he scared of naming China, which had “entered Indian territory”. Talking to reporters after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation, Surjewala also said all Indians should ask the government what it was doing to protect the country and push China back. In his Independence Day speech, the Prime Minister said India's soldiers had given a fitting reply to those who had challenged its sovereignty, from “LoC to LAC”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/democracy-put-to-test-under-narendra-modis-rule-sonia-gandhi-873729.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Modi's 'New India' subservient to corporates: Yechury||Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day speech, the Left parties on Saturday said it was full of rhetoric while alleging that his "New India" is subservient to corporates and not self-reliant. Urging the citizens of the country to unite against the government's move to privatise India's assets, the Left parties said only a people's movement can fight the present regime. "The New India that the prime minister spoke about in his speech at the Red Fort is a negation of that India, which was established by our Constitution. This India is not self-reliant, but subservient to foreign corporates. A people's movement is the only way to reverse the multi-pronged attacks on our Constitution by this government," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said at a webinar organised by the party. Modi addressed the nation on the occasion of its 74th Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Saturday and asked the citizens of the country to prepare themselves for a self-reliant India. CPI general secretary D Raja alleged that unlike former prime ministers, who are remembered for their developmental agendas, Modi will be remembered as a prime minister who served the purpose of corporates. "His speech today was full of rhetoric. He repeatedly said Aatmanirbhar Bharat, which is an irony given the fact that our entire economy has been handed over to private players. Be it the defence sector, railways, atomic energy or even AI and more are being given for privatisation. "He failed to address the issues of unemployment and poverty but mentioned Ayodhya, which exposed him completely. He will be remembered as a prime minister who served the purpose of corporates," he said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who also spoke at the webinar, said the social fabric of the nation, which is alien to communalism, is under attack. "The lessons learnt from the freedom movement, which taught us to fight shoulder to shoulder forgetting caste, religion and economic status, need to be reinforced for holding us together as a nation and fighting against economic and social inequalities," the CPI(M) leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-new-india-subservient-to-corporates-yechury-873772.html
15-08-2020||National Politics||Include Chhattisgarhi in 8th schedule of constitution:CM Bhupesh Baghel to PM Narendra Modi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday demanded the Centre to include Chhattisgarhi language, mainly spoken in the state, in the Eighth schedule of the Constitution. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Baghel made the demand and highlighted the significance of the language, a public relations department official said. It has been 20 years of the formation of Chhattisgarh as a state, but in terms of culture it has a separate identity in ancient history, the chief minister stated. "Chhattisgarhi language has a history of its own. The grammar of the dialect, prepared by Hiralal Kavyopadhyay and edited and translated by George A Grierson, was published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1890. A wide range of quality literature of Chhattisgarh is also available and it is continuously increasing," the letter said. The Eighth Schedule to the Constitution lists the official languages of the Republic of India. "Sub-dialects and some other languages are also prevalent in the state, but majority of the people in the state use Chhattisgarhi as a language of communication along with other regional dialects," he added. Baghel further said that apart from Hindi, Chhattisgarhi has been adopted as the official language of the state. Chhattisgarhi Rajbhasha Diwas is also observed on November 28 every year in the state. Chhattisgarh Rajbhasha Aayog has also been constituted to promote and preserve the tradition and linguistic diversity of the state, he said. Baghel stated the Centre had earlier informed that inclusion of Chhattisgarhi and other languages of the country in the Eighth Schedule is under consideration. The CM urged the PM to consider his demand on priority in accordance with the sentiments of the people of the state, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/include-chhattisgarhi-in-8th-schedule-of-constitutioncm-bhupesh-baghel-to-pm-narendra-modi-873784.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Mobile internet services snapped in Kashmir as Independence Day precautionary measure||Internet services on mobile devices were snapped across Kashmir on Independence Day Saturday as a precautionary measure but mobile phone services functioned as usual. Mobile internet services were cut in the early hours of the morning as stringent security arrangements were put in place for Independence Day celebrations across the Valley, a police official said. Though the services were snapped as a precautionary measure, mobile phone services, which used to be suspended for the duration of the Independence Day ceremony, functioned as usual, he added. Suspension of mobile phone services and internet on mobile devices as part of the security drill have become routine since 2005, apart from a few occasions. Security agencies added this step to the security drill after militants triggered a blast outside the Bakshi Stadium during the Independence Day parade in 2005. Services are also snapped in a district if there is an encounter going on to prevent miscreants from assembling crowds. The government had imposed a ban on SMS services in the state following the 2008 Amarnath Land Row agitation, the 2010 summer agitation and after the hanging of Parliament attack convict Mohammad Afzal Guru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-services-snapped-in-kashmir-as-independence-day-precautionary-measure-873564.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Will not open Delhi schools until fully convinced, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the Delhi government will not open schools unless it is "fully convinced" about the improved Covid-19 situation in the city. Delivering his Independence Day speech at the Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal said the Covid-19 situation in the city is "quite under control" as compared to what it was two months back and thanked all the stakeholders, including the central government, 'corona warriors' and different organisations. He said in view of reports that some patients collapsed due to drop in their oxygen level even after recovering from the disease and testing negative, the Delhi government will start providing oxygen concentrators to them from next week. The chief minister said the safety and the health of school children are very important to the AAP government. "I meet people and get messages from them asking not to open schools. I want to assure them that we care about their children as much as they do. Unless fully convinced, we are not going to open the schools," he said. Kejriwal said Delhi "gave the model" of home isolation and plasma therapy concept to the country in the fight against the pandemic. He said reviving the economy is the biggest challenge but expressed confidence that it will be brought back on track with the cooperation of Delhiites. Efforts are being made for this, he said. This year, the city government shifted its Independence Day event to the Delhi Secretariat from Chhatrasal Stadium due to the coronavirus pandemic. The government also provided Rs 1 crore ex gratia to the family of "corona warriors" who died while serving the Covid-19 patients, he said, adding that this sent a message that his government cares for them. "The Delhi model is being talked about in the country and has emerged as a study case in the world. It is an outcome of working by taking everyone together. Home isolation was a scientifically thought model to provide a hospital bed to serious patients and treat mild ones at home," he said. At a time when the whole world is struggling against coronavirus, the situation is "quite under control in Delhi thanks to its two crore people", Kejriwal said. "In June, there was an atmosphere of fear and people were leaving the city due to the spread of coronavirus. The situation is quite under control as compared to what it was two months back," he said. He cited various steps of the government to strengthen Delhi's economy, including the launch of a job portal for "matchmaking" between employers and job seekers and reducing VAT on diesel, resulting in a drop of over Rs 8 in the price of the fuel, and termed it a "historic" move. Kejriwal unfurled the tricolour at the function and also presented Presidential Correctional Service Medals to five officials of Delhi prisons. The function was also attended by corona warriors. He lauded Delhiites for achieving various milestones in the past five years like bringing down deaths caused by dengue to zero last year. "We must not forget dengue while fighting coronavirus. This year too, we will launch the 'Das Hafte' campaign against dengue in the first week of September." Last year, the chief minister had launched the '10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute' campaign to fight against dengue. He said Independence Day is the occasion to remember all martyrs and freedom fighters like Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Ashfaqullah, Subhash Chandra Bose, Mahatma Gandhi, Dr BR Ambedkar and Jawahar Lal Nehru who fought and made sacrifices for the freedom of the country. "We must also remember those who sacrificed for the freedom of the country and safe borders after 1947. Twenty soldiers died recently in the China border clash," he said. Remembering Bhagat Singh, he said, "We must pledge to work for an India where people have a good education and health services and enjoy equality."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-will-not-open-delhi-schools-until-fully-convinced-says-arvind-kejriwal-873577.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM announces dedicated fund for donations for Ram Van Gaman Path||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday said that a dedicated fund will be constituted for people to contribute towards the development of his government's ambitious Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit project. He made the announcement during his address at Independence day function here at the Police Parade ground. "Chhattisgarh is 'nanihal' (maternal place) of Lord Ram. He had also spent most of his time in Chhattisgarh during his exile from Ayodhya," Baghel said. "To keep the memories linked to Lord Ram and Mata Kashulayaalive, the state government has undertaken the RamVan Gaman Tourism Circuit project and began its speedy implementation," Baghel said. "In order to give an opportunity to the people of the state to contribute towards this sacred work, we have decided to set up the Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath Vikas Kosh," he said. Vehicles fitted with LED screen will be used for the extensive publicity of the project in village panchayats across the state, he said. According to a tourism department official, a committee will be constituted to look after the functioning of the development fund, in which people would be able to voluntarily make donations for the project. As per the mythology, Ram Van Gaman Path is the route taken by Ram on his way to the 14-year exile. According to research scholars, Lord Ram had passed through nearly 75 places in the state during his exile. In the first phase of the project, eight of the selected places falling on the forest route taken by Lord Ram will be developed as tourist destinations at a cost of Rs 137.45 crore. As part of the project, Chandkhuri, believed to be the maternal home of Lord Ram, will be developed as a grand tourist-pilgrimage site. Chandkhuri, a village located around 27 kms away from capital Raipur, is considered as the birthplace of Mata Kaushalya, mother of Lord Ram. The ancient Mata Kaushalya temple situated in the village will also be given a magnificent look while keeping the original form intact. As per the plan, all the significant places in the state which Lord Ram had visited during his exile, will be connected via road network and ultramodern facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-announces-dedicated-fund-for-donations-for-ram-van-gaman-path-873584.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Will build Ram Van Gaman Path, Ramayan Circuit: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the government will develop Ram Van Gaman Path and Ramayan Circuit in the state to boost tourism. He was speaking at the state-level Independence Day function after unfurling the national flag at the Motilal Nehru Stadium here. "We will develop Ram Gaman Path, Ramayan Circuit, Amarkantak Circuit, Tirthankar Circuit, Maa Narmada Parikrama, etc, so that tourism activities can be developed in the state. This will also generate employment," Chouhan said. The Ram Van Gaman Path project seeks to retrace the route believed to have been taken by Lord Ram on his way to the exile. It is proposed to be constructed from Chitrakoot to Amarkantak. "River Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh. Narmada Expressway will be developed in the areas along this river. Industrial clusters will also be developed along the route to make the state prosperous," he added. Along with that the Chambal Progress Way would also be developed, the chief minister said. Chouhan also announced that the Deendayal Rasoi Yojana, started about three years back in some cities to provide affordable food to the poor, would be launched in districts across the state. This scheme, named after BJP ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay was started in a couple cities of the state, under which food is provided to the poor at Rs five. Chouhan also announced that vocational training would be provided to the students from Class six in some select schools. Stating that the government works will be launched with the 'Kanya Puja' to honour girls, the chief minister said that the Ladli Laxmi Yojana would be re-launched. Chouhan said water tap connections will be provided to one crore households by 2023 and a single portal to address citizens' grievances will be put in place. He also said that the state is also going to launch 'Atma Nirbhar Madhya Pradesh' campaign and a roadmap is being prepared to achieve this target. Earlier, Chouhan unveiled a statue of Bharat Mata at Shourya Smarak, a war museum and memorial. Meanwhile, Independence Day celebrations were held in Indore amid preventive measures for Covid-19. The main function in the city was held at the district administration office, where Collector Manish Singh hoisted the national flag. According to the official information, the coronavirus count in Indore has gone up to 9,590. Of these, 342 patients died during treatment, while 6,246 people have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-build-ram-van-gaman-path-ramayan-circuit-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-873598.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir on a new journey of normalcy and development, says LG in his Independence Day speech||A new era of normalcy and development has dawned in Jammu and Kashmir in the last one year, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Saturday and urged the youths to engage in activism that helps the nation to progress. In his Independence Day speech at Sher-e-Kashmir cricket stadium here, Sinha asserted that the government is committed to providing a better alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “After the constitutional change enacted in 2019, the central government took not one or two, but historic 50 decisions to transform the face of the region. A new era of normalcy and development has dawned due to the changes effected in the last year; a new journey has been undertaken,” the LG said referring to the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year. Youth and student life are defined through activism and youth-power has been the harbinger of all transformations, said Sinha, who took charge on August 7. "Activism is not a bad thing, but to choose the correct option is of utmost significance. Your activism should be directed at the development of the nation, as this country belongs to none other than you, and you are its future leaders,” he said, exorting the youths in Jammu and Kashmir to take advantage of the new opportunities. The LG said the government has five main guiding principles - to put in place a just and transparent system of governance, a thriving grassroots level democracy, maximizing the reach of government welfare schemes; accelerating economic development and creation of employment. Sinha aid some "wrong decisions" were unfortunately taken after independence which inevitably led to resentment in the hearts of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and distanced them from the rest. "Generation after generation was sacrificed at the altar of hatred", but now equality and justice are being gradually restored in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Sinha said his administration stands by all those who are committed to and strive towards strengthening democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. “Elected representatives of local self-governments, who face threat, are being provided with a Rs 25 lakh life insurance cover. To make policing more effective, the necessary reforms are being undertaken,” he said, remarks which come in the backdrop of recent attacks on political workers. “We are committed to providing a better alternative for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. An alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-on-a-new-journey-of-normalcy-and-development-says-lg-in-his-independence-day-speech-873617.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announces development projects for Gairsain on Independence day||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced a dozen development projects for Gairsain on the occasion of Independence Day, saying its planned development is now the priority of the state government. After hoisting the national flag at the police lines here on Saturday, Rawat said Gairsain was notified as the summer capital of the state to honour the aspirations of the people who fought for statehood to Uttarakhand and now developing the hill town in a planned way is the priority of his government. The development projects announced for Gairsain and adjoining areas included a 50-bed sub district hospital with telemedicine facilities at the Community Health Centre, Gairsain, a mini secretariat within the Vidhan Sabha premises at Bhararisain, laying of a drinking water pipeline there, a cold storage facility and a food processing plant at Gairsain block. The Jio OFC networking will be expanded in Gairsain-Bhararisain, the adjoining Benital will be developed into an astro village and an eco-trail/eco-park will be developed in Bhararisain, Rawat said. The money will also be sanctioned for construction of a government ITI building in Gairsain and the creation of necessary infrastructure there, he said. Claiming that his government had fulfilled 85 per cent of the promises made to the people of the state in the 2017 assembly polls, Rawat said making Gairsain the summer capital of the state was one of them. Admitting that the coronavirus pandemic has cast its shadow on the Independence day celebrations, Rawat spoke of the steps taken by his government to strengthen the health infrastructure in the state grapple with the crisis. There are enough Covid hospitals, ICUs, isolation beds, ventilators and doctors in the state to deal with any emergency, he said. He said around four lakh migrants were brought back by the state government in the wake of the crisis. Apart from constantly monitoring their health, their skill mapping has also been done to provide them employment under the Mukhya Mantri Swarojgar Yojana, Rawat said. Rawat expressed confidence that the pandemic will finally be defeated and with people's co-operation and guidance he will be able to build the state of their dreams. He also spoke of the state government's investment-friendly policies and how development starved hilly areas of the state had been kept at the centre of the MSME projects to generate employment in rural areas. The chief minister also mentioned a massive campaign being run by the state government to revive the state's rivers, lakes and ponds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-chief-minister-trivendra-singh-rawat-announces-development-projects-for-gairsain-on-independence-day-873619.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab Chief Minister calls for readiness to combat threat from Pakistan, China||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday called for readiness to combat the border threat from Pakistan and China. With tensions at the borders continuing, India will have to be prepared to deal with any eventuality, said the CM in his Independence Day address here. Warning of a continued threat from neighbouring countries, Singh said Punjab will always be at the forefront of fighting the enemy at the borders. While Pakistan continued to resort to firing every day, China, on the other hand, talks about friendship but remains a danger to the nation, said Singh while recalling the recent attack on Indian soldiers by the Chinese forces in Ladakh. India has always given Pakistan a befitting response, which is the only way to deal with them, he said, adding that China also needs to be handled with the same iron hand. On this occasion, the CM also recalled the contributions of the millions of Indians to the freedom struggle and said Punjabis had always been at the forefront of every battle. The Cellular Jail referred to as 'Kala Pani' (in Andaman and Nicobar Islands) have the names of tens of hundreds of Punjabis etched in immortality, he said according to an official release. Even though the Independence Day celebrations this year were a low-key affair due to the coronavirus pandemic, this was the time to remember the sacrifices of all those who had made freedom possible, said the CM. It was also the time to salute the defence forces guarding the nation's borders from the enemy, he added. Paying his tributes to Punjab's freedom fighters, Singh reiterated his government's commitment to extend all benefits of freedom fighters to their next generations (grandchildren). Singh also saluted the health workers and paramedics for the fight against coronavirus, along with the NGOs and religious organisations. The CM also made a special mention of people who had performed exceptional service during the pandemic and said awards will be bestowed on them his government on January 26 next year. He also acknowledged the work done by farmers for feeding the nation during the lockdown period. He lauded industrialists who had shown “remarkable resilience” in recovering from the extreme slowdown caused by the pandemic and the industrial labour which returned to work with the same dedication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-minister-calls-for-readiness-to-combat-threat-from-pakistan-china-873633.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||In a first, women CRPF personnel deployed for security duties on Independence Day in Srinagar||For the first time, women personnel of the CRPF were deployed for security duties on Independence Day in Lal Chowk and adjoining areas of the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir. Dressed in the camouflage combat uniform, the gun-toting women personnel of the paramilitary force were deployed in the Kothibagh police station area, mainly comprising the commercial hub of Lal Chowk and surrounding areas. "We are from the 232 Battalion of CRPF. We have been in law and order as well as security-related duties before... So this is nothing new for us," a woman constable of the CRPF, deployed at Lambert Lane on Residency Road, told PTI. She said they do not feel any lesser than their male colleagues as they all undergo the same training. The women CRPF personnel had arrived in the Valley as part of security arrangements for the Amarnath yatra, which was cancelled at the last moment in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, stringent security arrangements were made in and around Srinagar city for Independence Day celebrations in the wake of militant attack in Naugam area on Friday that left two police personnel dead and another injured. Security forces had sealed all entry points leading towards Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium, officials said. Police and other security personnel were deployed on high rise buildings in many places of the city to keep a hawk-eye vigil on any suspicious movement, they said. The perimeter area around security installations across the valley, including army camps, was sealed immediately after the Naugam attack on Friday. The officials said all necessary steps were taken to prevent the militants from carrying out any further attacks aimed at disrupting the Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-a-first-women-crpf-personnel-deployed-for-security-duties-on-independence-day-in-srinagar-873641.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Local youths to get priority in govt jobs in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that preference would be given to local youths for government jobs in the state. He also said that his government was preparing a single citizenship database so that people of the state do not have to register for each scheme separately. Chouhan was addressing the state-level Independence Day function after unfurling the national flag at the Motilal Nehru Stadium in Bhopal. "Madhya Pradesh youths will be given priority in government jobs. It is our duty to be concerned about the youths of our state at a time when job opportunities are scarce," he said. "We will put in place such a mechanism that will ensure employment to local youths on the basis of their mark- sheets of Class X and XII," Chouhan added. The chief minister said that the government will work for the development of skills among the state's youths. "For this, a skill development park, worth around Rs 600 crore, is being set up in Bhopal with the help of Singapore," he added. Chouhan said that 15 lakh migrant labourers of Madhya Pradesh returned to the state during the coronavirus-induced- lockdown. "Of them, the job cards of 14 lakh migrant labourers have been prepared in a bid to provide them employment near their residence," he said. Chouhan reiterated that the state government will strongly fight the case in the court in favour of increasing the reservation of Other Backward Class (OBC) from 14 per cent to 27 per cent. He said when he took over as the chief minister (on March 23 this year), the state had only one laboratory for Covid-19 testing and lacked other arrangements. He said the government worked on a war footing to put in place adequate arrangements against the pandemic. Members of the Chouhan-led cabinet and senior state government officials were also present at the function. The gathering was restricted amid the preventive measures for COVID-19. Earlier, Chouhan also inspected the parade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-youths-to-get-priority-in-govt-jobs-in-madhya-pradesh-shivraj-singh-chouhan-873648.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||CBI arrests 3 Delhi Development Authority employees for receiving Rs 1 lakh bribe: Official||The CBI has arrested three employees of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), including an assistant director, for allegedly receiving Rs one lakh bribe from a person purchasing a plot of land, officials said on Saturday. Assistant Director Sudhanshu Ranjan, Upper Division Clerk Ajeet Bhardwaj and security guard Darwan Singh were taken into custody by the probe agency in the bribery case, they said. The case pertains to a deal related to a DDA plot of land allotted to a shanty dweller who sold it to a person known to him, officials said. The officials were demanding bribe from the buyer to the enter name of the seller in DDA records, they said. "It was further alleged that the complainant had bought this plot from said private person on GPA and wanted to sell it to someone else, for which the said plot required to be entered in the records of DDA in the name of said private person (an allottee of the said plot). It was also alleged that the said accused asked the complainant to arrange a bribe of Rs 4 lakh," CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said. On a complaint from the buyer, the CBI laid a trap and caught Ajeet Bhardwaj while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh, the officials said. "The other accused were also arrested subsequently. Searches were conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused in Delhi and Noida which led to the recovery of incriminating documents," Gaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-arrests-3-delhi-development-authority-employees-for-receiving-rs-1-lakh-bribe-official-873660.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath faces opposition onslaught over rising incidents of attacks on Dalits||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath came under a fierce attack from the opposition parties over the killing of a Dalit village pradhan (panchayat chief) in Azamgarh and brutal rape and murder of a minor in Lakhimpur Kheri district. BSP supremo Mayawati, in a series of tweets, slammed the state government for what she alleged its failure on the law and order front and ensure the safety of the Dalits. ''The current BJP regime is no different than the previous Samajwadi Party regime as far as attacks on Dalits are concerned,'' Mayawati said.  यूपी के लखीमपुर खीरी के पकरिया गाँव में दलित नाबालिग के साथ बलात्कार के बाद फिर उसकी नृशंस हत्या अति-दुःखद व शर्मनाक। ऐसी घटनाओं से सपा व वर्तमान भाजपा सरकार में फिर क्या अन्तर रहा? सरकार आजमगढ़ के साथ खीरी के दोषियों के विरूद्ध भी सख्त कार्रवाई करे, बीएसपी की यह माँग है। She demanded stern action against the culprits and ensure the safety of the Dalits. Congress too came down heavily on the BJP government over what the party said ''rising incidents of attacks'' on the Dalits in UP and the failure of the regime to stop them. ''Dalits are not safe in this regime,'' said a senior Congress leader here on Saturday. Satyameo, who was panchayat chief of Bansgaon village in Azamgarh district, about 300 kilometers from here, was shot dead by unidentified assailants on Friday evening. The killing sparked off large scale violence in the area and a frenzied mob torched a police outpost and several motorbikes. A minor child was also killed in violence. Yogi Adityanath has announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the next of the kin of the deceased. A minor girl was allegedly raped before being brutally murdered at Pakaria village in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. Barely a few days back a 17-year old Dalit youth had been shot dead in Amroha district in the state allegedly by a member of the upper caste after the former entered a temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-faces-opposition-onslaught-over-rising-incidents-of-attacks-on-dalits-873661.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||CM Yogi Adityanath remembers freedom fighters on Independence Day||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath remembered Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the country's independence on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday. In his fourth Independence Day speech, the chief minister also lauded health workers and security personnel for their work during the coronavirus pandemic. Dressed in a saffron robe and turban, and wearing a white mask in view of the pandemic, Adityanath unfurled the national flag at the Vidhan Bhavan here ahead of his address to the people of the state. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also attended the event. "On this occasion, I pay my tributes to Mahatma Gandhi under whose leadership the freedom movement was carried out. I also pay tributes to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, B R Ambedkar and Shyama Prasad Mookerjee," Adityanath said. He also remembered soldiers who lost their lives while defending the country and urged people to understand the importance of independence. "It is our responsibility to make India clean by 2022 when we will celebrate 75 years of independence. Uttar Pradesh can also play a major and important role in 'Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat'," he said. Adityanath also spoke about various welfare and developmental schemes of the Centre and the state government. Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit unfurled the national flag at his residence, while Director General of Police H C Awasthy unfurled the tricolour at the police headquarters here. The national flag fluttered atop several buildings in the state capital. However, unlike every year, most streets in Lucknow wore a deserted look and the revelry was missing as a coronavirus-induced statewide weekend lockdown kept people confined to their homes. "Till last year, we used to wake up to various patriotic songs being played on the occasion of Independence Day. But this year it was a silent day for the local residents due to the weekend lockdown imposed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak," said Dilip Sonkar, a vegetable vendor from Model House area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-yogi-adityanath-remembers-freedom-fighters-on-independence-day-873664.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot urges people to counter divisive forces||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Saturday called for keeping democracy intact and urged people to counter divisive forces. During his Independence Day address at Jaipur's Sawai Mansingh Stadium, the chief minister said it is imperative for democracy to exist for the survival of the country. It is the responsibility of all of us to keep it strong, he said, recalling the contribution of leaders Mahatma Gandhi, Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Dr Ambedkar and Maulana Azad. “Governments kept changing but democracy continued in the country. We all have the responsibility to keep democracy strong because the country will survive only when democracy survives," he said. Gehlot said people of different religions, communities and castes live in this country and speak varied languages. “Despite such diversity, our leaders kept this country united with principles of universal religion, socialism and secularism,” he said. He said by following these principles, people should give a befitting reply to the forces which spread hatred in the name of religion and caste so that peace and harmony prevail in the country. The chief minister remembered the freedom fighters and soldiers who laid down their lives to protect the country and said their sacrifices can never be forgotten. Gehlot also hoisted the Tricolour at the city's Badi Chaupad and congratulated people on the Independence Day. He said people should take a pledge that they will maintain mutual harmony and will not be misled by the forces that divide the country. Gehlot said his government is committed to provide sensitive, transparent and accountable governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-urges-people-to-counter-divisive-forces-873671.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||To win a Rs 200 bet, 60-year-old Uttar Pradesh man tries to cross pond, dies midway||A sexagenarian from Uttar Pradesh died while trying to cross a pond to win a Rs 200 bet on Friday. The bizarre incident happened at Kanaukheda village in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun district, about 300 kilometres from here. According to the reports, some youths of the village allegedly offered to pay Rs 200  to 60-year-old Kulbir Singh if the latter crossed a huge pond in the village. It was a bet and he readily agreed. Sources said that Singh jumped into the pond and started swimming. The old man, however, found that he was too old to cross the pond, which had swollen owing to the heavy rains over the past few days and began to drown when he reached midway. In a bid to save Singh, a few youths also jumped into the pond when they saw the old man drowning but it was too late by the time they managed to reach him. Singh was rushed to the district hospital but was declared brought dead, sources said. Police sources said that a case was registered and the matter was being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-win-a-rs-200-bet-60-year-old-uttar-pradesh-man-tries-to-cross-pond-dies-midway-873684.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Driver of IAS officer injured in accidental firing in Jammu and Kashmir||A driver of an IAS officer was injured on Saturday after the service rifle of an SSB personnel went off accidentally in Jawahar Nagar area of the city, officials said here. The injured driver has been admitted to SMHS hospital for treatment, they said. "An accidental fire went off by the weapon of an SSB personnel of 10 Bn deployed at the Government quarter in Jawahar Nagar due to which one JKP driver, Ghulam Nabi, sustained superficial injuries to the head," a police official said. Ghulam Nabi was posted with the director, department of Information and public relations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/driver-of-ias-officer-injured-in-accidental-firing-in-jammu-and-kashmir-873688.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Breaking taboo, PM Modi speaks about menstrual hygiene in Independence Day speech||Breaking taboo, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke of menstrual hygiene in his Independence Day address, highlighting the efforts made by the government to make sanitary pads accessible to poor women. “This government has always been concerned about the health of India's poor daughters and sisters. Through 6,000 Janaushadhi centres, about five crore women have got sanitary pads at Re 1,” PM Modi said. Modi’s reference to menstrual hygiene in his address on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day won plaudits from a wide spectrum. “Happy that Shri Narendra Modi ji mainstreamed the discussion on menstrual hygiene & broke the long-held taboos around it by voicing it in his I-Day speech today & minimum age of marriage for women. I hope the state BJP learns from it. They are known to mock every initiative around it,” Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi said. “Can other countries imagine a PM speaking of both women’s achievements and providing sanitary pads widely from a historic platform? If people don’t find this progressive and path-breaking, what will,” Jaya Jaitly, former Rajya Sabha member said. Prime Minister Modi also announced that the government has set up a panel of experts to reconsider the marriageable age for women and an appropriate decision would be taken once it submits its report. The minimum age of marriage for women is 18 years and for men, it is 21 years. There is a strong view in favour of change as this has not put an end to the practice of child marriages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/breaking-taboo-pm-modi-speaks-about-menstrual-hygiene-in-independence-day-speech-873695.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh among fastest growing states in green projects: Indian Green Building Council||Uttar Pradesh is one of the fastest-growing states in terms of green building projects as the state has more than 570 such projects covering over 1,400 million sq ft area, according to the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). The IGBC, formed by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in 2001, said as on date, India has 5,975 projects, spanning 7.55 billion sq ft of green buildings and green-built environment that are adopting its “green rating” programmes. India has also bagged the prestigious distinction of becoming one of the top five countries in the world in terms of built-up area of green projects, it said. These projects, from both the government and private sector, have adopted IGBC's many rating systems, including homes, new buildings, healthcare facilities, schools, factories, campuses, townships, cities, and others, it added. "Uttar Pradesh has been one of the fastest-growing states in terms of green building projects. The acceptance among the developers to adopt the sustainable design, construction and certification has been widespread," Sachin Sharma, Chair, IGBC Western UP Chapter, said. "The support from the state government has been exemplary. The state has more than 570 green building projects covering over 1,400 million sq ft of the green footprint. We are happy to contribute to India achieving this significant milestone," Sharma said. He said the IGBC has also trained over 40,000 professionals on green building concepts, in line with 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Vocal for Local' initiatives of the Centre. "These professionals have gone on to offer consultancy for certification, energy audit, simulation study, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis and various other environmental services which enhance building efficiency," Sharma said. However, he urged the government to consider additional incentives, such as a reduction in development charges and rebate in property tax to projects which are rated by IGBC. The IGBC said it has launched 26 holistic Green Rating programmes that cater to the design, construction and operations of almost all project typologies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-among-fastest-growing-states-in-green-projects-indian-green-building-council-873696.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Lightning strike kills three women in Chhattisgarh||Three women were killed and four others were injured on Saturday in a lightning strike at a village in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district, police said. A group of women was working in a paddy field at Hardi village under Sarangarh police station when they were struck by the bolt from sky around 11 am, said Raigarh superintendent of police Santosh Singh. The deceased are identified as Vinita Jangde (20), Sashi Mahant (30) and Nanki Tandan (50), he said, adding that four others sustained burn injuries. A police team shifted the injured women to Sarangarh Civil Hospital, he said, adding that a case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-strike-kills-three-women-in-chhattisgarh-873698.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Another accused of Kanpur ambush arrested||Another accused of the Kanpur ambush during which eight policemen were killed by henchmen of slain gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested here in Chaubepur on Saturday, police said. Rajendra Kumar Mishra, a resident of Bikru village in Chaubepur, was carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000, Superintendent of Police (Rural) Brajesh Srivastava said. Mishra was arrested from near a factory on the Shivrajpur road here while he was on his way to the residence of an acquaintance to seek help for his surrender before the court, the SP said. Mishra's son Prabhat, alias Kartikey, who was named in the case, was arrested from Haryana's Faridabad a week after the massacre and gunned down by police while being brought to Kanpur after he snatched a pistol of a cop and opened fire, Srivastava said. During interrogation, Mishra tried to mislead police, citing innocence, but later broke down and confessed that he and his son had attacked the police party on July 2 night, police said. Mishra told police officials that he took shelter at various places in Kanpur Dehat and its neighbouring districts where he spent over a month and never visited his relatives believing it might lead to his arrest. The SP told PTI that Rajendra Mishra's role in the ambush had emerged during investigation. IG (Kanpur Range) Mohit Agarwal had announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 for providing information about him. Mishra is being interrogated by a team of senior officers to gain information about those who were behind the ambush, said an official. Efforts are also being made to extract information as to where the weapons used in the ambush were disposed of, the official added. Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were killed in the ambush at Kanpur's Bikru village by the henchmen of gangster Vikas Dubey on the intervening night of July 2 and 3. As many as six prime accused-- Vikas Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Amar Dubey, Bauan Dubey, Prem Kumar Pandey and Atul Dubey-- have been gunned down in separate encounters since July 3. Several aides of Dubey have been arrested either by the STF or the Kanpur police. Those who are still at large are Chotu Shukla, Shiv Tewari, Vishnu Pal Yadav, Ramu Bajpai and Hiru Dubey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-accused-of-kanpur-ambush-arrested-873708.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Prades MLA Vijay Mishra arrested by Bhadoi police for role in criminal case||A Bhadohi police team form Uttar Pradesh on Saturday arrested Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, detained by Madhya Pradesh police in Agar Malwa on its request for the lawmaker alleged involvement in a case of criminal intimidation and wrongful confinement, said an official. Bhadohi Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said after arresting the MLA, his district police team, led by Dy SP Kalu Singh, produced him in a court at Agar Malwa and is bringing him here on transit remand. Vijay Mishra, his wife Ramlali Mishra, a UP MLC, and son Vishnu Mishra were booked on a complaint by his relative under sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 347 (wrongful confinement), 387 (putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 449 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code on August 4. The MLA, belonging to Nishad Party, currently has 73 cases registered against him and has been booked under the Goonda Act and the stringent National Security Act in the past. He would be produced before a court here on Sunday, the SP added. Mishra was detained by MP police team on Friday on a request by Bhadohi police. He was on his way to Kota (in Rajasthan) via Ujjain when he was detained in Agar Malwa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-prades-mla-vijay-mishra-arrested-by-bhadoi-police-for-role-in-criminal-case-873723.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Ladakh celebrates Independence Day a year after being declared Union Territory; Lt Guv assures protection & development||The Union Territory of Ladakh on Saturday celebrated the 74th Independence Day as Lt Governor R K Mathur used the opportunity to dispel apprehensions of the locals with regard to the protection of land and fear of inundation by outsiders. The celebrations also come as Ladakh completed one year of it becoming a union territory. In his Independence Day address at Leh Polo-ground where he unfurled the tricolour and inspected the guard of honour, the Lt Governor said the UT status of Ladakh has heightened the expectations of people. "The Union Territory (UT) status has heightened the expectations and aspirations of the people of Ladakh along with certain apprehensions in terms of protection of the land, environment, job and fear of inundation by outsiders. "The UT administration is determined to meet their expectations in ensuring protection and development," he said. He also assured all-round development of the region, adding that Ladakh has the potential to become the renewable energy capital of the country. Congratulating the people of Ladakh on completing one year of it becoming a union territory, Mathur said, “It is a dream come true for Ladakhis and we must thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for it.” "It is a golden opportunity for the people to make a Ladakh of their choice as they hold its destiny," he said, urging the youth to explore and excel in entrepreneurship by taking advantage of various government schemes. He also urged the youth to make the best use of indigenous products for value addition to ensure better livelihood. The Independence Day was celebrated with limited invitees and negligible public gathering owing to the risk of the coronavirus pandemic this year. During the celebration, all the safety and precautionary guidelines, including maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks, were followed. The Lieutenant Governor also paid tributes to the brave soldiers, who sacrificed their lives guarding the borders, and also thanked the armed and paramilitary forces for their immense contribution in the welfare and development of Ladakh, especially during the harsh winter season. Highlighting the vision of the prime minister for Ladakh, he said the same is reflected in the announcement of a Special Development Package provision in the J&K Reorganisation Act, to make Ladakh a carbon-neutral region and develop Leh and Kargil as smart cities. Mathur noted that the greatest benefit of a UT status is that it has brought the government closer to the people and providing dignity to their interaction, adding that it will go a long way in integrating Ladakh with the rest of the country. "The UT status has brought a significant change in the administrative structure with the functioning of the UT administration, directorates, two hill councils and the panchayati raj system," he said. The Lt Governor also made a mention of all the development plans, projects, government schemes and achievements of the UT administration till date. "Ladakh has the potential to become the renewable energy capital of India," he asserted. Mathur also applauded the Covid-19 warriors like doctors, nurses, paramedics, municipal staff, police and the administration for their dedicated work in fighting against the pandemic. He honoured the Covid-19 warriors, including nodal officers for their services in the evacuation of stranded passengers to Ladakh during the national lockdown. The Lt Governor appealed to the people of Ladakh to continue with their resolve, courage and patience in adhering to the safety protocols, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. "Together, we can aspire to make Ladakh Covid-19 free and set an example for the rest of the world," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-celebrates-independence-day-a-year-after-being-declared-union-territory-lt-guv-assures-protection-development-873726.html
15-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 1,276 fresh Covid-19 cases, 10 new deaths||Delhi recorded 1,276 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the caseload to over 1.51 lakh, while the death toll rose to 4,188 with 10 new fatalities, authorities said. According to Sunday's health bulletin by the Delhi government, 5,667 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 12,604 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 18,721 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours while the positivity rate stands at 6.81 per cent. A total of 12,91,411 tests have been conducted till date. The number of tests done per million population stands at 67,969. The total number of cases now stands at 1,51,928, while 10 fresh deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 4,188. A total of 1,36,251 patients have recovered, migrated out or been discharged with the number being 1,143 in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 11,489, of which 5,809 are in home isolation. The number of active cases on Friday was 11,366. The recovery rate stands at 89.68 per cent.  The number of containment zones stands at 538. According to the bulletin, out of 14,125 total beds, 3,495 are occupied. Also, 3,901 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. The coronavirus tally in the national capital crossed the 1.50 lakh-mark on Friday with 1,192 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours, while 11 new fatalities in the same period pushed the death toll to 4,178.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1276-fresh-covid-19-cases-10-new-deaths-873797.html
15-08-2020||Opinion||India needs citizens to unite in support more than ever||As India celebrates its 74th Independence Day, it is grappling with daunting problems. Although the country has travelled a long distance from days of  British colonial subjugation to a position of global prominence today as an independent nation, it could be argued that never before has India welcomed August 15 while trying to cross so many stumbling blocks. India appears to be struggling like Abhimanyu, the mythical character from Mahabharata, inside a modern-day Chakravyuha. The coronavirus pandemic has ravaged the world, and India is no exception. India's first Covid-19 case was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Since then, the number of cases has risen exponentially to cross the 25-lakh mark. The tally of positive cases has propelled India to occupy the undesirous third position in the list of coronavirus-affected countries, only behind the United States and Brazil.  The relentless increase in the daily number of cases has pushed the country on the backfoot and brought life to a standstill. The Centre along with the state governments has implemented phased lockdowns in a bid to curb the outbreak and also maintain the flow of economic activities, for the pandemic has dealt a crushing blow to the country's economy. Livelihoods of the poorer sections have suffered, and the mass exodus of migrant labourers during the initial phases of lockdown highlighted their pitiful condition. In a ray of hope, the tally of recovered Covid-19 cases in India has surpassed the total number of active cases by a fair margin. But as the saying goes, troubles don't come alone. As if the coronavirus pandemic and economic setback were not enough, China added to the misery. On June 15, twenty Indian Army soldiers were martyred in combat with the Chinese Army (People's Liberation Army) in the Galwan Valley. The incident once again brought to the fore China’s aggression along the Line of Actual Control, a topic of dispute since the 1962 Indo-China war.  There have been numerous disengagement talks between diplomats of the two sides, but the stand-off between the two armies has not ceased to exist. Amid this chaos, Nepal too decided to change its map. The new map shows the Kalapani area along with Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand as its own. The inclusion of Indian territories in its map triggered tension between the neighbouring countries. And Pakistan has continued to shell mortars across the Line of Control, injuring civilians and inducing the Indian Army to give a reply. Floods have also appeared on the list of problems in states such as Assam, Bihar and Karnataka affecting lakhs of people, taking a toll on livelihoods, destroying farmland and in some places claiming lives. In Assam the death toll from the floods stands at 110 and over 60 lives were lost in a devastating landslide in Kerala's Idukki district. Do all these incidents mean that like Abhimanyu, India will not be able to break through the circular, maze-battle formation of the Chakravyuha?  To take the metaphor of sport, in any game, the supporters play the role of an extra player, boosting their teams' morale during a crisis. Likewise, India's citizens need to put their faith in the country and will it to emerge from its troubles. All political and civil society voices at this point must be cognisant of this imperative and encourage an attitude of cooperation among the citizenry about the larger goal of helping India tide over difficult times. Only the unfailing support and united effort of people will be able to help India overcome these difficult situations. On this Independence Day, such an attitude would be the most fitting tribute to the Tricolour and help it flutter proudly in the years to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-needs-citizens-to-unite-in-support-more-than-ever-873550.html
15-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Brooding on a balcony||Sometimes I just need a little fresh air. And the nicest place for that, in this period of enforced lockdown, is my balcony. A small makeshift stone bench and a few potted plants make it my place to think--usually over a cup of steaming hot, South Indian coffee. It was my quiet place--my secret little creative corner from where I could see the world, but much of the world could not see me. Yesterday as I sat in my usual space, I ruminated over the concept of a balcony. A little bit of your private space jutting out into the world. The most famous association we have with a balcony is the one with Juliet calling out to Romeo, as he serenades her from below. This, unfortunately, is an anachronism. The earliest known use in English of the word "balcone" (as it was then spelt) didn’t occur until 1618, two years after Shakespeare died. Even the concept of a balcony was foreign to Shakespeare's British contemporaries. So our most romantic balcony is actually a sarcophagus. In the early 20th century, the people of Verona, Italy, were so tired of telling the flocks of tourists that the balcony in Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet didn’t exist that they cobbled one together from an old coffin.  What are the other famous balconies we know? The Balcony is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Manet. It depicts four figures on a balcony, one of whom is sitting. No balcony in the world has seen more Popes than the Vatican’s Loggia delle Benedizioni. Every new Pope since the 17th century has appeared before the public on the central balcony of St Peter’s Basilica. The Pope also gives his “Urbi et Orbi” blessing from here at Christmas and Easter, giving the balcony its name – The Balcony of Blessings. Similarly, the balcony of the Ambassador Hotel in New York sprang to prominence when Marilyn Monroe was photographed there. On important occasions the British royalty wave to their subjects from the balcony of the Buckingham Palace. Indian superstars too appear on the roof or balcony to greet hundreds of their loyal fans.  My balcony has been invaded recently. By birds who have felt that the world has become a little quieter. Their chirping wakes us in the morning. I’m waiting for a few weeks – to bring my cup of coffee here again. No kings, no tragic heroines, no banging thalis, no French painters or famous actresses.  Just me and my thoughts – brooding on my balcony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/brooding-on-a-balcony-873472.html
15-08-2020||Second Edit||Kamala Harris: Joe Biden’s inspired choice||By choosing Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has boosted considerably his chances of success in the upcoming US presidential election, where he is up against incumbent Donald Trump. Harris has formidable experience in public office and has notched up impressive achievements as an attorney-general and as a Senator. Geographic balance has usually been a key factor in determining the choice of a running mate. This time, race and gender, too, have played a key role in the decision. Harris is of Indian-Jamaican origin. As Biden’s running mate, she provides balance to the Democratic ticket. Not only will she dominate the Black vote, which is crucial for Democrats to unseat President Donald Trump but also, she is expected to draw the support of White college-educated liberals, especially women. Whether her gender will do the trick in winning the backing of women from the American mid-west, who are strong Trump supporters, remains to be seen. The 55-year-old Harris is also expected to win the support of young Americans. Her centre-left position as opposed to Biden’s centrist views should win the support of leftists in the Democratic Party. While Biden’s road to the White House appears easier with Harris at his side, especially given her fund-raising skills, the battle ahead will not be easy. Harris’ running for vice-president is historic. While women have run for the US vice-presidency before, she is the first woman of colour to do so. A major party ticket with women running for president or vice-president has never won so far for a number of reasons. Will Harris be the one to change this record? It has never been easy for women running for political office in the US. They are more likely than male candidates to be put under the scanner for their career decisions, spouses’ conduct and even attire. Harris can expect rough treatment from Republicans and the conservative media. Trump has already indulged in slandering Harris, setting the tone for his campaign to return to the White House. Indians, whether those living here or in the US, are excited about Harris’ candidacy. Indian-Americans have done well in the US, especially in the technology sector, hitherto. It is heartening to see a woman of Indian origin rise in the political sphere, too. Her rise will fire the aspirations of young South Asians. What her running for vice-presidency means for India-US relations remains to be seen. It will be national interest rather than racial origin of the vice-president that determines US foreign policy, and it will be so with Kamala Harris in office, too, should the Democrats win the White House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/kamala-harris-joe-biden-s-inspired-choice-873468.html
15-08-2020||South||River Godavari still in spate; first warning signal issued||With the river Godavari continuing to remain in spate in Andhra Pradesh, the first warning signal was raised on Saturday at Dowaleswaram near Rajamahendravaram as it received an inflow of 10.36 lakh cusecs. As much water was being discharged into the Bay of Bengal as the Dowaleswaram barrage was filled to the brim (2.93 tmc ft) by Saturday afternoon. "We have alerted the authorities concerned to take all precautionary measures along the river course in view of the flood flow. Two teams of the National Disaster Response Force have also been positioned at Rajamahendravaram to attend to any eventuality," Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Commissioner K Kanna Babu said. He asked people not to travel in the river on boats nor go for bathing and swimming. The Devipatnam mandal in East Godavari district remained cut off due to the flood in Godavari. Downstream in West Godavari district, the river has been flowing over the Kotturu causeway, disrupting road communication to the island villages. The floodwater also entered the spillway channel at the Polavaram project site, hampering construction work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/river-godavari-still-in-spate-first-warning-signal-issued-873616.html
15-08-2020||South||Posters hailing Panneerselvam as 'CM 2021' create flutter||Posters hailing AIADMK top leader O Panneerselvam as the only Chief Ministerial candidate blessed by late party supremo J Jayalalithaa for the 2021 Assembly elections were found stuck on walls at several places in Theni district on Saturday, creating a flutter in the party. Against the backdrop of a recent debate among ministers over the candidate for the polls, the posters that appeared in the native district of Panneerselvam, the Deputy Chief Minister, assumes significance. A poster said Panneerselvam "is the one and only Chief Minister blessed by Puratchi Thalaivi" (Revolutionary leader, a reference to Jayalalithaa), apparently indicating that he should be the Chief Ministerial candidate for the election and that he was chosen by the late leader to be the Chief Minister twice (2001 and 2014) while she was alive. Another said he was the "Chief Minister" for the ordinary people and the poor and blessed by Amma. Another one hailed him as the "permanent Chief Minister." A common tag line found in a variety of posters was #2021 CM for OPS, suggesting that Panneerselvamshould be the CM candidate. The slogans in the posters were attributed to the "Kenjampatti village people" in Bodinayakanur union in Theni district and were found in locations, including Periyakulam, (home town of Panneerselvam) and Theni in the district. Images of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, party icons, Jayalalithaa and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran were displayed in the posters. When asked, party office-bearers here said: "This has got nothing to do with Panneerselvam. Some functionaries may have done this at a personal level. A party functionary asked: "Why were some ministers not questioned when they said Palaniswami should be the chief Minister in 2021? When that is the case why should they take exception to such posters now?" Leading to speculations of a factional feud, a debate on "Chief Ministerial candidate" was triggered after AIADMK's Madurai based leader and Minister Sellur K Raju days ago said the Chief Minister would be chosen by elected MLAs while another Minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji favoured protecting the incumbent as the CM candidate. Party deputy coordinator K P Munsamy had said the AIADMK top leadership would take a decision on the Chief Ministerial candidate for assembly elections and announce it at an appropriate time. Later, Panneerselvam had urged party men to be united and act responsibly. "The AIADMK's only goal is to emerge victorious for the third time in a row in the Assembly elections to be held in 2021. Victory is honourable Amma's dream. To realise it, it is my appeal that we should act responsibly with a sense of duty, dignity and discipline," Panneerselvam, who is the party coordinator, the top post, had said on his twitter handle. Chief Minister K Palaniswamiis the co-coordinator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/posters-hailing-panneerselvam-as-cm-2021-create-flutter-873628.html
15-08-2020||South||Hope Centre grants Andhra Pradesh Special Category in future: Jagan Mohan Reddy||On Independence Day, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy hoped the Centre would have a change of heart if not today, in the future, and accord Special Category Status (SCS) to the state in accordance with the promise made in Parliament. Addressing the ceremonial function after unfurling the national tricolor at the IGMC Stadium in Vijayawada on Saturday, the Chief Minister said his government was determined to achieve SCS for the state. "The government at the Centre is now not dependent on other parties (for support), so we dont see it granting SCS now. But, if not today, in the future with the blessings of God we hope the situation will change and the central government will have a change of heart and accord SCS for the future of the state," the Chief Minister said. The state would nevertheless continue to raise the demand strongly for SCS, Jagan asserted. The Chief Minister said his government firmly believed that decentralization (of administration) was the right policy to heal the wounds inflicted upon the state by bifurcation. "To ensure that we do not suffer more such wounds and that the three regions of the state flourish equally, we enacted the three capitals legislation. We will soon lay the foundation stone for the Executive Capital at Visakhapatnam and Judicial Capital in Kurnool," Jagan said. The Chief Minister said his 14-month rule so far gave a true meaning to the terms 'justice, liberty, equality, fraternity' as enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution of India. In line with the Directive Principles of State Policy and Article 38 (2) enshrined in the Constitution, the state government launched a gamut of welfare schemes with SCs, STs, BCs, minorities and economically-backward among the upper castes as the main base, to remove the economic and social disparities. "By introducing the Village Secretariat system, which is a new chapter in decentralization of administration, we have ensured Grama Swaraj as listed in the Directive Principles," the Chief Minister added. He noted that the government doled out Rs 59,000 crore in the last 14 months to various sections under different welfare schemes. As part of the measures to eliminate corruption, new initiatives like reverse tendering and judicial preview were launched while a review of the previous government's decisions resulted in an overall saving of Rs 4,000 crore to the exchequer, he added. "Fruits of the schemes and initiatives we launched now will be fully available only after 10-20 years. These are not election schemes but those that are aimed at a better socio-economic and political transformation of the people of the state," Jagan summed up. Earlier, the Chief Minister reviewed the ceremonial parade by different battalions of the Andhra Pradesh Special Police, commanded by young IPS officer Vakul Jindal. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director General of Police D G Sawang, Principal Secretary (Political) Praveen Prakash and other senior officials attended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hope-centre-grants-andhra-pradesh-special-category-in-future-jagan-mohan-reddy-873665.html
15-08-2020||South||"I have people's support," says E K Palaniswami amid CM candidate debate in AIADMK||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday asserted that he has the love and support of the people and vowed to continue to work for them with their well being as his only goal. After unfurling the tricolour at Fort St George here on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day celebrations, Palaniswami listed out his government's initiatives on several fronts, including a slew of measures to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. "It is certain that this government will always be with the people. This is a government for the people. I, who have won your love and support, will continue to work for you all along, with the well being of the people of Tamil Nadu as the only goal. On this auspicious day, I reiterate this," he said. It was a proud moment for him to unfurl the tricolour for the fourth time in a row, he added. Palaniswami's remarks made amid a debate in the AIADMK on the Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly elections assume significance and is seen as a veiled hint. Days ago, Cooperation Minister Sellur K Raju had said the Chief Minister would be chosen by elected MLAs, while Dairy Minister K T Rajenthra Balaji favoured projecting the incumbent as the Chief Ministerial candidate. Posters, meanwhile, pitching Panneerselvam's candidature for the Chief Minister's post, appeared in Theni district today, creating a flutter in the party. Palaniswami in his Independence Day address said a memorial would soon be inaugurated at the Marina beach here, where late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa was interred in 2016. "Work to set up a memorial near the Marina beach is going on in full swing. I am happy to announce that it will be inaugurated soon", he said. The memorial, resembling a phoenix bird, is being set up at a cost of Rs 50.8 crore behind the memorial of AIADMK founder and the late chief minister M G Ramachandran on the shores of the Marina. The Chief Minister said action has been taken to set up a foundation under his leadership to administer 'Veda Nilayam', residence of the late leader at Poes Garden here, which would be refurbished into a memorial to honour her memory. The ruling AIADMK had announced in 2017 that the posh property would be converted into a memorial. Last month, the movable and immovable properties which include four kgs of gold, 601 kgs of silver, over 8,300 books and others to be managed by the foundation. Governor Banwarilal Purohit had promulgated the ordinance in May to facilitate temporary possession of Jayalalithaa's residence to convert it into a memorial. The state government had on July 25 deposited Rs 67.9 crore in the city civil court for acquiring Veda Nilayam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-have-peoples-support-says-e-k-palaniswami-amid-cm-candidate-debate-in-aiadmk-873678.html
15-08-2020||South||Kerala prisons grapple with coronavirus outbreak as over 200 test positive in last three days||Prisons in Kerala that were earlier in the news for joining the fight against Covid-19 by making masks and sanitizers are now grappling with the outbreak of the virus. Around 200 prisoners of the Central Prison in Thiruvananthapuram were tested Covid-19 positive in the last three days. A doctor and a couple of prison officials have also tested positive for coronavirus. An inmate of the women's prison in Thiruvananthapuram has also tested Covid-19 positive. Coronavirus tests are being conducted on all inmates of the prison.  Earlier 66 prisoners of Kollam district prison and 42 people who were taken to various prisons across the state were found Covid-19 positive. Shifting of the infected prisoners to Covid-19 hospitals involved security risk and hence the prisoners are now being treated in the prison hospitals itself. Most of the infected patients are asymptomatic. DIG S Santosh said that the outbreak of infection at the Central prison could be mainly caused by the hospital visit of prisoners. On average at least 20 prisoners were being taken to various government hospitals daily as part of routine treatments. There are around 1,000 inmates in Central prison now, of which Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far on around half of them only, and hence the number of positive cases might go up in the coming days. As soon as the Covid-19 outbreak started in Kerala, steps like allowing parole and interim bail to more prisoners were initiated to reduce the congestion in prions. As a result, the total number of prisoners across the state reduced to around 4,500 from 8,000, said Gopakumar. At a time when the state was facing an acute shortage of masks and sanitizers, the prisons chipped in and initiated mask and sanitizer productions. Around 10 lakh masks and 20,000 liter of sanitizers have been produced so far, said the DIG.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-prisons-grapple-with-coronavirus-outbreak-as-over-200-test-positive-in-last-three-days-873680.html
15-08-2020||South||WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan honoured with Tamil Nadu CM's special award||Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation, Soumya Swaminathan was on Saturday conferred with the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's special award, in recognition of her advisory role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Swaminathan received the award from Chief Minister K Palaniswami on the 74th Independence Day celebration at Fort St George here. The WHO representative has been offering suggestions to the state health department to step up measures in fighting the pandemic. Later, speaking to reporters, Swaminathan thanked the state government for selecting her and advised people to follow the pandemic protocols while venturing out. "Maintain a six feet social distance, do not go out without wearing masks and be careful while venturing out", she said. According to the World Health Organisation, Swaminathan has 30 years of experience in clinical care and research and has worked throughout her career to translate her research into impactful programmes. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister's Best Practices award was bagged by the department of treasuries, while the Greater Chennai Corporation received the second prize for conducting fever clinics across the city to break the transmission chain of Covid-19. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received the certificate of appreciation for various steps undertaken to ensure uninterrupted availability of drugs for combating coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-honoured-with-tamil-nadu-cms-special-award-873681.html
15-08-2020||South||ED quizzes Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar is being quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with his nexus with gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair. According to sources, though the Customs and NIA had not yet implicated Sivasankar in the gold smuggling and UAPA cases, he may face ED action as his association with Swapna in managing illegal money was quite evident from the evidences that have surfaced so far. The ED had already quizzed Sivasankar a few days back and it also stated before a special court in Kochi that Sivasankar is associated with Swapna even as her integrity was dubious. It had already come out that Sivasankar helped Swapna to open the bank locker with the help of his chartered accountant. Around Rs. one crore in cash and one-kilogram gold were recovered from the locker. Swapna was also believed to have received one crore commission in connection with a housing project in Kerala funded by the UAE's charity outfit Red Crescent. If the connivance of Sivasankar in these activities is established, he may face action from ED, said sources. Sivasankar, who has been a close confidant of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the last four years, was placed under suspension after a panel headed by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta reported that Sivasankar, who is a 1995-batch IAS officer, violated service rules. Sivasankar, who was also heading the IT department, allegedly facilitated the appointment of Swapna in Space Park under the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-quizzes-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-former-principal-secretary-873686.html
15-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu village in limelight after Kamala Harris's nomination as US Democratic Party VP candidate||A remote village in Tamil Nadu has shot to fame following the nomination of US senator Kamala Harris as the vice-presidential candidate by the Democratic Party for the American Presidential elections 2020. Harris' maternal grandparents belong to this village and it is gaining attention ever since the announcement. The agrarian village of Painganadu is located near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district near here in the Cauvery delta. Harris' mother, Shyamala, was the daughter of PV Gopalan who was active in the Independence movement and then became a high-ranking civil servant who fought against corruption. Her grandmother Rajam belonged to the nearby Thulasenthirapuram village. Though Kamala Harris's ancestors left the village, they had kept their connection with the village temple intact. Gopalan and other members of his family have made donations for temple renovation during various periods. As recent as 2014, a donation was made in the name of Kamala Harris, says the temple trustee Ramani. Digital banners have been put up in the village wishing her victory. People of the area have been sharing photographs of the village, temple, her ancestral home and plaque in the temple carrying information about the donations made by the family members on social media. US Democratic party presidential nominee Joe Biden had on Tuesday named 55-year-old Harris as his vice-presidential running mate, making history by electing the first black woman to compete on a major party's presidential ticket. Harris, whose father is an African from Jamaica and mother an Indian, is currently the US senator from California.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-village-in-limelight-after-kamala-harriss-nomination-as-us-democratic-party-vp-candidate-873700.html
15-08-2020||South||Supreme Court rejects bail plea of accused in killing of BJP leader||The Supreme Court has declined to consider bail plea of a man accused of supplying arms and finances at the instance of extradited gangster Bannanje Raja to other co-accused for killing BJP leader and businessman K N Naik in 2013 in Uttara Kannada district. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran rejected bail plea made by Jagdish Aras, represented by senior advocate Yatindra Singh and advocate Sanjay M Nuli, in the case related to offences under the Karnataka Control of Organized Crimes Act, 2000 and other penal provisions including murder. The court, however, directed the trial court to finish trial in the case by June 30, 2016. The sensational day-light murder was carried out at Ankola on December 21, 2013, months after the extortion threat. In the shootout, the armed Karnataka police gunmen had chased and killed one of the assailants Vivek Upadhyay, who hailed from Varanasi, but others had escaped in Maruti Omni car. Out of 16 accused, one was killed and three other remained absconding. The prime accused, Bannanje Raja was arrested in Morocco and was extradited to India on August 14, 2015. In his plea, the petitioner here contended he has been in jail for more than six years. He also claimed to have suffered from various ailments. He also said in view of 300 witnesses, the trial was unlikely to be completed anytime soon. He challenged validity of the Karnataka HC's order of July 18, 2019, declining him any relief. Karnataka government counsel Shubhranshu Padhi opposed the plea, saying the petitioner had supplied finance and arms and ammunition in committing the murder of victim Naik. "It is true that the petitioner is in custody for last more than six years. But the allegations against him and the role ascribed to him, in our view, dis-entitle the petitioner for being released on bail," the bench said. "We are conscious that if 300 witnesses are to be examined, the trial may take sometime. We, therefore, direct the trial court to conclude the proceedings in trial as early as possible and preferably by June 30, 2021," the bench added. The bench asked the trial court to make every endeavour to complete the process within the time stipulated. The trial court should file compliance report after June 30, 2021, the top court directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused-in-killing-of-bjp-leader-873703.html
15-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt has spent Rs 6,650 crore in combating Covid-19: CM||Tamil Nadu has spent around Rs 6,650 crore in its measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Saturday. The government has appointed around 1,800 new doctors and 7,000 nurses in its measures to contain the spread of the virus, Palaniswami said, after unfurling the tricolor at Fort St George on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day celebrations for the fourth time. Noting that 1.29 lakh beds were already set up to serve Covid-19 patients across the state, he said, special focus was being given to enhance the facility with beds equipped with oxygen supply to the patients. "Till date, Amma government (AIADMK supremo late J Jayalalithaa who is fondly called Amma meaning mother) using its State finance resources has spent Rs 6,650 crore," Palaniswami said. The chief minister said the government was purchasing modern life saving medicines to treat Covid-19 patients and added that Covid-19 testing equipment, N-95 masks, CT scan and X-ray machines were also procured and distributed to hospitals and field workers 'sufficiently'. "There is a sufficient amount of the products.Patients are also given siddha treatment," he said. Listing some of the initiatives taken by his government in its measures to contain the pandemic, Palaniswami said, till date 4.18 lakh migrant workers have been sent to their respective states while 64,661 Tamils who were living overseas were also brought back to the state under the Vande Bharat mission. The government was also engaged in free distribution of reusable masks at corporations, panchayats and rural panchayats, he said, and claimed that Tamil Nadu was the only state to distribute rice, sugar, dhal free of cost besides Rs 1,000 cash assistance to people during the Covid-19 enforced lockdown. During the lockdown around eight lakh people received free food from government operated Amma Canteens and also during special camps, he said. Palaniswami said treatment of Covid-19 was added under the Chief Minister's Health Insurance scheme thereby benefiting the poor and downtrodden. The treatment costs would be borne by the exchequer he said and pointed out that government employees and pensioners were also added in the scheme. Palaniswami, who gave away awards to frontline workers on the occasion, said he was happy to recognise their efforts which include doctors, nurses, revenue department, police, fire and rescue services, and other government employees for doing selfless service during the pandemic situation. "Amma's government will win the battle against this pandemic with the support of people," he said. On the economy front, Palaniswami said Tamil Nadu has signed 41 new memorandums of understanding attracting investments worth Rs 30,667 crore that will generate 67,212 new jobs.  "To address the issues faced by the micro, small and medium enterprises, Rs 7,043 crore of loans have been sanctioned..," he said. He said due to the efforts made by his government, Tamil Nadu was ranked No 1 by Mumbai-based Projects Today in attracting new investments even during the pandemic period April-June 2020. The Chief Minister also announced an increase of pension to the families of freedom fighters from the existing Rs 16,000 to Rs 17,000.Special allowance distributed to kin of freedom fighters would be hiked to Rs 8,500 from current Rs 8,000. The Independence Day celebrations remained subdued in the State due to the Covid-19 situation and the government had urged people not to visit the venue personally as the programme would go live on Television and radio. The Centre had advised the state governments to hold the celebrations with adequate Covid-19 precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-has-spent-rs-6650-crore-in-combating-covid-19-cm-873712.html
15-08-2020||South||Foundations for executive and judicial capitals will be laid soon, AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy announces||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has announced that his government would soon lay the foundation for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan had assented to the contentious capital decentralization bills last month, which leaves Amaravati as only the legislative capital. However, the Andhra Pradesh High Court, which is hearing a bunch of petitions opposing the capital shift from Amaravati, has on Friday extended the stay on any move on the three-capital plan till August 27. Delivering his Independence Day address in Vijayawada on Saturday, Reddy stated that “the wounds of united AP’s bifurcation have persuaded his government towards development decentralization with the three-capital concept.” Reddy was referring to the political and economic upheaval caused by the state’s June 2014 bifurcation, especially with Hyderabad, where most of the financial growth was concentrated, going to Telangana.   “Our development devolution with Visakhapatnam as the executive capital and Kurnool as the judicial Capital is a bid to prevent any such wounds in the future. The model would allow the fruits of development to be evenly spread to all three regions,” Reddy said. The YSRCP chief also asserted that his government would continue to press upon the centre with the demand for the Special Category Status (SCS) to help the state attract investments and achieve decent growth. The Narendra Modi government had earlier suggested the SCS for the state as an unfeasible provision.    “With reverse tendering in projects, judicial previews, evaluation of earlier government’s decisions which helped us save over Rs 4000 crore,” the Chief Minister added while stating that he has brought in transparent and corruption-free governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/foundations-for-executive-and-judicial-capitals-will-be-laid-soon-ap-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-announces-873715.html
15-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records 8,732 new coronavirus cases,87 deaths||Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 infection positivity rate crossed the 10 per cent mark on Saturday as the states aggregate number of cases reached 2,81,817, with the addition of 8,732 in the last 24 hours. The latest bulletin said after a cumulative 28,12,197 sample tests, the infection positivity rate touched 10.02 per cent, the highest so far. The recovery rate also showed an improvement, touching 67.82 per cent after 10,414 patients got cured, taking the gross to 1,91,117. In the last 24 hours, 87 fresh coronavirus deaths were also reported in the state, taking the toll to 2,562. The state now has 88,138 active Covid-19 cases, the bulletin added. East Godavari district continued to report cases in four digits, adding 1,126 afresh, and inched closer to the 40,000 aggregate mark. Chittoor (959), Visakhapatnam (894) and Anantapuramu (851) also reported more cases in the last 24 hours. Chittoor also registered ten more Covid-19 deaths. Guntur district now climbed to the top spot in the state chart with an overall toll of 284 after nine fatalities were added in a day. East and West Godavari districts reported eight new casualties each, Anantapuramu, Kadapa and Kurnool seven each, SPS Nellore, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram six each, Prakasam and Srikakulam five each. Krishna added three deaths to its overall count.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-8732-new-coronavirus-cases87-deaths-873725.html
15-08-2020||South||Kerala reports highest single day spike of 1608 Covid-19 cases||Kerala on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike of 1,608 Covid-19 cases, including 31 health workers, taking the tally to 42,885, while seven deaths took the total number of fatalities to 146. The recoveries stood at 803 and there were 14,891 active cases, health Minister K K Shailaja said. Out of these 1,608 cases, 1,409 are through their contacts. The source of 112 cases are yet to be identified. 74 people came from abroad and 90 from other states. 31 of those affected are health workers, she said in a release Two of the seven persons who succumbed to the virus were aged 69, while the others were aged 58, 70, 64, 75 and 81 and were from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam and Kasargod districts. With the 803 persons cured, the cumulative recoveries in Kerala stood at 27,779, the minister said. "Currently, 14,891 persons are under treatment for Covid-19 . At least 1,60,169 persons are under observation,including 13,358 in isolation wards of various hospitals across the state," the release quoted her as having said. The minister also said 12 more regions in the state have been categorised as hot spots, taking the total number to 562. The capital district, Thiruvananthapuram has 3,607 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Malappuram with 1,998 cases and Kozhikode and Ernakulam with 1,428 and 1,370 cases respectively. Alappuzha has 1,267 cases while Kasaragod has 1,127.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1608-covid-19-cases-873748.html
15-08-2020||South||Photographer Punalur Rajan passes away; Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan condoles||Noted photographer Punalur Rajan died in Kozhikode on Saturday due to cardiac ailments, family sources said. He was 81. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of Rajan and said he pursued history with a "politicalinsight". "Through his photographs, Rajan captured and immortalised the rare moments of literary stalwarts including Basheer, S K Pottekkad, M T Vasudevan Nair and many others. He also closely followed senior political leaders and captured many rare moments," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said Rajan's demise was a loss to the cultural society of Kerala. Chalachitra Academy Chairman Kamal expressed his condolences on the death of the renowned photographer who captured the history of Keralathrough the fields of literature, cinema and politics. Kamal remembered that the Communist Party had in 1960 sent Rajan to Russia to train him in filmmaking under the leadership of KPAC. "He studied photography at the Moscow State Institute of Filmatography. The demise of Rajan, who immortalised the unique talents in the cultural history of Kerala with his vivid portraits, is a great loss to Kerala," Kamal said in a statement. Rajan, born in 1939, obtained his diploma in Fine Arts from Mavelikkara Ravi Varma School and in 1963, joined Kozhikode government Medical College as an artist- photographer. Rajan had also brought out 'Basheer: Chayayum Ormayum', a portfolio of photographs depicting the life and times of the gifted writer. He had also taken numerous images depicting rare moments from Communist doyens of the country, including EMS Namboodiripad, C Achutha Menon, C Rajeswara Rao, S A Dange and P K Vasudevan Nair and captured the best moments in the life of personalities like Thikodiyan, Uroob, K A Kodungallur and many others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/photographer-punalur-rajan-passes-away-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-condoles-873783.html
15-08-2020||State||307 fresh Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued with Dakshina Kannada recording 307 new cases on Friday. According to officials, the total cases in the district stood at 8,378. With 242 discharges, the total discharges in the district are 6,115. A total of 2,007 infected are undergoing treatment in hospitals and in home isolation in the district. Of the fresh cases, 130 are suffering from the symptoms of ILI and 9 with symptoms of SARI.  Fourty four infected are primary contacts of already infected persons, while the contact tracing of 124 infected is in progress. Of 307 fresh cases, 162 are asymptomatic. Mangaluru recorded the highest number with 197 cases followed by 57 in Bantwal, 17 in Sullia, 14 each in Puttur and Belthangady and eight from other districts. As many as six Covid fatalities have been reported in the district, taking the total tally to 256. Among the fatalities, four are from Mangaluru, one each from Bantwal and another district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/307-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-873543.html
15-08-2020||State||Police foil attempt to install Sangolli Rayanna statue at Belagavi village||Police foiled attempt to install Sangolli Rayanna's statue at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk on the city outskirts on Saturday. A group had decided to install the statue of the freedom fighter without following the procedures. City Police had received information about it and had deployed personnel to thwart the misadventure. As the group reached the spot with the statue, they were prevented and detained, sources said. More details were awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-foil-attempt-to-install-sangolli-rayanna-statue-at-belagavi-village-873545.html
15-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 a scourge but we have to rebuild: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Making special note of his status as a Covid-19 survivor on Saturday, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa acknowledged that while the virus has gravely affected every sector, there is little to fear from the disease. Speaking at a comparatively muted 74th Independence Day celebration in Bengaluru, the Chief Minister announced that despite the challenges brought by Covid-19 and recent heavy-rains coupled with drought, that the state was proceeding in its aim of building a “welfare state,” backed by a principle of development.  "Our aim is to build a Kalyana Rajya (Welfare state) with the avowed principle of development as the only mantra. While fighting the global pandemic Covid-19, we are taking giant strides towards realizing Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of building a Ram Rajya and will practice Rajadharma in true earnest,” he said. In fact, much of the chief minister’s speech revolved around Covid-19, which he described as a “global scourge.” He called on people not to worry or be afraid of Covid-19 infection. “I too was infected by the coronavirus, and I have fully recovered,” he said. However, at the same time, he pointed out that the disease had prompted an economic recession, job losses and the slashing of revenue for the government. He also defended the implementation of the lockdown. “We had to declare a lockdown in our bid to prevent the spread of infection in the early stages of the outbreak. Because of the lockdown, economic and social activities came to a standstill,” he said. He added that the government had eventually come to the conclusion that lockdown is “not the only solution to reduce the spread of the coronavirus.” In addition to paying tribute to all Covid-19 warriors, including an assembled contingent of about 50 pourakarmikas from east and West Zones, the CM announced certain relief measures for those affected by the outbreak, including a Rs 3,187 cr relief package for migrant workers, daily wage workers, farmers and those dependent on floriculture, plus those employed as weavers, fisherman, construction workers, hairdressers, dhobis, taxi and autorickshaw drivers.  He also said that 1.31 cr people had been given health cards under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Karnataka while another 8.5 lakh had been health coverage at a cost of Rs 1,694 cr. “The government has taken all possible steps to ensure quality healthcare for its people,” he said. Yediyurappa expressed optimism that several schemes and projects would “help people see a ray of hope in this hour of gloom.” He added that his government has been giving a boost to entrepreneurs through the Industrial Facilitation Act, which he said improves the ease-of-doing business and encourages industrial development in the state. “Not just that, we have been encouraging the youth of the state to develop skills. Along with that, rules have been simplified to purchase agricultural land that is required for industrial purposes,” he said. These policies were said to have created an opportunity for both farmers and industrialists to mutually benefit from the direct purchase of land. He described farmers as the first and primary concern of the government. “Along with the annual Rs 6,000 assistance announced by the Union government under its Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna scheme to all eligible famers, the state gives an additional Rs 4,000 of which the first installment of Rs 2,00 has already been released,” he said, adding that the state was transferring Rs 1,000 cr in first installment to the accounts of about 50 lakh farmers. He also said that the government had come to the rescue of farmers in distress by buying Rs 3,1765 cr worth of farm products such as green gram, tur dal, groundnut, chickpeas and copra under the minimum support price programme from 5.82 lakh farmers. Yediyurappa added that the government has made big changes in the co-operative sector, the backbone of the agriculture economy, by giving farmers the choice to sell their produce at a market of their choice. Nevertheless, opposition parties have been critical of government’s ordinances amending land reforms, APMC and industries related laws, calling them antithetical to farmers and the working class. Infrastructure Developments Next addressing the matter of regional imbalances, Yediyurappa raised the matter of the backward Kalyana Karnataka region, where he said that airports in Bidar and Kalaburgi had started operations in a bid to draw more industrial investment in the region. “Work on setting up an airport at Shivamogga has gathered pace. The government has given administrative approval to launch work on the Karwar and Vijayapura airports,” he added. On Bengaluru Infrastructure developments will also take place in Bengaluru, the Chief Minister said. These, he added, include carving out green spaces across 400 kilometers of primary canals, in addition to making new bicycle and pedestrian lanes next the bund. He added that in the first stage, stretching from the historic Raja Kaaluve canal, from Dharamanbudhi Lake to Bellandur Lake will be kick-started with the construction of 36-kms of walking and cycling tracks. Mentioning the World Economic Forum (WEF) summit in Davos, Switzerland, Yediyurappa said he had canvased 40 multinational companies to invest in Karnataka. He claimed that despite the Covid-19 crisis, that the government had approved 101 industrial projects worth Rs 27,000 crore at the state level. The subdued Independence Day celebration which wrapped up after the CM’s speech lacked the usual crowds and contingents of marching schoolchildren which marked previous year’s events. In his concluding remarks, the Chief Minister praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. He added that Karnataka plans to build a Yatrinivas in Ayodhya for devotees from Karnataka who travel there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-a-scourge-but-we-have-to-rebuild-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-873558.html
15-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress responsible for Bengaluru violence says Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that the recent violence in Bengaluru was ‘Congress violence’. We are awaiting action to be taken by the fact finding committee of Congress. Government in its next cabinet meeting will decide regarding tough action to be taken against organisations involved in it. Speaking to reporters after the Independence Day celebrations here on Saturday, Jarkiholi said, Congress MLA Akhand Srinivasmurthy was innocent and injustice should not be meted to him and government was committed to protect the lawmaker. Tough action will be taken against the groups responsible for the violence and measures to be taken will be decided at the next cabinet meeting. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and police have been taking action against those involved in the Bengaluru violence. Irrespective of the stature, those involved in the violence will face action, he added. Government has been taking all communities along. Investigations into the Bengaluru violence were in progress, hence it’s not fair to speak much about it, he said. Flood situation in the district has been under control as we have been discharging water from dams commensurate to the inflow from Maharashtra and losses have been controlled. We have to manage the situation for the next two months too. We are coordinating with Maharashtra on water release, Jarkiholi stated. All should follow the guidelines of the government to control and prevent spread of Covid-19. Developmental works in the district will gather pace after the pandemic comes under control, he said. Many of the people who lost their houses in the previous year floods could not get compensation due to technical reasons like the title being on one name and subdivision of property titles not being completed by owners. Housing Minister V Somanna has been apprised about the situation and soon we shall arrive at a solution, he said. Regarding the private hospitals charging exorbitant charges from Covid-19 patients, Jarkiholi clarified that the issue has been taken seriously and stringent action will be taken against them after the pandemic comes under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-responsible-for-bengaluru-violence-says-jarkiholi-873606.html
15-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hope to complete Metro phase 2 project in Bengaluru by 2024: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday expressed hope to complete the Rs 30,695 crore Metro phase 2 project in the city by 2024, and said his government was taking measures to reboot "social and organic facilities" here to improve the basic infrastructure. He also said some "people-friendly plans" are being drawn up in about 110 acres of land near Byappanahalli Metro station, that includes growing plants with a wide variety of species with organic diversity. "We have accelerated the implementation of suburban rail network for Bangalore, which is a global investment destination," Yediyurappa said. In his speech during the 74th Independence Day celebrations here, he said, "we will take up Phase II of Bangalore Metro at a cost of Rs 30,695 crore and we hope to complete the project by June 2024." Noting that some 110 acres of land that belongs to NGEF near the Byappanahalli Metro station has been identified and we are designing people-friendly plans here, Yediyurappa said in this plot, we will grow plants with a wide variety of species with organic diversity.  The plans also include setting up of food court, traditional cottage industry, fun park for children and provide space for handloom exhibition and sale, he said. Yediyurappa said the government has a plan to create greenery on either side of the 400 km primary canals, besides carving out bicycle and pedestrian trails next to the bund. In the first stage, the historic major canal from Dharmanbudhi Lake to Bellandur lake will be taken up for this project with eco-system, construction of 36km length walking and cycling path and embellish the citys cultural and social facets in that region, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hope-to-complete-metro-phase-2-project-in-bengaluru-by-2024-yediyurappa-873632.html
15-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru violence: Why are innocent people being arrested, asks G Parameshwara||Former Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara, who heads the Congress’ fact-finding committee looking into the Pulakeshinagar riots, charged that the police had arrested “innocent” people including “boys as little as 10-12 years” in connection with the violence. “Some 400 people have been arrested, including boys as little as 10-12 years of age. One father died three hours after the boy was arrested,” Parameshwara told a news conference. “One Moulvi was arrested from KJ George’s constituency (Sarvagnanagar). Why are innocents being arrested? Not just minorities, everybody is living in an atmosphere of fear,” he added. Parameshwara, who served as Home Minister in the past, said the riot was “an absolute failure of intelligence and the police”. “Wouldn’t (the government) have the information if a police station was going to be burnt? You had no clue that people would gather?” he said.  Earlier in the day, the committee members visited riot-hit areas and held talks with stakeholders there. “We are yet to talk to many more people, after which we will submit a report to the KPCC president,” he said. “Prima facie, it looks like the violence was triggered by a social media post on Prophet Mohammed by one Naveen.”  Parameshwara also took exception to some ministers blaming the Congress for the incident. “On what basis are they saying all that? Why will we burn down the house of our own MLA? Nobody is saying action should not be taken against those involved in arson. We’ll be the last ones to protect them,” he said, demanding a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge.  “The BJP is talking about a Dalit MLA being attacked. A Dalit MLA should’ve been given protection by the BJP government,” Parameshwara said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-violence-why-are-innocent-people-being-arrested-asks-g-parameshwara-873717.html
15-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Biggest daily spike of 8,818 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike of over 8,800 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 related fatalities. With this, the total number of infections rose to 2,19,926 and death toll to 3,831 in the state, the health department said. The day also saw 6,629 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,818 fresh cases, 3,495 of them were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on Friday with 7,908 cases. As of August 15 evening, 2,19,926 positive cases have been confirmed and they included 3,831 deaths and 1,34,811 discharges, the health department said. It said that out of 81,276 active cases, 80,560 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable while 716 are in the intensive care unit (ICU). A total of 35 out of 114 deaths reported on Saturday were from Bengaluru urban followed by Mysuru (10), Dharwad (7), Ballari and Dakshina Kannada (6), Belagavi, Davangre and Shivamogga (5), Hassan and Chikkamagaluru (4), Raichur and Bidar (3), Udupi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag and Haveri, and Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Yadgi, Chamarajanagara and Chikkaballapura (1). Most of the dead were either with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,495, Ballari 759, Mysuru 635, Belagavi 358, Davangere 327, Dakshina Kannada 271, Udupi 241, Dharwad 239, Vijapura 232 followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 87,680 infections followed by Ballari 13,807 and Mysuru 9,915. Among those discharged too, Bengaluru urban topped the list with a total of 51,426 followed by Ballari 7,504 and Kalaburagi 6,369. A total of 19,93,760 samples were tested so far out of which 54,806 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples during the day, 25,731 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biggest-daily-spike-of-8818-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-873787.html
15-08-2020||West||Increase Covid-19 testing in rural areas: Maharashtra minister||With the coronavirus infection spreading to over 300 villages in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra, state minister Subhash Desai has instructed the authorities to increase testing in rural parts. The Industries Minister gave the instructions during a Covid-19 review meeting held in the district collector office here on Friday evening. Desai, who is also the district guardian minister, asked the officials to enhance contact tracing of patients. "At least 15 contacts of a positive patient should be traced. Besides, people should be tested before they enter villages," he said. The number of fever clinics in rural parts of the district should be increased, Desai said, adding, "Use antigen kits if required." "Patients in rural areas should be treated at the local level only so that the stress on Aurangabad city is reduced," the minister said. The number of coronavirus cases in Aurangabad district climbed to 18,259 after 292 persons tested positive on Friday, officials said. The death toll in the district went up to 576 after four patients succumbed to the infection, while 220 were discharged after recovery on Friday. The number of active cases in Aurangabad is now 4,209, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increase-covid-19-testing-in-rural-areas-maharashtra-minister-873519.html
15-08-2020||West||Independence Day: RSS chief hoists national flag in Nagpur||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hoisted the national flag at the Sangh headquarters in Mahal area of the city on Saturday as part of the 74th Independence Day celebrations. Some RSS volunteers were also present during the event, which took place amid tight security. The RSS has organised a programme on the occasion of the Independence Day at Dr Hedgewar Smarak Samiti in Reshimbagh area, where Nagpur Mahanagar Sahsanghchalak Shridhar Gadge will be the chief guest||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/independence-day-rss-chief-hoists-national-flag-in-nagpur-873551.html
15-08-2020||West||Aaditya Thackeray pledges support to 1,000 football coaches amid Covid-19||"@AUThackeray pledges to support coaches across India. He handed over the first box of supplies to AIFC Director @DineshNair74. AIFC extends our gratitude towards him on behalf of all the coaches," the Association of Indian Football Coaches said in a tweet. Aaditya is the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and also a Cabinet Minister in the state government. He is also an office bearer of the Western India Football Association (WIFA), which governs football activities in Maharastra. In response, Aaditya said, "Happy to my bit @DineshNair74 for our coaches across." AIFC Director Dinesh Nair said, “On behalf of all the coaches & AIFC, I would like to thank Aaditya Thackeray for his help & support. We will ensure that this reaches all the right people. With this help, we can now also reach out to other stakeholders of Indian Football.” The AIFC has also launced a campaign to support the coaches during the pandemic. Football activities in India have come to a grinding halt since mid March when the nation-wide lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-thackeray-pledges-support-to-1000-football-coaches-amid-covid-19-873567.html
15-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Earthquake of 3.1 magnitude recorded near Koyna dam||An earthquake of magnitude 3.1 with the epicentre near Koyna dam in Maharashtra's Satara district was recorded on Saturday morning, officials said. No loss of life or property was reported, they said. The earthquake was recorded at 10:22 am. Its epicentre was 13.60 kilometres from the Koyna dam, officials of Satara district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-earthquake-of-31-magnitude-recorded-near-koyna-dam-873596.html
15-08-2020||West||Centre for Biopharma Analysis now operational in Pune||The Centre for Biopharma Analysis (CBA) in Pune is now operational. The CBA will provide high-quality analytical services for biopharmaceutical developers and manufacturers. The CBA, supported by the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) of Department of Biotechnology (DBT)- Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) at Pune-based technology business incubator, Venture Centre was inaugurated virtually by Secretary, DBT, Dr Renu Swarup. This centre is envisioned to become a resource centre for structural and functional characterisation of biologicals and biopharmaceuticals that will create long lasting value for bioentrepreneurs and industry. Inaugurating the facility via video conference, Dr Swarup said that she expects that the CBA will play a pivotal role in supporting biopharma innovations from academic and government research labs, startups and many Indian companies with not only high-quality analytical characterization but also advise on studies needed for regulatory approvals. This can help speed up the development process. Prof AK Nangia, Director, CSIR-NCL highlighted how NCL is keen to contribute to the large molecule therapeutics revolution waiting to happen in India as it did for small molecule therapeutics in 1970-80s. Prasanta Biswal, CEO of International Biotech Park Limited, Pune said that IBPL is happy to have contributed CSR support for the CBA infrastructure development and looks forward to working closely with Venture Centre and BIRAC in positioning the Pune Knowledge Cluster for excellence in biopharma and medtech development and manufacturing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-for-biopharma-analysis-now-operational-in-pune-873620.html
15-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt made 29.50 lakh farmers debt-free: CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has made around 29.50 lakh farmers in the state debt-free by depositing Rs 18,980 crore into their bank accounts, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Thackeray was speaking after hoisting the national flag at Mantralaya (state secretariat) in south Mumbai on the occasion of 74th Independence Day. He also said that the government will focus on farmers and working class as it tries to transform Maharashtra into a welfare state. Stating that the government has started the process of unlocking the state "cautiously in a staggered manner", Thackeray also noted that Maharashtra has increased Covid-19 tests on a "big scale". "Around 29.50 lakh farmers have been made debt-free by depositing Rs 18,980 crore into their bank accounts under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karjmukti Yojana," he said in his speech. He said the government also procured 418.8 quintal cotton, highest in the last 10 years. The chief minister observed that schools could not be reopened in the state due to the Covid-19 threat, but the government took steps to see education is being imparted to students through Google Classroom initiative. "Maharashtra has become the first state to take such a step in the country," he added. Thackeray said that around 66,300 industrial units have resumed operations after the government set in motion the process of unlocking. He said more than 16 lakh workers have returned to their workplaces. "The government has signed MoUs worth around Rs 16,000 crore with investors from 12 countries and more agreements worth Rs 8,000 crore will be inked," Thackeray said. "The government also launched 'MahaJobs' portal to ensure that locals, Marathi people get employment," he added. Thackeray said the government will lay stress on providing proper healthcare facilities in both the urban and remote areas in the state. The chief minister hailed Covid-19 warriors, such as doctors, nurses, policemen and others for and also extolled cops who have been announced the Presidents Medal and bravery awards. He thanked the people of the state for observing restraint during festivals of all religions which fell during the lockdown period, imposed since March this year to contain the spread of Covid-19. Thackeray said the work on Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg, that will connect Mumbai to Nagpur in Vidarbha, has been fast-tracked, and added that townships will be set up at 24 places along the expressway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-made-2950-lakh-farmers-debt-free-cm-uddhav-thackeray-873623.html
15-08-2020||West||Quit India-like campaign needed against Covid-19: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday called for a mass awareness campaign on the lines of the 'Quit India Movement' against the British in order to drive out coronavirus from the state and the country. Speaking at the Independence Day function at Swarnim Park in Gandhinagar, he said that while the pandemic had slowed down the pace of development in the state, his government was committed to making up for it. "To achieve independence and drive out the British, the entire country resonated with the slogan of Quit India. As a result, the British left the country and we got freedom. Likewise, let's start a mass awareness campaign to free the country and Gujarat of coronavirus," he said. Rupani also spoke about the initiatives taken by his government to help people tide over the current crisis. "It is our strength that despite earthquakes, flood, cyclone, Gujarat and its people have changed crises into opportunities. Our development arc has slowed, but we are committed to making it up," he said. The state government has managed to bring down the Covid-19 death rate to 2.1 per cent and increase the recovery rate to 78 per cent, he said. Due to its effort to deal with the pandemic, the state government has received positive feedback from the Supreme Court, World Health Organization and Niti Aayog, he said. The state government has announced a Rs 14,000 crore Aatmanirbhar package for small businesses, farmers, fishermen, among others to revive the economy, he said. The state government had offered Rs 1,370 crore as assistance to MSMEs affected by the pandemic, he added. Chief Minister's wife Anjali Rupani and senior bureaucrats were present at the event in the state capital. Due to the pandemic, the function was held in the capital for the first time in 15 years instead of the headquarters of some other district in the state, the tradition started by former Chief Minister Narendra Modi. Rupani also felicitated "corona warriors," including senior doctors of the state coronavirus taskforce health workers from different parts of the state for their contribution to the fight against the pandemic. At least 1.5 lakh youngsters in the state had benefited from the Mukhya Mantri Apprenticeship Scheme, he said. Apart from this, land rights have been transferred to 51,400 tribals under Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) PESA Act. Listing some of the achievements of his government, the Chief Minister said that water reservoir capacity has increased under Sujalam Sufalam Yojana, while uninterrupted power and quality electricity has been provided to farmers. Rupani also spoke about the recently-launched Mukhya Mantri Kisan Sahay Yojana and various steps taken to help the farmers in the state. Moreover, the state government had set up new medical and engineering colleges, some of them in tribal areas, to cater to the needs of the regions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/quit-india-like-campaign-needed-against-covid-19-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-873627.html
15-08-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Patil tests positive for coronavirus||Maharashtra Cooperation Minister Balasaheb Patil has tested positive for coronavirus infection and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Karad. According to a statement issued by Patil's office, the NCP leader tested positive for the infection on Friday night and has been admitted to Krushna Hospital in Karad. The minister is "stable, is being treated properly and there is nothing to worry", the statement quoted Patil's son as saying. Patil, who is also the guardian minister of Satara, has urged people who had come in contact with him recently to get themselves tested and remain in isolation for at least a week, the statement said. Earlier, Maharashtra ministers Ashok Chavan and Aslam Shaikh of the Congress, Jitendra Awhad, Dhananjay Munde and Sanjay Bansode of the NCP and Abdul Sattar of the Shiv Sena had tested positive for the disease and recovered from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-balasaheb-patil-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-873643.html
15-08-2020||West||Made-in-home plane makes successful flights||An aircraft made on the terrace by a Mumbai-based pilot Captain Amol Yadav has made successful flights. Yadav (45), who had been working on the plane for two decades, made the announcement on Independence Day. He was a deputy chief pilot of Jet Airways. In February 2016, during the Make in India summit, he first displayed the aircraft. Thereafter, he had secured the necessary permissions from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to fly the airplane. "We have carried out the necessary tests which have been successful," said Capt Yadav about the tests conducted in Dhule. "Various tests were conducted like whether it can move in a straight line, slow speed taxi, high-speed taxi, whether it can turn,  whether the braking system is okay or not and above all whether it can take off,  land and fly....we have passed in all these aspects," he said. He said that in the second phase, the plane will make circuits and fly between two airports. "It has been a long journey...we have the necessary permissions and insurance but finance is a bit of an issue," he said. He has appealed to the Centre and state government for necessary help. The six-seater aircraft has been made in his Charkop residence and terrace which is attached to his three-BHK flat and is spread over 1,600 sq ft. Yadav was inspired to try his hand at assembling planes after he saw flying enthusiasts in the US purchasing phased-out planes and turning them into customised six or 12-seater flying machines. The prototype can reach heights of up to 13,000 feet at 1,500 feet per hour. It can cover a distance of 2,000 kilometres at a top speed of 185 nautical miles per hour. It is built to carry a weight of 1,450 kg and could seat five to six people. In the past, he had briefed about his plane to several dignitaries including President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi,  Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/made-in-home-plane-makes-successful-flights-873689.html
15-08-2020||West||Heavy rains leave low-lying areas marooned in Surat, Vadodara||Heavy rains lashed parts of south and central Gujarat districts on Saturday, leaving many low-lying areas water-logged, especially in Surat and Vadodara, and necessitating emergency evacuation of hundreds of people, officials said. In a rain-related incident, two people are feared drowned in Devbhumi Dwarka district while trying to cross a swollen river while another person was rescued by villagers. In Surat city, water of Mithi Khadi creek gushed in several low-lying areas, after inflow of water increased in Ukai dam, officials said, adding that many roads went underwater. In Surat district, more than 1,500 people were shifted to safer places, including over 1,100 in Udhna area of the city, said local disaster management officials. The water level of the Tapi river rose after water was released at the rate of about 70,000 cusecs in the Ukai dam, they said. "Monsoon remained vigorous over Gujarat region as well as Saurashtra-Kutch, with the cyclonic circulation over Kutch and adjoining south Pakistan shifting towards south Gujarat region," the met department said. Surat municipal commissioner BN Pani said residents were shifted from low-lying areas as continuous rains since the last three days caused flooding. "Local administration has made arrangements for the food and stay of the affected people. We have deployed boats to shift people to safer places. Premises of nearby schools and other institutions have been opened for the purpose, and food packets are being arranged," Pani said. In Vadodara too water gushed in in slum areas, necessitating evacuation of residents, officials said. Residents of areas located by Sama-Savli road were forced to park their vehicles on flyovers, as the water level went up. The water level of the Vishwamitri river, which flows through Vadodara, rose due to the release of water from the Ajwa reservoir. The river is currently flowing at the level of 23 feet, close to the danger mark of 26 feet, officials said. Officials said 305 people from slums located in Karelibaug and Subhash Nagar areas in Vadodara and parts of the district were shifted to safer areas. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said he was keeping a close watch on the situation in view of the alert of heavy rainfall in south Gujarat. "Rain has abated since last afternoon, and (Mithi) Khadi creek water is receding. But in view of heavy rainfall alert in south Gujarat, we are constantly on the watch. As many as 70,000 cusec water is being released in Ukai dam (near Surat). "In Vadodara, water from Ajwa lake is also being released. We are in touch with the officers and ministers," the chief minister told reporters. He said preparations were being made to ensure that people do not face much trouble in the event of heavy rains as predicted, he said. Kaprada taluka in Valsad district in south Gujarat received 161 mm rainfall in ten hours till 4 pm on Saturday, which is the maximum in the state. Waghai in Dang received 98 mm rainfall during this period, as per the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). Parts of Vadodara, Surat, Bharuch and Tapi also received heavy rainfall. A total of 306 roads, including a national highway in Anand district, remained closed due to flooding, SEOC officials said. Due to heavy rains, many rivers are in spate. Gujarat has so far received 74.56 per cent of the average rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-leave-low-lying-areas-marooned-in-surat-vadodara-873706.html
15-08-2020||West||Sharad Pawar's censure of nephew Parth is 'family matter': Devendra Fadnavis||NCP chief Sharad Pawar rebuking his grandnephew Parth publicly was a family matter and the BJP was not "remotely associated" with the issue, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday. The BJP leader also expressed concern about the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra, which, he said, had become a "Covid-19 capital". Sharad Pawar had said on Wednesday that he attached "absolutely no importance" to Parth's demand for a CBI probe into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide. The NCP chief also termed Parth, son of his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,as "immature", setting off speculation about a rift in the family. The Maharashtra government, of which NCP is a part, has maintained that Mumbai Police are capable of probing the actor's death. "Parth Pawar issue is a family matter of the Pawars. We don't want to get into that issue. We are not even remotely associated with it," Fadnavis told reporters here. "It is a matter within their family, and they should try to resolve it within the family," he added. The BJP leader pointed out that Maharashtra has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country and accounts for 40-41 per cent of the total deaths. "Unfortunately, Maharashtra has become a Covid-19 capital....The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is grim," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawars-censure-of-nephew-parth-is-family-matter-devendra-fadnavis-873710.html
15-08-2020||West||Magnitude 3.5 earthquake in Gujarat's Saurashtra region||An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 was recorded in Gujarat's Saurashtra region on Saturday evening with its epicenter near Lalpur in Jamnagar district, officials said. The tremors struck at 5.07 pm with the epicenter 29 km East-North East from Lalpur and depth of 4.3 km, the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. Before that, two lesser-intensity quakes of 2.8 and 1.7 magnitude were recorded at 2.28 pm and 5.04 pm, respectively, with epicenters near Lalpur, it said. Another 1.7 magnitude quake was felt near Upleta in Rajkot district at 5.10 pm, the ISR said. No damage to property or casualty was reported, local officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/magnitude-35-earthquake-in-gujarats-saurashtra-region-873760.html
