16-08-2020||Kalaburagi||Flights fail to land at Kalaburagi Airport due to bad weather||An Alliance Air flight that was to supposed land at Kalaburagi Airport on Sunday has instead landed at Hyderabad airport due to bad weather conditions and light showers. A 50-seater Star Air which arrived from Bengaluru made a futile bid to land at Kalaburagi but returned to Bengaluru. "Kalaburagi Airport Director Gnaneshwar Rao said a 72-seater Alliance Air which took off from Kempe Gowda International Airport in the morning couldn't land at Kalaburagi Airport due to bad weather conditions and drizzling. The flight made some rounds in the sky as it failed to get an ATC signal and finally proceeded to Hyderabad. There is no problem with the flight to land at Hyderabad," he told. This is for the first time after commissioning Kalaburagi Airport eight months ago that the two flights could not land at Kalaburagi Airport due to bad weather conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/flights-fail-to-land-at-kalaburagi-airport-due-to-bad-weather-873969.html
16-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 4 fishermen killed as boat capsizes||Four fishermen were killed after a large wave capsized their boat in the estuary of Koderi jetty near Gangolli. The deceased are Manjunath Kharvi, Laxman Kharvi, Shekar Kharvi and Nagaraj Kharvi. The incident occurred when they were returning in their traditional fishing boat. There were nine fishermen on 'Sagarasri', which has been completely damaged. Five were rescued and admitted to hospital. Coastal Security Police personnel carried out a search operation and retrieved the four bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-4-fishermen-killed-as-boat-capsizes-874110.html
16-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Sensing opportunity, BJP eyes Dalit vote base after Bengaluru riots||The BJP is aggressively pursuing the Dalit narrative in the wake of the Bengaluru riots, in what is seen as an attempt to further consolidate its Scheduled Caste vote base. Ever since the incident, BJP leaders have attacked the Congress by raking up the electoral defeats of Congress leaders like Mallikarjun Kharge and G Parameshwara — both Dalits — and have trained their guns on Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah to further weaken his influence on the Ahinda vote.  The BJP is also keeping an eye on the upcoming BBMP elections, say political analysts. Congress' Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, a Dalit, was targeted in the riots, and the BJP is going to town, saying that it was a Dalit MLA who came under attack.  BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh tweeted with the  'CongressAgainstDalits' hashtag, alleging that the Congress "will not condemn riots. Will not condemn attack on its own Dalit MLA house. Will not condemn the desecration of the Adi Shankaracharya statue in Sringeri".  "There is no doubt that the BBMP elections could also have been a factor (for the riot). Along with factors such as that it was premeditated, a large number of people assembled in a short span of time," analyst Sandeep Shastri said. "The saddest thing is that each party is trying to reap political dividend out of something that they should have tried to curb. Our efforts should be to establish communal peace in the area," he said.  Muzaffar Assadi, professor of political science, University of Mysore, said parties were quick to convert the incident into a political issue. "It is clear that after the incident, the Congress will lose some of its base in the constituency," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sensing-opportunity-bjp-eyes-dalit-vote-base-after-bengaluru-riots-873841.html
16-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP fact-finding team blames Congress for Bengaluru riots||Former minister Aravind Limbavali, who is a member of the BJP’s fact-finding committee looking into the Pulakeshinagar riots, squarely blamed the Congress for the violence after visiting the riot-hit areas on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Limbavali charged that the Congress, along with SDPI, was behind the incident. “We will gather more details. However, at the outset, this mainly seems like the handiwork of Congress supported by SDPI. I am willing to stand as a witness in this case. We saw how badly MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house was damaged by the mob. What would have been the plight if the legislator was at home when this incident occurred?” Limbavali remarked, adding that the delegation would send a report to the Centre and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the incident. Going by their initial enquiry of people in the locality, the incident seemed premeditated, he said. “This was an organised attack on the MLA and his supporters. The culprits made it difficult for the police and the fire brigade to reach the venue. This does not seem like an accidental flare up of events. If there were 8,000-10,000 people gathered at the venue, allegedly agitated by a Facebook post, one cannot but wonder if it was planned. One has to find out whether this is the inner politics of Congress or the party’s atrocities against Dalits,” Limbavali said. Bangalore Central MP P C Mohan, who was also part of the delegation, assured that action would be taken against the culprits. “On one hand, the mob was attacking the MLA’s house and on the other, the same people had formed a chain around a temple for its protection. This tells us that the whole thing was planned earlier,” he said. Earlier in the week, a fact-finding team of the Congress pointed fingers at “police inaction and intelligence failure” for the violence. ‘Why delegation?’ Meanwhile, former Congress minister Priyank Kharge sought clarity from the state government as to why a separate delegation of BJP leaders was sent to the riot-hit areas. “Does the BJP not trust its own government and the Home department? Or does the party want to include its stance on the incident along with the police report? Is this a ploy by the leadership to make B S Yediyurappa uncomfortable?” Kharge tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-fact-finding-team-blames-congress-for-bengaluru-riots-874089.html
16-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 16||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 25 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 26,44,307 as of August 16 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):      50,954   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 18,62,258  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-16-873859.html
16-08-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Into that heaven of freedom, let my country awaken'||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying democracy was going through a test under his rule. “Friends, we have tested our democratic values from time to time in the last 74 years of independence and have continuously matured them. Today it seems that the government is standing contrary to democratic system, constitutional values and established traditions. It is also a test for Indian democracy,” Gandhi said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-into-that-heaven-of-freedom-let-my-country-awaken-873862.html
16-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his wishes to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on his birthday. "Birthday wishes to Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life," Modi tweeted. The Aam Aadmi Party's national convenor turned 52 on Sunday. He thanked the Prime Minister for his warm wishes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-on-his-birthday-873889.html
16-08-2020||National||Sadaiv Atal: PM Modi, Prez, remember Vajpayee on his second death anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday. They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at 'Sadaiv Atal', the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital, in paying respects to him. Modi said India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards the nation’s progress. "Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation’s progress," Modi tweeted.   Vajpayee, the first BJP prime minister, had passed away on this day in 2018. A statesman and saffron stalwart, he was fondly remembered by other senior BJP leaders. Home Minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw "good governance" being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee. The Modi government is striving for the welfare of the poor and good governance by keeping his ideas at the centre of its work, Shah added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Vajpayee's tremendous contribution towards pubic life and India’s development will always be cherished, and his vision for the country will continue to inspire coming generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadaiv-atal-pm-modi-prez-remember-vajpayee-on-his-second-death-anniversary-873890.html
16-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Over 63,000 fresh cases, India's virus tally climbs to 25,89,682||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 25,89,682 with a single-day spike of 63,490 infections, while the total number of recoveries rose to 18,62,258  pushing the recovery rate to 71.91 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.     The death toll due to coronavirus infection climbed to 49,980 with 944 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new cases of the infection.   The case fatality rate has declined to 1.93 per cent. There are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which comprise 26.16 per cent of the total caseload in the country.  India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15 with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday.  Of the 944 fresh deaths reported, 322 are from Maharashtra, 127 from Tamil Nadu, 114 from Karnataka, 87 from Andhra Pradesh, 58 each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, 40 from Punjab, 19 from Gujarat, 16 from Rajasthan, 13 from Madhya Pradesh, 10 each from Delhi and Haryana. Nine fatalities have been reported from Odisha and Telangana, eight from Bihar, seven each from Assam, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala, five each from Goa and Tripura, four each from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand while Ladakh has registered one fatality. Of the total 49,980 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 19,749, followed by 5,641 in Tamil Nadu, 4,188 in Delhi, 3,831 in Karnataka, 2,765 in Gujarat, 2,562 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,393 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,377 in West Bengal and 1,094 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 862 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 771 in Punjab, 693 in Telangana, 528 in Haryana, 527 in Jammu and Kashmir, 450 in Bihar, 333 in Odisha, 228 in Jharkhand, 182 in Assam, 151 in Uttarakhand and 146 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 134 deaths, Puducherry 106, Goa 98, Tripura 55, Chandigarh 28, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 24, Himachal Pradesh 19, Manipur 13, Ladakh 10, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-63000-fresh-cases-indias-virus-tally-climbs-to-2589682-873899.html
16-08-2020||National||India must pay homage to Covid-19 warriors on its 74th Independence Day: Muraleedharan||As India celebrates its 74th Independence Day, the country must pay its regards to the multitude of Covid-19 warriors and frontlines workers who have been working tirelessly to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, Union Minister V Muraleedharan said on Sunday. The Minister of State for External Affairs & Parliamentary Affairs was the chief guest at a 'Virtual Kavi Sammelan' organised by Jaipur Foot USA to celebrate India's Independence Day. "Unfortunately, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible to celebrate our Independence Day in public with colour and festivity this year as we usually do. However, the pandemic has not dampened our spirits and it is heartening to see that Indian missions and posts, community organisations and diaspora have made elaborate arrangements to celebrate this day with usual fervour in online mode," he said. He said that while celebrating the occassion amidst the coronavirus pandemic, "we must pay our regards and respects to those Covid warriors who are the frontline workers in resisting the spread of Covid". Muraleedharan said at the virtual event that the pandemic had come as a major challenge not only to India but to the entire world. Republican candidate for Rhode Island's 2nd Congressional District Robert Lancia, addressing the event, said the "oldest democracy in the world, the United States and the largest democracy in the world, India, need to be working together closer than ever.” "But the challenge of China, and the battles on the border that India has been having, so we need to really begin to partner up,” he said. Describing Indians as a "model" for every family and lauding them for their entrepreneurial abilities, Lancia said that "we want you folks in this country and one of the things I'm promoting when I get elected is going to be to try to change the immigration laws that would favour high skilled workers over quotas by country. He added that there was need to change immigrations rules under which Indians currently have to wait for decades before they even have a chance at a Green Card. "We need to change that," Lancia said. Chairperson of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs P P Chaudhary also addressed the event, which featured poets Kavi Madan Mohan Samar, Abhinav Shukla and performance by Rishab Rikhiram Sharma, who performed at the Howdy Modi event in Houston last year. Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari said India's Independence Day celebration this year was "very special" as it came just days after the August 5 'Bhoomi Pujan' ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, teming it "a dream come true" for Hindus around the world. Amidst the pandemic, the Independence Day was celebrated keeping in mind social distancing norms across the US. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti hoisted the tricolor at the Permanent Mission of India. "Indeed a proud moment for me to unfurl the Indian flag in the premises of our Permanent Mission in New York on our Independence Day, along with our team. Jai Hind!" Tirumurti tweeted. Consul General Randhir Jaiswal hoisted the Indian flag at the Indian Consulate. The iconic Empire State Building in the city was lit up in the hues of the tricolor, a celebration organised by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) of the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Muraleedharan also paid tributes to the sacrifices of the Indian Armed forces, saying the Indian soldiers "do not hesitate to sacrifice their lives while safeguarding our freedom and protecting the dignity and sovereignty of our country. He added that India's Independence Day this year was "special" as it came just 10 days after the foundation stone of the majestic Ram Temple was laid in Ayodhya. "The whole world watched the memorable moment that people have been longing for over five centuries. The whole country was ecstatic to witness the foundation stone laying by Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said. "India's 74 years long journey in post-independence has been a story of exceptional commitment to its people. In its journey, India has been guided by its ancient wisdom, its civilizational heritage and the vision of our founding fathers," he said. Today, India is a successful democracy with strong institutions and the country's economy is among the largest in the world, he said, adding that "nevertheless, we are constantly striving to make our country even better, and to ensure peace and prosperity to our peoples." Muraleedharan noted that the Jaipur Foot and Jaipur Foot USA organisation have been providing artificial limbs at zero to nominal cost to those in need, including children affected by armed conflicts. The Ministry of External Affairs had launched the 'India for Humanity' campaign with a view to help India's development partner countries, mainly in Africa. "These special camps, which were launched to commemorate 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, have been a huge success and are bringing hope and smiles to millions of faces across the globe," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-pay-homage-to-covid-19-warriors-on-its-74th-independence-day-muraleedharan-873905.html
16-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's condition unchanged, vitals stable||The condition of former president Pranab Mukherjee remained unchanged on Sunday and he continued to be on ventilator support. "There is no change in the condition of Pranab Mukherjee. His vital & clinical parameters are stable & he continues to be on ventilator support. He has multiple old co-morbidities; his health condition is being closely monitored by specialists," the Army Hospital statement said. However, Pranab Mukherjee's son, Abhijit Mukherjee said that his father was responding to treatment "He is much better & stable than the preceding days. All his vital parameters are stable & he is responding to treatment. We firmly believe that he will be back among us soon," he Tweeted. Yesterday , I had visited my Father In Hospital . With God's grace & all your good wishes , He is much better & stable than D preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable & he is responding to treatment ! We firmly believe that He will be back among us soonThank You🙏 Mukherjee underwent life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 and has been on ventilator support since. He has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-condition-unchanged-vitals-stable-873909.html
16-08-2020||National||Railway doctors demand their salary benefits be restrored||Indian Railways Health Service Association (IRHSA) has demanded the Centre to restore its conveyance allowances and other benefits, which has been reduced arbitrarily. The Association in its letter to the Union Finance Secretary said that while the entire cadre of Central Government Doctors (CHS) including the IRHS, were working tirelessly & risking their lives to treat patients during the pandemic, reduction of their conveyance allowance and other benefits was disheartening. The Dearness Allowance (DA) indexed Conveyance Allowance for doctors is based on a number of emergent domiciliary visits, emergency and recurrent hospital visits out of duty hours and on-duty official movements in and out of duty hours within the jurisdiction by their own vehicle. While other department employees get fixed Conveyance Allowance based on the distance covered on duty including out of jurisdiction by own vehicle. However, the Finance Ministry has mixed up the two different entities of Conveyance Allowance to doctors and other department employees. As a result of which, Conveyance Allowance for doctors has been reduced to less than 50% of the last drawn amount of  Rs 7425. "It is unfortunate that central government doctors, who are working hard, the so-called corona worriers and front runners in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, face significant salary deduction to the extent of 15,000/- (@ level 10) to 30000/-  (@ level 14)," said the memorandum the copy of which also sent to the Prime Minister Office, Finance Minister, and the Railway Board. While requesting the government to restore all benefits,  the Association also demanded to increase Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) to 40%. The Association also pointed out that their non-practicing allowance was reduced to 20% from the pre-existing 25%. As NPA is also a part of basic salary it has impacted the pensions of doctors to a great extent. The association also made a plea to the government to compensate doctors for loss of their salary due to the feezing of DA at  3% each in January and July as they were working during the entire lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-doctors-demand-their-salary-benefits-be-restrored-873915.html
16-08-2020||National||Ban on coroporate funding of elections need of the hour, says S M Krishna||Veteran politician and former External Affairs Minister S M Krishna has called for a "complete and total" ban on corporate funding of polls, saying there is a need to end political corruption and cleanse the electoral system in the country. The root of administrative corruption lies in political corruption, and the root of political corruption lies in electoral corruption, said Krishna, who has seen electoral politics from close quarters for over five decades. "We first need to cleanse the electoral system. The process is going on here and there. There have been some reforms which are just in the initial stages", the former Karnataka Chief Minister told PTI. "But I am happy that there is no political corruption at the top in the Centre. There is not a single allegation of corruption or nepotism. The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) himself is absolutely and impeccably clean and honest. This is a very big positive development", he said. "Slowly, things will fall in its place. A situation will arise where people will choose candidates on the basis of the performance of the party in the government and in the opposition", the former Maharashtra Governor said. Krishna, who joined BJP over three years ago after more than 45 years' association with the Congress, said electoral reforms need to pick up pace and we must think of bringing in public funding of elections and a complete and total ban on private funding, which means funding from corporate companies. "It is a long way to go, but I am confident that we will have clean politics. If we have to see the emergence of clean politics, electoral reforms are a must. Unless money power is eradicated, there cannot be clean politics. My emphasis is for the eradication of money power, which is the first step we have to take", he said. Secondly, appealing for votes on communal and caste basis during elections must become a penal offence, the 88-year-old leader added. Asked if he thought there should be a retirement age for politicians, Krishna said politics is not a government job to fix retirement age. With age comes maturity, knowledge and experience, the BJP leader said, adding, Morarji Desai became Prime Minister at the age of 81, and he did a fantastic job. "Suppose, hypothetically speaking, if he (Desai) had retired at the age of 60 of 65, then the country would have been deprived of such a sagacious leadership", Krishna said. Atal Behari Vajpayee became Prime Minister at the age of 74, and he did a fantastic job. L K Advani became Home Minister at the age of 71 and he did a wonderful job, he said. "But at the same time, it is also essential...that the youngsters must be given opportunity". There should be a blend of age and youth; maturity and initial starters. Elders should not be totally discarded, but their knowledge and experience must be utilised to groom the younger generation, Krishna said. "It is like what we say in Kannada; 'Old Roots and New Leaves", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-coroporate-funding-of-elections-need-of-the-hour-says-s-m-krishna-873933.html
16-08-2020||National||Defence minister Rajnath Singh approves proposal to expand NCC in 173 border, coastal districts||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved the proposal to expand the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in 173 border and coastal districts from where one lakh new cadets will be inducted, an official statement said on Sunday. The expansion of the NCC was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech on Saturday. He said the NCC will be expanded in border and coastal districts so that these areas "get trained manpower for disaster management, and the youth will also get skill training for making their career in the armed forces". The defence ministry's statement said Singh has approved the NCC proposal "for a major expansion scheme". "More than 1,000 schools and colleges have been identified in border and coastal districts where NCC will be introduced," it said. A total of one lakh cadets from 173 border and coastal districts will be inducted into the NCC, it said, adding that one-third of them will be girls. "As part of the expansion plan, a total of 83 NCC units will be upgraded (Army 53, Navy 20, Air Force 10) to impart NCC training to the cadets in the border and coastal areas," the ministry noted. The Army will provide training and administrative support to NCC units located in border areas, it said. The Navy will provide support to NCC units in coastal areas and the Air Force will provide support to those located close to its stations, it added. The NCC is a youth development movement managed by the armed forces. It also provides exposure to cadets in a wide range of activities, with a distinct emphasis on social services, discipline and adventure training. It is open to all regular students of schools and colleges on a voluntary basis. The NCC expansion plan will be implemented in partnership with state governments, the ministry said. Addressing the country from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi had said, "About 173 districts in our border areas, our coastal areas share their boundaries with some or the other nation's border or coastline. In the coming days, NCC would be extended in those border districts for the youth there." "We will train around one lakh new NCC cadets from bordering areas, and we will work towards the idea that amongst those, one-third of them are our daughters," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-approves-proposal-to-expand-ncc-in-173-border-coastal-districts-873935.html
16-08-2020||National||Darknet misuse for drug crimes discussed at BRICS meet: MHA||India discussed "misuse" of the darknet and modern technology for drug trafficking during a recent webinar conference of BRICS nations, a government statement said on Sunday. The anti-narcotics agencies of this multi-nation grouping also discussed steps to curb increased instances of drug trafficking through the maritime route, it said. The 4th session of the BRICS anti-drug working group, under the chairmanship of Russia, was held on August 12 and the Indian side was represented by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Director-General Rakesh Asthana. The BRICS comprises Brazil, Russia, China, South Africa and India. "Fruitful exchange of opinions concerning the drug situation in the BRICS states, the international and regional trends of illegal trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors, as well as the impact of various internal and external factors on the situation took place during the summit," a statement issued by the Union Home Ministry said. "The common points emerged during the discussions include the need for real-time information sharing among the member states and need to curb increased drug trafficking through maritime routes," it said. It added that the "misuse of darknet and other advanced technologies for drug trafficking was one of the key focal areas of the meeting." Darknet refers to the deep hidden internet platform that is used for narcotics sale, exchange of pornographic content and other illegal activities by using the secret alleys of the onion router (ToR) to stay away from the surveillance of law enforcement agencies. The NCB had busted a first-ever such case after it apprehended a narcotics vendor based in Uttar Pradesh in February who allegedly used the darknet to ship hundreds of psychotropic drug parcels abroad in the garb of sex stimulation medicines. The member nations adopted a communiqué that covered all the points discussed in the meeting, the statement said. "The growing economic might of BRICS countries, their significance as one of the main driving forces of global economic development, their substantial population and abundant natural resources form the foundation of their influence on the international scene and are the driving forces behind the grouping," it said. "Among other areas of collaboration, matters pertaining to drug trafficking is an important area of cooperation among the BRICS member states," it added. The Indian side at the conference included NCB Deputy Director General (operations) B Radhika, NCB Deputy Director (operations) KPS Malhotra, First Secretary (trade) in the Indian Embassy at Moscow Vrindaba Gohil and undersecretary (multilateral economic relations) in the Ministry of External Affairs Vaibhav Tandale, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/darknet-misuse-for-drug-crimes-discussed-at-brics-meet-mha-873937.html
16-08-2020||National||India's stature grew under his leadership: President Kovind on Atal Bihari Vajpayee||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated a portrait of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday at the Indian Council for Cultural Relations here and described him as a "widely accepted" leader. Speaking at the virtual inauguration, Kovind underlined that India's stature grew under the leadership of Vajpayee. He was a strong advocate of peace and always worked for better relations with neighbouring nations. He handled all difficult situations with calmness, the president said. With his conduct, Vajpayee taught all political parties and people active in public life that the national interest is always paramount. Therefore he was a "widely accepted" leader who had admirers across the political spectrum, Kovind said. Noting that the whole world is in peril due to Covid-19, he exuded confidence that after recovering from this pandemic "we will move rapidly on the path of progress and prosperity and will be successful in realising Atalji's dream of making the 21st century India's century", according to an official statement. Vajpayee served as the ex-officio president of the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) from March 1977 to August 1979 when he was the Union foreign minister. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, and BJP Rajya Sabha MP and incumbent ICCR president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe also took part in the inauguration of Vajpayee's portrait. Earlier this morning, Kovind visited Vajpayee's memorial Sadaiv Atal to pay homage to him, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-stature-grew-under-his-leadership-president-kovind-on-atal-bihari-vajpayee-873941.html
16-08-2020||National||Fill up vacancies in NGT expeditiously: Supreme Court to selection panel||The Supreme Court has asked for speeding up the process of filling up vacancies in the National Green Tribunal to address the "piquant situation" created due to reduced working strength of the green panel. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna requested the Selection Committee to expedite the processes so that the appointment letters are issued in time. "We hope and trust that the selection process for judicial members is also speeded up because the mandate of law is that the strength of judicial members and expert members should ordinarily be equivalent. "In other words, merely expediting the selection process for expert members alone may result in mis-match in the ratio between the two sources (judicial member and expert member)," the bench said. The apex court was informed that as on July 23, 2020, there were seven vacant posts of judicial members and six vacant posts of expert members in the National Green Tribunal. "In addition, it is reported that one expert member had tendered resignation on July 17, 2020 and one expert member superannuated on July 30 but is continuing in office in terms of the order,” the apex court noted. The top court was told that the government had already published advertisement for filling up nine vacancies for judicial members vide notification dated July 31, 2020 and the process of filling up of six vacant posts of expert members is at an advance stage. "In that case, we request the Selection Committee to expedite the processes...to meet the piquant situation created due to reduced working strength of the NGT, only to seven members. This is opposed to the mandate of law to ensure that the minimum strength of the Tribunal at any given point of time shall not be less than 10 members,” the court said. The matter is listed for next hearing in the third week of September. The apex court had earlier termed as "appalling" the vacancy situation in the National Green Tribunal and directed the government to notify all the existing vacancies at one go in the next six months.  The top court was hearing a plea filed by the NGT Bar Association (western zone) regarding vacancies in the NGT and seeking expeditious appointments. Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel is the current Chairperson of NGT. India's top environmental watchdog NGT was established on October 18, 2010 under the National Green Tribunal Act 2010 for effective and expeditious disposal of cases relating to environmental protection and conservation of forests and other natural resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fill-up-vacancies-in-ngt-expeditiously-supreme-court-to-selection-panel-873946.html
16-08-2020||National||India sends team to Mauritius to assist in oil spill||India on Sunday rushed to help Mauritius to contain an oil spill off the south-eastern coast of the Indian Ocean nation. An Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft flew to Port Louis on Sunday with nearly 30 tonnes of technical equipment and materials on board to help the Mauritian Government contain the oil spill, which posed a serious threat to two protected marine ecosystems and the Blue Bay Marine Park reserve in the island nation. New Delhi also sent a 10-member Indian Coast Guard (ICG) team specialising in containing oil spills to extend necessary technical and operational assistance to the Mauritian Government agencies, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs.   India sent to Mauritius specialized equipment, consisting of Ocean Booms, River Booms, Disc Skimmers, Heli Skimmers, Power packs, Blowers, Salvage barge and Oil absorbent Graphene pads and other accessories, specifically designed to contain the oil slick, skim oil from water, and assist in clean up and salvage operations, Anurag Srivastava, a spokesperson of the MEA, said. “India’s assistance (to Mauritius) is in line with its policy to extend humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to its neighbours in the Indian Ocean region, guided by the Prime Minister’s vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region),” said Srivastava. “The urgent assistance reflects the close bonds of friendship between India and Mauritius and India’s abiding commitment to assist the people of Mauritius in need”. "New Delhi’s assistance to Port Louis follows recent support provided by India to Mauritius in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of essential medicines, a special consignment of Ayurvedic medicines as well as a medical assistance team," said the MEA spokesperson. Mauritius Prime Minister Pravin Jugnauth declared a state of environmental emergency in his country in the wake of the oil spill.  The oil spill started after MV Wakashio, a ship owned by Nagashiki Shipping Company of Japan, rammed into a reef in the marine park off the South-East coast of Mauritius on July 25 while sailing from China to Brazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-team-to-mauritius-to-assist-in-oil-spill-873950.html
16-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 case fatality rate declines to 1.93%; recovery rate nears 72%||Continuing the downward trend, India's Covid-19 case fatality rate on Sunday dropped to 1.93 per cent, which is one of the lowest globally, the Union health ministry said. This is a result of coordinated efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments, it said. "The USA crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. India took 156 days to reach this national figure," the ministry underscored as the number of fatalities due to coronavirus infection in the country reached 49,980. Implementation of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently through a plethora of measures have contributed to the existing high level of recoveries as well, it said. The total number of recoveries in the country rose to 18,62,258 on Sunday, according to official data. Improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, supervised home isolation, use of non-invasive oxygen support, and improved services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have been the focus of the Centre and state and UT governments, the ministry said. It said "tireless efforts" of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) have ensured effective surveillance and tracking progress of the patients in supervised home isolation. Clinical management skills of doctors treating Covid-19 patients have been upgraded by active technical guidance through teleconsultation sessions by domain knowledge experts from AIIMS, New Delhi. "These measures have collectively ensured seamless and efficient patient management from home to hospital for critical and severe patients. This has ensured that India's case fatality rate (CFR) is maintained below the global average," the ministry said. From 3.33 per cent on June 18, the CFR has declined to 1.93 per cent, while India's recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has reached nearly 72 per cent. A total of 53,322 patients recuperated and were discharged in a span of 24 hours. "The steady rise in recoveries has ensured that the percentage caseload of the country is reducing," the ministry said highlighting there are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection which compose the actual caseload of the country and comprise 26.16 pc of the total cases as on date. They are under active medical supervision, it said. With efficient and aggressive testing, India is rapidly moving towards completing 3 crore Covid-19 tests, according to the ministry. A total of 2,93,09,703 samples had been tested for detection of Covid-19 till August 15, with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday alone, the ministry said. This has been made possible by a rapidly growing national network of diagnostic labs which comprises 969 labs in the government sector and 500 private labs, adding up to 1,469, it said. India's Covid-19 tally increased to 25,89,682 with a single-day spike of 63,490 infections, while the death toll climbed to 49,980 with 944 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the official data updated at 8 AM showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-declines-to-193-recovery-rate-nears-72-873951.html
16-08-2020||National||13 more succumb to Covid-19 in Rajasthan; State tally at 60,666||Thirteen more people died due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Sunday, taking the state's toll to 875, while 687 fresh cases pushed its tally to 60,666, a health department official said. Of the latest fatalities, three each were reported from Bikaner and Jaipur, two each from Ajmer, Bhilwara and Sikar, and one from Udaipur, the official said. Out of the total deaths in the state, Jaipur has reported 232, followed by 87 in Jodhpur, 65 in Bharatpur, 59 in Ajmer, 57 in Bikaner, 53 in Kota, 37 each in Nagaur and Pali, 23 in Alwar and 19 in Dholpur. Of the 687 fresh cases reported in the state, 66 were from Jaipur, 57 from Jodhpur, 49 from Bikaner, 48 from Kota, 47 from Ajmer, 40 from Barmer, 39 from Sikar and 38 from Udaipur. Bharatpur reported 31 fresh cases; Chittorgarh, Baran and Tonk 28 each; Alwar and Pali 27 each; Nagaur 24; Sawai Madhopur 21; Bhilwara and Jhunjhunu 20 each; Jhalawar 18; Bundi 15; Sri Ganganagar five; Karauli three; and Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Dungarpur and Jalore two each. A total of 14,265 Covid-19 patients are under treatment in the state, while 44,048 have been discharged after treatment, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan-state-tally-at-60666-873953.html
16-08-2020||National||Private train operators to have freedom in fixing fare||With the government is planning to allow private players to operate passenger trains by March 2023, the private operators will have flexibility in fixing train fare. Indian Railways has decided to give freedom to private firms to fix fare for their trains as per market dynamics. Though earlier the railways had planned to set up a regulatory authority to fix fare/ tariffs, now it has decided not to do so, said an official.  The Railways is in view that the regulatory body may kill the competition among private players to woo passengers with an attractive fare. The Railways, which held a second pre-bid meeting with interest players recently,  also clarified that the railways may not regulate the prices. However, the railways in the view that if private players made cartels in fixing fares, passengers can approach the Competition Commission of India, said an official in the Railways. Officials also said that if required in future the Railways can set up the regulatory mechanism. However, at present, the Railways don't have a plan to set to a regulatory authority. Since the Railways is the first time opening the doors to private players to operate passenger trains, imposing too much regulation would harm its growth. Moreover, where ever the private trains will run, Railways will also operate its own passenger trains. If private players fixed higher price, then the passengers will choose trains operated by Railways, said the official.   The Railways plan to allow private operators to run passenger trains received good responses as a total of 23 big corporate houses participated in the recently held pre-bid meetings and shown interest to take part in the project.  The Railways had earlier invited 12 Request for Qualification (RFQ) from private players to run passenger trains on 109 important routes in 12 clusters through the introduction of 151 modern rakes. The introduction of private trains in addition to existing trains to cater to the increasing demand with quality service. In 2019 total of 8.4 billion passengers travelled in trains while the number will be 30 billion by 2030. Keeping with demand, the Railways will continue to introduce new trains, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-train-operators-to-have-freedom-in-fixing-fare-873957.html
16-08-2020||National||Sanjay Raut mocks Centre with Russian Covid-19 vaccine example||Taking a dig at the Narendra Modi government over its push for self-reliance, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Russia gave the first lesson to the world on being 'Aatmanirbhar' by introducing a Covid-19 vaccine while India has just been preaching about it. Lauding Russia for the vaccine, Raut, in his weekly column 'Rokhtokh' in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', said this was a sign of being a superpower, and added that Indian politicians will not follow Russia's example as a model since "they are in love with America". Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday announced that his country has developed the world's first vaccine against Covid-19 that works "quite effectively" and forms a "stable immunity" against the deadly disease, as he disclosed that one of his daughters has already been vaccinated. "When there was a movement across the globe to prove the Russian vaccine as illegal, Putin used the vaccine as a trial on his daughter and created self-confidence in his own country," Raut said. "Russia gave the first lesson of being 'Aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant) to the world. We are just preaching about being 'Aatmanirbhar'," the executive editor of 'Saamana' said. Noting that Ram temple trust head Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has tested positive for coronavirus, Raut sought to know if Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who shook hands with Das during the temple's ground-breaking function in Ayodhya (on August 5), will quarantine himself. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who has tested positive of coronavirus, is in a critical condition and ministers and bureaucrats in the Modi government have also tested positive for the viral infection, he pointed out. "Delhi (the national capital) was never under such terror as it is now due to the coronavirus. There was fear of Modi and (Home Minister Amit) Shah earlier, but the fear of corona is more than that," he said. The Rajya Sabha member claimed Delhi has "come to a standstill" and that this is serious. "The official unemployment figure has been put at 14 crore. But those running the country have no work. Political workers have become lazy because there are no political agitations. Opposition parties have become cold," he said. There are no political meetings or functions in Delhi now. Even the Independence Day function preparations weren't there. "Like in Mumbai, there is a fear of coronavirus everywhere in Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanjay-raut-mocks-centre-with-russian-covid-19-vaccine-example-873978.html
16-08-2020||National||J&K Police takes cognizance of communally sensitive video, assures strict action||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday took cognizance of a communally sensitive video doing rounds on social media and assured strict legal action against the accused persons. The police, however, refrained from sharing details of the video. "An incident involving video of communally sensitive nature, has gone viral on social media which seems to have been maliciously posted to create communal tension," they said in a statement. Police said an investigation into the matter was underway. "People are requested not to fall prey to the agenda of anti-social elements. Sharing/posting of such content is a punishable offence," the police said, adding that "we assure strict legal action against such accused who have created or shared such content".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-police-takes-cognizance-of-communally-sensitive-video-assures-strict-action-873992.html
16-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Prohibitory orders in Bengaluru extended, India's Covid-19 case fatality rate drops to 1.93%||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Prohibitory orders in Bengaluru extended; India's Covid-19 case fatality rate drops to 1.93% and private Railways operators will have flexibility in fixing train fare.    Here are the top news of today, Sunday: August 16, 2020:   Prohibitory orders clamped in parts of the city after the violence last week led to police firing, killing three people, have been extended from Sunday to Tuesday. The order would be in force from the morning of August 16 to the morning of August 18. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, in his order, said there is a ban on more than two persons gathering at any place, carrying of any kinds of weapons and convening any public meetings. Violators would be prosecuted, he said. Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshi Nagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLAs residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by the rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister. About 200 people have been arrested so far in connection with the incident and many others have been detained. Continuing the downward trend, India's COVID-19 case fatality rate on Sunday dropped to 1.93 per cent, which is one of the lowest globally, the Union health ministry said. This is a result of coordinated efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments, it said. "The USA crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. India took 156 days to reach this national figure," the ministry underscored as the number of fatalities due to coronavirus infection in the country reached 49,980. Implementation of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently through a plethora of measures have contributed to the existing high level of recoveries as well, it said. The total number of recoveries in the country rose to 18,62,258 on Sunday, according to official data. Improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, supervised home isolation, use of non-invasive oxygen support, and improved services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have been the focus of the Centre and state and UT governments, the ministry said. It said "tireless efforts" of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) have ensured effective surveillance and tracking progress of the patients in supervised home isolation. Clinical management skills of doctors treating COVID-19 patients have been upgraded by active technical guidance through teleconsultation sessions by domain knowledge experts from AIIMS, New Delhi. "These measures have collectively ensured seamless and efficient patient management from home to hospital for critical and severe patients. This has ensured that India's case fatality rate (CFR) is maintained below the global average," the ministry said. From 3.33 per cent on June 18, the CFR has declined to 1.93 per cent, while India's recovery rate among COVID-19 patients has reached nearly 72 per cent. A total of 53,322 patients recuperated and were discharged in a span of 24 hours. "The steady rise in recoveries has ensured that the percentage caseload of the country is reducing," the ministry said highlighting there are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection which compose the actual caseload of the country and comprise 26.16 pc of the total cases as on date. They are under active medical supervision, it said. With efficient and aggressive testing, India is rapidly moving towards completing 3 crore COVID-19 tests, according to the ministry. A total of 2,93,09,703 samples had been tested for detection of COVID-19 till August 15, with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday alone, the ministry said.  A Biden administration would be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions, including helping it get a seat on a reformed UN Security Council, a top campaign official has said, asserting that New Delhi has to be a key American partner in engaging China from a position of strength. A Biden administration will also have no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia, according to former diplomat Tony Blinken, who is now a top foreign policy advisor to Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential candidate. Participating in a panel discussion on "US-India Relations and Indian Americans in Joe Biden Administration'", Blinken said on Saturday that the former vice president, if elected in the November elections, will help India get a seat at the UN Security Council and strengthen US' defence ties with India. "I think you'd see Joe Biden as president investing in ourselves, renewing our democracy, working with our close partners like India, asserting our values and engaging China from a position of strength. India has to be a key partner in that effort," Blinken said in response to a question from former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma. The top campaign official was asked that the world has witnessed increasing Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific, including along the Indian border and India faces real threats from cross border terrorism, and how would the US in a Biden administration support India in these challenges.     With the government is planning to allow private players to operate passenger trains by March 2023, the private operators will have flexibility in fixing train fare. Indian Railways has decided to give freedom to private firms to fix fare for their trains as per market dynamics. Though earlier the railways had planned to set up a regulatory authority to fix fare/ tariffs, now it has decided not to do so, said an official.  The Railways is in view that the regulatory body may kill the competition among private players to woo passengers with an attractive fare. The Railways, which held a second pre-bid meeting with interest players recently,  also clarified that the railways may not regulate the prices. However, the railways in the view that if private players made cartels in fixing fares, passengers can approach the Competition Commission of India, said an official in the Railways. Officials also said that if required in future the Railways can set up the regulatory mechanism. However, at present, the Railways don't have a plan to set to a regulatory authority. Since the Railways is the first time opening the doors to private players to operate passenger trains, imposing too much regulation would harm its growth. Moreover, where ever the private trains will run, Railways will also operate its own passenger trains. If private players fixed higher price, then the passengers will choose trains operated by Railways, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-prohibitory-orders-in-bengaluru-extended-indias-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-drops-to-193-874014.html
16-08-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approves NCC expansion plan||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved a proposal to expand the National Cadet Corps in 173 border and coastal districts and induct one lakh students, an official statement said on Sunday. The scheme involving the major expansion of NCC to meet the aspirations of youth in border and coastal districts was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation on the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday. "A total of one lakh cadets from 173 border and coastal districts will be inducted in the NCC. One-third of the Cadets would be girl Cadets. More than 1,000 schools and colleges have been identified in border and coastal districts where NCC will be introduced," the statement said. As part of the plan, 83 NCC units will be upgraded (Army 53, Navy 20, Air Force 10) to impart NCC training to the cadets in the border and coastal areas. Army will provide training and administrative support to the NCC units located in the border areas, Navy shall provide support to NCC units in the coastal areas and similarly Air Force will provide support to the NCC units located close to the Air Force stations. "This will not only provide exposure to the youth of the border and coastal areas to military training and disciplined way of life but will also motivate them to join the armed forces. The NCC expansion plan will be implemented in partnership with the states," the statement added. In his Independence Day speech, PM Modi had said, "About 173 districts in our border areas, our coastal areas share their boundaries with some or the other nation’s border or coastline. In the coming days, NCC would be extended in those border districts for the youth there. We will train around one lakh new NCC cadets from bordering areas, and we will work towards the idea that amongst those, one-third of them are our daughters." The border and coastal areas would get trained manpower for disaster management, and the youth would also get skill training for making their career in the armed forces, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-approves-ncc-expansion-plan-874016.html
16-08-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court to frame guidelines for uniform grounds of divorce||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to frame guidelines for uniform grounds of divorce and remove discriminatory procedure prevailing in different communities for being violative of fundamental rights to equality. BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay filed the plea seeking a direction to the Centre to take apposite steps to remove anomalies in the grounds of divorce and make them uniform for all citizens without prejudice on the basis of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. Alternatively, he sought a direction to the Law Commission to examine the issue and give its suggestion within three months. The plea filed by advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey on behalf of the petitioner contended that different grounds of divorce reinforced patriarchal and stereotypical notions about women.  He said the cause of action arose on September 13, 2019 when the Supreme Court in Jose Paulo Coutinho Case once again pressed the need of uniform civil laws and cited the example of Goa. But the Centre even failed to provide uniform grounds of divorce. Maintaining that divorce is among the most traumatic misfortunes for men and women, the petitioner said even after 73 years of independence, divorce procedures continued to remain very complex and were neither gender neutral nor religion neutral. Hindus Buddhists Sikhs and Jains have to seek divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act 1955. Muslim, Christian and Parsis have their own personal laws. Couple belonging to different religion have to seek divorce under the Special Marriage Act, 1956. If either partner is foreign national then he has to seek divorce under Foreign Marriage Act 1969, he pointed out. Minimum marriage age, grounds of divorce, custody, guardianship, adoption, maintenance, succession and inheritance, are the secular activities. Therefore, it is duty of the State to ensure that men and women have uniform age of marriage, grounds of divorce, maintenance and alimony, succession and inheritance, adoption and guardianship in spirit of Articles 14, 15, 21 of the Constitution and International Conventions, the plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-to-frame-guidelines-for-uniform-grounds-of-divorce-874017.html
16-08-2020||National||Over 350 prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in Thiruvananthapuram central jail||Coronavirus pandemic has hit the central jail here with more than 350 inmates testing positive in the last one week and a murder accused succumbing to the pathogen on Sunday, a top prison official said. The undertrial prisoner was the first to test positive for the virus in the prison at nearby Poojapura and in the last one week 359 more cases, including a staff, have been reported, its superintendent Santhosh S said. As many as 145 cases were detected on Sunday alone, he said adding barring three, shifted to hospital, others have been kept in a special isolation area within the prison. "An undertrial prisoner in a murder case, Manikandan, who was lodged here since 2016, passed away at the medical college hospital here. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10," he told PTI. After he was admitted to hospital, the officials had been carrying out tests in the prison, where more than 970 people are lodged. The superintendent said a total of 197 tests were done on Wednesday and Thursday and of this 100 found to be positive followed by another 113 in the next two days. "Today, we tested 298 prisoners out of which 145 were tested positive," he said, adding besides them, one positive case was found among the over 300 jail staff. Two of the infected had been shifted to hospitals and the others, all asymptomatic, were being given adequatetreatment, the official said. Since May, the prison department in Kerala has been screening new remand prisoners for Covid-19 and only those who test negative were being lodged in various jails. Prisons in the state can accommodate 6,250 inmates and have over 1,600 staff, officials said. Kerala's Covid-19 case tally stood at 42,885 and the death toll was 146 as of Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-350-prisoners-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-thiruvananthapuram-central-jail-874021.html
16-08-2020||National||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta lauds PM's 'responsive' leadership during Covid-19 crisis||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Sunday lauded the "responsive" leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in ensuring that India passes through the international crisis of Covid-19 pandemic with "minimal" and "unavoidable" damage. The law officer also hailed the Indian judiciary for functioning on a daily basis to provide access to justice to everyone in the country. Speaking at a virtual interactive session organised by the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad (Supreme Court unit), Mehta said that he was not making a political statement but speaking as a lawyer who has seen the government working under the current crisis. "It is impossible to envisage the situation but for the responsive leadership of our Prime Minister we have passed. I don't think we could have passed through this international crisis with the minimal damage which was unavoidable. It is a shivering idea to imagine what would have happened under any other leadership," he said. "It is not a political statement, but of a citizen and a lawyer who has seen the government working, read each and every step taken by the government methodically and scientifically," Mehta said. The law officer further said that one of the unwarranted criticisms was that against the judiciary. "From the day lockdown was imposed in March, the courts have not shut down even for a day. The Supreme Court had worked on a daily basis. The judges who are bound to be above 60 years of age have not taken a day off. With all precautions which could be taken, each and every day, our system of dispensation of justice was made accessible to citizens and the Supreme Court was dealing with petitions, many of which could have been avoided," he said. He further said that to criticise the judiciary would be "showing not only a deliberate indifference but exhibiting our ignorance to what is happening in the country". "I don't think there is any other democracy as large as India where the judiciary has functioned on a daily basis giving access to justice to everyone in the country -- right from the trial court to the Supreme Court," Mehta said. The Solicitor General further said that there can be a system where the original system of physical hearing can be replaced without completely dispensing with the virtual hearing. "Nothing virtual can ever be a substitute for real. Even in a legal system virtual can never substitute for real. But there can be a system where we can replace the original system of physical hearing without completely dispensing with the virtual hearing," he said.  Mehta added that through virtual hearing, lawyers who previously could not address their matters before the apex court were doing so now. "This creates an amazing opportunity for those members of our bar who are stationed in remote areas or not in Delhi. Lawyers from far areas of the country are addressing the Supreme Court. This was an opportunity for young lawyers who could not shift to Delhi but now can appear from where they are staying," he noted. He concluded by saying if a lawyer of any country became weak, the country became weak. "We cannot lose faith in the system merely because there is a temporary pause by the Almighty," Mehta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/solicitor-general-tushar-mehta-lauds-pms-responsive-leadership-during-covid-19-crisis-874028.html
16-08-2020||National||Vice president condoles death of UP minister Chetan Chauhan||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu condoled the death of Uttar Pradesh minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan on Sunday. Chauhan died due to Covid-19 related complications. He was 73. "Deeply saddened by the passing away of former cricketer and UP minister, Shri Chetan Chauhan ji. He made immense contribution towards development of cricket and also served as the Member of Parliament for two terms," Naidu's office wrote on Twitter. "My condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti," he said. Chauhan is survived by his wife and son Vinayak. He held the portfolios of Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, PRD and Civil Security in the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-condoles-death-of-up-minister-chetan-chauhan-874041.html
16-08-2020||National||NCW planning to launch 24X7 helpline for women facing mental harassment S||The National Commission for Women is planning to launch a 24X7 helpline in view of the rising number of mental harassment complaints since the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The helpline will be launched in north India first and steadily expanded to the rest of the country, NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said. The launch date for the helpline hasn't been decided yet, she said. In an interview to PTI, Sharma said the helpline development project is being carried out in collaboration with the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. "The launch date of the helpline has not been finalised yet. It will be launched in north India first and slowly and steadily it will be extended to other parts of the country," she said. The decision comes amid a rise in the number of complaints of emotional and mental abuse received by the commission over the last few months. According to NCW data, it received 2,320 complaints related to mental harassment and emotional abuse from April, days after the lockdown was imposed in the country, till now. In contrast, it received 1,550 such complaints between December 2019 and March 2020. Elaborating on the issue, Sharma said mental tension for women increased during the lockdown. "Both men and women faced mental health problems during the lockdown. Women were working from home and doing all the (household) work and then they were not able to reach out to their parents even if they were getting mentally harassed. "In normal circumstances, they were able to reach out to their family and friends and talk to them but (during lockdown) they were locked inside the house. So yes, mental tension increased during the lockdown," she said. Sharma said the NCW worked 24X7 during the lockdown to help women. "During the lockdown, we worked 24X7 because we knew women were not able to reach out to any other agency or their relatives and families," she said. "We launched a WhatsApp number because we knew women were not able to go to the police station, reach us by post and many women do not even know how to send an email. Since the launch of the WhatsApp number, the number of complaints has increased manifold," she said. The overall number of complaints of crimes committed against women has also seen a rise in the last two months, the NCW data showed. In July, 2,914 complaints of crimes against women were received, the highest since November 2018 when the #MeToo movement was at its peak in the country, according to the data. In June, 2,043 complaints, highest in eight months, were received. Sharma said cyber crimes against women also saw a rise during the lockdown. "We trained 60,000 women on how to remain safe online last year. This year we are planning to train 1 lakh women and make them aware of the kind of crimes taking place online," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-planning-to-launch-24x7-helpline-for-women-facing-mental-harassment-s-874042.html
16-08-2020||National||Govt seeks suggestions to ensure safe movement of construction equipment vehicles on roads||Union Ministry of Road Transport Ministry has sought suggestions on how to ensure safety when construction equipment vehicles that are used for infrastructure projects are running on public roads along with other vehicles. The Ministry issued a draft notification to address the issue of safety requirements, the safety of the operator and to ensure safety while such machines are running on public roads along with other vehicles, said a statement. As of now, certain safety requirements are already mandated for Construction Equipment Vehicles in Central Motors Vehicles Rules (CMVR), 1989. This standard aims to introduce Automotive Industry Standard (AIS) 160, to introduce several safety requirements like visual display requirements, requirements for operator station and maintenance areas, non-metallic fuel tanks, among others." These vehicles are mainly used for carrying out various infrastructure projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-suggestions-to-ensure-safe-movement-of-construction-equipment-vehicles-on-roads-874046.html
16-08-2020||National||Patients in need of urgent treatment avoiding hospital visits due to Covid-19 fears: Doctors||Due to the coronavirus pandemic, patients suffering from critical diseases like cancer and those requiring surgeries are delaying hospital visits, thus endangering their health and even risking their lives. Doctors say they have even lost patients who could have survived or their situation salvaged had they reported to hospitals in time. Dr Mandeep S Malhotra, Head of Department - Head, Neck and Breast Oncoplasty at Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj, said two of his patients -- an IAS officer and an IT consultant, both aged 45 -- had palpable breast lumps in March. Due to fear of COVID-19, they neither reported to the hospital nor to their gynaecologists or family doctors and are now in Stage 4 of breast cancer. He also shared another case of a 42-year-old patient who had a relapse of cancer around April while he was in his hometown Dehradun. "He had recovered from oral cancer but during lockdown period, he had a nodal recurrence. He sent me a picture and I asked him to come back. I told him he can come back after getting required permission. He came back after three months and by then the main artery that supplies blood to the brain was involved. Earlier this week, he succumbed to cancer," Malhotra said. The senior doctor said cancer progresses in no time from Stage 2 to Stage 4 without timely treatment and if patients report early, they can be discharged in less time and the treatment costs are lower in comparison to critical state when the costs escalate and there is a greater risk involved. Doctors say patients are even delaying simple surgeries like gall bladder stone removal which could lead to major issues in the long run. According to Dr Manoj Sharma, senior consultant, medicine and incharge at Medeor Hospital, Qutub Institutional Area, delaying treatment is not the right option. He said hospitals are taking all precautions and adopting all hygienic practices. Sharma said one of his patients had reported to him about a liver abscess around April but did not return to the hospital after that. "Ultimately his infection increased and he ended up in a critical condition and after surgery had to stay in hospital for a week. Had he continued treatment when he was diagnosed, he could have been discharged in two days," he said. Sharma said patients are not reaching out and consulting doctors which is leading to situations like these and opined that people will have to learn to live with coronavirus. Dr Chandragouda Dodagoudar, director of medical oncology at Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka, shared a case of a 65-year-old patient who had stage 2 lymphoma. The patient first visited the health facility in March and was advised chemotherapy but was very apprehensive due to the coronavirus disease. "The patient delayed the treatment for two and a half months and took alternative medicines and when that medication did not work and she started having pain, she visited the hospital. She had contracted COVID-19 by then and the lymphoma had progressed from Stage 2 to Stage 4. We could not administer chemotherapy while she was undergoing COVID treatment," he said. The doctor said after the patient recovered from coronavirus, she was administered a slight dose of chemotherapy and became better and was discharged. But after a month, she had a relapse of COVID and ended up in a critical condition and succumbed last month. The doctor said delaying treatment led to wastage of time and the patient's condition could have been salvaged had she got timely treatment since she did not have other co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patients-in-need-of-urgent-treatment-avoiding-hospital-visits-due-to-covid-19-fears-doctors-874053.html
16-08-2020||National||Chauhan distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and diligent political leader: PM||Condoling the demise of Uttar Pradesh minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that he distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and diligent political leader. "Shri Chetan Chauhan Ji distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and later as a diligent political leader. He made effective contributions to public service and strengthening the BJP in UP. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted.   Shri Chetan Chauhan Ji distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and later as a diligent political leader. He made effective contributions to public service and strengthening the BJP in UP. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.   Chauhan died on Sunday due to Covid-19 related complications, his brother Pushpendra Chauhan said. Chauhan, who played 40 Tests for India, was 73. He is survived by his wife and son Vinayak. He held the portfolios of Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, PRD and Civil Security in the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chauhan-distinguished-himself-as-a-wonderful-cricketer-and-diligent-political-leader-pm-874061.html
16-08-2020||National||Allegations of corruption in judiciary cannot amount to contempt: Bhushan tells SC||Allegation of corruption in judiciary per se cannot amount to contempt, so far as it would nullify the constitutional provisions and statutory procedures for impeachment of a judge on grounds of misbehaviour, advocate Prashant Bhushan has contended before the Supreme Court. In response to the court’s decision to examine the 2009 contempt case against him, he said that corruption is not restricted to pecuniary gratification but extends to particular forms such as bribery, embezzlement, theft, fraud, extortion, abuse of discretion, favouritism, nepotism, clientelism and conduct creating or exploiting conflicting interests. Bhushan has been held guilty of criminal contempt on August 14 for his two tweets related to the current CJI riding a high-end bike and shutting down courts, and the alleged role of the last four CJIs in the destruction of democracy. The court has fixed August 20 to consider the quantum of sentence against him. The separate 2009 case, arising out of his interview to Tehelka magazine alleging corruption among former CJIs, has been fixed for consideration on Monday, August 17 by the court, which has rejected his regret for the statement. On August 10, the court said, “Before reaching to any finding whether the statement made as to corruption would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard”. In his written submissions, he said the factum of corruption in the judiciary has been stated in Parliamentary Committee reports. It has been commented upon by former judges of the Supreme Court as well. Moreover, various judgments of this Court and High Courts and courts in foreign jurisdictions and constitutional experts have commented upon it. "Allegations of corruption and their investigation become essential in impeachment proceedings under the Constitution and the Judges Inquiry Act. Therefore the allegation per se cannot be contempt," he said. Bhushan further pointed out such charges cannot be per se contempt because the truth is a defense to contempt proceedings.  "Given that the defense or justification of truth is a statutory right, approved by the Supreme Court, and made available to an alleged contemnor, the court cannot hold the alleged contemnor guilty of contempt ‘per se’ in case the contemnor invokes the said defense or truth," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allegations-of-corruption-in-judiciary-cannot-amount-to-contempt-bhushan-tells-sc-874095.html
16-08-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind condoles death of Chetan Chauhan||President Ram Nath Kovind condoled the passing away of former India opener and Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan on Sunday, saying he was a cricketer par excellence and a down-to-earth politician. One of Indian cricket's most well-known batsmen without an international hundred, Chauhan died on Sunday due to coronavirus-related complications after being put on life support for nearly 36 hours. He was 73. "Sad to hear that UP cabinet minister Shri Chetan Chauhan is no more," Kovind tweeted. "A cricketer par excellence, Shri Chauhan was a down to earth politician and an outstanding parliamentarian. Condolences to his family, friends and countless fans," the President said. Chauhan was serving as the minister of Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, and Civil Security in the Uttar Pradesh cabinet. He is survived by his wife and son Vinayak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-condoles-death-of-chetan-chauhan-874122.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee: Politician, poet and writer||In a political career that spanned at least five decades, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajapyee, made a huge mark on Indian politics. He was elected thrice as the Prime Minister, however, served a full term between 1999 and 2004. With Vajpayee at the helm, India underwent monumental changes. Under his tenure as prime minister, India's experienced economic growth, war with Pakistan and also proclaimed sovereignty by testing its nuclear arsenals. One of his oft-remembered speeches were delivered when he announced the success of the Pokhran II test. In his speech, he declared that India will not use the nuclear weapons unless attacked first by another country, in 1998  He is also credited for the National Highway Development Project which connects the North-South and East-West corridors and the ‘Golden Quadrilateral’ connecting Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai. Under his aegis, bus service from Delhi to Lahore called Sada-e-Sarhad took shape which continued till the beginning of Kargil War. Among his other political achievements, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, India’s attempt to achieve elementary education began under his leadership. His motto of ‘Look East Policy’ strengthened international ties with South-East Asian and Asian countries like Russia and Japan. The Prevention of Terrorism Activities Act (POTA) was also passed by both the houses under when he was in office. Apart from being a dedicated politician, Vajpayee was also a poet and a writer, one often quoted most memorably His oratory skills shone at the international forum when he delivered a speech in the UN General Assembly, the first Indian Foreign Minister to do so in Hindi. In his first speech, he touched upon topics such as the Non-Alignment Movement. He had said, “he vision of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakum - the world is one family - is an old one. We in India have all along believed in the concept of the world as one family.” He had also talked about normalising relations with Pakistan to promote bilateral co-operation.  Despite the nobility he is regarded with in Indian politics, he also delivered an extremely controversial speech on the eve of the Babri Masjid demolition. Though he did not mention the masjid directly, allusions such as ‘there are sharp stones, the ground has to be levelled’ were made in the speech to kar sevaks in Lucknow.     Quoted widely and with pride, Vajpayee's poetry drew worldwide fame. One of his most famous poems include Kaidi Kaviray Kahe, which he wrote while in jail during the Emergency. The poem expressed his wish to see the outside world and his long stay in prison. Another poem of his is ‘Manali mat jaiyo’ which talks of a girl who is about to leave for another kingdom. The poem asks the reader to be content even if certain things are not available to them. Doodh mein darar pad gayi is his expression on the partition of India. The moving poem talks about how the two countries were rendered apart. “अपनी ही छाया से बैर, गले लगने लगे हैं ग़ैर, ख़ुदकुशी का रास्ता, तुम्हें वतन का वास्ता। बात बनाएं, बिगड़ गई। दूध में दरार पड़ गई।”   (Fighting with your own shadow, while hugging a stranger, The path of suicide the country has taken, Ordered conversation is destroyed, like a crack in the milk) Vajpayee, the first non-Congress leader to complete a full term in office and credited with cementing a place for the BJP in the country’s polity, passed away on August 16, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/remembering-atal-bihari-vajpayee-politician-poet-and-writer-873917.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||Centre's act of selling PSUs 'aatmasamarpan': Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Sunday said the Centre merely talks about 'aatmanirbhar' or self-reliant India but its actions of "selling off" PSUs amounted to 'aatmasamarpan' (surrender) of the country's resources to "capitalists". In his webcast address to CPI(M) workers from Maharashtra, Yechury saidthe government was in the process of selling off PSUs and even the Railways is being privatised. "Citizens of the country are owners of its resources and the government is just a manager. It cannot sell off resources without the consent of owners," Yechury said. He said the 'New India' narrative is actually about changing the character of the secular fabric of the country. The idea of 'Atmanirbhar' Bharat or self-reliant India was proposed by prime minister Narendra Modi during the announcement of the coronavirus pandemic related economic package in May this year. The Left leader alleged that the wealth of "capitalists" increased during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown in the country. "The prime minister had said India would defeat the coronavirus in 21 days, but now 130 days are passed under the national lockdown," he said. With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of abating, the government has decided to lift restrictions and has put the onus on state governments, Yechury said. "A four-hour notice had been given (by the Centre) for the imposition of a complete lockdown, just like the four-hour notice period for (banknote) demonetisation (in 2016). We are still reeling under its impact and the economy has not been revived," he said. Yechury said PM Modi had wrongfully compared the Ram Janmabhoomi movement with the Independence movement of the country. "The freedom struggle was about uniting the country to achieve freedom, but now the country is seeing polarisation, hatred and violence. Pillars of the Constitution are being weakened," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-act-of-selling-psus-aatmasamarpan-yechury-874033.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul attacks BJP over 'hate speech' report, Ravi Shankar Prasad calls him 'loser'||Latching on to a report of Wall Street Journal that suggested that Facebook India turned a blind eye to a hate speech of a BJP leader and three others to ward off any damage to its business prospects, Rahul Gandhi on Sunday launched a blistering attack on the BJP and RSS that triggered a ‘loser’ jibe from Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. As the battle of barbs played out, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology expressed intent to take up the matter. “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from Facebook about these reports and what they propose to do about hate-speech in India,” Tharoor tweeted. The WSJ report quoting its former and current employees said how the social media platform ignored controversial comments of BJP legislator T Raja Singh, who said Rohingya Muslim immigrants should be shot, called Muslims traitors and threatened to raze mosques and controversial remarks on three other accounts of “Hindu nationalist individuals and groups”. Rahul Gandhi reacted on Sunday alleging “BJP and RSS control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook.” Law Minister Prasad was quick to react saying "losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS." Raking up the 2018 row ahead 2019 general election regarding Congress allegedly roping in the UK-based firm Cambridge Analytica to explore doing election strategy for the party that involved data mining of Facebook posts and tweets, Prasad told Rahul “you were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?” While Congress had then acknowledged that such a proposition was explored with the then Cambridge Analytica's CEO Alexander Nix, it remained at the stage of proposal and no deal was signed. Prasad did not stop at that. He also dragged in the recent Bengaluru violence over a controversial post to attack the Congress leader as he claimed that “the fact is that today access to information and freedom of expression has been democratized. It is no longer controlled by retainers of your family and that is why it hurts.” “Btw, haven’t yet heard your condemnation of the Bangalore riots. Where did your courage disappear?,” Praasad tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-attacks-bjp-over-hate-speech-report-ravi-shankar-prasad-calls-him-loser-874038.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||Ajay Maken appointed Congress in-charge in Rajasthan||Congress on Sunday appointed senior Congress leader Ajay Maken as party in-charge of Rajasthan besides setting up a three-panel that includes AICC Treasurer Ahmed Patel to oversee the "smooth" resolution of the tussle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot. Maken will replace Avinash Pande as the AICC General Secretary in-charge in Rajasthan. The three-member panel to "oversee and follow up the smooth resolution of recent issues in Rajasthan" also include Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal and Maken. Both Venugopal and Maken were sent to Jaipur after Pilot raised a rebellion against the Gehlot government last month. Pilot and Gehlot were locked in a war of attrition before a resolution was arrived at following a meeting the former had with top Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. The climbdown of Pilot came after it was decided that a committee would be formed to look into the issues raised by Pilot during the rebellion against Gehlot. Last month, the Rajasthan government stared at a crisis after Pilot moved around 20 MLAs to Haryana's Gurugram claiming that Gehlot has lost his majority. Pilot faction wanted removal of Gehlot from Chief Ministership while the Congress accused him of plotting the fall of the party-led government with the help of the BJP. Soon after Pilot's rebellion, Gehlot removed him from the post of Deputy Chief Minister as well as his supporters from the Ministry. Some of the MLAs supporting Pilot were suspended also while Gehlot targeted Pilot calling him "useless". However, Pilot could not go ahead with his rebellion as he lacked numbers. He ended the rebellion with the central Congress leadership stepping in to find an amicable solution. Pilot and his supporters returned to Jaipur last week after the truce and attended the Assembly session that started with a vote of confidence, which Gehlot won comfortably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ajay-maken-appointed-congress-in-charge-in-rajasthan-874059.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||Big fight for Brahmin votes in Uttar Pradesh||From Brahmin Chetna Manch to the promise of 108 feet idol of Parshuram, politicians in Uttar Pradesh vying with each other to woo the community, which has so far voted pragmatically to share the power pie ever since it ceased to play the lead role in state politics after 1989. The state which saw a series of Brahmin Chief Ministers till 1989 with N D Tiwari of Congress being the last one, witnessed a social metamorphosis in power politics since the rise of Mandal-Kamandal politics and in last 31 years, it was ruled by either a Dalit or an OBC leader—Kalyan Singh (Lodh), Mulayam Singh Yadav, Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav. BJP’s Rajnath Singh a prominent leader belonging to Thakur (Rajput) community and Ram Prakash Gupta (Vaishya) also became CM for a brief period in this time frame but no Brahmin CM came. In the meanwhile the Brahmins, who had seen well-known CMs from their community such as-- Govind Ballabh Pant, Kamlapati Tripathi, Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, Sripati Mishra, N D Tiwari, shifted into the secondary role, switching sides from Congress to BJP at the height of Ram temple movement, then to Samajwadi Party and BSP, when Mayawati’s party had come out with famous slogans of “Brahman shankh bajayega, haathi aage jaayega (the Brahmin will blow the conch and the elephant will march forward)” and “Hanthi Nahin Ganesh Hai, Brahma Vishnu Mahesh Hai. Satish Chandra Mishra, the right hand of Mayawati organised many Brahmin Dalit Bhaichaara Sammelans, something that worked well in 2007, bringing Mayawati to power but it fizzled out by 2012 when the Brahmins shifted to SP. However, in the next two-three years, they got disenchanted with SP as well and by 2014 the Brahmins shifted lock stock and barrel to BJP. With the traditional Thakur-Brahmin rivalry once again coming to fore after BJP and Yogi Adityanath’s ascension to power in 2017, all the three Opposition parties are aggressively wooing back the Brahmins. One reason is the belief that Brahmins influence votes much beyond their numerical strength of nine per cent. BJP’s most prominent Brahmin face Atal Bihari Vajpayee is no more, ageing Murali Manohar Joshi is on the margins, Vajpayee’ protégé Kalraj Mishra is now Rajasthan Governor and as such out of state politics while in Eastern UP the Brahmin leaders of BJP do not have quite a liking for CM Yogi.  Dinesh Sharma, a Brahmin, is, however, one of two Deputy Chief Ministers in UP. Former Rajya Sabha MP Narendra Kashyap, who moved to the BJP from BSP in 2016, says the possibility of a Brahmin Muslim Dalit (BMD) combination for which both Congress and BSP are trying hard, is not in sight. “BSP’s organisation has got weakened and there are a substantial breach in its Dalit base while Congress is not a force in state politics for three decades now. Post Modi-Yogi rise, the possibility of Brahmins and Muslim alignment is very bleak especially in UP.” Nevertheless, Brahmins which were on the margins of politics of the key Hindi state are once again a much sought after community. While Congress’ young Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada is regularly raising issues of the negligence of the community under Brahmin Chetna Samvad programme under the Brahmin Chetna Manch. SP promised to build a 108 feet high idol of Lord Parshuram, a Hindu Brahmin saint while BSP said it will name hospitals after him besides making a taller statue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/big-fight-for-brahmin-votes-in-uttar-pradesh-874065.html
16-08-2020||National Politics||BJP hits out at Congress for not siding with its own MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday hit out at the Congress for allegedly backing the rioters and not its own Pulakeshinagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy whose house was set on fire by the rioters on August 11 night. "The Congress says that the innocent people are being arrested. Who is innocent? The man who is sitting next to me (Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy). He should get justice," BJP state vice-president and Mahadevapura MLA Aravind Limbavali said at a press conference at Murthy's residence. Days after the incident, Limbavali visited Murthy's house which was damaged. He was accompanied by BJP's Bengaluru Central MP P C Mohan. He was referring to Congress state chief D K Shivakumar's statement on Saturday that the police were serving notices to people to terrorise them and forcing them to give a statement favourable to them. Limbavali alleged that the Congress leaders have demanded the release of innocent people arrested in connection with the case. "By calling the rioters innocent and demanding their release, what are you going to achieve? Instead of bothering about your vote bank, you should have spoken a few words in favour of your own MLA," he opined. Likening the riot with the stone pelters of Kashmir, the BJP leader alleged never ever in the history of Karnataka an incident like this has happened where an MLA's house was set on fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-hits-out-at-congress-for-not-siding-with-its-own-mla-akhanda-srinivasa-murthy-874074.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: After five months, religious places reopen in Jammu and Kashmir||Religious places in Jammu and Kashmir reopened on Sunday, nearly five months after they were closed as a preventive measure to contain Covid-19. The J&K administration has asked devotees to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) strictly and the use of Aarogya Setu app has been made mandatory. However touching statues, idols or holy books will not be permitted. J&K Muslim Wakf Board has sought assistance from the administration for strict implementation of Covid-19 SOPs at shrines and mosques to ensure safety for devotees. In a communication to Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, the Wakf Board has said that the annual Urs ‘Char Yaar’ is being observed at Dargah, Hazratbal and other shrines on August 18. In Jammu Mata Vaishno Devi temple reopened for devotees on Sunday. Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board told reporters that during the first week of the resumption of pilgrimage, there shall be a ceiling of 2000 pilgrims per day, including 1900 from within Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining 100 from outside the Union Territory. He said the situation will be reviewed thereafter and the decision will be taken accordingly. The pilgrims will be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage after registration through online mode only in order to avoid any assembly of persons at the Yatra Registration Counters, Kumar said. “The Shrine Board has advised children below 10 years, pregnant women, persons with co-morbidities and citizens above the age of 60 to avoid yatra in their own interest and safety from the virus,” he added. In the third week of March, authorities had announced the closure of all religious places in J&K after the outbreak of the pandemic. Even the annual Amarnath yatra was cancelled this year due to virus threat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-after-five-months-religious-places-reopen-in-jammu-and-kashmir-873900.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Two arrested in connection with Sudeeksha Bhati's death case: Police||Two people have been arrested in connection with the death of a 20-year-old student here, police said on Sunday while ruling out that she was harassed by bike-borne men before being killed in an accident. Sudiksha Bhati, who hailed from Deri Scanar village in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Dadri, died on August 10 in a road crash in Bulandshahr district while she was pillion riding a motorcycle with her younger cousin, a minor. Police said they arrested the two people -- Deepak Choudhary and Raju -- on the basis of CCTV camera footage. Sudiksha, an academically bright student, was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at Babson College, Massachusetts (US), on a scholarship and was scheduled to go back on August 20. While her family has alleged that the road crash took place because two unidentified motorcycle-borne men were "following" her two-wheeler and harassing her, the police on Sunday said it has found no evidence to corroborate their claims. Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh and District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar during a press conference on Sunday ruled out harassment or a motorcycle stunt as the cause of death. They made it clear that the woman's death was an accident. After going through video footage from eight CCTV cameras, police have not found any evidence of harassment with the woman, they said. On the basis of the SIT's probe, eye-witness accounts and CCTV video footages, the incident is not a case of sexual harassment and Sudiksha's death occurred in a road accident, Kumar said. Singh said that during interrogation, accused Deepak revealed that he is employed with a contractor and on the day the incident occurred he was on his way to a designated site along with Raju. Deepak told police that while the duo was on the road on a bullet motorcycle, they had to suddenly apply the breaks when an autorickshaw and a bullock cart came in its way as a result of which the bike behind them, on which Sudiksha was riding pillion, rammed into their vehicle and she fell on the road. According to police, after the incident came in the limelight Deepak got scared and in order to evade interrogation, he got his bike modified by changing its tyres, silencer and even the vehicle registration number plate that had 'Jat' written on it. Police have recovered the pre-modification parts of the motorcycle including the number plate, they said. They also said the bullet bike was traced after its number was identified from CCTV camera footage. Both the motorcycles -- Deepak's and Raju's as well as the one on which Sudiksha was riding pillion -- were being driven on high speed of approximately 80 kmph and were travelling at a distance from each other, they said. In order to probe Diksha's death, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed comprising Circle Officer Diksha Singh and two inspectors from the UP Police Crime Branch, the district magistrate said. Police also interrogated the man from whose mobile phone the woman's family was contacted after the accident and he told investigators that it was a case of road mishap and she died on the spot. Police had earlier said some people were "trying to twist the narrative of the incident" by claiming that the woman was being sexually harassed because of which the accident took place. "It appears that after the body reached her Deri Scanar village, some people tried to twist the narrative of the incident. Since the girl had got a huge scholarship package (to study in the US), there could have been thought of demand (for compensation) in the people," Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh had said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-in-connection-with-sudeeksha-bhatis-death-case-police-873929.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||13-year-old girl gang-raped, strangled to death in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri; 2 held||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly strangled to death after being gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. The family members of the minor alleged that her eyes were gouged out and tongue was chopped, but the police denied the allegation and said that the postmortem report confirmed gang-rape and strangulation but no injury marks were found elsewhere on the body. According to the police sources, the girl, a resident of Isanagar area in the district, had gone to the fields to answer the call of nature on Friday evening, when she was forcibly taken to a secluded place, where two persons allegedly gang-raped her before strangulating the victim. The family members, who launched a search for the minor after she did not return home, found her body in the fields late in the night.  Police said that the girl was dragged into the fields by the culprits. They had stuffed a piece of cloth in her mouth to muffle her screams. Police have arrested two persons in this connection, sources said, adding that the duo is being interrogated. National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped on them, they added. Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav launched a scathing attack on the BJP government in the state saying that it had failed miserably on the law and order situation. ''No one is safe under this regime,'' Akhilesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-girl-gang-raped-strangled-to-death-in-uttar-pradeshs-lakhimpur-kheri-2-held-873930.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Two government school teachers suspended for not hoisting flag||Two teachers in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district have been suspended for not hoisting the national flag in a government school on the Independence Day, an official said on Sunday. According to Basic Education Officer, Harishchandra Nath, the action was taken against the teachers after a video was obtained which showed that national flag was not hoisted at an upper primary (Classes 6-8) government school in Sirsauna village in Naraini area of the district on the Independence Day. Nath said, "Headmaster Manoj Ahirwar and assistant teacher Ganga Pooja have been suspended with immediate effect." Block Education Officer of Jaspura and Kamasin blocks have been asked to probe the matter and submit their reports within 15 days, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-two-government-school-teachers-suspended-for-not-hoisting-flag-873940.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Monsoon Session: Parliament likely to use ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in ACs to kill virus, bacteria||Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation system in the air conditioning, polycarbonate sheets to separate officials' gallery and the Chamber, large display screens and consoles for participation from galleries are among a slew of measures one will witness when Parliament convenes for the Monsoon Session within a month. The new arrangements come as part of measures undertaken to ensure social distancing norms that are part of Covid-19 during the Session, which will be convened before September 23. As per Constitutional provisions, the gap between two sessions should not be beyond six months and the Budget Session was wrapped up on March 23 this year. As per the arrangements, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will not be sitting simultaneously as both the Chambers will be used for proceedings of one of the Houses. Both Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had held a series of meetings earlier to finalise the arrangements for the Session. The government is yet to decide on the schedule of the Monsoon, which usually is convened in July third week. Rajya Sabha officials said Naidu has directed them to ensure that all arrangements will be in place by the third week of August for testing, rehearsal and final inspection. Officials said polycarbonate sheets will separate the Officials Gallery of Rajya Sabha from the chamber as both are in close proximity. Another feature in consideration is using the ultraviolet germicidal irradiation system in the air conditioning system of Rajya Sabha for killing bacteria and viruses in air supply. Rajya Sabha chamber and galleries and Lok Sabha chamber will be used for seating the members of the Upper House when in session. Sixty MPs will be seated in the Rajya Sabha chamber while 51 will be seated in the galleries while the rest 132 will be seated in Lok Sabha. Parties will be allotted seats in the chamber and galleries on the respective strength. Seats will be earmarked for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Leader of House Tawarchand Gehlot, Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda, Ministers Ramvilas Paswan and Ramdas Athawale (who are Rajya Sabha MPs) and leaders of other parties will be seated in Rajya Sabha chambers. Four large display screens of 85-inch size each will be placed in the chamber and another six of 40-inch size each in the four galleries of the House are being installed to enable members to watch the proceedings. All the seats in the galleries are being fitted with consoles to enable participation of members in the proceedings of the House from their seats. Special cables are being laid connecting the two Houses of Parliament for transmitting audio-visual signals of the proceedings both ways without any time lag to enable real-time participation of members seated in the two Houses. Naidu has also directed Rajya Sabha Secretariat officials to minimise the need for the members to physically handle various papers by ensuring necessary arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-session-parliament-likely-to-use-ultraviolet-germicidal-irradiation-in-acs-to-kill-virus-bacteria-873947.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Militants open fire on security forces in J&K's Baramulla, no injuries reported||Militants fired gunshots on a security forces party during a cordon and search operation in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. The cordon and search operation was being carried out in the orchards at Warpora and Dangerpora in Sopore area of the district in north Kashmir, a police official said. The militants fired upon a search party of the forces during the operation, he said. No loss of life or injury has been reported so far, the official said, adding that the search operation is going on. No contact has been established with the militants yet, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-open-fire-on-security-forces-in-jks-baramulla-no-injuries-reported-873952.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Work at Rajasthan High Court suspended for 3 days||Work at the Rajasthan High Court here will remain suspended for the next three days, after its Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty reportedly tested positive for coronavirus. The registrar general of the high court, in a notice, said all the persons concerned are requested to get themselves tested for Covid-19. The facility of testing is available in the Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur bench during the three-day period, the notice added. "ln view of recent results of COVID-19 tests conducted in the Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench, it is notified that court and office work in Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench shall remain suspended from August 17 to 19 for COVID-19 testing," it said. The notice, however, did not mention the Rajasthan High Court chief justice. On Saturday night, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had wished a speedy recovery to Mahanty. "I have come to know Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court, Sh. Indrajit Mahanty has tested positive for Covid_19... concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery," he had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-work-at-rajasthan-high-court-suspended-for-3-days-873958.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh's Surajpur district||A wild elephant was found dead at a forest in Chhattisgarh's Surajpur district on Sunday, an official said. The carcass of the tusker was spotted in the morning in Pratappur forest range under Surajpur forest division, state additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey told PTI. On being alerted about the death, forest officials rushed to the spot, located around 340 km from the state capital Raipur, he said. The cause of death will be known after an autopsy, Pandey said, adding that an investigation is underway. In June, six elephants died in four state districts, including Pratappur forest range of Surajpur, due to different reasons. Another jumbo was electrocuted in Jashpur district last month, forest officials said. Later, Chief Minister Bhuepsh Baghel directed for constitution of teams of 10 people in each forest division affected by human-elephant conflicts for continuous monitoring of the movement of tuskers. The thick-forested northern Chhattisgarh, consisting of Surguja, Korba, Surajpur, Raigarh, Jashpur and Koriya districts, is known for human-animal conflicts. The region has witnessed several killings of tribals as well as elephants and widespread damage to houses and crops by rogue pachyderms in the past years. Sometimes, locals illegally lay electric wires around their farms to prevent wild elephants from destroying their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elephant-found-dead-in-chhattisgarhs-surajpur-district-873960.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir's Kamalkote sector||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kamalkote sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, officials said. From 10:45 to 11:45 am, ceasefire violation was reported from Lowergrah and Upergrah posts of Kamalkote Sector in Uri area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district, the officials said. Pakistani troops fired from small weapons, they said. Further details were awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kamalkote-sector-873963.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||DMRC begins work on building first cantilever metro bridge over Yamuna||The DMRC has commenced preliminary work on the construction of the fifth metro bridge over the river Yamuna here as part of its Phase-IV work on the Majlis Park–Maujpur corridor, officials said on Sunday. The new 560-metre-long bridge will come up between two existing bridges on the Yamuna i.e. Wazirabad Bridge and the Signature Bridge. It will be the first-ever metro bridge over the Yamuna to be built using cantilever construction technique, they said. The bridge, with eight spans and nine piers, will connect Soorghat metro station and Sonia Vihar metro station of the Pink Line. "After carrying out geo-technical investigation at the location of proposed piers, the activity of casting of test piles is in progress," The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement. Currently, there are four bridges of Delhi Metro on the river Yamuna, viz, at Yamuna Bank (698.8 m on Blue Line), Nizamuddin (602.8 m on Pink Line), Kalindi Kunj (574 m on Magenta Line), and Shastri Park (553 m on Red Line), it said. To utilise the available time during this monsoon season, a cofferdam has been constructed, away from the active course of the Yamuna, by raising the level of the ground by filling of earth and sand with protection of its slope through bamboo, jute netting and sand bags, the officials said. The level of the cofferdam has been kept same as that of the adjacent road to ensure supply of requisite construction material like steel reinforcement, metal liner, ready mix concrete etc, they said. "This will be the first-ever metro bridge over Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction method. A cantilever is a rigid structural element which extends horizontally and is supported at only one end," the statement said. Typically, it extends from a flat, vertical surface such as a wall or a pier, to which it must be firmly attached. Cantilever construction allows overhanging structures without additional support. Employment of this technology will make the bridge look aesthetically better, the DMRC said. The design of the bridge was finalised using the 'Building Information Modelling' (BIM) technology. With the help of this technology, a 3D model of the bridge was uploaded with intricate details of the proposed structure. For the finalisation of the Phase-IV designs, DMRC engineers are using the BIM platform, through which they have been able to finalise the designs even during the days of the pandemic when physical meetings weren't possible, the officials said. This new bridge will cross river Yamuna at about 385 m downstream of old Wazirabad Bridge and 213 m upstream of the existing Signature Bridge, the DMRC said. "All mandatory approvals from the agencies concerned have been obtained for the construction of the bridge. The DMRC is committed to fulfil the conditions given by Principal Committee on Yamuna for construction of the bridge," the statement said. Various eco-friendly measures will be taken during its construction. All the construction activities are being carried out with minimum effect on the floodplains. Restoration of the floodplain that may be impacted by the construction of bridge alignment or pillars in it will be undertaken, the DMRC said. The muck and debris generated would be disposed of scientifically and no dumping shall be allowed on the floodplains, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dmrc-begins-work-on-building-first-cantilever-metro-bridge-over-yamuna-873966.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out in three-storey building in Delhi, 5 rescued||Five women were rescued after a fire broke out at a clinic located in a three-storey building in northwest Delhi's Pitampura area on Sunday, a Delhi Fire Service official said. No one was injured in the incident, he said. The fire department said it received information about the blaze around 11 AM and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. A woman was rescued from the clinic which is located in the basement of the building, while four others were rescued from a house on the second floor, said Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg. The fire broke out at the clinic and the smoke later engulfed other floors of the building, he said. The cause of the fire is being ascertained, he added. The woman rescued from the clinic has been identified as Swati (27). The other four are Laxmi Kansal (52) and her two daughters Pridhi Kansal (25) and Malika Kansal (23), and their relative Asha Rani, fire officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-three-storey-building-in-delhi-5-rescued-873971.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Kafeel Khan’s detention under NSA extended by 3 months||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the detention of Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act by a period of three months, an official statement said. Khan has been in jail since January 29 for allegedly delivering a provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University on December 10, 2019, during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests. In an order dated August 4, 2020, the UP Home Department said the National Security Act (NSA) was invoked against Khan on February 13, 2020, on the orders of the Aligarh District Magistrate. After this, the matter was sent to the advisory council, which in its report, said there are "enough reasons" to keep Khan in jail. As a result, on May 6, orders were given to extend his detention under the NSA by another three months. “According to the report of the UP advisory council and the report obtained from District Magistrate Aligarh, Governor Anandiben Patel using the powers vested in her directed that the detention of Kafeel Khan be extended by three more months,” the order said. “As a result, Kafeel will remain in jail till November 13, 2020,” it said. Khan hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur's Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several kids died due to lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later, faced action, along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-s-detention-under-nsa-extended-by-3-months-873974.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Teenage girl raped, singed with cigarette butts by 2 men in UP's Gorakhpur: Police||A teenage girl was allegedly raped and singed with cigarette butts by two men in the Gola area of Gorakhpur district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Sunday. The girl was found unconscious on Saturday and is currently undergoing treatment at the district hospital, they added. The police have registered a case against one Arjun of Dehribhar village and an unidentified man on the basis of a written complaint from the survivor's mother. According to reports, the teenage girl of a brick kiln labourer went to fetch water from a hand pump on Friday night, when the two accused forcibly took her to a hut near a pond in the village on a motorcycle and allegedly raped her. They also tortured the girl by inflicting burn injuries on her with cigarette butts and when she fell unconscious, fled the spot. The girl identified one of the accused as Arjun. "A case of kidnapping, gangrape and under sections of the POCSO Act is registered against the two men on a complaint from the survivor's mother. A hunt is on for the accused," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-girl-raped-singed-with-cigarette-butts-by-2-men-in-ups-gorakhpur-police-873993.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Violence erupts during panchayat meeting in UP's Pratapgarh; 2 killed||A man and his son died after they sustained severe injuries in a violent clash between two parties during a panchayat meeting in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district on Sunday, police said. After the incident took place at Sheikhpur village in Raniganj area, three policemen, including a sub-inspector, were suspended for laxity in duty, they said. According to Superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh, a panchayat meeting was called to settle a land dispute between Dayashankar Mishra (60) and Chandramani Mishra. During the meeting, a violent clash took place between the two sides in which Dayashankar, his son Anand Mishra (28) and Chandramani sustained severe injuries, Singh said. They were rushed to the district hospital, where Dayashankar and Anand were declared dead, while Chandramani was referred to a medical facility in Prayagraj, the SP said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the officer added. Sub-inspector Rajesh Rai, head constable Buddhan Prasad and constable Rama Yadav have been suspended for laxity in duty and one suspect, identified as Rajesh Mishra, arrested for the violence, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-erupts-during-panchayat-meeting-in-ups-pratapgarh-2-killed-873998.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Two arrested in Sudiksha Bhati's death case; police say no evidence of harassment||Two people have been arrested in connection with the death of a 20-year-old student here, police said on Sunday while ruling out that she was harassed by bike-borne men before being killed in an accident. Sudiksha Bhati, who hailed from Deri Scanar village in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Dadri, died on August 10 in a road crash in Bulandshahr district while she was pillion riding a motorcycle with her younger cousin, a minor. Police said they arrested the two people -- Deepak Choudhary and Raju -- on the basis of CCTV camera footage. Sudiksha, an academically bright student, was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at Babson College, Massachusetts (US), on a scholarship and was scheduled to go back on August 20. While her family has alleged that the road crash took place because two unidentified motorcycle-borne men were "following" her two-wheeler and harassing her, the police on Sunday said it has found no evidence to corroborate their claims. Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh and District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar during a press conference on Sunday ruled out harassment or a motorcycle stunt as cause of death. They made it clear that the woman's death was an accident. After going through video footage from eight CCTV cameras, police have not found any evidence of harassment with the woman, they said. On the basis of the SIT's probe, eye-witness accounts and CCTV video footages, the incident is not a case of sexual harassment and Sudiksha's death occurred in a road accident, Kumar said. Singh said that during interrogation, accused Deepak revealed that he is employed with a contractor and on the day the incident occurred he was on his way to a designated site along with Raju. Deepak told police that while the duo was on the road on a bullet motorcycle, they had to suddenly apply the breaks when an autorickshaw and a bullock cart came in its way as a result of which the bike behind them, on which Sudiksha was riding pillion, rammed into their vehicle and she fell on the road. According to police, after the incident came in the limelight Deepak got scared and in order to evade interrogation, he got his bike modified by changing its tyres, silencer and even the vehicle registration number plate that had 'Jat' written on it. Police have recovered the pre-modification parts of the motorcycle including the number plate, they said. They also said the bullet bike was traced after its number was identified from CCTV camera footage. Both the motorcycles -- Deepak's and Raju's as well as the one on which Sudiksha was riding pillion -- were being driven on high speed of approximately 80 kmph and were travelling at a distance from each other, thety said. In order to probe Diksha's death, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed comprising Circle Officer Diksha Singh and two inspectors from the UP Police Crime Branch, the district magistrate said. Police also interrogated the man from whose mobile phone the woman's family was contacted after the accident and he told investigators that it was a case of road mishap and she died on the spot. Police had earlier said some people were "trying to twist the narrative of the incident" by claiming that the woman was being sexually harassed because of which the accident took place. "It appears that after the body reached her Deri Scanar village, some people tried to twist the narrative of the incident. Since the girl had got a huge scholarship package (to study in the US), there could have been thought of demand (for compensation) in the people," Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh had said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-in-sudiksha-bhatis-death-case-police-say-no-evidence-of-harassment-874018.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 recoveries cross 1-lakh mark in Uttar Pradesh||The number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the disease crossed the one lakh-mark in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday even as the state reported 56 more fatalities due to the coronavirus, pushing the death toll to 2,449, an official said. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease now stands at 1,00,432 in Uttar Pradesh and the recovery rate is 65.03 per cent, Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. With the 4,357 fresh cases, the state's Covid-19 tally is now 1,54,418, a bulletin issued by the health department said. However, according to Prasad, the count of fresh cases is 4,454. With 56 more people succumbing to Covid-19, the death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 2,449 in the state, he said. The number of active coronavirus cases stands at 51,537, the official said, adding that the fatality rate of the disease is 1.58 per cent in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-recoveries-cross-1-lakh-mark-in-uttar-pradesh-874019.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Centre to help J&K in establishing public grievance portal in each of its 20 districts||The Centre will assist the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to establish public grievance portal in each of its 20 districts to ensure timely redressal of governance-related complaints, Union Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said on Sunday. In a significant drive to strengthen the ongoing good governance initiatives there, Singh and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha held a telephonic discussion on the plan for the next phase of expansion of the online public grievance redressal portal in the Union Territory, according to an official statement. Following the discussion, Singh immediately convened a meeting of senior officers dealing with public grievances, including secretary of Department of Administrative Reforms and Public grievances (DARPG) Chhatrapati Shivaji and Additional Secretary V Srinivas, it said. A plan was finalised to extend and establish a portal in each district headquarters in Jammu and Kashmir for addressing the grievances of citizens and for providing services seamlessly at their doorstep, the statement issued by the Ministry of Personnel said. To implement this initiative, it has been decided that the DARPG will further enhance the ongoing collaboration with the Jammu and Kashmir administration to revamp its "Awaaz e-Awam" portal with mapping of last mile grievance officers for improved quality of grievance redressal and reduced timelines in effective disposal of cases, it said. Singh said that in pursuance of this endeavour, a focused team of officials from DARPG would be constituted to work with the Jammu and Kashmir government in the coming days. “This initiative is a continuation of a series of sustained efforts by the Union government to create a transparent, accountable and citizen-friendly effective administration in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir in line with the vision outlined by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the statement said. Pertinent to mention, after the conversion of Jammu & Kashmir into a Union Territory, the DARPG had organized two important conferences there on good governance, it said. These include regional conference on replication of good governance practices in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh on November 15-16, 2019 and conference on Ek Bharat-Shresht Bharat with focus on Jal Shakti and Disaster Management on November 30- December 1, 2019, the statement said. Above two conferences convened by the DARPG represented the first important events by the government of India in the newly created Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and laid down a roadmap for good governance there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-help-jk-in-establishing-public-grievance-portal-in-each-of-its-20-districts-874040.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM, other leaders condole former cricketer Chetan Chauhan's death||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and several other leaders in the state on Sunday expressed grief over the death of former Indian cricket team opener Chetan Chauhan. Chauhan, also a minister in the cabinet of the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh, died on Sunday due to Covid-19 related complications at a hospital in Gurugram. "Saddened by the news of sudden demise of former cricketer and cabinet minister in the Uttar Pradesh government, Chetan Chauhan. I pray to God to give peace to the departed soul and strength to his family to bear this loss," the MP chief minister said in a tweet. Madhya Pradesh Assembly's protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra, state BJP chief V D Sharma and several other leaders also mourned the death of Chauhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-other-leaders-condole-former-cricketer-chetan-chauhans-death-874051.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Body of Urdu poet found hanging from pole in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||The body of a 58-year-old Urdu poet was found hanging from a pole in the neighbouring Shamli district with police suspecting it to be a case of suicide, an official said on Sunday. The body of Abdulsami alias Galib Karanvi was found in Kairana town on Saturday evening, said SHO Premvir Rana. The body has been sent for post-mortem and an investigation is underway, the station house officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-urdu-poet-found-hanging-from-pole-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-874060.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab revenue minister tests positive for coronavirus||Punjab Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar has tested positive for coronavirus, a health official said on Sunday. He is now under home isolation and samples of his family members have also been taken for testing, the official said. Kangar had hoisted the national flag in Mansa during Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. A health official said the health teams have been tracing people who came in contact with the minister. Those who were in close contact with Kangar would be tested for Covid-19, said an official. Kangar is the second minister from the state to have contracted coronavirus. Earlier, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-revenue-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-874063.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 recovery rate in Delhi improves by over 40% in almost a month||The coronavirus recovery rate in Delhi has improved to more than 90 percent on Sunday, with 652 new cases and 1,310 recoveries being reported in the last 24 hours, authorities said. Eight more deaths due to the disease took the toll to 4,196, according to the health bulletin. This is the second time in a week that the daily number of deaths has dropped below 10. On August 11, Delhi had recorded eight Covid-19 deaths, indicating a significant improvement in the situation. The tally has risen to 1,52,580 cases, of which 1,37,561 have recovered -- a recovery rate of 90.15 per cent. There are 10,823 active cases, including 5,762 under home isolation, the bulletin said. It added that 10,709 more tests were conducted, raising the total to 13,02,120 -- 68,532 tests per million population. The positivity rate in the last 24 hours stood at 6.08 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-delhi-improves-by-over-40-in-almost-a-month-874068.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Congress MLA seeks Bharat Ratna for M S Dhoni||A Congress MLA from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday demanded Bharat Ratna honour for cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni, a day after the latter announced his retirement from international cricket after an illustrious career. "The country's gem great Mahendra Singh Dhoni should be given Bharat Ratna," the MLA P C Sharma tweeted. He said Dhoni has made Indian cricket proud internationally with victories. "Dhoni is the Bharat Ratna of sports. He has lifted the country's name high in cricket, so he should be conferred with the highest civilian honour," the former minister told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mla-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-m-s-dhoni-874070.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 in India is now 200-day-old, as death toll crosses 50,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll crossed the 50,000-mark in India on Sunday, the 200th day of the pandemic striking the nation. India took 156 days to cross the 50,000-mark, whereas the USA did it in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. The first Covid-19 death in India happened more than one and a half months after the first case was reported in Kerala. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, is miles ahead in death count as more than 19,500 persons have died there due to novel coronavirus. As per the DH Covid-19 tracker, the toll in the western state (19,749) is more than the combined toll of the next five states – Tamil Nadu (5,766), Delhi (4,196), Karnataka (3,831), Uttar Pradesh (2,393) and West Bengal (2,377). Mizoram is the only state without any Covid-19 death whereas one death has been reported in Sikkim. “India has one of the lowest mortality globally. The case fatality rate stands at 1.93% as of Sunday,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. The maximum case fatality rate of 3.33% was reported on June 18. A closer look shows only three states have a fatality rate higher than the national average – Gujarat (3.56%), Maharashtra (3.38%) and Madhya Pradesh (2.46%). “While India’s death rate is one of the lowest globally, breaching the 50,000-mark is significant. In absolute numbers, this may seem low, but the human aspect is not to be trivialized,” Oommen John George, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. “We have unfortunately lost a significant number of health care professionals and those on frontlines like the police personnel. Behind each of these numbers, there is a person, so we need to do everything that we can to keep everyone safe particularly those on the front lines.” With more than 63,000 fresh cases, India's tally of positive cases now inches towards 26 lakh-mark, out of which around 7 lakh are active cases. India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new cases of the infection. Public health specialists observed India was quick in translating emerging evidence into clinical guidelines, which may have a role in keeping the death toll low compared to several other countries. “In most clinical settings dexamethasone is being used where indicated, as soon as the results of Recovery trials were published regarding the role of the medicine in improving survival. It was quickly implemented in India,” John said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-in-india-is-now-200-day-old-as-death-toll-crosses-50000-mark-874075.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||4G mobile Internet services restored in 2 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on trial basis||High-speed mobile Internet services were restored on a trial basis in one district each in Kashmir and Jammu regions over a year after the facility was suspended, according to an official order on Sunday. The resumption of 4G Internet services on mobile devices came days after the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that a special committee looking into the matter was considering allowing the facility on a trial basis in two districts of the Union Territory. According to the order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir home department, the high-speed mobile data services will be restored in Ganderbal district of Kashmir and Udhampur of Jammu region with immediate effect. The order shall remain valid till September 8 next month, it said. The order said that high-speed Internet will be provided to post-paid subscribers while pre-paid customers would be able to enjoy the benefit of the services only after completing the verification process. The rest of Jammu and Kashmir will enjoy only 2G services. Internet services were snapped in Jammu and Kashmir before the Centre's announcement on August 5 last year that the special status of the state would be abrogated and it would be split into two Union Territories. Later, low-speed Internet services were restored in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4g-mobile-internet-services-restored-in-2-districts-of-jammu-and-kashmir-on-trial-basis-874077.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Bihar remains in the grip of flood||Bihar continued to be in the grip of flood on Sunday with the number of affected people increasing by about 12,500 people in 24 hours taking the total to 81,44,356 in 16 districts though casualties remained static, a bulletin of the state disaster management department said. No fresh district was affected by the flood on Sunday and 33 teams of NDRF and SDRF have evacuated 5.46 lakh people so far, it said. A total 1,310 panchayats in 130 blocks under 16 districts have been affected by the deluge, which has so far claimed 25 lives, the bulletin said. The number of people affected on Saturday was 8,13,1841 in these districts. Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur remained the two most affected districts where 20.61 lakh and 18.98 lakh people respectively have been affected by the floods. They are followed by East Champaran where 10.19 lakh people have been hit. The other affected districts are Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Gopalganj, West Champaran, Khagaria, Saran, Samastipur, Siwan, Madhubani, Madhepura and Saharsa. Darbhanga reported 11 deaths, Muzaffarpur six, West Champaran four and Saran and Siwan two each, it said. Of the total 10 relief centres, Samastipur alone has nine, while Khagaria has only one. A total 12,670 people are staying in 10 relief camps and 5.85 lakh people are being provided food in 723 community kitchens in the affected districts, the bulletin said. A water resource department bulletin said Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Punpun, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra are flowing above their danger levels at several places in the state, while the water level of Ganga is flowing above its danger level at all places in Bihar including in Buxar, Hathidah, Munger, Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon, Digha ghat and Gandhi ghat (both in Patna). All embankments under the department are safe, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-remains-in-the-grip-of-flood-874084.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Several Muslims from Shaheen Bagh join Delhi BJP||Several members of the minority Muslim community from Shaheen Bagh area, that was the centre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests here, joined the BJP on Sunday in the presence of its Delhi unit leaders, said a party statement. The induction ceremony took place in the presence of president of the BJP's Delhi unit Adesh Gupta and national vice-president and incharge of Delhi unit Shyam Jaju, it said. "The enthusiasm with which Muslim brothers and sisters are joining BJP clearly shows that people of all religions have faith in the Modi government," Gupta said on the occassion at the Delhi BJP office. "Social worker Shahzad Ali, gynecologist Dr Mehreen, former AAP worker Tabassum Hussain along with a large number of Muslim brothers and sisters joined the Bharatiya Janata Party," said the Delhi BJP statement. Ali, former Delhi unit secretary of Rashtriya Ulema Council, told PTI, "A narrative has been set by many parties in the past seven decades that BJP is the enemy of Muslims. I think you will have to go to BJP to find out if its your enemy or friend. We received a warm welcome from party leaders today and look up to work with them like any other party worker."   Delhi BJP leader Nighat Abbas said the people who joined the party are residents of the Shaheen Bagh area. There is a "myth" that Muslims are "averse" to the BJP which stands dispelled by people from the minority community joining the party, she said. Welcoming the new entrants to the party fold, Delhi BJP president said the public welfare schemes of the BJP government at the Centre do not focus on any religion or caste but give equal benefits to all.  "The BJP has never done any work on the basis of caste and religion but there are some parties which have scared Muslim communities and deprived them of education, employment and development and used them for vote bank," he said.  The BJP government has worked to end social evils and has also ended the practice of triple talaq to empower the Muslim woman, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-muslims-from-shaheen-bagh-join-delhi-bjp-874103.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Ensure social distancing is maintained during competitive exams: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to ensure huge gatherings are not allowed during the entrance and competitive examinations in the state. He said that more examination centres should be established if the need arises. Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash visited a centre where the examination for the post of the Block Education Officer was being held and directed officials that only a few students should be allowed to sit a room so that social distancing norms are followed. The district magistrate said it will be mandatory for the candidates to wear face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-social-distancing-is-maintained-during-competitive-exams-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-874113.html
16-08-2020||North and Central||Nishad Party MLA Vijay Mishra sent to 14-day judicial custody in Uttar Pradesh||A Bhadohi court on Sunday sent Nishad Party MLA Vijay Mishra to 14-day judicial custody. He was taken to the Naini Central Jail. Bhadohi’s Gyanpur MLA was arrested in a case of criminal intimidation and wrongful confinement lodged by his relative against him, his wife Ramlali Mishra, a member of the state legislative council, and son Vishnu Mishra. Their relative had accused them of land grab after threatening him. Bhadohi Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said the MLA was presented before the court of Judicial Magistrate Alok Kumar. He was remanded in 14-day of judicial custody, the SP said. The SP said the jailor of the district jail, Ashok Kumar Gautam, had informed that the MLA “was not safe” there, following which he was taken to the Naini Central Jail. The DM has issued orders to shift the MLA to central jail, he said. A police team from Bhadohi had on Saturday arrested Mishra, detained by the Madhya Pradesh Police in Agar Malwa on its request. Mishra was detained by the MP Police on Friday while he was on his way to Kota in Rajasthan via Ujjain.   The SP said after arresting the MLA, the UP Police team led by DSP Kalu Singh produced him in a court at Madhya Pradesh’s Agar Malwa and brought him to Bhadohi on a transit remand. Vijay Mishra, his wife Ramlali Mishra and son Vishnu Mishra were booked under Sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 347 (wrongful confinement), 387 (putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 449 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The MLA currently has 73 cases registered against him and has been booked under the Goonda Act and the stringent National Security Act in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nishad-party-mla-vijay-mishra-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-in-uttar-pradesh-874120.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||A Ludlum-esque affair: What if it was Putin all along?||Now, let me start by confessing that this piece, unlike my previous ones in these columns, is not based on hard, ascertainable facts or generally known information. This is a figment of my imagination. The characters and incidents in this are real, but the rest is, well, straight out of a Robert Ludlum novel (although I’m not going to reveal the full plot developing in my mind). Blame my imagination running riot on Vladimir Putin, who announced last week that Russian scientists had made the world’s first vaccine against the Coronavirus Sars-CoV-2. My conjecture: The world is blaming China for the worldwide pandemic, with the Americans saying that the virus is a man-made one, developed in a laboratory in Wuhan, released accidentally or deliberately. What if it was actually Vladimir whodunnit! What if it was Russia that had the virus, and the antidote ready, all along A credible announcement of a vaccine against this damn virus is something the whole world desperately awaits each day. And this one came from the President of Russia, no less, until recently the core of a Superpower and even now a Great Power, including in its scientific accomplishments. And yet, nobody believed Putin. He must have hoped to shock and awe the world. Instead, it has turned out to be an embarrassment for the strongman, who only recently wrote himself a mandate to rule Russia as long as he likes. Why did no one believe Putin? For one, the vaccine has not been put through Phase 3 trials. Worse, Putin’s vaccine is said to have undergone Phase 2 trials, with just 76 people, but Russia has not shared the data with the world. Confronted with this crisis of credibility, Putin did something truly in the style of the ever-suspicious Stalin. He had the very scientists who developed the vaccine given the shot first, and his own daughter, too. Everybody but himself. Alright, you may say, Putin may not have the vaccine, and should not have sought glory by making the claim. But to then say that it was Putin himself who was waging the Coronavirus war on the world is a stretch, and self-contradicting, too. I completely agree. But consider the possibility that Putin’s vaccine actually works. Then, what is the probability that his scientists managed to make the vaccine in a matter of only months after human beings first came to know of the virus? And what is the probability that they actually already had the vaccine ready before the virus hit the world? Think about it and all that it impies. Russia has a long history of developing undetectable poisons, chemical, radiation and biological agents. From the Soviet Union, Russia inherited a secret Cold War-era programme called Biopreparat, started in 1973 in violation of the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention, which the USSR had signed. Biopreparat’s 18 labs developed and weaponised tons of anthrax, ebola, smallpox and other agents, even ebolapox (ebola plus smallpox!). Most importantly, it also weaponised Influenza viruses. In 1979, deadly anthrax spores escaped from Compound 19 in Sverdolovsk (now, Ekaterinburg), killing at least 66 people. Soviet officials had then said that tainted meat from the city’s black market had caused the outbreak of a disease that caused the deaths. Sounds familiar? It was only last year that American researchers managed – 40 years after the incident -- to put together the genetic sequence of the strain that had escaped Compound 19. It was a shocking finding: The Soviets had altered an anthrax vaccine strain to make it a vaccine-resistant bioweapon with just a few genetic changes! But, does Putin have the ruthlessness it takes? Under Putin, Russian defectors to the West, especially his former KGB colleagues, have been regular targets of assassination, suspected to be directed from the Kremlin itself. The most frightening such incident occurred in Salisbury, UK, in 2018 when former KGB agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were poisoned with Novichok, a deadly chemical nerve agent developed by the Soviet Union during the Cold War, and which was not supposed to exist in 2018. A spoonful of Novichok is deadly enough to cause thousands of deaths. The bid to kill a former KGB agent put the whole city of Salisbury and its nearly 50,000 people at risk of death by poisoning. But it did not matter to those behind Skripal’s death. Does Putin have the motivation? Well, Putin, more than anyone else, has been driven by the idea of restoring Russia’s world status. The name Putin gave the vaccine – Sputnik V -- gave the game away. He wanted to recreate the glory of the USSR of October 4, 1957. Unfortunately for him, the world was underwhelmed. Of course, as I said, this is all a figment of my imagination. Conspiracy theories are usually just that. And I hope mine is, too. But you can be certain that intelligence agencies around the world are thinking since Putin launched Sputnik V, and putting two and two together. The Chinese have accused America of having planted the virus in Wuhan during the World Military Games there last October. Their ‘evidence’ – the US contingent performed so indifferently (for a grand medal tally of 0 gold, 3 silver, 8 bronze, to China’s 133 gold and Russia’s 51 gold) that “they must have been doing something else” in Wuhan. On the other hand, there is much evidence to point fingers at China, at least for the spread of the virus, if not its origin. Srikanth Kondapalli, whose column is right below this one, has co-authored and edited an entire book on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-ludlum-esque-affair-what-if-it-was-putin-all-along-873842.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||Beijing is focusing the heat on Hong Kong||India is warily watching China’s moves in Hong Kong, aimed at subverting its autonomy in law and order, media, local administration and financial strength of the metropolitan island. With enormous powers given to its “secret police” deployed in Hong Kong, China is threatening to implement its policies and has begun arresting citizens. This has enormous impact on the nearly 40,000 Indian expatriates living in Hong Kong. China’s policies continue to destabilise Hong Kong. This time around, it is through the enactment of a new national security law by China’s parliament that is intended to punish crimes of separatism, collusion with foreign forces, subversion, terrorism and secession, its implementation from June 30 and the quick arrests of democracy activists and media personnel. Even a foreigner living in a foreign country who advocates independence for Hong Kong can be arrested in Hong Kong and sentenced to life imprisonment. Jimmy Lai, the publisher of the liberal newspaper and the largest circulating Apple Daily, and a proponent of democracy in Hong Kong was arrested on suspicion of colluding with foreigners. His crime was to have met the US Vice President Mike Pence in July 2019. Thirty others were arrested on similar charges or for displaying pro-democracy slogans, including the young pro-democracy activist Agnes Chow (arrested a fourth time) turning the political atmosphere on the island tense and uncertain. This new wave of arrests has created uncertainty in the global financial, transport and services hub in the Indo-Pacific. Beijing is sending a signal through these arrests that it is going to implement the 19th Communist Party Congress resolution of 2017 of “six no’s”, namely, “anyone, any organization, any political party, at any time or in any form, to separate any part of Chinese territory from China”. It was meant to be applied for Taiwan, but as the stalemate ensued over it due to US support to Taipei, China’s ire is now directed against Hong Kong. China did promise to implement “one country, two systems” in Hong Kong through the 1980s negotiations with the UK, with pledges of substantial autonomy in law and order, local administration, finances and other areas. It also promised to implement universal suffrage. However, it soon began emphasising on the “one country” (i.e. China) centralisation aspects, than on “two systems” (respecting the promised autonomy of Hong Kong). China’s interference in Hong Kong was opposed tooth and nail by the island’s populace. China’s language imposition, “patriotic education” policies, tweaking of Article 23 to curb freedoms, slow progress in observing universal suffrage, attempt to impose Extradition Law last year and deteriorating socio-economic conditions in the light of influx of capital and labour from China have all been opposed. On the latter, Hong Kong media reported about one Chua Hwa-por (Cai Huabo), a Singapore citizen and son-in-law of the third-ranking Politburo Standing Committee member of the Communist Party Li Zhanshu, linking him to real-estate deals in Hong Kong. Local press reported that Chua was infected with Covid-19 and Li Zhanshu sent a plane to fetch him to Beijing recently. Global response has been critical, given the draconian nature of the new security law. The US ended its special trading relationship with Hong Kong which is expected to be harsh on the latter in terms of attracting business and financial services. Besides, it imposed travel ban on Hong Kong officials. Canada, which has one of the largest numbers of expatriates, has taken pro-active measures, while the UK announced granting of citizenship to Hong Kong people. While China recently mooted a plan to recruit Gorkhas in Nepal for strengthening its mountain warfare capabilities against India in the light of India-China border incidents, Beijing, on the other hand, has left the Gorkhas in Hong Kong high and dry. Many Gorkhas, as a result, shifted to the UK. Interestingly, shedding its usual cautious approach towards China, India began voicing concerns over the Hong Kong developments. India’s envoy to UN institutions in Geneva Rajiv Kumar Chander made a statement in early July at the third meeting of the 44th Regular Session Human Rights Council, noting “several statements expressing concerns” on the situation in Hong Kong and stated: “We hope the relevant parties will take into account these views and address them properly, seriously and objectively.” He underlined the presence of the large Indian community in Hong Kong and their well-being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/beijing-is-focusing-the-heat-on-hong-kong-873843.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||Resurrecting the Teacher||Whatever its ills, wordiness isn’t one with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. As I went through its 65-odd pages, the writing instructor inside me woke up. In its structuring, paragraphing, clarity, use of the active tense, and in developing and deploying the multiple-clause long sentence for its contents, NEP 2020 is some work, given the bureaucratic arms it springs from: Public documents epitomise opacity. If the government of India’s policy writers were students in my writing class, they’d have failed many times in the past. But for the chops on show with this, they’d pass with flying colours. NEP 2020 even uses (accurately) informal words like “icebreaker” and phrases like “light but tight” to explain key imperatives. Very nice. While it’s high on purpose, as some experts have noted, and purports to put the teacher-student equation at the forefront of our educational reinvention, there’s much about the present state of the school, college, university teaching community, that it only touches upon or doesn’t face up to at all. Like all good intentions, it says all the right things – which is easy – and words them well. On many of our entrenched predicaments, it gives a nod, or glances by. Could NEP 2020 have done anything else? I wonder. Why is public education a mess? Because, like public health, it hasn’t been a national priority. What are national priorities? In our country, they are electoral issues. And since health or education have never been polarising matters that can swing results in our polls, they don’t command the budgetary outlay from the Centre or state the way other matters do. There are exceptions to this view, but broadly it’s sad but true. In a democracy, one assumes public education or health to be permanent priorities. India has protests over farm distress, religious persecution, anti-women violence, caste discrimination and affirmative action – all valid concerns and electoral ones. How are we to view the lack of pushback over quality education? Historically, they have happened over reservations or examination modes for entrance tests. The uproar is over some aspect of education and not education per se. Why? That education (and even health) don’t find a mass pull is so paradoxical for a society that prides on its brains abroad. When life for common Indians is a struggle, why wouldn’t they be inured by low public standards? By design and purpose, under democracy, for large parts of its past, India has been under-educated, under-fed, under-cared for in health. Vested interests, forming a complex web with government machinery, steer our public goods. Only in such an environment do Covid-19-infected ministers in power admit themselves to private hospitals, while lauding public healthcare, and get away with it. In education, the coaching class is a conscious creation, not an anomaly. The NEP 2020 aims to foreground the teacher. But there’s no escaping the past and present. Consider the career arc of a public university teacher in the country’s capital. In Delhi University, there are numerous colleges that practically run on the “ad-hoc” and “guest” faculty system. Pedigreed teachers with doctoral degrees, published papers in noted peer reviewed journals and years of teaching, don’t have tenure. Often, they work without benefits, at one point not even maternity benefits. By August 2019, there were at least 7,500 vacant posts for teachers across all centrally funded institutions, including universities. This backlog has continued for eons. Why so? In any functional democracy, this would and should create a furore. Why are hundreds of teachers being deliberately kept out of jobs or are under-employed? How are these universities run? Where is the money spent? Something similar obtains in public and state school education in many parts of India. The NEP 2020’s aims will meet ground realities very soon. So many of the things it envisions, like teacher training, pedagogy advancement, active learning, mean more work on an underpaid, overburdened, insecure and unhappy teaching community. This work won’t happen till existing teachers are recognised, their efforts acknowledged, raises and promotions given, tenures granted. Only a happy and inspired teacher wants to make the effort to self-improve. If the NEP 2020 doesn’t win the trust of the teaching community through work security, promotions, skill development, ensuring good positive learning and work conducive environments in most villages, towns, districts or wards, it can kiss education reform goodbye. This problem parallels what ails police reform. Till the police force, like teachers, don’t get tangible forms of confidence and assurance from top leadership, even the sweetest policy document won’t make any difference. The NEP 2020 is an elaborate, nice try.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/resurrecting-the-teacher-873844.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||When you can no longer mute their loss of livelihood||The drive from Kochi to Palakkad was a relief because after months of being at home during the lockdown it was good to be out, driving. It was a relief to see the world existed around me just as I had last seen it. That drizzly morning last week, the air was fresh and the roads endless and wide because I was the only one there for miles. I will take the liberty to say, it was bliss. For once, I didn’t think about how the day would unfold or how I wanted it to. I was just going to enjoy this day which, at this point, felt profound, euphoric and surreal for the reasons above. Little did I know that the drive back would be equally profound, but for very different reasons. I was going to Ramdampuzha, a tiny village of about 20 families, to see how Covid-19 has affected the livelihoods of people, most of whom here are daily wage workers. There was Radha, with her two boys – 17 and 11. Her sister, who has mental health challenges, also lives with her. Radha’s husband left her 10 years ago. He was an alcoholic and abusive. Radha is the only one who works, earns about ₹300 a day, doing any work she can get – tapping rubber trees; carrying wood from the plantations in the hills down to the estate; harvesting pineapples when it’s season. There’s been no work for months. The nearest town is 20 kilometres away and there are no buses. They’ve been eating kanji or rice gruel and now it’s running out. There’s Jomol. When I knock at her door, I hear the sound of water. I walk around to see a furious puzha or river running along the house. The water is clear and pure. Jomol lives there with her elderly grandparents, younger brother and mother. Her father left them when she was three. She’s never heard from him. Her mum, also a daily wage worker, supports this family of five with Rs 6,000 a month if she works 10 hours a day, every single day of the month. The puzha roars. I get a fright. Nights are scary, she tells me. When it rains, the river often floods. There have been countless nights when Jomol, all of 17 years, has had to run out of the house at night to seek shelter with a neighbour. But there’s nowhere else to go. I think of monsoon nights when we order in hot cozy dinners at home; when Jomol is running away from her home for survival. I could go on about so many others I met. I’ll tell you about one more. Sijo grows rubber. He tells me about the time he planted a thousand rubber trees. Elephants and deer love the sweetness of the latex. Year after year, the animals would come down to his plantation and destroy the trees – 900 of them. Sijo considered suicide. Now, he’s a carpenter. He chose to change his profession rather than harm the animals. You know, it’s one thing to see reports on your telly of how people have no money to put food on the table and feel sorry for their plight for a minute or two. It’s quite another to actually witness the struggle yourself, not knowing whether you’re just luckier. And wonder whether to be grateful for all that you have or whether you can ever do enough to help. The drive back to Kochi was as profound as the journey to Palakkad. But for very different reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-you-can-no-longer-mute-their-loss-of-livelihood-873846.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||Besotted with the ‘Bad Boys’||It’s nice to be an expert. Whenever so-called experts cannot explain a phenomenon, they can coin their bafflement into a brand-new syndrome. And sometimes, serendipitously, on-point. The ‘Bad Boy Syndrome’ is one such. In a 2019 paper, Ahir Gopaldasa of New York’s Fordham University, and Susanna Molanderb of the Stockholm School of Economics Institute for Research interpret the Bad Boy as “a combination of juvenile masculinities (aggression, rebellion, hypersexuality), appealing qualities (charisma, ruggedness, sensitivity), and moral ambiguities (confusion, contradiction, and cumulation), which keep audiences engaged.” But the Syndrome became a ‘thing’ in 2008 when researcher Peter Jonason led a small but signalling study with university students on the link between their “dark triad traits” and their success with the opposite sex. As it happens, Bad Boys remain unblemished, scoring serial ‘victories’ despite the dominance of three stark traits — narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy — and many Good Girls fall for these boys, not in spite of but because of these same serious faults. Hindsight being 2020, the ‘Bad Boy Syndrome’ was what I was afflicted with the first boy I dated. The only legitimate claim to fame this Bad Boy boasted was that he was captain of the school basketball team. Otherwise, his inventory of infamy was long and well documented, especially in the number of ‘Fail’ scores on his report card. It would now take midlife me just one good look at him to figure out that Bad Boy had either started kindergarten at his leisure or ‘revised’ entire grades, but then, I didn’t even think to wonder. Bad Boy was not handsome or even passably pleasant. He could barely string a coherent sentence in any language, least of all in my mother tongue, English. When he did speak, it was so coarse I wished he hadn’t bothered, and on top of that, his breath smelled, even by today’s physical distancing standards. He had an indecipherable handwriting, and when he attempted to transmit his rather unfinished emotions via hard copy, it was a miserable mishmash of the most popular love songs of the time, patently plagiarised. But I had set my sights on and saved all my sighs for Bad Boy. It took little reciprocity from Bad Boy for me to promptly volunteer for the girls’ basketball team, and therefore voluntarily drag my unequivocally unsporting self to running rounds of a parade ground at 6 AM to then just make googly eyes sat on the side. Quickly, it became well-known that we were betrothed. In dating him for the brief period I did, I had unwittingly declared myself un-date-worthy to anyone half decent. After all, no Nice Guy wanted to be seen with any girl, however excellent she may be, with such terrible taste. Besides, Bad Boy was known to beat up fellow students on violent whims. Gratefully, I recovered at home. With the gentlest handholding by a clever parent, I soon realized that, in addition to all his obvious flaws, Bad Boy’s vision extended only up till his nose. He did, however, have ‘free roaming’ on, and his interest in me ended as soon as I became another ‘conquest’. In fact, every time I visit my dentist, who is a class fellow, and was then a mute but bemused witness to this misalignment, it’s his jaw that still drops at my idiocy while it’s mine that needs to stay wide open. I escaped with no damage done and some life lessons learnt. But we, of Hindustan, are in the vice-like grip of the Bad Boy Syndrome since about six years or thereabouts. Forget everything that has transpired before, but how else but through this can you explain a recent survey by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies and Gaon Connection reporting that 74% of the 25,000 rural Indians they interviewed across 179 districts, many who walked back home from poverty to more poverty, gave a thumbs-up to the government’s handling of Covid-19? How? Thinkers and number crunchers will pontificate their weaselly wisdoms to explain every such double-turn, but now, none of that is even mildly persuasive. All said and done, our addictive devotion to the Bad Boys is inexplicable. It’s a Syndrome. We are now simply reduced to hormonal septuagenarians unable to extricate ourselves from their clutches. The ‘Pappus’, try as they might, will keep failing. And unfortunately, we have no clever Bapu to hold our hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/besotted-with-the-bad-boys-873847.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||Why India wants to claim Kamala Harris||By Shruti Rajagopalan For very different reasons, both Indians and US conservatives are emphasizing Sen. Kamala Harris’s Indian heritage. This shouldn’t be entirely surprising. Indians have always been quick to appropriate successful members of their diaspora. And right-wing commentators and even U.S. President Donald Trump are seeking to spread suspicions about the Democratic vice presidential candidate’s citizenship by emphasizing her mother’s Indian background and father’s Jamaican heritage. In reality, though, Harris is the very definition of American. Indian society still largely believes that identity is determined more by one’s birth and family than by individual choices and actions. Especially for the very large conservative faction in India, caste and religion are assigned at birth, never to be altered. One cannot technically convert to Hinduism. And the caste system, maintained by marriage, ensures very little social mobility. In India, the birth lottery is everything. So, Harris and other U.S. political leaders such as Bobby Jindal and Nikki Haley will always be claimed as “Indian” even though they are American-born and their public service has been devoted almost exclusively to Americans. By contrast, someone like Sonia Gandhi, who has spent more than five decades in India and led the Indian National Congress party successfully through two national elections, is routinely described as “Italian-born” or a “foreigner.” Had Gandhi not married into the first family of India, her political rise would have been impossible. That’s not to say Harris’s Indian roots haven’t fundamentally shaped her. Her mother Shyamala Gopalan was born in India and raised in a Tamil Brahmin family, which likely afforded her the Indian equivalent of white privilege. Because of this Brahminical edge, families such as Shyamala’s (and mine), boast multiple generations of college graduates in a country that has yet to achieve 100% basic literacy. Not unusually for “Tam-Bram” families, Shyamala and all her siblings were encouraged to pursue advanced graduate degrees. In Shyamala’s case, this included a rare opportunity move to the U.S. to attend Berkeley, creating the possibility of joining the Indian-American elite, or what scholars have dubbed “The Other One Percent.” This educational foundation in turn, would have helped ease Harris’s own entry into the ranks of the American elite.   The idea that anyone who comes to this country and works hard can change their fortune is still the essence of America, though. While social mobility is limited in certain demographics, the accident of birth matters less in the U.S. than in almost any other country in the world. The American dream remains a cherished personal and policy goal. What really sets Kamala Harris apart is not the caste or ethnicity of her mother, but the choices her mother made. At 19, Shyamala was relatively young when she came to the US and she quickly became very active in the civil rights movement. That’s how she met and married fellow immigrant Donald J. Harris, who is now professor emeritus of economics at Stanford University. That Shyamala Gopalan married outside her caste and ethnicity would have been extremely unusual for someone of her background in the 1960s. Even more remarkably, she got divorced within a few years. I doubt this was an easy choice. The Brahmins of Besant Nagar, a suburb of Chennai, who are now so eager to claim links to the Gopalans, likely have ancestors that shamed Shyamala’s choice of husband. Only recently another Tamil Brahmin, renowned classical vocalist Sudha Raghunathan, was pilloried when her daughter married an African-American man. In her memoir, Harris writes that her mother also “knew that her adopted homeland would see Maya and me as black girls, and she was determined to make sure we would grow into confident black women.” The two girls sang in a choir at a Black church and learned about Black leaders at a local childcare center. Kamala herself chose to attend historically black Howard University rather than an Ivy League school. Whether this makes her any more or less “Indian” is irrelevant. Identity is a complex thing, even without throwing in immigration, mixed parentage, exogamous marriage and more. Kamala Harris is probably a little of everything she appears to be — and yet the sum of the parts is very different from the components. Like other Brahmin immigrants, she is well-educated, professionally a unicorn and financially successful. But contrary to the expectations of a “Gopalan,” Harris enjoys pork chops. And to her proud Jamaican father’s displeasure, Harris makes jokes about pot-smoking Jamaicans. As the campaign unfolds from here, Harris will have to be careful. Hopefully, the birther slurs will be ignored. But Indians can also turn quickly on those they consider their own when they don’t conform. Any critiques of India’s handling of Kashmir, for instance, will be perceived as those of a traitorous “Indian,” not an American politician. Similarly, many in the Black Lives Matter movement will have trouble reconciling Harris’s identity as a woman of color with her prosecutorial record. Harris no doubt realizes she will never be black enough for some African Americans, or Indian enough for some Indians and Indian Americans. But, as the successful daughter of two successful immigrants, now running for the second-highest office in the land, she couldn’t be any more American.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-wants-to-claim-kamala-harris-873925.html
16-08-2020||Opinion||The last act of an enigma called Dhoni||Sixteen words: that’s all it took Mahendra Singh Dhoni to call time on a glittering sixteen-year-long international career. The statement on Instagram didn’t care for the rules of spelling, grammar, punctuation or poignant endings; it was precise and unsentimentally direct. ‘from 1929 hrs consider me as Retired’. That’s it. That’s all the peak Dhonis rolled into one. The final act mirrored many of his last over finishes. You could almost picture Dhoni gently uprooting a souvenir stump after a last ball win—no leaps of joy, bumping of chests or triumphal howls—walking off the ground like a banker from his desk after shutting down the computer at close of business. At 39, with his powers on the wane, and the ability to biff the ball almost at will not the same as before, Dhoni’s decision shouldn’t have been a surprise. But the intimations of his cricket mortality weren’t loud. Until his last game, Dhoni was among the fittest in the team, the best available white-ball wicket keeper by some distance, and a middle order batting fulcrum whose presence held out hope even when the cause seemed utterly lost. The T20 World Cup in Australia scheduled for this autumn could have been his one last shot at another title. But thanks to the Covid-19-forced delay he’d have had to hang around for another year. He chose not to. He could have hung on for a formal orderly farewell. It’s impossible the BCCI would have turned down the suggestion of a valedictory biosecure T20 International or One-Day International (ODI) to break all television rating records. Dhoni has been subjected to as much pop-sociological analysis as technical and statistical. Yet he remains the most enigmatic figure in Indian cricket. He wasn’t the most gifted or aesthetically satisfying of Indian batsmen. He strode out to the crease like a wrestler into the mud pit holding the bat like an exercise club. Had CLR James watched Dhoni bat, he might have been a bit hesitant in declaring cricket a full member of the community of art. Yet Dhoni retires with the reputation, and statistics to match, as one of the greatest ODI and T20 batsmen of all time. Dhoni had lightning-quick reflexes when it came to stumpings or running batsmen out, but he was hardly a velvet-gloved keeper. Yet, India has struggled to find his replacement in Tests since 2014 and filling the gap in white-ball cricket will be a lot tougher. Of Kumaoni stock, hair streaked golden with a hint of perm, Dhoni came from Ranchi. To borrow Bill Bryson's famous line, somebody in international cricket had to. Yet, he became the most influential vector in Indian and international cricket in the post-Tendulkar and pre-Kohli era. Without Dhoni, the rise and rise of franchised T20 cricket in India and around the world may not have occurred as quickly. His all forearms-and-fast-hands brand of power hitting, what the Australians call the shit-or-bust approach to batting, made him a veritable curiosity in the early days. Yet he soon turned into a middle order pragmatist who prevented more collapses than the Reserve Bank. Not since Stephen Hawking has anyone stretched time quite like Dhoni. He stretched game-time; Dhoni’s simple nostrum was if he batted through to the final ball, his team had a greater chance of winning. He wasn’t a standout captain in the analytical mold of Mike Brearley, a rouser of troops like Imran Khan or a father figure like Clive Lloyd. In Test matches, Dhoni as captain often followed the ball. In ODIs and T20s he took the Arjuna Ranatunga-like attritional approach, using spin as a boa constrictor. He often let his players make their own decisions, like adults, in the age of players being spoon-fed strategic minutiae. Yet, he is the only Indian captain to lay his hands on every piece of ICC silverware. New India, we were told was thrusting, in-your-face, irreverent and hungry for success at any cost. Dhoni possessed an almost Vedantic equipoise that sometimes made him appear detached from the here and now. Even the great Rahul Dravid wasn’t above the occasional display of emotion. Dhoni, it seemed, could sit victory or defeat down for a cup of tea, irrespective of who showed up on the day. Yet, he became the posterface of New India and 24-carat advertising gold. Dhoni’s allegiance to the IPL team Chennai Super Kings, through times clement and grey, even made the Tamils, usually touchy about influences from the north of Basin Bridge, accept him as their undisputed ‘thala’ or headman. Those in the tedious thrall of cricket statistics, will point to players and captains with a far better record than Dhoni. The aesthetes will point to willows from which have flowed more artful runs in bigger volumes. Dhoni in excelsis did not have great mastery over cricket’s core skills but exercised such control over his emotions as few could, and with irrepressible confidence squeezed out every ounce of his talents. To paraphrase his laconic retirement statement, consider MSD as GOAT. (TR Vivek is a Bengaluru-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-last-act-of-an-enigma-called-dhoni-874064.html
16-08-2020||South||Kerala-Karnataka RTC buses to resume for Onam from August 25 to September 6||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (Kerala RTC) is set to resume interstate bus services to and from Karnataka owing to the Onam festival. Kerala RTC announced that the bus services between Kerala and Karnataka will resume between August 25 and September 6 The services are being resumed will strict regulatory protocols. "Travellers are responsible for the restrictions made by the governments of Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on the day of travel. If any passenger disagrees with this, the ticket charge will be refunded," Kerala RTC said. All passengers should have the Arogya Setu app downloaded on their phones and will have to wear a mask throughout the journey.  Here is the full list of the special bus service: Services to Bangalore Services from Bangalore||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-karnataka-rtc-buses-to-resume-for-onam-from-august-25-to-september-6-873901.html
16-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu woman inspector puts father's funeral on hold, leads Independence Day parade||Despite the death of her father, a police inspector led the Independence Day parade, giving primacy for duty and putting his funeral on hold. Suppressing her grief, N Maheswari, an Armed Reserve police inspector led the parade presenting the guard of honour to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish and Police Superintendent N Manivannan at the Palayamkottai voc grounds here. "Though she learnt of her father's death on August 14 night, she went for the funeral only after completing the parade (on Saturday morning) with a sense of patriotism," a police release said. The police department said it was proud of her for placing duty for the country above personal sentiments and grief. Through the parade ceremony, the young officer did not exhibitany emotions of personal loss and led the contingent of police personnel with grace and dignity. The inspector's 83-year old father Narayanasamy died in Dindigul district, over 200 kilometres from here and she left for his last rites after completing her duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-woman-inspector-puts-fathers-funeral-on-hold-leads-independence-day-parade-873921.html
16-08-2020||South||Liberation Day celebrated sans festivity in Puducherry due to Covid-19||The celebration of the 58th Liberation Day of Puducherry was held Sunday without festivity because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy unfurled the tricolour at a memorial at Kizhoor, near here. Kishoor was the venue for the referendum through whichthe four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam under the French regime merged de facto with the Indian Union in 1954. Narayanasamy recalled the role of freedom fighters in getting Puducherry the freedom from the foreign rule. "The Central government has also issued the guidelines to the territorial administration to hold the celebration in a simple manner...," he said Territorial Speaker V P Sivakolundhu and Secretary to Information and Publicity S D Sundaresan were among those who were present. A select number of freedom fighters were felicitated. Puducherry first became free de facto in 1954 and the Treaty of Cession inked then between the French and Indian governments was ratified in French parliament leading to de jure transfer of the French establishments in India to the Indian Union in 1962. All the Indian legislations were extended to Puducherry in 1963. The first election to Assembly was held in 1964 after the Legislature was constituted under the Representation of People Act. The first elected government was installed in office with the Congress assuming power. The late Edouard Goubert, a veteran Congress leader and freedom fighter, was the first Chief Minister of Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liberation-day-celebrated-sans-festivity-in-puducherry-due-to-covid-19-873938.html
16-08-2020||South||Voice of 'dear brother' should echo once again: Tamil Nadu DyCm on S P Balasubrahmanyam||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Sunday prayed for the speedy recovery of renowned singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, on life support after being hospitalised for Covid-19, saying the voice of his "dear brother" should once again echo in the silver screen. Admitted to city-based MGM Healthcare on August 5 after testing positive for the coronavirus, the singer-actor continues to be on life support and stable, the hospital had said on Saturday. In a statement, Panneerselvam, also AIADMK Coordinator, recalled Balasubrahmanyam, popularly known as SPB, crooning the evergreen hit "Ayiram Nilave vaa" for the late Chief Minister and party founder M G Ramachandran in the hit "Adimai Penn" in the 1960s. The singer only tasted success in his career, he said, adding, the former had won the hearts of "lakhs" of fans across the world with his songs. "I was saddened to know he is severely affected by the coronavirus," he said. A song sung by Balasubrahmanyam welcoming the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa would be played in all party meetings, he recalled. "I pray God Almighty dear that brother S P Balasubrahmanyam should recover soon and return home and his honey-like voice should once again echo in the silver screen," Panneerselvam added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/voice-of-dear-brother-should-echo-once-again-tamil-nadu-dycm-on-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-873943.html
16-08-2020||South||Twelve missing even ten days after landslide; radars to be used to locate missing persons||As many as 12 more persons were missing at the landslide hit Pettimudi near Munnar in Kerala even ten days after the landslide, forcing authorities to seek service of radars as well as tribal youths of the locality who are more aware of the terrain. After a gap of two days, two bodies were recovered on Sunday. Both bodies were found about five kilometres away from the landslide spot, taking the total deaths to 58. District collector N Dinesh said that service of radars from National Institute of Ocean Technology in Chennai was sought for carrying out the search. It is likely to be brought in a day or two. Service of local tribal youths, who are very well aware of the terrain of the locality, especially the nearby river, was also being roped in for the search. Many bodies were recovered from the river and hence the search is now focusing mainly in the river. Sniffer dogs were also being used. With all members of many families were victimised in the landslide, there could be confusion over distribution of assistance of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh announced by the centre and state governments respectively for the dependents of the deceased. Hence the district administration has assigned a special team to expedite steps for identifying the legal heirs and issuing the legal heir certificates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/twelve-missing-even-ten-days-after-landslide-radars-to-be-used-to-locate-missing-persons-873962.html
16-08-2020||South||Covid-19: Intense 'Sunday' lockdown shuts Tamil Nadu||Only health care services and milk supplies were operational as Tamil Nadu implemented a complete lockdown on Sunday with people staying at their homes and roads getting deserted. Cargo vehicles alone could be seen on roads while police put up barricades and set up check posts across the State to check violations for effective implementation of the curbs. A state police release here said Rs 20.61 crore fine has so far been levied against violators and 6.81 lakh vehicles seized for violations. Flouting of norms was reported from a couple of places of the state by some shopkeepers, who opened their stores defying the intense shutdown guidelines. The action was taken, including against a few outlets that sold fish in Virudhunagar district. The complete lockdown, effective since last month on all Sundays saw the closure of fuel pumps, markets and stores selling essential commodities, while officials inspected their jurisdictional localities to check violations.  Government-run TASMAC liquor outlets which reopened in May across Tamil Nadu, barring Chennai, after the closure on March 24, were also closed today like previous Sundays. Amma Canteens and health care services - hospitals, pharmacies and labs- were open and sanitary workers went on with their clean up work. Personnel of civic bodies conducted door to door surveys to detect people with flu-like symptoms in addition to fever camps and disinfection tasks were not halted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-intense-sunday-lockdown-shuts-tamil-nadu-873964.html
16-08-2020||South||Onam season poses fresh challenge to Kerala's Covid-19 fight||With the Onam festival season of Kerala emerging and lockdown norms being relaxed, Kerala is keeping fingers crossed as the likelihood of huge crowds at commercial streets is making social distancing impractical. The state was still witnessing a spike in Covid-19 with 1,530 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while 1,099 recovered, taking the total active cases to 15,310. As many as ten deaths were reported taking the total deaths to 156. A prisoner also died due to Covid-19, while a total to 360 prisoners have so far tested positive. Onam festival is from August 30 to September 2 and the state witnesses huge business during this season. A total lockdown in state capital, which is still witnessing a spike in Covid-19, was lifted by Saturday. On Sunday, the maximum Covid-19 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, with 519 positive reports. A shop at Kottayam district in Kerala was caught up in a row after it reportedly gave a money back offer. Cases were registered against some shops, including a major home appliances shop in Kottayam district, for not following social distancing norms. Government sources said that the decision to relax lockdown norms was taken mainly considering widespread opinion that total lockdown was not able to contain Covid-19. Hence the government is now giving more focus on social distancing strategies through creating awareness and stringent enforcement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/onam-season-poses-fresh-challenge-to-keralas-covid-19-fight-874023.html
16-08-2020||South||Flood havoc continues in Andhra Pradesh districts, SDRF deployed||The swollen Godavari river continued to cause flood havoc in East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as tens of villages lay marooned even as three teams of State Disaster Response Force have been deployed for rescue and relief operations. Two teams of SDRF personnel have been deployed in West Godavari and one in the East. One more team of SDRF is also being moved to Rajamahendravaram. The second warning signal has been raised after the floodwater discharge at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowaleswaram crossed 14.84 lakh cusecs. The East Godavari district administration moved over 2,000 people to four relief camps under Rampachodavaram and Yetapaka divisions, according to the State Disaster Management Authority. No casualties or damages to houses have been reported yet while enumeration of crop loss has to be taken up. Devipatnam is the worst hit as 36 villages in the mandal were fully marooned. Besides road connectivity, power supply to these villages too has been cut off. East Godavari district Collector Muralidhar Reddy said 32 special teams have been constituted to oversee rescue and relief operations in the affected mandals and villages. The SDRF teams brought in boats and other equipment to evacuate people to safety. A team of the National Disaster Response Force from Visakhapatnam is also being moved to Yetapaka in East Godavari district. In West Godavari, over 38 villages under Polavaram, Velerupadu and Kukkunoor mandals remained cut off due to the flood surge. The Kademma outfall sluice near Polavaram remained submerged as a result of which agriculture fields in tens of acres downstream got inundated. Meanwhile, the Prakasam Barrage on river Krishna at Vijayawada received a flow of 1.56 lakh cusecs on Sunday and the authorities discharged 1.25 lakh cusecs into the sea. Incessant rains in the last three days caused heavy flooding from Muniyeru rivulet, filling the Prakasam Barrage to the brim (3.07 tmc ft). As the flood flow is expected to increase, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V Prasanna Venkatesh asked people residing in low-lying areas downstream the barrage to take adequate precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-havoc-continues-in-andhra-pradesh-districts-sdrf-deployed-874031.html
16-08-2020||South||Karnataka-Kerala border roads opened for inter-state travel||The Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka has opened all border roads to Kasaragod district in Kerala, allowing inter-state travel of daily commuters with some regulations related to Covid-19 norms. As per the new order of Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner K V Rajendra, the commuters would have to secure monthly passes from the local gram panchayat, municipality or town panchayat for their daily travel. They are also directed to record the details at the checkpost on entering and exiting the border. The travellers would also have to undergo medical check-up and screening at the checkpost. Those from Kerala who want to stay in Dakshina Kannada are required to get a pass from Seva Sindhu App and travel via Talapady and Jalsoor checkposts besides following quarantine guidelines of the Karnataka government. Meanwhile, Kasaragod district administration, while allowing passes for inter-state travel, has made RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) Covid-19 test mandatory for commuters once in 21 days for inter-state travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-kerala-border-roads-opened-for-inter-state-travel-874062.html
16-08-2020||South||Liquor outlets to reopen in Chennai after nearly 5 months||After a gap of nearly five months, state-run TASMAC retail liquor outlets would reopen here and in suburbs from August 18, the Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday. The liquor shops would be open from 10 am to 7 pm and only 500 tokens shall be issued per day to consumers, a government release quoting Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), the sole retailer of Indian made foreign liquor in the state, said. "All those visiting the liquor shops must compulsorily wear face masks and maintain social distancing," it said adding outlets located in containment zones and malls would not be opened. Barring shops in Chennai and other suburban areas falling under the jurisdiction of Greater Chennai Police, liquor outlets in the rest of Tamil Nadu were reopened on May 7. Liquor outlets were not opened here in May in view of a relatively high number of Covid-19 cases during that period of time. The announcement comes at a time when the state capital has been witnessing a drop in coronavirus cases. TASMAC shops were closed on March 24 evening across Tamil Nadu including Chennai when the lockdown was imposed for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-outlets-to-reopen-in-chennai-after-nearly-5-months-874080.html
16-08-2020||South||Rebel Andhra Pradesh YSR Congress MP alleges phone tapping; Writes to Centre||Rebel MP of the ruling YSR Congress K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju on Sunday alleged his two mobile phones were being illegally tapped for the past few months by the state Intelligence authorities of Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to Union Home Secretary A K Bhalla, the Lok Sabha member from Narsapuram, also alleged he was getting threatening calls from strange numbers displaying codes of Romania, Denmark, Switzerland, South Korea and Spain. "Kindly instruct the authorities concerned to investigate from when my phones are being tapped and identify the persons responsible for such criminal activities, the MP requested the Home Secretary. For the last few months, I am getting frequent disturbances and noises in my mobile phones and I reliably learnt that our state Intelligence department is tapping my phones, which is a blatant violation of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution," he said in the letter, accessed by PTI. Referring to the various parliamentary committees of which he is a member, Raju said there would be confidential and classified information shared and discussed in telephonic conversations with colleague MPs and Parliament staff. Any leak of such confidential information would not only be a serious impediment to the performance of my duties and obligations but also would be detrimental to national interest, the MP, who is also chairman of the Parliamentary Sub-Committee on Subordinate Legislation, averred. Raju had been critical of the YSRC for some time now and had a verbal spat with the party legislators from West Godavari district. The YSRC has approached the Lok Sabha Speaker seeking his disqualification while Raju got Y category security cover from the Central Armed Police Force after petitioning the Union Home Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rebel-andhra-pradesh-ysr-congress-mp-alleges-phone-tapping-writes-to-centre-874099.html
16-08-2020||South||Lord Ayyappa temple opens for monthly poojas sans devotees||The famous Lord Ayyappa temple here opened on Sunday on the eve of the monthly five-day poojas for the Malayalam month of Chingam but the bar on the devotees' entry will continue as per Covid-19 health protocol. The temple will remain open till August 21 and only the usual rituals will be conducted, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which manages the hill shrine, said. However, devotees will not be allowed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The TDB, in a release, also said the temple will again open for Onam poojas from August 29 to September 2. The board has already said devotees to the shrine will have to carry Covid-19 negative certificates for darshan, when the temple opens for the over two-month-long pilgrim season from November 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lord-ayyappa-temple-opens-for-monthly-poojas-sans-devotees-874100.html
16-08-2020||South||Congress protests demolition of religious places at Secretariat||The Telangana unit of the Congress will wage a legal battle and hold state-wide protests against the alleged demolition of places of worship on the Secretariat premises here, a senior party leader said on Sunday. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP of Nalgonda N Uttam Kumar Reddy accused the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of hurting the religious sentiments by allegedly ordering the demolition of the religious structures. The TPCC chief further accused Rao of lying to the people on the issue by claiming that some damage was caused to the places of worship when some debris of other structures in the Secretariat fell on them during the demolition of the old Secretariat. According to Uttam Kumar Reddy, the state government is not empowered to demolish religious structures as they are protected under various laws. "The Congress party will file a criminal complaint against those involved and responsible for the demolition. All other legal steps will be taken to pursue the case at a higher level. A state-wide agitation will be organised against the demolition," he said in a statement. Uttam Kumar Reddy also condemned AIMIM leaders Asaduddin Owaisi, MP from Hyderabad, and Akbaruddin Owaisi, an MLA, for their silence on the issue. He slammedUnion Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy too for his silence and alleged that the incident has exposed that Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), All India Majlis-e- Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)were allies. Speaking on the next elections for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Uttam Kumar Reddy asked the party MPs, MLAs and all contested candidates to take up revamping the party structure in Greater Hyderabad, Warangal and Khammam. Earlier, Chandrasekhar Rao expressed regret over the damage caused to places of worship on the Secretariat premises during demolition work and said new ones would be built in a more spacious area. The Chief Minister had said a new temple and mosque would be built over a more spacious area even if it meant spending crores of rupees. The ruling TRS government began the demolition of the Secretariat complex on July 7 to pave the way for construction of a new Secretariat. On August 5, the Telangana cabinet approved the construction and the designs of the new Secretariat complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-protests-demolition-of-religious-places-at-secretariat-874102.html
16-08-2020||South||125 more die as Covid-19 fatalities continue to rise in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Sunday posted 5,950 fresh Covid-19 cases and 125 deaths, taking the total infection count in the state to 3.38 lakh, the health department said. With 125 deaths, the toll in the state rose to 5,766. Recoveries outnumbered the new cases with 6,019 people getting discharged taking the total number of those discharged to 2.78 lakh till date. The number of active cases including those in isolation was at 54,019, the health department bulletin said. Chennai recorded 1,196 new cases today, pushing the tally to 1.16 lakh so far. Since August 3, the state has been reporting three-digit fatalities. With testing being ramped up, 70,450 samples were tested by government authorised and privately run laboratories today, totalling to 37.11 lakh so far. Among the new infections reported today, 32 were domestic returnees while one individual was from abroad, the bulletin said. Besides Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet collectively saw the number of cases going up by 1,231 cases. Ranipet, Tirupathur, Vellore, Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi recorded a total of 728 new cases, while Madurai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Kanyakumari logged 957. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Pudukottai also saw the number of new infections go up in three digits, the bulletin said. Among the 125 deaths, 17 were without comorbidity, the bulletin said adding a 21-year-old woman from neighbouring Chengalpet died due to 'COVID-pneumonia'. A 90-year-old man from the city died on August 15 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome, the bulletin said. A 32-year-old man from Madurai succumbed to the virus on August 13 after he was admitted to the Government Hospital in the district, the bulletin said. As many as 83 out of the 125 were above the age of 60 years, the bulletin noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/125-more-die-as-covid-19-fatalities-continue-to-rise-in-tamil-nadu-874119.html
16-08-2020||State||Yadgir MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal tests positive for Covid-19||Yadgir Assembly Constituency MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. He underwent for a Covid test following health issues. The test result on Sunday confirmed that had coronavirus. The MLA confirmed that he was traveling to Bengaluru to get admitted at a private hospital. Mudnal had also taken part in the Independence day celebrations held on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yadgir-mla-venkatareddy-mudnal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-873959.html
16-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 7,040 fresh Covid-19 cases, 124 deaths||A day after posting the high single-say spikes for both the state and Bengaluru on Saturday, health officials revealed a slightly less number - 7,040 new Covid cases - on Sunday. Bengaluru reported 2,131 cases followed by Mysuru (620), Belagavi (478), Ballari (381) and Kalaburgi (285). A total of 124 deaths were reported on Sunday, 49 of them in Bengaluru alone. The youngest fatality was a 23-year-old man in Dharwad with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and the oldest was an 85-year-old Bengaluru resident who had symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and was suffering from chronic liver disease. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 36% of new cases were found in South and West Zones (18% each). A majority of the new cases (over 510) are in their thirties, while the next largest age group comprises about 430 people in their twenties.  According to the Palike data slightly less than 15,000 tests were done on Sunday in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-7040-fresh-covid-19-cases-124-deaths-874094.html
16-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Karnataka GDP may cross Rs 35 lakh crore in five years’||Karnataka’s GDP is expected to touch Rs 35 lakh crore in the next five years, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Sunday. Narayan was virtually addressing the “Feature Karnataka Summit 2020” organised by Sphere Travelmedia & Exhibitions.  The state’s GDP is about Rs 18 lakh crore currently. “It is growing sustainably amidst many challenges such as Covid-19,” Narayan, the IT/BT Minister, said.The state government has taken various measures to strengthen agriculture, IT/BT, industries, services sector among other core areas. “To augment the development of industry and commerce, the government will create an industrial corridor in the stretch between Mysuru and Bidar on the lines of Bengaluru-Chennai and Bengaluru-Mumbai corridors,” he said.  He further pointed out that different government departments were integrated under a single-window system for industries to get all required permits in one place. “States such as Gujarat and Rajasthan have this system only for small industries. But, our state has gone a step forward and extended this to heavy industries also,” Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gdp-may-cross-rs-35-lakh-crore-in-five-years-874109.html
16-08-2020||West||Goa BJP leader Utpal Parrikar tests coronavirus positive||After his test results came out, Uptal Parrikar told reporters on Saturday evening that he tested positive for Covid-19. "Its a mild infection, so I would be home quarantined, he then said. On Sunday, he tweeted saying, "On advice of Doctors and to take proper line of treatment, I've got admitted to Hospital. Thank you everyone for the wishes."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-leader-utpal-parrikar-tests-coronavirus-positive-873942.html
16-08-2020||West||23 prisoners of Rajkot Central jail test positive for Covid-19||As many as 23 prisoners of the Rajkot Central Jail in Gujarat have tested positive for coronavirus, a senior official said on Sunday. Rapid antigen tests were conducted on 94 inmates and results of 23 of them, including undertrials and convicts, came out positive on Saturday night, jail superintendent Banno Joshi said. "The infected inmates are asymptomatic and have been isolated. We are in the process of getting them hospitalised," Joshi said. There are total 1,386 inmates in the Rajkot Central Jail as on date. Earlier, 11 inmates had tested positive for coronavirus on various occasions. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the jail has gone up to 34, the official said. The district has so far reported 3,173 Covid-19 cases. As per the health department, 65 patients have till now died due to the disease and there are 1,423 active cases, while 1,685 patients have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/23-prisoners-of-rajkot-central-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19-873948.html
16-08-2020||West||IMD issues rain red alert for August 17 in Pune and Satara||The Met department on Sunday issued a red alert of extremely heavy rainfall on Monday at isolated places in Pune and Satara districts in Maharashtra, an official said. The forecast also predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Mumbai, Raigad, and Palghar from Monday onwards, he said, adding that the intensity of rains would reduce from Tuesday. The IMD classifies minimum 204.5 mm rainfall in 24 hours as extremely heavy. A red alert requires authorities to take preventive steps to minimise damage. "Districts in Western Maharashtra, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli, are expected to receive strong spells of showers in the week beginning Monday (August 17). "Satara and Pune districts are very likely to receive extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places on Monday," the India Meteorological Department (IMC) official said. He said rest of the region is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places during the week. Parts of Maharashtra including north, Madhya and Vidarbha regions are expected to receive heavy to very heavy showers till Thursday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-issues-rain-red-alert-for-august-17-in-pune-and-satara-873979.html
16-08-2020||West||BJP worker's killing: 12-hour bandh in West Bengal's Khanakul evokes mixed response||A 12-hour strike called by the BJP in West Bengal's Khanakul area on Sunday, to protest the killing of a party worker, evoked a mixed response with several shops and markets remaining closed. The bandh, which began at 6 am, was by and large peaceful with no major untoward incident being reported, official sources said. BJP supporters staged protests at different places in the mofussil town in Hooghly district during the day against the killing of the party worker. Several shops and markets were closed, though some remained open, even as traffic was less than usual on a Sunday. The saffron party has alleged that its worker Sudarshan Pramanik, 40, was beaten to death by TMC supporters over hoisting of the national flag at Khanakul town in Hooghly district. The ruling TMC has denied the charge. A scuffle had broken out between two groups over hoisting of the tricolour on Independence Day, a senior police official of the district said. Police have arrested eight people in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-workers-killing-12-hour-bandh-in-west-bengals-khanakul-evokes-mixed-response-874025.html
16-08-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari treks to Shivneri fort||In what may put young people to shame, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday trekked to the famous hill fort of Shivneri, the birthplace of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Koshyari (78), is perhaps the first governor of the state, who has trekked to the Shivneri fort in Junnar tehsil of Pune district. Koshyari, an astute politician, hails from Uttarakhand, known for its hills, valleys, forests and picturesque landscape. After climbing the fort, the Governor paid his obeisance to Rajmata Jijau and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. He also paid respects at the Shivai Devi temple and offered his pranams to the cradle of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. "I am blessed after reaching the top," he said. "We are small people, we trekked and came here, people come by helicopter," he said. The Governor was accompanied by Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad, who is the acting Pune district Collector, and officials of Maharashtra government and Raj Bhavan. It took nearly two-and-a-half-hours for the Governor to complete the trek. The picturesque and strategically-built fort is located at a height of 3,500 feet (1,067 mts). The fort is located in the Naneghat hill ranges of Sahyadri in the Western Ghats. Shivneri is known to be a place of Buddhist dominion from the 1st century AD. Its caves, rock-cut architecture and water system indicate the presence of habitation since 1st century AD. Shivneri got its name as it was under the possession of the Yadavas of Devagiri.  This fort was mainly used to guard the old trading route from Desh to the port city of Kalyan. The place passed on to the Bahmani Sultanate after the weakening of Delhi Sultanate during the 15th century and it then passed on to the Ahmadnagar Sultanate in the 16th century. In 1595, a Maratha chief named Maloji Bhonsle, the grandfather of Shivaji Bhosale, was enabled by the Ahmadnagar Sultan, Bahadur Nizam Shah and he gave him Shivneri and Chakan. Shivaji was born at the fort on 19 February 1630, and spent his childhood there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-treks-to-shivneri-fort-874029.html
16-08-2020||West||Gujarat: BSF nabs one Pakistani fisherman, seizes four fishing boats||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday apprehended a Pakistani fisherman and seized four fishing boats of the neighbouring country from Harami Nala creek area along the Indo-Pak border in Gujarat's Kutch district. During patrolling near border pillar number 1160 in Harami Nala area, a BSF team observed the movement of some Pakistani fishermen with four-five boats trying to enter the Indian territory early on Sunday morning by taking advantage of rough sea condition, the BSF said in a statement. A fisherman, identified as Alla Bachao Siddique (25 years) from Sindh province of Pakistan, was apprehended and four boats were seized. However, other Pakistani intruders managed to escape on spotting the BSF patrol party, it added. Nothing suspicious was recovered from the boat, the BSF said. A thorough search operation of the area is being carried out, but nothing suspicious has been recovered so far, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bsf-nabs-one-pakistani-fisherman-seizes-four-fishing-boats-874037.html
16-08-2020||West||Tap water connections for all rural houses in Gujarat by 2022: CM Vijay Rupani||The Gujarat government is aiming to provide functional household tap water connections to all rural households by 2022 under the Centre's Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday. The JJM envisions to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India. "Gujarat will ensure supply of safe drinking water to all the households in five districts of Gandhinagar, Mehsana, Porbandar, Botad, and Vadodara by October 2 this year," an official release quoted Rupani as saying. Earlier, Rupani and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat held a review meeting via video conference, the release said. Out of 93.03 lakh households in rural Gujarat, tap water connectivity is already available in as many as 68.63 lakh rural households, the state government said. The government intends to provide this connectivity to the additional 11.15 lakh households by 2020-21. The connectivity has so far been made available to 2.46 lakh families since April 1 this year, it said. "Gujarat intends to complete the mission of providing 100 per cent functional household tap water connection by 2022 under the Centre's Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM)," the CM said. He said Gujarat has successfully implemented a decentralised, demand-based and community-run water distribution programme of Water and Sanitation Management Organisation (WASMO), the SPV (special purpose vehicle) of the state government, which has ensured that over 70 per cent households are connected to safe drinking water. The Central government has allocated Rs 883.08 crore to Gujarat for the scheme for the year 2020-21. With the state's contribution, a total Rs 1,777.56 crore has been made available, the release said. Local self-governance organisations in Gujarat have been granted Rs 3,195 crore by the 15th Financial Commission, out of which 50 per cent (of the grant) is to be set aside for water resources and sanitation, it said. "The state has also implemented an Internet of Things (IOT)-based Sensor Monitoring System on a pilot basis in 1,000 villages, to monitor water resource situations online. The facility will be made available to other villages upon the success of the pilot project," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tap-water-connections-for-all-rural-houses-in-gujarat-by-2022-cm-vijay-rupani-874048.html
16-08-2020||West||Maharashtra crosses 20,000 Covid-19 deaths; tally nears 6-lakh mark||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crossed the 20,000-mark on Sunday even as the total positive cases is set to cross six lakh. On Sunday, 288 deaths and 11,111 cases were reported taking the toll to 20,037 and cases to 5,95,865. The total active cases stand at 1,58,395. On Sunday, 8,837 patients discharged taking the total to 4,17,123 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The overall recovery rate in the state is 70 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state: 3.36 per cent. Out of 31,62,740 laboratory samples, 5,95,865 have been tested positive (18.84%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 10,53,897 people are in home quarantine and 38,203 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-20000-covid-19-deaths-tally-nears-6-lakh-mark-874054.html
16-08-2020||West||Former corporator hacked to death in Nagpur||Two persons, including a former corporator of the Nagpur municipal corporation (NMC), have been allegedly murdered in two separate incidents in the city in the last 24 hours, police said on Sunday. The former corporator, Deva Usre, 52, was hacked to death by two motorcycle-borne men on Sunday morning near Bharat Talkies in Sadar police station area, an official said. Police are suspecting a property dispute as the cause behind the incident. Usre had served as a corporator on the Congress' ticket for two terms. "The accused have been identified and search is on to arrest them," the official said. A case of murder has been registered. In another case, a 27-year-old man was brutally killed on Saturday by four history-sheeters over parking of his vehicle in Hudkeshwar area of the city. The deceased has been identified as Chetan Metangale, a resident of Ladikar Layout, a police official said. Three of the four accused have been arrested, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-corporator-hacked-to-death-in-nagpur-874055.html
16-08-2020||West||Pune tops Mumbai for highest nationwide Covid-19 cases||Pune on Sunday surpassed Mumbai and emerged as India’s new coronavirus capital with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. However, Mumbai continues to be at the top in terms of the death toll in India. Pune district now has a staggering 1,30,606 cases and 3,193 deaths compared with Mumbai’s 1,28,726 cases and 7,133 fatalities till date. The Pune figures includes those from Pune district, Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The first two cases in Pune was reported on 9 March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-tops-mumbai-for-highest-nationwide-covid-19-cases-874083.html
16-08-2020||West||Gujarat records 1,120 new Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths||The number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat rose by 1,120 to 78,783 on Sunday, state Health department said. With 20 more patients succumbing to the infection, including eight in Surat, the cumulative toll went up to 2,787 in the state, it said. A total of 959 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of recoveries to 61,496, the department said. Gujarat is now left with 14,500 active cases, out of which the condition of 82 patients is critical, the department said. At 228, Surat reported the highest number of cases in the state, followed by 164 cases in Ahmedabad, and 108 in Vadodara. Besides Surat, which reported eight fatalities, four deaths were reported from Ahmedabad, two each in Bhavnagar and Morbi, and one each in Gir Somnath, Kutch, Patan, and Vadodara, the department said. Among other districts, Rajkot reported 99 cases, Jamnagar 58, Panchmahal 45, Bhavnagar 38, Junagadh 34, Kutch 31, Bharuch 30, Gandhinagar 29, Dahod 26, Amreli 25, Mehsana 22, Banaskantha 19, Devbhumi Dwarka and Gir Somnath 16 each, etc, it said.  The state tested 50,560 samples in the last 24 hours, which comes at the rate of 777.84 tests per day per million, it said.   A total 13,12,824 samples have been tested so far in the state, it said. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 78,783, new cases 1,120, deaths 2,787, discharged 61,496, active cases 14,500 and people tested so far 13,12,824. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-1120-new-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-874093.html
16-08-2020||West||Cops bust rave party at small-time actor's Goa villa, 23 held||Police raided a rave party going on at a small-time Bollywood actor Kapil Jhaveri's villa in Vagator village in North Goa, and arrested 23 people, including the actor and three women foreign nationals, officials said on Sunday. The raid was conducted by the crime branch and narcotics worth over Rs nine lakh were seized from the party that was going on amid the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday night under the Anjuna police station limits, they said. "Jhaveri and three foreign nationals- two women from Russia and another from Czech Republic- were arrested under stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, for allegedly possessing banned substance during the police raid," Superintendent of Police Crime Branch Shobhit Saxena said. "Nineteen others were arrested for violating the rules related to social distancing," he said. During the raid, drugs like cocaine, MDMA, charas and other chemical substance were recovered from the party venue, he added. Another crime branch official said that Jhaveri himelf had organised the rave party at his villa. Most of the 19 others were domestic tourists who had come to the coastal state on a vacation, he said. Saxena said that Jhaveri has acted in a few Bollywood films and currently lives in Goa. Some of his films include "Dil Pardesi Ho Gaya" and "Ishq Vishk". According to Saxena, further arrests in the case would be made as the investigation progresses. Judicial Magistrate First Class in Panaji on Sunday remanded Jhaveri (40) along with three foreigner women in five days of police custody, he said. Goa Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena in a tweet said, "Zero tolerance to #Drugs and Ensuring Public Safety #goapolice Crime Branch busted a late night party in Anjuna. 23 persons including 3 foreigners were arrested and narcotic drugs worth over Rs 9 lac were seized." Goa Forward Party MLA Vinod Palyekar, who represents Siolim constituency, which covers Vagator village, claimed rave parties were happening in the coastal belt in full swing. "Local police stations are bribed," he alleged in a Facebook post, adding "its high time that Anjuna police station be fully revamped including the police inspector." "The state needs full time Home Minister as Chief Minister Sawant's focus is on mining transportation. CM has failed in curtailing crime in the state. Lobo (BJP MLA Michael Lobo) can perform better as Home Minister," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-bust-rave-party-at-small-time-actors-goa-villa-23-held-874118.html
16-08-2020||West||Teenage boy hangs self over 'one-sided love affair'||A 16-year-old boy allegedly hanged himself at his residence in Kolivery locality in Santacruz here apparently over his one-sided love affair, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday. Before ending his life, the boy had sent on WhatsApp a goodbye message to the girl he was in love with, police said. "The boy was a Class XII student. On Friday, when the boy's family members left home for work, he locked himself up. Soon afterwards, one of their woman neighbours knocked at their door, but as there was no response, she peeped through the window when she saw the boy tying a noose inside," an official of Vakola police station said. "As she raised an alarm, the nearby residents came to the spot and broke open the door. However, by then the minor had hanged himself," he added. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The boy's father told the police that when he checked the boy's mobile phone later, he saw that his son had sent a WhatsApp message to the girl he was in love with. The message in Hindi read- 'I will leave. I won't trouble anyone', the official said. The boy had even tried calling many of his friends before ending his life, but none of them had picked up his call, he added. The police have registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teenage-boy-hangs-self-over-one-sided-love-affair-874140.html
