17-08-2020||Comment||NEP: Expect major reforms||The new National Education Policy (NEP) has made a sincere attempt to align itself to the global education model to prepare the Indian youth to be more globally competitive, better skilled and equipped with cross-disciplinary knowledge that makes him a better human being in his professional career as well as in his dealings and attitudes in societal life.  The major reforms that promise a great impact are: Changing the compulsory education law to cover those in the range of 3-18 years of age. Bringing pre-primary education in the ambit is recognition of the fact that 3-8 year old is the formative age and most crucial period in one’s life that moulds the future personality of any person.  We had hardly recognised that a first-generation learner child from vulnerable sections was a potential school dropout if deprived of pre-primary education. This is a path-breaking policy change that would drastically reduce school dropouts, eventually increase college intake and increase the gross enrolment ratio (GER).  The second major change aligning with the system in advanced countries is the flexibility of learning, blurring the water-tight boundaries between arts and science programmes and even giving an option of taking some credits in social science subjects to graduates of medicine and engineering sciences. Restructuring to 5+3+3+4 curricula and leaving an option of lateral exit in the undergraduate programme particularly with skill and vocational courses gives the student dignity of holding a certificate or a diploma and seek job; not a tag of a college dropout. The four-year undergraduate degree makes students acceptable in western universities for graduate and doctoral degree.  Irrelevance of M.Phil was recognised quite some time back though UGC had retained it. I had abolished M.Phil in 2002 in Kashmir University and in 2008 in Pondicherry Central University, where I served as Vice-Chancellor. 5. There are several more reforms in the NEP which certainly inject greater competence in students to make them more globally competitive, employable and be better analysts in their decision-making. The next question is, will the NEP now make our universities more innovative and inventive with path-breaking research, the research publications with citations globally comparable, patents globally sought-after, and ultimately see three or four of our universities in world’s top 10 or at least top 50? A study of certain characteristics of the top 50 world class universities clearly brings out features that are common to all of them which I believe hold the key to creating innovative, inventive world-class research universities, besides all other features that the new NEP has brought in.  A comparison of the average student strength on campuses in world-class universities is 20,000 to 25,000 as compared to 3,500 to 4,000 in Indian universities. In Indian campuses, there are nine students per acre of land while this number is about 25 per acre of campus abroad. This emphasises on the significance of critical mass.  Fishing in pond fetches small fishes while fishing in oceans will get you large fish, as remarked by a Nobel laureate. It is obvious that our campuses are grossly under-utilised and none of the campuses possesses the critical mass.  The diversity of students and the faculty is incorporated into the policies of all world-class universities. Some have even fixed diversity index for students from across the nation and from other nations.  That is how millions of students from India, China, Africa, West Asia and Asian nations study in US and other countries. In comparison, Indian universities have a unique character, as a rule, to define the jurisdiction of universities. This works against the element of diversity.  The diversity of students and faculty is nearly absent in Indian universities, except in some central universities and IITs. Western universities believe that diversity, besides critical mass, is the key to excellence, innovation and inventions while we have failed to abolish jurisdiction and boundaries between universities even in our new education policy.  The third character that enhances the research potential of all world-class universities is the quantum of funding and multiple sources of funding by the state, corporates and endowments, to create the state of the art infrastructure and research facilities in laboratories.  Sharing facilities Universities in the west join to create common and sharing facilities that not only save resources but promote inter-disciplinary and inter-institutional research groups. The emphasis in sharing resources, inter-institutional programmes and research, a collaboration between national research laboratories and smaller Indian universities should have found a place in NEP.  Needless to say that investment of less than 0.5% of GDP will keep all our dreams at bay. The government must increase the spending on education to 4-6% of GDP in coming years.  The schools and faculty of all the world-ranking universities enjoy great financial and academic autonomy with minimum governmental controls and regulations, and greater trust.  Our system starts with bureaucratic controls, lack of autonomy, and distrust and suspicion between bureaucratic administration and the faculty. A major emphasis on these reforms in our NEP would have gone a long way to bring the desired changes that we dream of. While there is no doubt that the new NEP has made several game-changing reforms to make our education system more globally competitive benefiting the youth, it has not adequately addressed to bring a change in four of the above crucial characteristics to create world-ranking universities at par with the top 10 or 50 of existing global universities. (The writer is former Vice-Chancellor, Kashmir University, Pondicherry Central University and BSA University, Chennai, and former Member, UGC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/nep-expect-major-reforms-874168.html
17-08-2020||First Edit||Digital Health Mission welcome||Prime Minister's use the vantage point of the Independence Day rostrum in the Red Fort to look at the achievements of the past, to make promises and to announce plans for the future. No Prime Minister has sought to remember lapses and failures and remind the nation of them, as it would not be deemed proper for the occasion, but would speak of the challenges that the nation has to face. No one would also be seen to have no promises to make. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also, in a long address on Saturday, recounted many achievements from the past, and most of them happened after 2014 when his government came to power. He reiterated many ideas and themes that his government has adopted as national policies, though the validity, correctness and practicality of some of them may be debatable. He laid much emphasis on atmanirbharta, but its nature, scope and implications are still not clear. Self-reliance as a national policy is not new and is desirable, but it has to be nuanced in the present context. There may even be a contradiction in the way the Make in India and the Make for World policies are being proposed.  The most important scheme announced by the Prime Minister was about rolling out a National Digital Health Mission which would create a unique health account for every citizen for hassle-free access to healthcare facilities. The proposal is appropriate when a public health exigency has come to the fore, but it should be ensured that there are no issues related to violation of privacy, exclusion and surveillance involved in the scheme when it is implemented. Ensuring health means much more than preparing a card, and putting in place the human and physical infrastructure for healthcare is the real challenge. A Rs 100 lakh crore infrastructure package, which had been announced earlier, was mentioned again, along with a time-bound plan to link all villages through a cyber optic network. These are ambitious projects and will certainly be useful when they are implemented. He also mentioned other matters like the New Education Policy, the Ayodhya temple and the development of Covid vaccines. He praised the health workers, and the country will join him in the praise.  Some claims and statements made by the Prime Minister were ambiguous or presented only a part of the situation he sought to present. He said that from "LoC to LAC’’ our soldiers had given a fitting response to challenges to the country’s sovereignty, but did not make clear what the present position in the eastern Ladakh border is. It was stated that elections will be held in Kashmir but the claims made about the state will call for verification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/digital-health-mission-welcome-874167.html
17-08-2020||In Perspective||Covid-19, lockdown and water quality ||The recent lockdown has brought in unprecedented benefits to our environment. Citizens and scientists across the world have reported improvements in water and air quality. However, Deccan Herald published the outcome of a water quality survey carried out by Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) during the lockdown. Interestingly, the study reported no significant improvements in the quality of Vrishabhavathi river.  It also stated that the water quality continues to fall under Category-E, the worst category as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The findings contradicted the evidence circulated by the citizens, which showed considerable improvements in the quality of the river.  This makes one think as to why the data presented by KSPCB does not correlate with what citizens have been observing so far. The answer lies in the basic conceptualisation of water quality classification and the approach deployed for data collection. The first step is to understand the classification of water bodies based on the use-values. The CPCB has classified water bodies in five broad categories: Category A - Fit for drinking water source with chlorination; Category B - Fit for bathing and recreation; Category C - Fit for drinking with conventional treatment; Category D - Fit for fish propagation; and Category E - Fit for irrigation and control disposal.  Each use-value has corresponding water quality criteria. For example, water with pH (acidity) levels (6.5-8.5), (organic matter content) BOD5 < 3 mg/l, Total Coliforms< 500 M PN/100ml and Dissolved Oxygen ≥5 mg/l fall under Category A. Similarly, water with pH between 6.0 and 8.5, Electrical Conductivity ≤ 2250 µ mhos/cm, Sodium absorption Ratio ≤ 26, Boron ≤ 2mg/l fall under Category E.  This categorisation helps with the identification of suitability of a waterbody for its designated use but is not helpful in tracking quantitative improvements in water quality, especially from industrial effluents. Moreover, Category E covers such a wide range of values that even a significant improvement in BOD5 from 300 to 60, would not change the categorisation of the water body.  Vrishabhavathi is one of the urban rivers that originate from Bengaluru city and receives about 600 Million Litres per Day (MLD) of untreated industrial and domestic wastewater. Of this, streams draining from the Peenya Industrial Area contribute 120 MLD. With rapid urbanisation, BOD5 in the river has always been greater than 3mg/l, and hence has always been placed under category E.   Researchers at ATREE compared the quality of the river during pre-Covid (2015-16) and lockdown period (April 19, 2020). The data indicates a 66% reduction in BOD5 (reflect organic contamination - domestic sources) and 44% reduction in COD (reflects organic and chemical contamination-domestic and industrial sources) levels in the stream draining Peenya. Despite the river being in Category E, data suggested significant improvement in water quality. At Sumanahalli, the BOD5 levels dropped from an average of 211mg/l (2015-16) to 44mg/l. At Bangalore University, BOD5 levels dropped from 181mg/l (2015-16) to 85mg/l. A similar reduction was observed in COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) levels as well. The analysis suggested that in the absence of industrial pollution, the self-assimilation capacity of the river improved significantly, which contributed to improved water quality.   The KSPCB is monitoring Heavy Metals (HMs) in Vrishabhavathi since 2008. Monitoring HMs is important because of their direct correlation with chronic illnesses and medical conditions. In spite of this, HMs don’t find a way to the list of parameters for categorisation of water bodies. For monitoring, KSPCB collects water samples monthly once, mostly during working hours and on weekdays. While they routinely track and report HM, farmers downstream continue to suffer from health issues and crop samples show evidence of HMs assimilation. Therefore, the question arises on the robustness of HM monitoring in the river.  Sampling approach One problem is the sampling approach. The previous ATREE study revealed that industries discharge effluents during the wee hours. In that case, monitoring grab samples during pre-Covid and lockdown period will not reflect the contribution of industrial discharges on the quality of the river.  A second problem is the absence of standards. Tracking HM in water bodies without a goal doesn’t serve any purpose. In the absence of ambient standards, how is KSPCB supposed to regulate HM levels in water?  Taking examples from the medical field, the typical approach to managing sugar levels includes knowing the sugar levels of a healthy person (goal setting), assessing the sugar levels of the patient (monitoring), followed a by treatment plan (management plan) and then regular progress monitoring to assess the efficacy of the plan (continuous monitoring and fine tuning). Drawing from the above, we need to take a similar end-to-end approach for managing water quality. While we tend to do each in some capacity, there needs to a comprehensive plan rather than a piecemeal approach. 1. Instead of putting a label for the current water use, KSPCB should present the data on pollutant levels observed in the water body. There is an urgent need to develop an approach to designate use-values to urban streams. This will help policymakers to set goals and develop management plans for water quality improvement. 3. There is a need to set acceptable ambient levels of HMs in urban streams receiving industrial effluents. Finally, instead of grab samples, composite samples should be collected and analysed once every month. This will help in assessing the efficacy of interventions on water quality. (The writer is with ATREE)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-lockdown-and-water-quality-874169.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Withdraw amendments to Land Reforms Act’||Members of Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene staged a silent protest against the amendment to Land Reforms Act by Karnataka government in front of Gandhi statue in the town.  The farmers staged the protest holding the national flag and wearing black badges. They urged the government to withdraw the amendments. Several farmers took out a silent protest march from Basaveshwara Temple to Gandhi statue amid the rain. The protesters carried placards with messages like ‘Farmers have no freedom when it comes to right of land’ and ‘Namma Bhoomi, Namma Hakku’. Hasiru Sene district unit president Chimmangada Ganesh said that the amendment to the Land Reforms Act was anti-farmer in nature. The farmland will fall prey to the land mafia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/withdraw-amendments-to-land-reforms-act-874151.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress delegation visits rain-hit areas||The delegation of Congress leaders visited the flood and rain-affected areas and the houses of flood victims in Kodagu district. The delegation, led by District Congress Committee president K K Manjunath, visited the victims and listened to their woes. Later, Manjunath called Tahsildar and urged him to respond to the woes of the rain victims. The retaining wall in the affected areas will help in saving the villages from natural disasters in the future, he said. The delation visited Kondangeri and Bhethri in Virajpet Assembly constituency and listened to the woes of the victims. The DCC president said the district had witnessed natural calamities for the last three years. The government should find a permanent solution for the flood. During the Congress-led coalition government, the compensation amount was released for the victims immediately. However, the BJP-led government has failed to release the compensation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-delegation-visits-rain-hit-areas-874153.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Landslide to affect rail movement in Dharwad||Landslide near Shivthan railway station in Khanapur taluk on Monday between Londa and Dharwad railway stations is expected to affect rail movement. River Pandari has been flowing in full bloom and landslide took place section of lands between the railway station and river due to heavy rains for the past three days.   Sources, said, movement of trains on the section could be affected as the track was in near proximity of the landslide site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/landslide-to-affect-rail-movement-in-dharwad-874233.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||With no aid coming over Covid-19 fear, family takes Belagavi man's body for cremation on bicycle||With no one reportedly coming to their aid due to the Covid-19 scare, a family was forced to transport a body on a bicycle amid heavy rains at a village in Belagavi district on Sunday. As the video of the incident went viral, the Congress state unit flayed the government for its "apathy" to provide an ambulance to transport the body. Sharing the video on Twitter, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar wrote, "Relatives of a 70-year-old person who died in Kittur, Belagavi had to carry the body for cremation on a bicycle in heavy rains." Relatives of a 70-yr-old dead person in Kittur, Belagavi had to carry the body for cremation on a bicycle in heavy rains. Questioning the government, he said "CM B S Yediyurappa, where is your government? Why was an ambulance not provided? ..... Govt lacks humanity & has been a total failure in handling the pandemic." According to the family members, the man had fever for two days and the medical team at the local primary health care advised the family to admit him to hospital as he was showing coronavirus symptoms. As the family prepared to take him to hospital, he died. The family said they had dialled the emergency number for an ambulance but there was no response. The neighbours too did not come to their aid due to Covid-19 scare, they claimed. Finally, the family decided to carry the body on a bicycle amid rains and took it to the cremation ground for the last rites. Government and hospital officials were not immediately available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/with-no-aid-coming-over-covid-19-fear-family-takes-belagavi-mans-body-for-cremation-on-bicycle-874310.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Laxmi Hebbalkar's son gets engaged with Bhadravathi MLA's niece||The engagement between Mrinal, son of Congress MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar and Hita, daughter of Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh 's brother, was held at Sarji convention hall in the city on Monday. Family members of the MLA Sangameshwar greeted guests with Mysuru peta. Political leaders of the district and neighbouring districts attended the event. The couple exchanged diamond rings. Reacting to the event, the MLA B K Sangamesh said Lakshmi Hebbalkar is serving the society in Belagavi like Kittur Rani Chennamma. "We are glad to become relatives." A helicopter ferrying Chitradurga MLC Raghu Achar made an emergency landing on government school ground at Hanchina Siddapura near Bhadravathi due to bad weather. Later, the MLC reached the engagement venue by road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/laxmi-hebbalkars-son-gets-engaged-with-bhadravathi-mlas-niece-874496.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dams in Mysuru region fill to brim||With Wayanad in Kerala and Cauvery catchment areas getting copious rain, the Kabini dam in HD Kote taluk, Mysuru district, Hemavathi dam in Gorur, Hassan district, and Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, have filled to the brim. The Kabini dam, with a maximum level of 2,284 feet, reached 2,283.25 ft, on Monday. Kabini is always the first dam in the state, to reach the maximum level. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will offer bagina to Kabini dam on August 21. Hence, the outflow would be controlled to ensure that the dam remains full till the day, said Kabini Reservoir Assistant Executive Engineer Molagavi. More than 33.7 tmcft of water has been released into the Kapila River, with Tamil Nadu getting a major share of it. The dam got filled last year on August 19, and the CM offered bagina on September 7. It got filled in the month of June in 2018. With the dam nearing its maximum level, 15,000 cusecs of water was released from six crest gates into the Hemavathi river on Monday. The total capacity of the dam is 37.103 tmcft and the current water level is 36.64 tmcft. The water level of the dam on August 17 was 2,921.53 ft as against 2,922 ft. The inflow was 9,142 cusec. Water from the Hemavathi dam irrigates 1,07,480 acres in Hassan, 2,27,920 acres in Mandya, 3,14,000 acres in Tumakuru and 5,600 acres in Mysuru districts. It also supplies drinking water to 24 taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dams-in-mysuru-region-fill-to-brim-874501.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||HC directs MyMUL to hold final recruitment list||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh said, the High Court of Karnataka has directed Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers' Societies' Union Limited (MyMUL) authorities not to announce the final list of selected candidates for various posts in MyMUL. In a press conference here, on Monday, the MLA said, the high court has issued an interim order on August 13 in this regard. Mahesh said, "MyMUL has included recruitment in the agenda of its upcoming Board meeting. If the authorities announce the list, violating the court order, a petition will be filed before the court." Mahesh appealed to the selected candidates not to bribe for appointment. "The term of the existing board will come to an end by September 13 and the process of appointing an Administrative Officer is underway. No one should give a bribe," he said. "Even though the recruitment matter is pending before the court, the authorities are in a hurry to complete the process. Cooperation Minister, also Mysuru District In-charge Minister, S T Somashekar must clarify," he demanded. Mahesh said, "Despite the complaints to Governor, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Somashekar, the government has failed to conduct a probe. Instead, the government is supporting the irregularities. A fresh recruitment notification should be issued."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hc-directs-mymul-to-hold-final-recruitment-list-874503.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Transport deptartment faces tough time to generate revenue||With outbreak of Covid-19, the Transport department has been facing tough time to achieve the targeted revenue. However, the situation is better compared to previous months.  The registration of vehicles saw a drastic fall, since the outbreak of Covid. The RTO also restricted the services, to abide by the guidelines of the government, in order to contain the spread of Covid. RTO, Mysuru (East), K S Soundarya said, initially, the revenues had declined to 15%. But, now, registration of new vehicles is slightly picking up." "Earlier, the RTO used to issue 150 Driving Licence (DL) and 100 Learner's License (LL) on an average per day. Now, the authorities have restricted to 70 DLs and 50 LLs to ensure social distance. There was no slot for renewal of driving licence for a couple of months. Now, 50 DLs will be renewed per day," she said.  RTO, Mysuru (East), has a target of Rs 2.93 crore per month. But, the authorities could achieve only 50% of their monthly target since the outbreak of Covid. The revenue collection is slightly improving, compared to April and May. “We are achieving 50% of the target. We need time to improve,” she said. According to the RTO, registration of vehicles is a major source of revenue. But due to the pandemic, hardly a few vehicles are being registered. In addition, private buses, maxi cabs, used for public transport, surrendered their vehicles, to avoid tax. Buses and cabs have to pay tax, every quarter. The situation is not different in Mysuru (West) RTO. The RTO has target of Rs 189 crore per annum. The authorities could achieve only 50%. There was no revenue in April and May due to lockdown. However, there was improvement in June and July, said the RTO. A manager of a car showroom said, sales of new vehicles have come down drastically. “We used to sell at least 50 cars during Shravana masa (month). But, this time, we have failed to achieve even 25% of the target,” he said. Not only cars, sales of two-wheelers, vehicles used for commercial purpose and agriculture purpose also has declined, since the outbreak of Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transport-deptartment-faces-tough-time-to-generate-revenue-874504.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four missing as coracle capsizes||A total of four people - three women and a girl - have gone missing after a coracle capsized in River Krishna near Peddakuram (Kurvakula) village of the district on Monday evening. Out of 13 people who were on it, nine have been rescued. Tahsildar Hampanna Sajjan said the incident took place while they returning in the coracle after a weekly shanty at Panchapadu under Makthal police station limits in Telangana. All are residents of border village, Peddakuram, of Raichur taluk. A search has been launched by a NDRF team and Yapaladinni police to trace the missing people, he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-missing-as-coracle-capsizes-874507.html
17-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||People asked to observe eco-friendly Ganesha festival||Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has appealed to the public to observe eco-friendly Ganesha Chaturthi. The Board has been creating awareness among schoolchildren and public on eco-friendly Ganesha festival every year, said Environment Officer Ganeshan. The public should prepare the Ganesha idol using turmeric which is known for boosting immunity at home for the puja rituals, and thereby contribute much to the environment in our surroundings, he said. Ganeshan added that there was a need to prepare Ganesha idol using cowdung or wheat or ragi powder mixed with turmeric and thereby vow to tackle Covid-19. By worshipping small idols made at home using eco-friendly items and immersing it in water at home, one can maintain social distance and save environment, he added. Simple celebrations DySP Jaya Kumar said as per the guidelines issued by the the state government the public should observe Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations in a simple manner, following the Covid-19 scare. Speaking at a preparatory meeting convened by the police department at Mahila Samaja on Monday, he said the government has ordered restrictions on the way festival is celebrated on August 22, keeping in view Covid pandemic. Installation of Ganesha idols in public places (roads, playgrounds, street) is prohibited. No permission will be given for the procession of Ganesha idols. The Ganesha idols can be installed at temples and houses. However, social distance should be maintained at temples along with adhering to all the guidelines issued by the government. Wearing masks is mandatory for those visiting the temples. Maletira Kaverappa, Trustee of Ganapathi Temple in Virajpet, Ravi of Dakkhani Mohalla Vijaya Vinayaka Ganeshotsava Samithi and others appealed to the authorities to allow immersion of Gauri Ganesha idols at Gauri kere in Virajpet. It is a tradition to immerse all the ‘Utsava Murthi’ in the Gaurikere, they said. The DySP promised to look into the guidelines to check whether immersion of idols was allowed in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-asked-to-observe-eco-friendly-ganesha-festival-874539.html
17-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 17||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 26 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  26,92,853 as of August 17 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  51,760   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-17-874175.html
17-08-2020||National||Central Railways speeds up project of Mumbai suburban’s fourth corridor||Central Railways has completed or speeded up several infrastructure projects amidst this lockdown and unlock period. Amongst the major infra work speeded-up was the construction of the remaining 14.60 Km Kharkopar – Uran line of the 27 Km Belapur -Seawoods – Uran project.The completion of this entire line will cut the distance between Mumbai – Uran by almost 40 to 50%. The speeding up of the project by the Construction Department of Central Railways will enable railways to complete this important accessibility rail route from Mumbai to Jawaharlal Nehru Port, a CR spokesperson said. The Kharkopar – Uran new line construction work is in progress at various sites with the help of construction machinery like, pile boring machines, concrete placer booms, transit mixers, trippers, JCBs, Hydras, Poclains, Hydraulic Jacks etc. The major construction activities under progress are - superstructure work of cover over the platform at Rajanpada station, foundation and sub-structure work at Nhava-Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran stations, sub-way work at Uran, bridge foundation work at Chainage 10975, stressing and lowering of U-Girder at bridge 7982. The stretch of Kharkopar – Uran will have 5 stations, 2 major bridges, 41 minor bridges, 2 Road Under Bridges and 4 Road Over Bridges.All precautions are taken to ensure the safety and health of labourers. The work executed during lockdown/ unlock period and the available gap in the monsoon, will certainly help to recoup the time lost for construction activities in the lockdown. Around 4.479-hectare land (majority forest land) is yet to be arranged by CIDCO between Chainage 8 km to Chainage 11 km. The completion of Belapur – Seawoods – Uran railway line, which is the fourth corridor of Central Railway Mumbai Suburban network will ease the travel time of the passengers from Mumbai to JNPT and Uran and will also facilitate the passengers to reach the new emerging airport at Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railways-speeds-up-project-of-mumbai-suburban-s-fourth-corridor-874191.html
17-08-2020||National||Doctors up in arms against Sanjay Raut||The doctors in Maharashtra are up in arms against Shiv Sena and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut for his comments on the medical profession and the World Health Organisation. "Doctors do not know anything....Compounders are better....I always take medicine from a compounder, never from a doctor....WHO is a useless organisation. Because of WHO, the Covid-19 pandemic happened," Raut had told a Marathi channel, according to a statement by Indian Medical Association -- Maharashtra. In a state executive meeting of IMA-Maharashtra,  held on Sunday, a resolution condemning these comments was passed unanimously.The representatives of all the 216 branches of IMA-Maharashtra demanded that he take back his words and tender an apology to the medical community.   IMA-Maharashtra president Dr Avinash  Bhondwe and honorary state secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar, in a statement, said that 3 lakh doctors in the state, are working incessantly during the Covid-19 pandemic."The doctors all over the state have been working day and night, to save the lives of the citizens of Maharashtra as a duty towards humanity and with the utmost social commitment. About 50 doctors have lost their lives fighting Covid-19," they said. The IMA-Maharashtra has complained to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.They have also written to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu as Raut is a Rajya Sabha member. "Such disparaging, disrespectful and dishonoring comments by a respectable leader, a journalist and Rajya Sabha MP have hurt the feelings of the doctors in Maharashtra.  These slighting and uncomplimentary remarks have damaged the morale of the doctors who are fighting with the Covid-19 for more than four and half months till today," the doctors' professional body said. "Nowadays, many ministers, political leaders, social workers are abusing and cursing doctors at large for no reason. To criticize the doctors on social media with demeaning and humiliating language has become trend these days," the statement read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-up-in-arms-against-sanjay-raut-874219.html
17-08-2020||National||Nation's flimsy coronavirus testing regime ‘like flipping a coin’||By Ragini Saxena India’s bid to control its surging virus infections by increasing the use of fast but less sensitive tests could actually be making things worse for the South Asian nation. Between 25-30% of the country’s daily tests now are rapid antigen tests, Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told reporters at a briefing in New Delhi. It was the first time India’s premier research group had broken down the testing data -- the ICMR’s website still does not specify what type of tests are being done in its daily data.  The reliance on these tests casts further doubt on the ability of the government to stem the epidemic, which is now surging unchecked through the nation’s hinterland. It may also mean the falling case numbers seen in its big cities could be due to false negatives, raising questions over whether the infection is truly being curbed. The health ministry didn’t respond to an email and a phone call seeking comment. “I don’t think it’s good science to put together the two tests. If the rapid antigen tests are only 50% sensitive compared to PCR tests and there is a very high prevalence of community transmission then they are not a very good test,” said Peter Collignon, a professor of clinical medicine at the Australian National University Medical School. “Flipping a coin might almost be as good.” Shifting Strategies The quicker test itself isn’t the problem. Rapid antigen testing is viewed as a competitive strategy to test widely -- it’s faster, cheaper and requires less complex technology than molecular testing. The rapid tests cost about 450 rupees ($6) compared to the molecular tests, where the government has capped the price at 2,400 rupees. “The basic approach should be to test as widely as possible, but to report results separately for RAT and RT-PCR so that trends in each can be studied separately,” said Prabhat Jha, professor of Global Health and Epidemiology at the Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto. In Asia the countries that have had the most success in controlling their infections, like China and South Korea, don’t use the rapid tests much because they scaled up their molecular testing capacity early on.  Opaque Data India’s clubbing together of its different types of tests is part of the nation’s bigger problem with opaque data and one that experts say hinders its pandemic battle. The results of a similar survey, using antibody testing, conducted earlier by the ICMR have yet to be released. Jha believes the details of the Delhi antibody test need to be published for independent scientific scrutiny and described the suggestion that herd immunity is developing as “scientifically suspect.” “The key here is not the test. It’s the reporting and sharing data on individual records (protecting confidentiality) as well as say Singapore did,” Jha said in an email. “Without open data, India will struggle more to curb the virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nations-flimsy-coronavirus-testing-regime-like-flipping-a-coin-874221.html
17-08-2020||National||Covid-19 case tally rises over 26.47 lakh, death toll crosses 50,000||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. With 57,981 new cases, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday, while the death toll due to the disease crossed the 50,000-mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India also went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours. The recovery rate has rise to over 72 per cent, the data showed. India's Covid-19 recoveries have reached 19,19,842, while the actual caseload, that is the number of active cases, stands at 6,76,900 as on date and comprises only 25.57 per cent of the total positive cases. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the three crore-mark in India, with the health ministry asserting that the "new landmark" has been achieved due to expanded network of diagnostic labs and facilitation of easy testing across the country. A total of 3,00,41,400 samples have been tested until August 16 with 7,31,697 being examined on Sunday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 50,921 with 941 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.92 per cent. According to a PTI tally, compiled with the data provided by various state governments, the country's tally of cases stood at 26,95,230, while the death toll was at 51,840. The ministry in a statement said the high recovery rate is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of critical patients. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients -- mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said.  Effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said, adding that India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day. In a testament to the focussed, consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre, states and Union Territories, India has set a new landmark of conducting three crore tests, the ministry said in a separate statement on the number of tests crossing the three-crore mark. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country have given a substantial boost to the testing capacity, it said. "With 7,31,697 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, India is on its resolved drive to increase its testing capacity to 10 lakh tests daily. Building on this achievement, the Tests Per Million (TPM) have seen a sharp increase to 21,769," the ministry said. While cumulative testing rose from 1.2 crore on July 14 to three crore on August 16, the positivity rate has seen a rise from 7.5 per cent to 8.81 per cent in the same period, the statement said. "Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially, but as the Delhi experience has amply shown, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, tracking and timely clinical management," the ministry said. Noting that aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of Covid-19 positive cases, the ministry said this coupled with efficient clinical treatment brings the fatality rate down. "Thus, enhanced and timely testing is not only keeping the positivity rate low but also the fatality rate low," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-case-tally-rises-over-2647-lakh-death-toll-crosses-50000-874222.html
17-08-2020||National||Reserved seats for transgenders in West Bengal buses||In a novel move, a private bus operators' association in West Bengal has decided to reserve two seats for transgender commuters in buses affiliated to it, an official said. Joint Council of Bus Syndicates general secretary Tapan Banerjee said two seats in every bus associated with the organisation will be marked as "Tridhara". He claimed that around 35,000-40,000 buses in the state are affiliated with the association. "It is not just about earmarking two seats but to recognise transgender people and create awareness among commuters to treat them as equals," Banerjee said. He said the process of marking the seats has already begun in a couple of routes in the city and will be done in all buses associated with the council. "This will also sensitise the staff of the buses as well as passengers to treat people from the third gender with respect," Banerjee said. He urged the state transport undertakings and other private operators to join the syndicate in the endeavour by keeping two seats reserved for transgenders in each bus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reserved-seats-for-transgenders-in-west-bengal-buses-874223.html
17-08-2020||National||Policeman, two CRPF personnel killed in militant attack in Kashmir’s Baramulla||Two paramilitary personnel and a policeman were killed after militants attacked a joint party of J&K police and CRPF in Kreeri area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday morning. Reports said that militants fired upon a party of the police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at Tindim village of Kreeri at around 9:30 am, which was retaliated by the forces triggering a brief exchange of firing. A police official said during the firing, two CRPF personnel and one special police officer (SPO) identified as Muzaffar Ahmad were injured. “The injured were rushed to a hospital in serious condition. However, they succumbed,” he said. The official said the militants managed to flee from the spot. Meanwhile, joint teams of army, CRPF and police cordoned off the area and launched a massive manhunt in the area to nab the assailants. The latest attack came three days after two policemen were killed and another injured in a similar attack in Nowgam area on the outskirts of Srinagar city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policeman-two-crpf-personnel-killed-in-militant-attack-in-kashmir-s-baramulla-874227.html
17-08-2020||National||Covid-19: After religious places, markets reopen in Kashmir||A day after reopening of religious places, markets across Kashmir reopened on Monday while public transport services resumed under a regulated schedule. After State Executive Committee order on August 4, the officials have permitted the reopening of 50% shops in all markets and resumption of public transport operations with a boarding of 50% passengers in minibuses and up to a maximum of four passengers in 10-seater maxi-cabs and two passengers in taxicabs and auto-rickshaws. “Market associations will decide the roster and ensure strict implementation thereof. The decision in this regard follows consultations with traders’ bodies and market associations of the district,” the order read. The markets will reopen after the ongoing second lockdown enforced on July 22 after a one-month-long unlock period whereas the public transport service will resume operations for the first time since March when restrictions thereon were imposed following outbreak of Covid-19 in J&K. Last week, Kashmir Inc had slammed the administration for ‘punishing’ people by imposing indefinite lockdown while opening golf courses for the rich and mighty. Lashing out at the government for “misplaced priorities”, Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) said the authorities are spending money on buying concertina wires rather than medical equipment to deal with a pandemic. However, District Magistrate Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary dismissed these allegations saying: “No funds have been either requisitioned, authorized, released or utilised out of SDRF for road barricades.” Meanwhile, prominent religious places including shrines opened across Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday after they were closed for over five months to contain the spread of coronavirus. In Kashmir, people offered prayers in shrines and mosques while taking precautions like maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Though small mosques in interior areas had already opened sparsely in the last few weeks, for the first time in the past five months people offered congregational prayers in prominent shrines of Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-after-religious-places-markets-reopen-in-kashmir-874232.html
17-08-2020||National||Covid-19 tests cross three-crore mark; 1.7 crore tests conducted in a month||Ramping up testing for Covid-19, the Health Ministry on Monday said it had tested more than three crore samples for the infectious disease that has claimed more than 50,000 lives since January. Testing has picked up pace in the past one month (July 17-August 16) – a period that saw more than 1.7 crore samples being tested for Covid-19, as against the 1.3 crore tests conducted across a nationwide network of laboratories since January end, when the first patient was reported in the country. The ramped up testing has resulted in identifying more Covid-19 patients every day. “The test positivity rate has seen a rise from 7.5% (in mid-July) to 8.81% (mid-August),” the Health Ministry said. “Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially… it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, tracking and timely clinical management,” the ministry said. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 26,46,981 confirmed cases of Covid-19 as of 5:30 p.m., while 19.17 lakh patients had recovered and discharged from healthcare facilities. India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 and August 16 when the country registered 53,601 and 57,981 new infections respectively. The country also reported highest ever single-day recoveries as 57,584 Covid-19 patients have recovered on Sunday and the total recoveries so far set to cross the 20-lakh mark. Though the testing numbers have increased, experts caution that states such as Maharashtra that has reported nearly six lakh cases so far, have been carrying out fewer tests While the national test positivity rate was 8.81%, for Maharashtra it was 19%, prompting experts to call for more tests in the state. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), through its network of more than 1,400 laboratories, both public and private, have conducted 7,31,697 tests on Sunday, the ministry said. The test per million, nationally, stands currently at 21,769.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tests-cross-three-crore-mark-17-crore-tests-conducted-in-a-month-874252.html
17-08-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for postponing AYUSH PG exam||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the National Testing Agency to cancel all India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test-2020, scheduled on August 29, 2020, due alarming spurt of Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 17 BAMS and BHMS doctors led by Priyanka filed the PIL through their advocate Alakh Alok Shrivastava. They said they are tirelessly working as frontline doctors and 'Corona Warriors' in various hospitals across India. The notification issued on August 10 to conduct AIAPGET-2020 was utterly arbitrary, whimsical and violative of the right to life and health, as the Covid-19 cases have crossed the figure of 25 Lakh cases in India and the situation has worsened in a critical manner. The petitioners pointed out the National Testing Agency had earlier postponed the AIAPGET-2020 on many occasions, solely due to spurt of Covid-19 pandemic. Last time when they did postpone the exam, scheduled on July 15, 2020, there were about 9.36 lakh cases in the country.  They also pointed out that the decision was also contrary to Unlock-3 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on July 29, which said that all schools, colleges, institutions would remain closed till August 31. The petitioners further several tests like Karnataka PGCET, CSIR UGC NET, Maharashtra MHTCET, ICAI, ICSI, AIBE, AILET, UPSC Preliminary Examinations have been postponed solely due to alarming Covid-19 crisis. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement that Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be developed by India very soon, the authorities should have waited for a few more days to conduct the examination, so as to save the lives of the petitioners herein and other similarly situated doctors, they said. The flood situation in various parts of the country was also cited by them as reasons to defer the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-postponing-ayush-pg-exam-874257.html
17-08-2020||National||SC defers considering plea on merger of BSP MLAs into Congress in Rajasthan||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred hearing a plea related to the merger of six Rajasthan BSP MLAs into the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari put the petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar for consideration on August 24 against Speaker C P Joshi's decision of September 18, 2019. Advocate Sunil Fernandes, appearing for the Speaker submitted the single judge had partly dictated the order in the matter on Friday. However, the HC has been closed for three days for sanitisation. He said the matter can be taken up next week. Senior advocate Satyapal Jain, appearing for the MLA and senior counsel S C Mishra also asked the court to adjourn the matter to next week. Dilwar challenged the validity of the High Court's interim order of August 6, 2020. He claimed that HC had failed to appreciate that the Speaker straight away "illegally" accepted the request of six MLAs and allowed the merger of their party, i.e. BSP, into the Congress. He claimed the Speaker had no jurisdiction to record a finding of so-called merger, without giving notice to the Bahujan Samaj Party and without holding an enquiry whether the party has actually merged in the Congress or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-defers-considering-plea-on-merger-of-bsp-mlas-into-congress-in-rajasthan-874268.html
17-08-2020||National||Arunachal Pradesh records 43 fresh Covid-19 cases, state tally at 2,701 cases||Forty-three more people, including 14 security personnel, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, raising the state's total caseload to 2,701, a senior Health department official said on Monday. Of the 43 new cases, 10 each were reported from the Capital Complex region and West Kameng district, five from Lower Dibang Valley, four from Changlang, three each from Tawang, Upper Subansiri and East Siang, two from Leparada and one each from Papumpare, Siang and East Kameng, the official said. Barring two, all of them are asymptomatic, he said. Thirty-seven people including 21 from the Capital Complex, seven from East Kameng, three each from Upper Siang and Lower Siang, two from Tirap and one from West Siang, were discharged from hospitals after being cured, pushing the number of recoveries to 1,808, State Surveillance Officer Dr L Jampa said. He said, "Fourteen paramilitary personnel -- 5 in Lower Dibang Valley, three in Tawang, two each in East Siang and Leparada and one each in Siang and West Kameng -- are among the new patients." A total of 1,219 people, including 548 security personnel, have tested positive for the infection in the state since August 1, the official said. The recovery rate in the northeastern state increased significantly with 66.93 per cent, as 1,027 people have recovered from Covid-19 since the beginning of this month, he said. Arunachal Pradesh, which reported its first Covid-19 case on April 2, has 888 active patients at present. Five people have died due to Covid-19 so far. As many as 1,932 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 1,24,786, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-pradesh-records-43-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-2701-cases-874270.html
17-08-2020||National||When Kamala Harris asked aunt in India to break coconuts for her good luck at Hindu temple||Senator Kamala Harris, the first-ever American of Indian and African descent to be the vice-presidential candidate of a major political party, had at one point asked her aunt in India to break coconuts for good luck at a Hindu temple when she was in the fray for California attorney general election in 2010, according to a media report. Harris had won the election by a margin of 0.8 per cent. The New York Times, in an article titled 'How Kamala Harris’s Family in India Helped Shape Her Values', said when Harris was fighting the elections for California Attorney General, she called her aunt Sarala Gopalan in Chennai and asked her to break coconuts for good luck at a Hindu temple overlooking the beach at Besant Nagar where she used to walk with her grandfather. The aunt lined up 108 coconuts — an auspicious number in Hinduism — to be smashed. "And it takes a whole day to arrange that," Harris was quoted as saying by the newspaper in a 2018 speech to an Indian-American group. The NYT report, published on Sunday, said one of Harris' brightest childhood memories was walking down the beach in Besant Nagar in Chennai with her maternal grandfather P V Gopalan. Her grandfather had worked in the Indian government and every morning he would meet up with his retired friends at the beach in Besant Nagar. When Harris was visiting India as a child, she would accompany her grandfather to the beach. "I remember the stories that they would tell and the passion with which they spoke about the importance of democracy," Harris said in her 2018 speech. "As I reflect on those moments in my life that have had the most impact on who I am today — I wasn’t conscious of it at the time — but it was those walks on the beach with my grandfather in Besant Nagar that had a profound impact on who I am today," she added. Democratic presumptive presidential candidate Joe Biden scripted history last week when he selected 55-year-old Harris as his running mate in the presidential election on November 3. According to the NYT article, although Harris “has been more understated about her Indian heritage than her experience as a Black woman, her path to US vice-presidential pick has also been guided by the values of her Indian-born mother, her Indian grandfather and her wider Indian family who have provided a lifelong support network that endures even from 8,000 miles away". The report said friends and neighbours who knew the family, speak highly of Harris' mother and grandparents. "That family had an immaculate reputation," N Vyas, a retired doctor who was their neighbour, was quoted as saying by the report. "They never raved about the great things that they have done in Delhi or something like that. They were straight-shooters — down-to-earth, happy people." Vyas' wife Jayanti said they were not surprised when Harris was named the first woman of colour on the presidential ticket of a major US party. "All the women in her family are strong personalities. These are women who know what they are talking and what they are saying," she said. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Harris, who has many firsts to a trailblazing career starting with an attorney from California, was also the district attorney for San Francisco -- the first woman and first African-American and Indian-origin to be elected to the position. She is one of only three Asian Americans in the Senate and she is the first Indian-American ever to serve in the chamber. Harris would have several firsts in her role as vice president also: the first woman, the first African-American woman, the first Indian-American and the first Asian-American.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-kamala-harris-asked-aunt-in-india-to-break-coconuts-for-her-good-luck-at-hindu-temple-874299.html
17-08-2020||National||Shift focus to problems of rural India, farmers: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tells IITs||IITs should start major research programmes to boost the rural economy through the development of sustainable technologies, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Monday. The research at IITs and other higher education institutes, he said, must be relevant to society and focus on finding solutions to various problems faced by mankind from climate change to health issues. "Indian institutions will be counted among the world's best only when they start impacting the societies around them by developing optimal and sustainable solutions to the problems faced by the nation. Research should focus on making the lives of people comfortable, quicken the progress and ensure a more equitable world order," Naidu said in his address at the diamond jubilee celebrations of IIT Delhi. Calling upon the IITs to pay attention to the problems faced by the farmers and rural India, the vice president asked them to work not only for enhancing agri-production, but also specially focus on the production of nutritious and protein-rich food. "With more than 50 pc of our population still dependent on agriculture, it is important for IITs to start major research programmes to boost the rural economy through the development of sustainable technologies," he said. "Higher education institutions should not work in silos and form a symbiotic relationship with the industry to develop cutting-edge technology and the industry experts in various areas should act as mentors in guiding researchers. This type of collaboration will help in fast-tracking projects and produce quicker results," he added. Stressing on the need for greater investment in Research and Development projects which focus on finding solutions to societal problems, Naidu urged the private sector to collaborate with the academia in identifying such projects and fund them liberally. "There should be greater investment in R and D projects which focus on finding solutions to societal problems. I call upon the private sector, including industry bodies like CII and Assocham, to collaborate with academia in identifying such projects and fund them liberally," he said. Asserting that the New Education Policy seeks to promote India as a global study destination, Naidu pointed out that only eight Indian institutions figured in the top 500 globally. "This situation has to change and there has to be a concerted and collective action from all the stakeholders—governments, universities, educationists and the private sector to bring about a radical improvement in the standards and quality of education of our institutes of higher learning," he said. "I am happy to note that the New Education Policy seeks to promote India as a global study destination providing premium education at affordable costs, thereby helping to restore its role as a Vishwa Guru," he added. Observing that there is a huge potential for India to become a world leader in various technological domains given the demographic advantage and the presence of highly talented youth, the vice president said, "the need of the hour is to impart quality education".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shift-focus-to-problems-of-rural-india-farmers-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-tells-iits-874301.html
17-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people at the start of the Chingam month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered his greetings to people on Monday at the start of the Malayalam calendar's month of Chingam. "As the month of Chingam commences, my greetings to everyone, especially my Malayali sisters and brothers. I pray that the coming year brings with it success, good health and prosperity for all," he said in a tweet. As the month of Chingam commences, my greetings to everyone, especially my Malayali sisters and brothers. I pray that the coming year brings with it success, good health and prosperity for all. The Prime Minister tweeted the message in both English and Malayalam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-at-the-start-of-the-chingam-month-874304.html
17-08-2020||National||Can block access to AIMIM supporter if government orders: FB, YouTube||Social media platforms Facebook and YouTube on Monday told the Bombay High Court that they would block access of their websites to an AIMIM supporter, accused of posting inflammatory content aimed at creating communal unrest, if the Union government or the court orders. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing a petition filed by Mumbai resident Imran Khan, seeking a direction to police to take action against AbuFaizalfor uploading incriminating hate speeches on social media. The petitioner's lawyer earlier said Faizal was a supporter of the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e- Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). The plea sought deletion of videos uploaded by Faizal and also a permanent ban to be imposed on him from all social media websites. In May this year, the high court ordered YouTube and Facebook to delete the videos uploaded by Faizal. On Monday, Facebook's counsel Darius Khambata and YouTube's advocate Naresh Thacker informed the court that the videos uploaded by the user (Faizal) have been deleted. The petitioners advocate, Vivek Shukla, told the court that Faizal has uploaded videos even after his earlier clips were deleted. "We (Facebook) can block access of the site to this user (Faizal) if the central government passes an order as per the procedure laid down under the Information Technology Act or if the court orders us to do so, Khambata said. Thacker, appearing for YouTube, conceded and said the URLs of the earlier videos uploaded by the user (Faizal) have been deleted. The bench sought to know from Shukla if the petitioner approached the nodal officer appointed by the government under the IT Act Section 69(A) (power to delete/block objectionable content posted online). "The IT Act has laid down a procedure by which any person can approach the nodal officer if he or she has a complaint against any content posted on the internet. Why should the court interfere and pass orders, Chief Justice Datta said. The bench reserved its order on the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-block-access-to-aimim-supporter-if-government-orders-fb-youtube-874307.html
17-08-2020||National||Govt preparing second negative list for defence products; readies roadmap for export boost||The Defence Ministry has begun to prepare a second negative list for the defence sector to expand the number of military items whose import would be prohibited. This was announced by Raj Kumar, Secretary, Department of Defence Production on Monday at an webinar organised by the FICCI to discuss the ways and means of improving participation of Indian industry in the defence sector. Earlier this month, the Defence Ministry came up with a list of 101 military items ranging from artillery guns to diesel-electric submarines and communication satellites that would not be imported. The aim was to enhance indigenous manufacturing in the defence sector. “The government is now working on the second negative import list of defence items. The list will be expanded periodically. We are examining when the second list will come and expect the industry to come forward and start investing to meet our requirements,” he added. The Defence Ministry has also prepared a roadmap to promote indigenous military platforms and weapons to boost their exports. “We are preparing country-wise profiles of products, weapons and platforms which are probably needed by our friendly countries so that we can web interactions led by the industry. Diplomatic channels will be used to promote exports ,” Kumar said. India’s defence export jumped by nearly 700% between 2016-17 (Rs 1,521 crore) to 2018-19 (Rs 10,745 crore) with the government exporting military products to 42 countries. The BJP-led central government has now fixed a target of Rs 35,000 crore ($5 billion) defence export in the next five years. Kumar said the proposal for up to 74% FDI in defence sector through automated route has been submitted to the Cabinet. The draft Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy 2020 also sets a target of $25 billion of domestic production by 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-preparing-second-negative-list-for-defence-products-readies-roadmap-for-export-boost-874309.html
17-08-2020||National||BRO sanctions Rs 10 crore to repair damaged border roads||The BRO has sanctioned a sum of Rs 10 crore for repair of border roads damaged by heavy monsoon rains and cloudbursts in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand. "When we approached our DG Lt Gen Harpal Singh seeking additional funds to reconstruct the border roads damaged due to recent cloudbursts in Pithoragarh district, he immediately sanctioned an amount of Rs 10 crore," BRO Chief Engineer Vimal Goswami said. The roads to be reconstructed are Munsiyari-Bugdiyar-Milam, Pithoragarh-Tawaghat-Ghatiyabagar and Jauljibi-Munsiyari, which had been damaged in the cloudbursts on July 19 and July 27, he said. At least 22 landslides hit these roads following the cloudbursts and seven are still active, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bro-sanctions-rs-10-crore-to-repair-damaged-border-roads-874313.html
17-08-2020||National||Delhi High Court dismisses plea for CBI, ED probe against Priyanka Gandhi, Milind Deora, Rana Kapoor||The Delhi High Court Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the CBI and the ED to take action against Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Milind Deora and Yes bank co-founder Rana Kapoor for alleged cheating and fraud. Justice Vibhu Bakhru dismissed the petition filed by an NGO alleging that Vadra sold a painting of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi to Kapoor for Rs 2 crore even though it was the property of the Congress party. The plea alleged that Deora had pressurised Kapoor, who is lodged in jail in another fraud case, to buy the painting. “This court does not consider it apposite to entertain the writ petition,” the judge said. Regarding the plea to direct the investigative agencies to take action, the high court said the concerned trial court, where an FIR is already pending against Kapoor in the Yes Bank scam, will have the jurisdiction to direct the probe and the NGO should approach the lower court. So far as the plea for lodging FIR against Vadra and Deora is concerned, the NGO has an alternate remedy of filing complaint under section 156(3) of CrPC before the trial court, it said. “The Supreme Court in a number of cases has held that it is necessary for a complainant to exhaust all the remedies available to it before approaching the high court. Hence the present petition is dismissed,” Justice Bakhru said. The petitioner NGO, Akhil Bhartiya Shanti Pratishthan, through advocate Rajeev Lochan, sought lodging of FIR against the two Congress leaders and Kapoor for alleged money laundering, cheating, extortion, fraud, and misrepresentation. The plea alleged that Vadra, in connivance with Deora as partner conspirator, and Kapoor in a pre-planned manner performed an illegal act of money laundering with the intention of cheating and forgery. It also claimed that this was done and executed in a pre-planned manner for generating black money under the garb of sale of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's painting made by legendary painter late MF Hussain. It alleged that Kapoor was part and parcel of the entire illegal execution for grabbing crores of rupees of public property under his power and authority which was done for generating black money via public property for Vadra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-for-cbi-ed-probe-against-priyanka-gandhi-milind-deora-rana-kapoor-874314.html
17-08-2020||National||SC to consider procedure for statements alleging corruption in judges||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider what procedure should be adopted if statements are made in public alleging corruption in sitting and retired judges. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the court would also consider what could be the circumstances when a statement on judicial corruption was made in public. The court decided to examine these issues while considering a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan for alleging corruption in past Chief Justices of India. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, said the matter can be referred to the Constitution bench after closing the present matter. He along with senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for then editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal, asked the court to put a quietus to the case. "Putting a quietus was not an issue but the question before us was when a matter is sub judice, to what extent, it can be argued through media," the bench asked. At the outset, Dhavan told the court the judgement delivered on August 14, holding Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets suffered from great imbalances. He said Bhushan would file a review petition in the matter. He also said alleging corruption in retired judges would attract provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act. Dhavan said some questions raised by the court were meaningful but some have been framed by him and senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, which could be circulated. The court decided to consider the matter next week. Bhushan has filed a written submission, saying allegations of corruption in judges per se would not amount to contempt. He has already been held guilty of criminal contempt on August 14 in a separate case for making two tweets related to current CJI, riding a high-end bike and shutting down courts, denying citizens fundamental rights, and the alleged role of the last four CJIs in the destruction of democracy. The court has fixed August 20 to consider the quantum of sentence against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-procedure-for-statements-alleging-corruption-in-judges-874320.html
17-08-2020||National||Doctors moves Supreme Court, seeks postponement of AIAPGET-2020 exams amid Covid-19 pandemic||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court by several doctors seeking postponement of the All India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET)-2020, scheduled on August 29, amid the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The petition has been filed by 17 Ayurvedic and Homeopathic doctors holding qualifications of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) and Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (BHMS) respectively. The petitioners, who have said that they are working as "frontline doctors/corona warriors" in different hospitals across the country, have sought quashing of August 11 notice issued by National Testing Agency (NTA) for conducting the AIAPGET- 2020 on August 29. "If they (petitioners) would leave to the place of their exam centre and then quarantined for 14-days as per the local rules, then there will be a grave scarcity of the respective doctors at their Covid-19 posting hospitals, due to which the Covid-19 patients will suffer irreparable injuries," said the plea, filed through advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava. The plea further said that the August 11 notice is "violative of unlock-3 guidelines" issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, which has categorically directed that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31. "The Covid-19 crisis is worsening in India by each passing day and the number of daily added Covid-19 tally is increasing alarmingly," the plea said, alleging that the NTA is "adamant" to conduct AIAPGET-2020 on August 29 which "shows its indifferent and insensitive approach" towards these aspirants. Referring to the rise in number of coronavirus cases, the plea said that authorities should conduct the examination after normalcy is restored in the country. It has also sought a direction to the authorities to at least give one-month advance notice to the AIAPGET-2020 aspirants before conducting the test. The plea alleged that previously, the NTA had postponed the AIAPGET-2020 due to the spurt in Covid-19 cases. It claimed that last time when NTA had postponed this test on July 15, there were about 9.36 lakh coronavirus cases in the country. "However, today, when the Covid-19 cases have increased manifold, have crossed the figure of 25 lakh cases in India and the situation has worsened in a critical manner, the decision of the Respondents to conduct AIAPGET-2020 on August 29, 2020, is utterly arbitrary and violative of the right to life of the petitioners and other similarly situated aspirants, as enshrined within Article 21 of Constitution of India," it said. The plea alleged that authorities have "overlooked" that many states have refused to allow conducting of any professional or non-professional exams at this stage and it is likely to cause unimaginable harassment to the aspirants. It claimed that authorities have ignored the plight of aspirants belonging to Bihar, Assam and other flood-affected states where conducting online or offline examinations is not possible at this stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-moves-supreme-court-seeks-postponement-of-aiapget-2020-exams-amid-covid-19-pandemic-874328.html
17-08-2020||National||Record one-day recovery of 57,584 Covid-19 patients: Health Ministry||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to over 72 per cent, according to the Union Health ministry data. India's Covid-19 recoveries have reached closer to 2 million (19,19,842), while the actual caseload of the country stands at 6,76,900 on date and currently comprises only 25.57 percent of the total positive cases. This difference between the recovered and the active cases continues to expand and now stands at 12,42,942. The recovery rate is 72.51 percent at present. This is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients, the ministry said in a statement. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients - mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said. The effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said. India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day, it asserted. The early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases, the ministry said. The Case Fatality Rate has further slumped to 1.92 percent. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the three crore-mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-one-day-recovery-of-57584-covid-19-patients-health-ministry-874333.html
17-08-2020||National||Govt in process of launching 24x7 mental health rehabilitation helpline||The government is in the process of launching a 24x7 rehabilitation helpline to assist people to cope with mental health issues. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said the helpline will operate through 25 institutions in 13 languages. "#DEPwD is in the process of launching a 24x7 Mental Health Rehabilitation #HELPLINE for enabling the citizens to develop effective coping strategies. The HELPLINE will operate through 25 Institutions in 13 languages.@TCGEHLOT," DEPwD said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-in-process-of-launching-24x7-mental-health-rehabilitation-helpline-874346.html
17-08-2020||National||Ready to properly address differences with India, says China||China on Monday said it is ready to work with India to enhance political mutual trust, properly manage their differences and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said this at a regular briefing when a Western media journalist sought China's reaction to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks that the Indian armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country's sovereignty. Modi, in his 74th Independence Day address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, said the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country's sovereignty "from LoC to LAC", in a veiled reference to Pakistan and China. "From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces have responded in the language they understand," Modi said. Modi's comments came amid India's bitter border row with China along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and rise in incidents of ceasefire violations along the LoC with Pakistan in the last few months. Responding to the question, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao said that “we have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech.” “We are close neighbours, we are emerging countries with over one billion people. So, the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world,” he said. “The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao said. “So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step-up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties,” the spokesman added. In his speech, Prime Minister Modi also said that "whether it is terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both with determination." Referring to the Galwan Valley clashes in eastern Ladakh in June, the prime minister said respect for India's sovereignty is supreme and the world has seen in Ladakh what its brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. "I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort," Modi said, adding the whole country is united in protecting the sovereignty of the country. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed during the clashes on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-properly-address-differences-with-india-says-china-874351.html
17-08-2020||National||Withdraw FIRs against protesters: Central Trade Unions tell Amit Shah||Ten central trade unions on Monday shot off a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah against FIRs filed against people who protested against the government policies during the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it "smacks of vindictive attempt at muzzling" these organisations to be the voice of people. The letter was signed by central unions - INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. The trade unions had recently organised protests against the labour policy, disinvestment and privatisation of public sector enterprises and for raising the genuine issues of the front rank Covid-19 fighters, the doctors, nurses, technical staff, safai karamcharies/municipal workers and the scheme workers-ASHA, anganwadi and mid-day meal workers among others. "The working people are compelled to come out in protest during the pandemic period due to continuing miseries being heaped on them by the government. Mask wearing and physical distancing was strictly practised while organising the protests. Even then that has been made the ground for filing the said FIRs," the letter said. "It smacks of vindictive attempt at muzzling the democratic rights of the unions to represent the grievances of the workers, the wealth producers and the service givers. This is unacceptable," it said. The trade unions urged Shah to get these FIRs filed throughout India against trade union leaders and activists, withdrawn in the best interest of democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdraw-firs-against-protesters-central-trade-unions-tell-amit-shah-874358.html
17-08-2020||National||93 new Covid-19 cases in Andaman and Nicobar Islands; total tally up to 2,399||The number of Covid-19 cases in Andaman and Nicobar Island rose to 2,399, with 93 more people testing positive for coronavirus, an official said on Monday. All the new cases were detected during contact tracing, he said. Of the total 2,399 Covid-19 cases, active are 1,145 as 1,226 people have recovered from the disease and 28 have died, the official said. Ninety-eight more people recovered from Covid-19 in the Union territory in the last 24-hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,226, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/93-new-covid-19-cases-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-total-tally-up-to-2399-874385.html
17-08-2020||National||Enforcement Directorate books Chinese national under money laundering law days after he was raided by I-T dept||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against a Chinese national for allegedly running a hawala racket worth an estimated Rs 1,000 crore using shell or dubious firms, officials said on Monday. They said the central probe agency has pressed sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against 42-year-old Charlie Peng, alias Luo Sang, who is alleged to be the kingpin of the racket. Peng and some of his alleged associates, including Indians, and bankers were raided by the Income Tax Department on August 12. The taxman had searched at least two dozen premises, including that of Peng in Gurgaon. The ED has taken cognisance of the tax department evidence and action and a Delhi Police Special Cell FIR against Peng before filing the criminal case of money laundering against him, they said. Peng, according to sources, is alleged to be holding a fake Indian passport and tax officials had said he created a "web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China" in the past two-three years. They said his front or showcase business was import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items. Peng, the sources said, was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in September 2018 on charges of fraud and forgery and was allegedly running an illegal money changer. It is alleged that Peng got a fake Indian passport from Manipur after marrying a woman from that state and some fake Aadhaar cards were also recovered during the raids against him. Peng is currently being questioned by the tax department apart from central intelligence agencies. The tax department is searching dozens of bank accounts linked to shell firms in this case even as it has issued prohibitory orders against a number of these accounts. Both the I-T department and the ED, sources said, are also probing allegations if Peng was "bribing" some Tibetans living in Delhi for getting some work done from them. The CBDT had issued a statement last week and without taking any names had said that the searches were launched based on "credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities." It had said the "subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India". "Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period," the CBDT had said. "Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants have been found as a result of the search action," it said. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-books-chinese-national-under-money-laundering-law-days-after-he-was-raided-by-i-t-dept-874388.html
17-08-2020||National||SC notice to Madhya Pradesh Speaker on plea against appointment of turncoats||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker on a plea contending that Congress party MLAs, who resigned to switch side to the BJP, cannot be allowed to get appointed in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government (as ministers) during the pendency of their disqualification proceedings.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Speaker by September 21 on a writ petition filed by Congress MLA from Jabalpur North, Vinay Saxena. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha, along with Advocates Vaibhav Joshi and Varun Chopra, submitted that the disqualification petitions against 22 Congress MLAs should have been decided within a maximum period of three months as held by the top court in the Keisham Meghachandra Singh Vs Manipur Assembly Speaker (2020). However, during the pendency of such petitions, 12 out of 22 MLAs have been appointed as ministers on July 2. They said even Jagdish Deora, who was earlier acting as the Assembly Speaker, has been appointed as the minister. "The disqualification petition was filed on March 12, 2020, which has been pending for over about four months and no order or proceeding has been initiated in that period. This intentional delay amounts to virtually defeating the very purpose and objectives of anti-defection law, as contained in the Tenth Schedule," the plea stated. The law laid down by the top court stated that a person who has incurred such disqualification does not deserve to be MPs/MLAs even for a single day. However, 12 of these 22 ex-MLAs, who have been made ministers, are likely to contest bypolls without a taint of disqualification, the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-madhya-pradesh-speaker-on-plea-against-appointment-of-turncoats-874397.html
17-08-2020||National||Manipal Hospitals launches plasma bank||Manipal Hospitals on Monday launched a plasma bank in the city for advanced treatment of Covid-19 patients and urged those who had recovered from coronavirus to come forward as donors. "The key objective of this drive is to make plasma therapy readily accessible to all Covid-19 patients seeking treatment in Manipal Hospitals and registered through AMBER HEALTH," the hospital said in a statement. It appealed to all coronavirus recovered patients to come forward to help those in need to win the battle against the pandemic. Dr C Shivaram, Head-Transfusion Medicine, Manipal Hospitals, said plasma therapy has turned out to be the shield of defence that can fight Covid-19 and is a good supplement to treatment modalities in use. He said a patient must be free from Covid-19 symptoms for at least 14 days to qualify as a plasma donor. "Patients need not worry about their antibodies during donation as we collect only a small portion of the antibodies. Additionally, in case of re-infection by the Covid-19 virus, the body can make antibodies very quickly within hours,because of the memory White cells (B cells) in the blood," Dr Shivaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipal-hospitals-launches-plasma-bank-874405.html
17-08-2020||National||UK urges Indians, ethnic minorities to sign up for Covid-19 vaccine trials||The UK government on Monday issued an appeal for more people from an ethnic minority background, including those of Indian-origin, to sign up for ongoing clinical trials for a potential vaccine to combat Covid-19. A targeted recruitment programme broadcast in Gujarati, Punjabi, Bengali and Urdu is among the measures being deployed to reach out to different communities. Over 1,00,000 people have volunteered to take part in vaccine trials across Britain as part of efforts to speed up the discovery of a safe and effective vaccine that protects against the deadly coronavirus. However, the uptake among certain sections of the population has been low, leading to a call-out for more ethnic minorities, over-65s and frontline health and social care workers to join the National Health Service (NHS) Covid-19 Vaccine Research Registry to help ensure the potential vaccine candidates work for everyone. “Scientists and researchers are working day and night to find a vaccine that meets the UK's rigorous regulatory and safety standards, but they need hundreds of thousands of people of all backgrounds and ages to sign-up for studies to speed up this vital research,” said UK Business Secretary Alok Sharma. “I urge everyone to play our part in the fight against coronavirus and join the 1,00,000 people who have already registered, so we can help save and protect millions of lives,” said the Indian-origin Cabinet minister. According to the NHS, clinical studies with a diverse pool of volunteers will help scientists and researchers better understand the effectiveness of each vaccine candidate and will considerably speed up efforts to discover a safe and workable vaccine. “Getting 1,00,000 volunteers on board is a great start but we need many more people from many different backgrounds that we can call on for future studies if we are to find a vaccine quickly to protect those who need it against coronavirus," said Kate Bingham, chair of the UK government's Vaccines Taskforce. "Protecting those at risk is the only way we will end this pandemic. That's why we are working as quickly as possible to run clinical studies on the most promising vaccines to see whether they offer protection against Covid-19, whilst adhering to the UK's strict safety and regulatory processes. And we need people throughout the UK to sign up to the registry to help us achieve this,” she said. Launched last month, the NHS Covid-19 Vaccine Research Registry is an online service allowing members of the public to register their interest in Covid-19 vaccine studies and be contacted to participate in future clinical trials. ] A number of trials are expected to begin in the coming months, working with the NHS, research institutions and businesses, helping to develop and manufacture the vaccines. Dinesh Saralaya, an Indian-origin Consultant Respiratory Physician and Director of the UK's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Patient Recruitment Centre (PRC), sought to reassure people that research trials and studies are strictly regulated for ethics and safety. "They are conducted within the framework of the NIHR, which is the research partner of the NHS, and we take every precaution to safeguard participants taking part. This includes appointments in settings like sports halls close to where people live and work rather than in hospitals," said Saralaya. "The best way to protect us from future outbreaks is to develop effective vaccines. Several vaccine trials are being conducted around the UK in the coming months and it is important that we all sign up to be contacted about them,” he said. “The more people who volunteer to take part the more likely we find an answer to whether any vaccine is effective… It is important that we have people from different backgrounds and ages as volunteers, so that the vaccines that are developed work for everyone,” added Professor Chris Whitty, the Chief Medical Officer for England.  Vaccines are tested in stages to ensure they are safe and effective. The UK's Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) said that volunteers who are contacted to take part in trials will be given information about what stage a particular vaccine is at and details of how it has already been tested. They will be able to consider this when deciding to take part and people can withdraw from the registry at any point. The UK has so far secured access to around 340-million doses of six different candidates across four coronavirus vaccine types, including the University of Oxford's vaccine being developed with AstraZeneca, as well as agreements with the BioNTech/Pfizer alliance, Valneva and GSK/Sanofi Pasteur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-urges-indians-ethnic-minorities-to-sign-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials-874409.html
17-08-2020||National||SC to decide if corruption charges against judge be made public before probe||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider what procedure should be adopted if statements are made in public alleging corruption in sitting and retired judges. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the court would also consider what could be circumstances when a statement on judicial corruption was made in public. The court decided to examine these issues while considering a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan for alleging corruption in past Chief Justices of India. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, said the matter can be referred to the Constitution bench after closing the present matter. He, along with senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for then editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal, asked the court to put a quietus to the case. "Putting a quietus was not an issue but the question before us was when a matter is sub judice, to what extent, it can be argued through media," the bench asked. At the outset, Dhavan told the court the judgement delivered on August 14, holding Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets suffered from great imbalances. He said Bhushan would file a review petition in the matter. He also said alleging corruption in retired judges would attract provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act. The court decided to consider the matter next week. Bhushan has filed a written submission, saying allegations of corruption in judges per se would not amount to contempt. He has already been held guilty of criminal contempt on August 14 in a separate case for making two tweets. The court has fixed August 20 to consider the quantum of sentence against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-if-corruption-charges-against-judge-be-made-public-before-probe-874429.html
17-08-2020||National||94% kids surveyed in 4 states don't have smartphones or internet access for e-education: CRY||A survey among children in four southern states found that about 94 per cent of the respondents did not have access to smartphones or the internet for online education. The study conducted by child rights body CRY in May-June covered 5,987 children in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The information was collected by CRY's community organisers through telephonic interviews. The objective of the study was to embark on a fact-finding mission on "internet accessibility of children" in the age group of 11-18 years. "With schools closed and mobility restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, CRY wanted to envisage the ground reality of the potential for online education," it said. The study found that most of the respondents from Karnataka owned smartphones with nine per cent of the 1,445 respondents answering in the affirmative, while only three per cent out of the 1,740 children surveyed in Tamil Nadu had smartphones. "A further dipstick reveals that the annual income of 95 per cent of the families is less than Rs 1 lakh. Without substantial resources and with bare minimum affordability, having a smartphone is a luxury that more than two-thirds of these families can only hope for," the study said. About 94 per cent of the children surveyed in the four states do not have access to smartphones or the internet for online education, the study found. While six per cent of the children own smartphones, 29 per cent access their family members' phones, it said. Also, 55 per cent of these children get access to smartphones only for three days a week or less, while 77 per cent of them get access to smartphones for less than two hours a day. Karthik Narayanan, regional director at CRY South, warned that the study shows that children from the marginalised sections of the society are becoming more vulnerable than ever before. "Education is the key to ensure a protective environment for children. Going to school not only sharpens a child's mind but buys crucial time in their lives from being drawn into child marriage or child labour. With conventional education becoming difficult and online education being accessible to only a few, the children from the marginalised sections are becoming more vulnerable than ever before," he said. The nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But a weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children in the rural areas. According to official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/94-kids-surveyed-in-4-states-dont-have-smartphones-or-internet-access-for-e-education-cry-874431.html
17-08-2020||National||Ex-judges, lawyers question SC judgement on holding Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt||Several retired judges, lawyers and eminent citizens have questioned the Supreme Court's judgement, holding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt, saying it would have a chilling effect on people having critical views on functioning of judiciary. Several former SC judges including Justices Ruma Pal, B Sudarshan Reddy, G S Singhvi, Aftab Alam, Madan B Lokur and V Gopala Gowda expressed their anguish and disappointment with the verdict. Expressing their support and solidarity with the judgement, they maintained that the judgement was not appropriate. Separately, forty-one lawyers of the Supreme Court issued a public letter, saying the judgement on Bhushan does not restore the authority of the court in the eyes of public but will discourage advocates from being outspoken. They said they were of the firm view that the judgment must not be given effect to, until a larger bench, sitting in open court after the pandemic has the opportunity to review the standards of criminal contempt. "An independent judiciary does not mean that judges are immune from scrutiny and comment. It is the duty of lawyers to freely bring any shortcomings to the notice of bar, bench and the public at large," they said, expressing their dismay with the August 14 judgement. Prominent among those who signed the letter are Dushyant Dave, Huzefa Ahmadi, Arvind Datar, A S Chandhiok, Sriram Panchu, Meenakshi Arora, Shekhar Naphade, Raju Ramachandran. They maintained tweets by Bhushan did not say anything out of the ordinary, other than what was routinely expressed about the court's working in recent years by many on public fora and on social media. Even some retired judges of the Supreme Court have expressed somewhat similar views. In a related development, over 450 lawyers from across the country shot off a letter to SC Bar Association President Dushyant Dave, asking him to ensure the link of virtual hearing on sentence against Bhushan, fixed on August 20, should be shared with them. Pointing out alleged procedural irregularities in the matter, including absence of consent by the Attorney General, they said, "The majesty of the Supreme Court of India is not affected so much by criticism, as it is by its own response to it." They demanded that invoking of the ‘iron hand’ by the constitutional court to respond to criticism in speech should be reviewed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-judges-lawyers-question-sc-judgement-on-holding-prashant-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-874433.html
17-08-2020||National||Pandit Jasraj's death has left a deep void in Indian cultural sphere: PM Narendra Modi||Condoling the death of Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that his demise has left a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere.  One of India's greatest music legends, Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, his daughter Durga Jasraj said. He was 90. "The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti," the prime minister tweeted.  Along with the tweet, Modi also posted old pictures of him felicitating the maestro.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandit-jasrajs-death-has-left-a-deep-void-in-indian-cultural-sphere-pm-narendra-modi-874435.html
17-08-2020||National||Rakesh Asthana appointed Director General of Border Security Force||Senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana was on Monday appointed Director General of Border Security Force (BSF), a government order said. Asthana, a 1984-batch officer of Gujarat cadre, is presently Director General of Bureau of Civil Aviation with additional charge of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). He will also hold additional charge of NCB along with that of BSF. He will remain in the post till July 31 next year, when he retires, or till further orders whichever is earlier. ITBP Director General S S Deswal has been holding additional charge of BSF so far. Asthana, who is considered close to both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, was in the eye of controversy earlier after he and the then-CBI Director Alok Verma levelled allegations of corruption against each other when he was in the investigating agency as Special Director. It was speculated that the government wanted Asthana to take over as CBI Director but Verma had objected much before at the time of his induction into the CBI as Special Director. As the fight between the two escalated, the government shifted both the officials from the CBI. VSK Kaumudi, a 1986-batch officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre and presently Director General of Bureau of Police Research and Development, has been appointed as Special Secretary (Internal Security) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guard also will get a new chief in Mohd Jawed Akthar, who is presently Special Director General in CRPF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-asthana-appointed-director-general-of-border-security-force-874443.html
17-08-2020||National||Project Dolphin will be launched in 15 days: Prakash Javadekar||The Union Environment Ministry on Monday said it would launch the Project Dolphin on the line of much successful Project Tiger and Project Elephant in the next 15 days. “The ministry will be launching a holistic Project Dolphin in another 15 days for the conservation and protection of the Dolphins in the rivers and in oceans of the country,” Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a meeting with the forest ministers and senior officials from the states. In the Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the launching of Project Dolphin and Project Lion for the healthy growth of the two iconic species in the wild. Project Dolphin will initially be a 10-year programme during which conservation concerns would be addressed besides aiding the river-dependent population in reducing river pollution for the benefit of the unique aquatic species. As per an official assessment, there are about 3,700 Gangetic River Dolphins in the Indian rivers. They are sighted along deep river reaches in Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The Gangetic River Dolphin (Platanista gangetica) is a species of freshwater dolphins primarily found in the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers and their tributaries in India, Bangladesh and Nepal. Being an indicator species of river ecosystems, conservation of the Gangetic River Dolphin requires controlling river pollution to improve the availability of fishes. On forest conservation, Javadekar told the state ministers that the Finance Commission had increased the weightage given to the forest conservation from the present level of 7% to 10%. This would give an additional incentive to the states to conserve their forest as they would receive more funds in the process of resource devolution. The minister reminded the states that the compensatory afforestation fund (CAMPA) was meant only for greening India and not for paying salary. While 80% of the fund is to be utilised for afforestation, the remaining 20% is for capacity building. Last year in August, the environment ministry released Rs 47,436 crore to 27 states for compensatory afforestation and other green activities. In February, the ministry released the CAMPA funds for Jammu and Kashmir (Rs 408.3 crore), the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (Rs 16.4 crore) and Chandigarh (Rs 11.03 crore), taking the total amount of money released from the CAMPA funds to Rs 47,872 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/project-dolphin-will-be-launched-in-15-days-prakash-javadekar-874444.html
17-08-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to clarify stand on why Reliance Jio be not asked to pay AGR related dues||With differences cropping up between two ministries, the Supreme Court on Monday asked Centre to clarify its stand on why Reliance Jio, which is earning revenue by sharing Reliance Communication’s (RCom) spectrum be not asked to pay the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues to the government. The Centre told the top court there is a difference of opinion between two of its ministers (Department of Telecommunication and Ministry of Corporate Affairs) on the issue of sale of the spectrum during insolvency proceedings. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre and DoT, said the government would support any view taken by the top court resulting in the recovery of the AGR related dues. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah asked the Department of Telecom (DoT) to give year-wise dues of RCom by Tuesday saying that will be crucial for its verdict on the issue and posted the matter for further hearing for August 18. During the hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jio said that the company was not involved in any proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and was not acquiring RCom’s spectrum. Mehta said that spectrum sharing is different from trading and the user must pay the AGR related dues. On the divergent view between the two ministries, Mehta said the DoT has constantly maintained a stand that spectrum cannot be sold during insolvency proceedings while the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) had sought to allow spectrum sale for maximization of value. The law officer pointed out that the spectrum is allowed to be used by the telecom companies under a contract but the ownership of it does not get transferred. He said that spectrum can never be subject matter of the IBC proceedings and it is a natural resource which is owned by the people and held by the government in trusteeship.   “This has been the consistent position of the DoT and it has been upheld by the top court,” he said, adding that in 2019, the government has issued show cause notice to RCom as to why the spectrum should not be revoked due to non-payment of dues.   The bench said it wants to know, since when RCom has not paid its dues and DoT should also give the year-wise details of demand raised against the company. It also sought to know the details of the resolution plan approved by the committee of creditors for the RCom under the IBC.   Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing Resolution Professional for RCom, said the plan of UV Asset Reconstruction Company (UV ARC) has been approved and according to it RCom will be acquired, its enterprise business will be rebuilt and assets monetized. He said that after RCom sale to UV ARC, banks (financial creditors) will be issued zero-coupon bonds worth Rs 15,140 crores rupees redeemable in three to five years.   The bench referred to the earlier proposed deal of RJio and RCom (which did not materialize) and said RCom claimed its assets valued at Rs 35,000 crore.   "How has the value depreciated so significantly? Where have the assets disappeared”, the bench asked.   Divan said that in 2018-19 Banks, RCom wanted to sell its company to evade the insolvency proceedings but the deal did not materialise and the IBC became the preferred route.   He said that Spectrum is an asset in the hands of the company and its license can be a subject matter of IBC proceedings and it can be bought and sold.   He said that RCom’s license cannot be terminated during bankruptcy proceedings.   The hearing remained inconclusive and the bench said that it would hear other parties on August 18. At the fag end of hearing, Salve told the bench that he will address the court on legal issues of whether the spectrum can be sold under the bankruptcy process. On August 14, the top court had sought the details of spectrum sharing pact between RCom and RJio and said as to why the company using the spectrum of the other firm cannot be asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The top court had asked the counsels for Reliance Jio and RCom to place their spectrum sharing agreements on record. It had asked other telecom companies under insolvency, including Aircel Limited, Aircel Cellular Limited and Dishnet Wireless Limited and Videocon Telecommunications Ltd. to specify who is using the spectrum and place the details of the arrangement and necessary documents on record.   On Aug 10, the top court had asked the DoT to apprise it as to how it plans to recover the AGR related dues from telecom companies facing insolvency proceedings and whether spectrum given to these companies can be sold. Earlier, the top court had made it clear it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR related dues of telecom companies which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. The top court had asked the telecom companies including Bharti Airtel, Vodafone to file their books of accounts for the last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for paying the AGR dues. The apex court had in October 2019 delivered the verdict on the AGR issue for calculating government dues of telecom companies such as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. After the top court had rejected pleas by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking review of the judgement which widened the definition of AGR by including non-telecom revenues, the DoT had in March moved a plea seeking staggered payment over 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-clarify-stand-on-why-reliance-jio-be-not-asked-to-pay-agr-related-dues-874446.html
17-08-2020||National||Don't construct toilets to just achieve targets, ensure they're functional: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday asked the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti and Uttar Pradesh to ensure that toilets constructed as part of Swacch Bharat Abhiyan are functional and are not constructed just to achieve set targets. The NHRC's observations came in the case of gangrape and murder of a 13-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh's Kheri on Independence Day. The victim had gone to relieve herself on the farmland owned by one of the accused and she was tortured before she was killed. The victim's house had a toilet but it was not functional. Issuing notice to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary and Director General of Police, the NHRC said a report with details of the incident and disbursement of statutory relief should be submitted within six weeks. The Chief Secretary is also expected to sensitise the district authorities in the State to create awareness that the toilets should not be constructed for mere fulfillment of the government records, they are to be actually made functional, the NHRC said. It also found it appropriate to forward a copy of the news item to the Secretary of Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, which is the nodal ministry for the ‘Swachchh Bharat Abhiyan. "It is expected from the Ministry to issue guidelines to all the states and union territories to ensure that the toilets are not only constructed but also used to make the country clean and save the women from the heinous crimes committed by anti-social elements when they go out to relieve themselves," the NHRC said asking the Jal Shakti Secretary to submit a report within six weeks. UP Police had said that the National Security Act (NSA) will be slapped against the accused who were arrested within a few hours after the incident, it said. In another incident, the NHRC also issued another notice to the Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police following media reports that Inspector of Govind Nagar police station asked a 16-year-old girl to dance in lieu of registering an FIR against the nephew of her landlord who has been molesting her. The girl with her family, lives in a rented accommodation in Dabauli West area of Govind Nagar. "The girl's family earns livelihood by doing some Jagran parties etc and they had tried to lodge a complaint against the nephew of their landlord accusing him of molesting the girl besides forcibly evacuating them from the rented portion of the house, a few days ago," the NHRC said. Media reports suggested that the police have denied the allegations and claimed that it appears that the girl has made the video viral in order to create pressure on the police, the NHRC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-construct-toilets-to-just-achieve-targets-ensure-theyre-functional-nhrc-874464.html
17-08-2020||National||Govt planning 4,000-km dedicated freight corridor to connect industries||The government is planing to build a massive 4,000 km dedicated freight corridor connecting industries in the east and west to the south via Andhra, Odisha ports to ensure faster movement of goods and fuel industrial growth. As per the document on proposed dedicated freight corridor, these DFCs are -- 1,115-km East Coast corridor from Kharagpur (West Bengal) to Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh); the East-West corridor which comprises 1,673 km connecting Bhusaval-Nagpur-Kharagpur-Dankuni (near Kolkata) route, and 195-km Rajkharswan-Kalipahari-Andal (West Bengal) route. The third is the 975-km North South sub-corridor Vijayawada-Nagpur-Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh) route. The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) will start survey of the project which will be one of the big projects the NDA wanted to take up in the coming days. The proposed freight corridor will connect Paradeep, Dhamra, Gopalpur Ports in Odisha and Vishakhapatnam, Gangavaram, Kakinada, Krishnapatnam and Machhalipatanam ports in Andhra Pradesh. The DFCCIL is already building the first two freight corridors - Eastern Freight Corridor from Ludhiana to Dankuni, and Western Freight Corridor from Dadri to Jawaharlal Nehru Port. These two are set to be completed by 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-planning-4000-km-dedicated-freight-corridor-to-connect-industries-874475.html
17-08-2020||National||Delhi Police files case after Facebook India executive complains of receiving 'threat to life'||The Delhi Police on Monday registered a case based on a complaint by senior Facebook India executive Ankhi Das that she has been receiving "violent threat to her life", officials said. Das, who is Facebook's Director, Public Policy, India, South and Central Asia, had filed the complaint on Sunday, they said. Based on the complaint, a case has been registered under relevant sections of the law on Monday and investigation has been taken up by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police, said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO (Delhi Police). A Facebook Spokesperson said, "We take the safety and security of our employees seriously and care for their well-being. However, we do not comment on individual employee matters." In her complaint, Das alleged that several people were issuing "threats, making sexually coloured remarks and defaming her" through online posts. According to the complaint, the threats are in relation to an article dated August 14, 2020 published in the Wall Street Journal. In her complaint, Das stated she has been receiving threats ever since. "The content, which even includes my photograph is evidently threatening to my life and body and I fear for my safety as well as that of my family members. The content also maligns my reputation based on a news article and I am subjected to name-calling, cyberbullying and eve-teasing online," she said. Das alleged that she was intentionally vilified by the accused due to their "political affiliations" and are now engaging in online and offline abuse, subjecting her to "criminal intimidation and making sexually coloured remarks". The comments came as the ruling BJP and opposition Congress traded barbs over Facebook's alleged bias towards the ruling dispensation. While BJP accused the social media giant of censoring nationalist voices, opposition Congress seized on the Wall Street Journal report that alleged that Facebook's content policies favour the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-files-case-after-facebook-india-executive-complains-of-receiving-threat-to-life-874478.html
17-08-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgement on Tuesday on plea to utilise PM CARES Fund in Covid-19 pandemic||The Supreme Court is scheduled to deliver its judgement on Tuesday on a plea to transfer all contributions made to PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund for the purpose of fighting Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah would pronounce the judgement at 10.30 am on August 18. The PIL filed by the NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' through advocate Prashant Bhushan sought a direction to prepare a well-thought out national plan to deal with the pandemic and transfer money received in the PM CARES fund to the National Disaster Response Fund. The plea contended that the receipts of PM CARES Fund were not being audited by CAG and not being disclosed. The court had on July 27 reserved its judgement. On June 17, the court had issued notice to the Centre. In its response, the Union government said PM CARES Fund was created during the Covid-19 pandemic with voluntary donations, which was separate from statutory funds like the NDRF. The NDRF, however, was created with budgetary provisions without any private contributions, the Union Home Ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-tuesday-on-plea-to-utilise-pm-cares-fund-in-covid-19-pandemic-874486.html
17-08-2020||National||Experts brief Centre on Covid-19 vaccine progress||India’s top vaccine manufacturers on Monday briefed the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVA) on the progress on research and development of the vaccine candidates against Covid-19. The NEGVA, chaired by epidemiologist V K Paul, interacted with representatives of Serum Institute of India, Pune; Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad; Zydus Cadila, Ahmedabad; Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Pune; and Biological E, Hyderabad. “The meeting was mutually beneficial and productive,” the Health Ministry said in a statement. The statement said the interaction provided the National Expert Group with inputs about the present stage of various candidate vaccines being developed by the indigenous manufacturers as well as their expectations from the Union Government. Three vaccine candidates Covaxin of Bharat Biotech, ZyCoVD of Zydus Cadila and the Oxford vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute are undergoing various stages of clinical trials. In his Independence Day address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the government was awaiting the green signal from the scientists on the Covid-19 vaccine and had a roadmap in place to ensure its smooth roll out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-brief-centre-on-covid-19-vaccine-progress-874491.html
17-08-2020||National||Parliamentary panel likely to submit report on One Nation One Ration Card, housing scheme in September||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour is not very enthused over the progress made on two schemes to provide food and rental housing to migrant and unorganised workers and is likely to submit its recommendations in the first week of next month, according to a panel member. The representatives of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Monday briefed the panel about social security and welfare measures for inter-state migrant, unorganised and informal sector workers. A member of the committee on the condition of anonymity told PTI that the two schemes, One Nation One Ration Card and Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC), have not taken off as expected. "We are firming up our recommendations and observations. The final report is likely to be submitted by the first week of next month." Under the ARHC, the government had come up with two models -- renting out unoccupied houses constructed by the Centre and states (on public-private partnership) and secondly encouraging private and public sector to build houses on vacant land for renting out those to migrant and informal sector workers. The member said that both the models under the ARHC scheme are in the making and did not make much progress as Punjab is the only state which has come up with a memorandum on this initiative. Under the initiative to provide food to migrant workers, the member said that around 2,000 ration card-holders were the beneficiary of the One Nation One Ration card initiative in July this year. There are about 81 crore ration card-holders in the country. The member said that there are many technical issues that are hampering the progress of the One Nation One Card scheme and the panel would give its recommendations under its report to be submitted next month. The One Nation One Ration Card scheme has covered 24 states and union territories so far and states like Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal are out of its ambit, the member said adding this what the ministry officials briefed about the panel on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-likely-to-submit-report-on-one-nation-one-ration-card-housing-scheme-in-september-874509.html
17-08-2020||National||BJP, Tharoor in a war of words over Facebook probe; parliamentary panel to summon Facebook||Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology Chairman Shashi Tharoor's decision to summon Facebook officials following a report about the social media giant not taking action against BJP-RSS handles for hate posts triggered trouble with a BJP MP in the panel on Monday accusing him of taking up the cause of Rahul Gandhi. This triggered an immediate reaction from senior Congress leader Tharoor, who said Nishikant Dubey, the BJP MP, has brought the committee's work into disrepute and he would take up the matter. He also said the panel could consider its testimony under the topic 'Safeguarding Citizens’ Rights and Prevention of Misuse of Social/Online News Media Platforms' and the issue at hand was "squarely" within the panel's remit. However, on Monday evening, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey said in a tweet that the panel Chairman does not have authority to do anything without discussion of the agenda with its members. It further said, "Shashi Tharoor, stop Rahul Gandhi agenda without authorisation by the Committee and Speaker Om Birla." Trinamool Congress MP and panel member Mahua Moitra immediately responded saying the agenda was already agreed and bulletinised with Speaker's approval at the beginning of the year. When to schedule each item and who to call is Chairman's prerogative. Amazing how BJP jumps up and down at anything to do with FB’s interests." Tharoor also responded, "You are absolutely right, Mahua and by imputing motives to my decision, Nishikant Dubey has brought the Committee's work into disrepute, a matter I will take up. Extraordinary that an MP would suggest that a matter of such great public interest should not be taken up by us." To Tharoor, Dubey again responded saying, "thanks for your comment, time will tell who brought the committee’s work into disrepute Mr. Chairman." A report in the Wall Street Journal last week had claimed that Facebook India looked the other way on hate posts by BJP-RSS supporters by quoting former and current employees who claimed that their India policy head Ankhi Das "opposed applying hate-speech rules” to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling BJP, as it could impact its business in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-tharoor-in-a-war-of-words-over-facebook-probe-parliamentary-panel-to-summon-facebook-874528.html
17-08-2020||National||Indian Navy Commanders to hold 3-day conclave beginning Wednesday||Top commanders of the Indian Navy will hold a three-day conclave beginning Wednesday to review the country's maritime security scenario including deployment of a significant number of naval assets in the Indian Ocean region in view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. The Indian Navy has already deployed a range of its frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean region to send a clear message to China, following escalation of the border dispute with the neighbouring country in the wake of the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat are expected to address the inaugural day of the conclave, the sources said. All possible security challenges that the country may face including from China and Pakistan in the Indian Ocean Region will be deliberated upon at length at the conclave, they added. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to India's strategic interests. Over the years, the region has witnessed increasing Chinese presence. China increased its presence in the Indian Ocean Region by constructing the deep-sea Gwadar Port in southern Pakistan and a naval base in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. In the last few weeks, the Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, positioning a plethora of warships and submarines following the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Over the years, the Indian Navy's focus has been on enhancing combat efficiency and improving operational readiness and these issues will be discussed in detail, the sources said. Measures to ensure safety, continued training, and checks and balances on crew proficiency aboard the front-line warships will also be reviewed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-commanders-to-hold-3-day-conclave-beginning-wednesday-874530.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: Draft EIA takes typical jugaad approach, says Jairam Ramesh||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh says what's wrong with the draft EIA rules.  Sagar Kulkarni: What are your objections to the draft EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) Notification 2020? Jairam Ramesh: Well, fundamentally the draft EIA notification is deeply anti-democratic. It reduces the scope for public hearings. It completely eliminates the role of local communities to bring to the notice of the authorities, violation of environmental rules. Only government departments, government agencies can now bring to the notice of the ministry violations. Local communities cannot, civil society organisations cannot and a large number of activities have been exempted from the need for environmental impact assessment. So firstly, it's deeply anti-democratic, secondly, I think it's going to have a detrimental impact on public health because if you are going to do away with environmental impact assessment and you have introduced now and you have regularised post-facto approval. You are basically saying, "Ok, you can set up the project, you need not have clearance, we will regularise for you later after you have paid a fine", so you have opened a window; now you have made it sort of legal and official that you can violate and pay fine later but paying the fine is neither here not there because you have already created conditions for violating the rules. Thirdly, the Central government is taking huge powers of the states. The states should be appointing state-level impact assessment authority, but here the central government has taken upon itself the responsibility. It's anti-democratic, it's anti-public health and it's anti-co-opertaive federalism. These are the main objections I have... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-draft-eia-takes-typical-jugaad-approach-says-jairam-ramesh-874174.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Around 100 Congress leaders wrote to Sonia Gandhi for change in leadership, alleges Sanjay Jha||Around 100 Congress leaders (including MP's), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, want a change in political leadership and transparent elections in Congress Working Committee (CWC), alleged Sanjay Jha on Monday.  In a tweet, the sacked Congress leader, Jha, said that they have written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi asking for the same.  It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP's) , distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/around-100-congress-leaders-wrote-to-sonia-gandhi-for-change-in-leadership-alleges-sanjay-jha-874245.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Steps taken by Modi govt in 6 years ensured India's success in containing pandemic effect: Naqvi||The steps taken by the Narendra Modi government in the healthcare sector in the last six years ensured India's success in containing the effects of the coronavirus pandemic to a large extent, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday. The passionate commitment of the people and the strong will of the government during the pandemic have resulted in the country speedily becoming self-reliant in the health sector, he said while flagging off a mobile clinic provided by the Ministry of Minority Affairs' National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation (NMDFC) to the Holy Family hospital here. India has not only become self-reliant in manufacturing N-95 masks, personal protection equipment (PPE), ventilators and other equipment but has also helped other countries, Naqvi asserted. He said the "pandemic peril" has proven to be a "positive period" of "care, commitment and confidence" for Indians, which has set an example for the entire humanity. The minister said that there has been a significant change in the lifestyle and work culture of people, who are now more committed to service and their responsibilities towards society.  Underlining that the fight against the pandemic has come a long way, he said earlier, there was only one laboratory in India for coronavirus testing, while today, there is a network of more than 1,400 such laboratories spread across the country. In the initial stage of the coronavirus crisis, only 300 tests could be conducted in a day, but now, more than seven lakh tests can be carried out on a daily basis and this has been achieved in a short span of time, Naqvi said. Under the National Digital Health Mission launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, every Indian will be given a health ID and it will bring a revolution in the country's health sector, he added. The details of all medical tests of an individual, every disease, which doctor gave what medicines, reports and all such information will be contained in the health ID, Naqvi said. He said the largest healthcare scheme in the world launched by the government has become a guarantee for the health and well-being of people and it has covered about 40 per cent of the country's population. "The steps taken by the Modi government in the healthcare sector over the last six years ensured that despite the huge population, India was successful in containing the effect of the coronavirus pandemic to a great extent," the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. The government is making continuous efforts towards modernisation of health facilities, he said, adding that 22 new All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and 157 new medical colleges are being constructed in the country. In five years, there has been an increase of more than 45,000 seats for MBBS and MD students, the minister said. He said during the coronavirus pandemic, the government has provided free ration to over 80 crore people and about Rs 90,000 crore have been directly transferred to the bank accounts of needy people. "These gigantic measures ensured that the crisis did not convert into a calamity," Naqvi said.  He added that more than 1,500 healthcare assistants, who have been trained under the skill development programme of his ministry, are assisting in the treatment of coronavirus patients. This year, more than 2,000 other healthcare assistants will be trained by the Minority Affairs Ministry, Naqvi said. The ministry is providing a one-year training to healthcare assistants through various organisations and reputed hospitals in the country. Sixteen Haj Houses across the country have been given to the state governments for quarantine and isolation facilities for Covid-19 patients, the minister said. He said the mobile clinic provided by the NMDFC will be operated by the Holy Family hospital to provide the latest health facilities to the poor and weaker sections of the society. It is equipped with an Emergency Multi Para Monitor, oxygen facility and an Auto Loading Stretcher, which are essential and lifesaving facilities for any emergency patient. Archbishop of Delhi Reverend Anil Couto, Secretary in the Ministry of Minority Affairs PK Das and Holy Family hospital director Father George were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/steps-taken-by-modi-govt-in-6-years-ensured-indias-success-in-containing-pandemic-effect-naqvi-874271.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||NSCN (IM) row: HD Deve Gowda concerned about Naga peace talks||Expressing concern over the Centre's negotiations with NSCN (IM) to resolve the Naga problem running into "rough weather", former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda on Monday hoped distrust is put aside and a peace accord is reached at the earliest. "Newspaper reports indicate that the Union government's negotiations with NSCN (IM) to resolve the Naga problem has run into rough weather. From recent statements made by those involved in the negotiations it is apparent that distrust has crept in," Gowda said in a statement. He said the ceasefire agreement in 1997, which followed his meeting as Prime Minister with Naga leaders Isak Chishi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah in Zurich, in February that year, was a result of constructive diplomacy. "We should ensure that the progress made in the last 23 years by successive governments is not forsaken now. There is the Constitution and also the 2015 framework agreement, which should help its move towards a solution," he added. The NSCN (IM) had attacked the Nagaland Governor and interlocutor for Naga peace talks R N Ravi on Sunday, accusing him of converting a political issue into a law and order problem and adopting a "stratagem" that resulted in the killing and arrest of its members. In a statement, the NSCN (IM), which has been engaged in peace negotiations with the Centre for the last 23 years, also alleged that Ravi was trying to divide the Naga people and "misled" the central government and a parliamentary standing committee on the framework agreement signed on August 3, 2015. Stating that he sincerely hopes that distrust is put aside, talks continue, and a peace accord is reached at the earliest, Gowda said, "the people of the North East deserve to live in harmony and witness economic progress."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nscn-im-row-hd-deve-gowda-concerned-about-naga-peace-talks-874325.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Demand for JPC probe against Facebook-BJP 'nexus' gains more voice||The demand for setting up of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to probe the "nexus" between Facebook and the ruling BJP got more voice with the CPI(M) on Monday joining hands with the Congress and asking the government to bar the social media giant from collaborating with official and constitutional bodies like the Election Commission. Triggering a political slugfest, the WSJ report had claimed that Facebook India looked the other way on hate posts by BJP-RSS supporters by quoting former and current employees who claimed that their India policy head Ankhi Das "opposed applying hate-speech rules” to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling BJP, as it could impact its business in the country. A day after the Congress raised the demand, the CPI(M) also sought a JPC probe into the "nexus" between the "global social media behemoth" and the BJP. It said pending investigations, Facebook should be barred from collaborating with any government department or constitutional body like the Election Commission. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury accused Facebook of illegally interfering in India's electoral process and "promoting” the BJP agenda. "It seeks profits from hate. It has promoted hate speech, which is a violation of law and is liable for criminal prosecution. It is equally worrisome that government bodies, institutions and departments have worked in close cooperation with Facebook, which is tantamount to subvert our democracy and has possibly compromised India's interests," Yechury tweeted.   He wants to sermonise?Before that he should look at the record of the government led by his party during the Emergency years of 1975-77 when every democratic institution was declared defunct & one leader’s voice was regarded as law. Emphasising that the report confirmed the "overall apprehension" over Facebook's activities, it said the expose raises “serious questions about the huge social media investment and operations of the BJP and its role in promoting hate” between communities, a CPI(M) statement said. The party also referred to the recent investment of Facebook in Reliance and said it strengthened the "apprehension of monopoly control, especially, in the absence of an effective social media internal regulatory oversight". Sources said the government is in no mood to accede to the demand for a JPC probe while the BJP continued to target Rahul with Puri following Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in attacking Rahul.  "There is something surreal about the ‘now on now off’ leader of a political party which has not been able to muster 100 seats in the last two general elections put together, deciding to sermonise on democratic values and norms. He needs to introspect and perhaps change his set of advisors," Puri tweeted.   There is something surreal about the ‘now on now off’ leader of a political party which has not been able to muster 100 seats in last 2 general elections put together, deciding to sermonise on democratic values & norms. He needs to introspect & perhaps change his set of advisors Referring to claims that around 100 leaders have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding change in leadership and transparency in party elections, Puri said the "headless" party is in the midst of a civil war and anyone who dissents is shown the door.  "He wants to sermonise? Before that he should look at the record of the government led by his party during the Emergency years of 1975-77 when every democratic institution was declared defunct and one leader’s voice was regarded as law," the minister added.  The former Congress president tweeted on Sunday, "BJP and RSS control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/demand-for-jpc-probe-against-facebook-bjp-nexus-gains-more-voice-874343.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Kerala minister calls CM's former secretary M Sivasankar a 'traitor'||A minister in Kerala has termed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar a 'traitor', while another CPM leader termed that Sivsankar was a dangerous fellow and would not be protected by the government. The fresh attack against the IAS officer came amidst reports that Sivasankar even made foreign trips along with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and she had considerable influence in the CPM's office. CPM senior leader and Public Works Minister G Sudhakaran said Sivasankar was appointed to the Chief Minister's office owing to the trust in him. But he cheated and did not deserve pardon as he was a traitor. Another senior CPM leader and Left Democratic Front convenor A Vijayaraghavan said now only it was revealed that Sivasankar was dangerous. Both of them also reiterated that no one else in the Chief Minister's Office had nexus with the gold smuggling accused. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate, which is also probing the deals of the gold smuggling racket, reportedly stated in a report filed before a special court in Kochi that Sivasankar made three Gulf trips with Swapna during 2017-18. The intention of the trips was not mentioned in the remand report of the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-minister-calls-cms-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-a-traitor-874390.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||From The Newsroom: Congress targets Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath over women safety||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Karnataka to move HC to appoint 'Claim Commissioner' to make riot culprits pay for damages; Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government and The Supreme Court dismisses plea for cancellation of JEE (Main) and NEET UG examinations.    Here are the top news of today, Monday: August 17, 2020: Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, alleging that incidents of caste violence and crimes against women are rampant in the state. Attacking the Adityanath government over the killing of a Dalit village head in Azamgarh's Basgaon, Rahul Gandhi alleged that in Uttar Pradesh, the "jungle raj" of caste violence and rape is "peaking". "Now another terrible incident -- Sarpanch Satyamev, being a Dalit, said 'no' due to which he was killed. Condolences to the family of Satyamev Ji," he said in a tweet. The Uttar Pradesh police has invoked the stringent National Security Act against four persons in connection with the village head's killing, which had triggered a mob violence. Satyamev (42), a Dalit and the head of Basgaon village in the Tarwan area of Azamgarh district, was shot dead last week. In a Facebook post in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of security of women. "Bulandshahr, Hapur, Lakhimpur Kheri and now Gorakhpur. Such repeated incidents have proven that the Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in providing security to women," the Congress general secretary said, referring to reports of crimes against women in these areas.  A slugfest erupted between the Congress and the BJP on Sunday following a report in the Wall Street Journal claiming that Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to politicians of the ruling party in India. Seizing on the report, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP and RSS of spreading "fake news" using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate, triggering a sharp counter-attack from Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. The Congress demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the charges mentioned in the report, saying they threaten the foundation of Indian democracy and need to be investigated. Hitting back, Prasad tweeted, "Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP and RSS.” “You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook to weaponise data before the elections and now have the gall to question us," he said. A week after the Pulikeshinagar riot in Bengaluru, the state government has decided to approach the High Court of Karnataka, for the appointment of a 'Claim Commissioner', in order to assess the damage caused to public and private property during the riot, and to make the culprits pay for these damages. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday. Tweeting the same, the CM said, "Our government has decided to assess the damages caused to public and private property in the violent incidents in KG Halli and DG Halli and recover costs from the culprits. We will approach the Hon'ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as the Hon'ble Supreme Court order." Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaya Bhasker, Advocate General Prabhuling Navadagi, DGP Praveen Sood and Bangalore City Police Commissioner Kamalpant were among those who took part in the meeting. Appointment of claims commissioner has been done in the past too. In February this year, the High Court of Karnataka had directed the state government to appoint retired district judges as claims commissioners, in order to assess the damages in bandhs during the Mahadayi protests and the one that followed the arrest of Congress leader DK Shivakumar in 2019. For legal recourse concerning the recent riot, the government has also decided to appoint a team of three special public prosecutors to represent the case During Monday's meeting, the officials briefed the CM about the action initiated until now, including invoking of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA Act). Invocation of Goonda Act will also be considered by the SIT, wherever the incidents involved in the riot attract such a provision. A special investigation team has already been formed to look into the case, the CM added in his tweet. The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea for cancellation of JEE (Main) and NEET UG examinations, rescheduled for September 1 to 6 and September 13 respectively, as the National Testing Agency said all precautions for Covid-19 would be taken during the tests. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said the education should be opened up as Covid may continue for a year and the career of students can't be put to jeopardy for long. "Are you going to wait for another year? Do you know the loss to the country and peril to the students," the bench asked the petitioners' Alakh Alok Srivastava. Life cannot be stopped, we have to move ahead with all safeguards, the bench further said, adding the courts were also gradually opening up for physical hearings. Srivastava, for his part, said the court had earlier granted relief in case of CBSE, ICSE and NIOS. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said all the safeguards would be put in place during the examinations.A group of 11 students led by Sayantan Biswas asked the court to direct the authorities to conduct the competitive examinations for admission to premier IITs and medical colleges across the country after normalcy is restored in the country. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar on Monday said he would hold meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi on strengthening the party in the state. Shivakumar, who came to national capital to meet the party top brass for the first time after became the state unit president, told reporters that he came here on the invitation of the party leaders. He also said he would hold meeting with party leaders through video conference due to Covid-19 pandemic. Shivakumar also said he would submit the report to party high command about the activities of the party after he took charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-the-newsroom-congress-targets-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-over-women-safety-874398.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Whole Shaheen Bagh protest scripted by BJP: AAP||The AAP Monday claimed the entire Shaheen Bagh protest was "scripted by the BJP" and its leadership dictated each and every move of the agitators for electoral benefits in Delhi polls, drawing a rebuttal from the saffron party. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj made the claim a day after several members of the minority Muslim community from Shaheen Bagh area, which was the centre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests here, joined the BJP. Bhardwaj alleged the BJP’s campaign for the Delhi election centred around the Shaheen Bagh protests and it was the only party that benefited from the controversy surrounding the agitation. "Delhi assembly election could have been fought on the issue of education, health, environment or other developmental narratives. But the Delhi BJP chose to fight the election on the issue of Shaheen Bagh,” he told a press conference. “The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of these protests," he alleged. “They decided who will speak what, who will attack whom and then who will be doing the counterattack. All these things were preplanned and well-scripted,” Bharadwaj claimed. He said the key people behind the Shaheen Bagh protest joined the BJP on Sunday in the presence of the senior leadership of the party. “Today the question is: does the BJP want to give a message that the people who used to raise anti-national slogans will now be part of the BJP?" he asked. Bhardwaj claimed that in Delhi, the BJP’s vote percentage rose from 18 to 38 due to the Shaheen Bagh protests and the controversy surrounding it. "Due to this protest, BJP polarised north-east Delhi, won some seats and then engineered a riot," Bhardwaj charged. His allegations drew a rebuttal from Manoj Tiwari, the chief of Delhi BJP when these protests happened, who said his party does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage. "Now the confusion is getting cleared and Muslim brothers and sisters want to walk with the BJP...Stop dividing Arvind Kejriwal ji. The world's largest party BJP represents all religions and does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage," Tiwari said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/whole-shaheen-bagh-protest-scripted-by-bjp-aap-874403.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Question are raised on capable leaders in Congress: Scindia||Former Union minister and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday attacked the Congress, saying question marks are raised on capable leaders in the party and cited the example of Sachin Pilot, who had briefly rebelled against the leadership in Rajasthan. Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP in March, said curbs should be imposed to check objectionable posts on social media. Pilot is my friend. Everybody is aware of the pain that he has gone through. How after so much delay the Congress is trying to set its house in order is also known to everyone, he told reporters here. Scindia arrived here and later left for Ujjain. "It is a matter of pain that in the Congress questions are raised on capable leaders. My ex-colleague also faced a similar situation recently," he said, referring to Pilot, who had rebelled against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, but later reached a truce with the Congress leadership. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modis leadership, he said under his stewardship, the NDA government scrapped Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and gave a befitting reply to China over the border stand-off. Scindia also referred to Modi performing the 'bhoomi pujan' for a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5. Asked to comment on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's allegation, in the backdrop of a report in a US daily, that Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to BJP politicians, he said The Internet is an independent medium. "When people who have nothing to say after losing faith of citizens, then catch hold of such issues. However, he said I am of the opinion that strict curbs should be imposed where objectionable things are said against anyone on Facebook, WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Facebook is at the centre of a political slugfest over allegations of supporting the BJP. Asked about Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath's statement that the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had got the locks of Ram mandir at Ayodhya opened in 1985, Scindia pointed out that his party colleague Shashi Tharoor has been making contradictory statements on the temple issue. "The Congress is getting entangled (on the issue of Ram temple) as the party does not know what its leaders have done and what they have not done," the BJP MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/question-are-raised-on-capable-leaders-in-congress-scindia-874432.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Congress leaders demand Rahul return as President, settle leadership issue||Rumblings in the Congress over lack of clarity over the leadership issue are rearing its head. The latest to seek clarity on the issue was AICC Secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy, who shot off a letter to Rahul Gandhi questioning his refusal to accept the demand of party workers seeking his return as the Congress President. “Do you have an option to abstain from executing people’s will, which is against your genetic virtue,” said Reddy, who has risen through the ranks in the party having served in the NSUI and Youth Congress. “Today when our party and the workers are going astray without your guidance and leadership, we strongly feel the need of having you step back as the President-INC, more than ever,” he said. “Despite great insistence on you taking back the reins of the party, we are unable to understand your blatant disregard for our opinion and demand. Is it not your responsibility to uphold our conviction and act accordingly,” Reddy said. While there have been demands for Rahul’s return as the Congress President, a section of the leaders, such as Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, have called for organisational elections if none from the Gandhi family is keen on a leadership role. The leadership issue has come up during recent meetings of the Congress Working Committee and Congress President Sonia Gandhi's deliberations with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members of the party. A section of the leaders was planning to raise the leadership issue with the Congress President. Sacked Congress leader Sanjay Jha added to the intrigue by claiming that more than 100 leaders have written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi seeking a change in leadership and organisational elections, a claim rejected vehemently by the Congress. “It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP's), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC,” Jha said. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala hit back at Jha, accusing him of being a BJP stooge and spreading misinformation. “Special Misinformation Group on Media-TV Debate Guidance’ in its WhatsApp of today directed to run the story of a non-existent letter of Congress leaders to divert attention from Facebook-BJP links. Of course, BJP stooges have started acting upon it,” Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-demand-rahul-return-as-president-settle-leadership-issue-874447.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||D K Shivakumar to meet ED officials in Delhi, submit documents regarding money laundering probe||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar on Monday said he would meet Enforcement Directorate officials and submit additional documents regarding money laundering probe faced by him. Shivakumar, who came to national capital for the first time after became the state unit president, told reporters that since the ED officials is asking for more documents, it would be provided to to them on Tuesday. He also said he would hold meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi through video conference due to Covid-19 pandemic during his stay in Delhi. Shivakumar also said he would submit the report to party high command about the activities of the party after he took charge. He refuted the allegations that the K G Halli violence was the result of a fallout between Congress corporators. He also denied any differences between Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and former MLA Prasanna Kumar. He attacked BJP for constituting a-fact finding committee comprising of saffron party leaders to K G Halli violence. "The BJP is trying cover up its failure to control the riot and indulging in diversionary tactics," he said. Terming that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is helpless, he said the CM changed officers for corruption in purchase of hospital materials to treat Covid-19 hit patients instead of sacking Ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/d-k-shivakumar-to-meet-ed-officials-in-delhi-submit-documents-regarding-money-laundering-probe-874452.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Nadda calls Rahul Gandhi 'Prince of incompetence' for his swipe at PM CARES Fund||Rahul Gandhi’s “improbity” jibe at the PM CARES fund drew sharp reaction from BJP President J P Nadda, who dubbed the former Congress President as a “loser” and “prince of incompetence” and accused him of spreading “fake news”. “PM CARES for Right to Improbity,” Rahul had said on Twitter, tagging a report on the Prime Minister’s Office denying information on the PM-CARES fund under the Right to Information Act. Though Nadda did not name Rahul, the target was apparent as Congress hit back at Nadda asking him to tell Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get an audit of the PM-CARES fund done by the CAG. “This happens when the ‘Prince of Incompetence’ shares articles without even reading them. The RTI was filed to know details of other RTIs & this is maliciously spun by you as an attack on transparency. Well, it’s natural given how your career is only based on spreading fake news,” Nadda said. “Your family’s dubious legacy includes appropriating a permanent position in PMNRF and then diverting money from PMNRF into your family trusts. You and your mother also took money from the Chinese to hurt our national interest. Can anyone stoop lower,” Nadda asked. “The entire nation has full faith in the PM and his initiatives. This faith was yet again visible with the massive support for PM CARES. Being the loser you are, you can only crib and spread fake news while the entire nation has joined hands in the fight against Covid-19,” the BJP President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-calls-rahul-gandhi-prince-of-incompetence-for-his-swipe-at-pm-cares-fund-874473.html
17-08-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: Cong accuses J-K admin of implementing 'discriminatory' norms for Kashmir, Jammu regions||The Congress on Monday accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of implementing two "discriminatory" set of rules for Covid-19 management for Kashmir and Jammu regions, and urged Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to look into the issue. Chief spokesperson of Congress' Jammu and Kashmir unit Ravinder Sharma expressed strong resentment over "different norms and yardsticks" being followed for coronavirus cases. In Kashmir region, asymptomatic Covid-19 cases are home quarantined but in Jammu region, the UT administration is putting people in quarantine centres which are mostly ill managed, he alleged. "Anyone raising voice is harassed to create fear amongst the others," Sharma said. "There is dismay and resentment over different norms being followed by the J&K administration in Kashmir and Jammu regions, besides from one district to another... with regard to quarantine measures. We urge the LG to look into the matter and issue directions for following uniform system," the spokesperson said. This calls for personal monitoring by the L-G into the whole system in view of strong resentment among the people about some aspects of handling Covid-19 cases and using, the Congress leader said. "The government should also disclose the funds being spent on various components of the treatment so that the people get to know the efforts being made by the administration," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-cong-accuses-j-k-admin-of-implementing-discriminatory-norms-for-kashmir-jammu-regions-874535.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out on 6th floor of Parliament Annexe Building in Delhi||A fire broke out on the 6th floor of the Parliament Annexe Building, according to ANI. The fire has been brought under control. Seven fire tenders were engaged in the fire fighting operation. The Delhi Fire Service official said the fire broke out on the sixth floor of the building. A call was received at 7.30 am and it is suspected the fire started following a short-circuit. The fire has been brought under control, said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-on-6th-floor-of-parliament-annexe-building-in-delhi-874187.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee's condition continues to remain critical; being monitored closely||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to remain critical on Monday, according to the latest bulletin from the hospital.  "His vital and clinical parameters are stable. He is on ventilatory support and is being closely monitored," the Army Hospital said in a statement.  Mukherjee underwent life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 and has been on ventilator support since. He has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjees-condition-continues-to-remain-critical-being-monitored-closely-874238.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses plea to postpone NEET, JEE exams scheduled in September||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea for cancellation of JEE (Main) and NEET UG examinations, rescheduled for September 1 to 6 and September 13 respectively, as the National Testing Agency said all precautions for Covid-19 would be taken during the tests. A bench presided by Justice Arun Mishra said education institutes should open up as coronavirus may continue for a year and the career of students can't be put to jeopardy for too long. "Are you going to wait for another year? Do you know the loss to the country and peril to the students," the bench asked the petitioners' Alakh Alok Srivastava. Life cannot be stopped, we have to move ahead with all safeguards, the bench further said, adding the courts were also gradually opening up for physical hearings. Srivastava, for his part, said the court had earlier granted relief in case of CBSE, ICSE and NIOS. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said all the safeguards would be put in place during the examinations. A group of 11 students led by Sayantan Biswas asked the court to direct the authorities to conduct the competitive examinations for admission to premier IITs and medical colleges across the country after normalcy is restored in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-plea-to-postpone-neet-jee-exams-scheduled-in-september-874253.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Jawan's body found months after he had gone missing||The body of 11 Garhwal Rifles Jawan Rajendra Singh Negi, who had gone missing in January while on patrol near the LoC in Gulmarg, has been found, his family said Monday. The news about the recovery of the jawan's body was conveyed to his wife by an officer of his battalion, his cousin Dinesh Negi said. Negi's body was recovered after the snowmelt on Saturday, eight months after he had gone missing, he said. When Negi could not be found for several months he was presumed killed in action and declared a "battle casualty" in May this year. Negi, the eldest son of his parents, is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. In a late-night post on social media on Sunday, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat condoled the death of the jawan, saying he salutes his martyrdom. Rawat prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength for the family. He said the government stands with the family and will extend support to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawans-body-found-months-after-he-had-gone-missing-874260.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh man trapped on tree for over 12 hours rescued by IAF chopper||A 43-year-old man was rescued by an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter on Monday after he was left clinging to a tree for over 12 hours amid overflowing water discharged from a dam in Chhattisgarh's Bilaspur district, a police official said. Jitendra Kashyap apparently jumped into the weir (built to remove excess water) of Khutaghat dam on Sunday evening and got swept away in the strong current, Bilaspur Superintendent of Police Prashant Agrawal told PTI. He somehow managed to get hold of small rock and a tree where he remained stuck for more than 12 hours before being rescued in the morning, he said. After getting information about the man being stranded in the weir of the Khutaghat dam, a rescue operation was immediately launched with the support of the State Disaster Response Force team. Rescue teams of the South Eastern Coalfields Limited and the National Thermal Power Corporation were also roped in, the official said. "Heavy flow of water and bad weather hampered the rescue operation. As the man was stuck far from the embankment, we could not reach him in the night. We later requested for assistance from the IAF," he said. The MI-17 helicopter took off from Raipur at 5:49 am and airlifted the man at 6:37 am. It took around 20 minutes for the rescue operation before landing back in the state capital at 7:35 am, the official said. The man has been admitted in a private hospital in Raipur where his condition is reported to be stable, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-man-trapped-on-tree-for-over-12-hours-rescued-by-iaf-chopper-874263.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||'Jungle raj' of caste violence, rape peaking in Uttar Pradesh: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, alleging that incidents of caste violence and crimes against women are rampant in the state. Attacking the Adityanath government over the killing of a Dalit village head in Azamgarh's Basgaon, Rahul Gandhi alleged that in Uttar Pradesh, the "jungle raj" of caste violence and rape is "peaking". "Now another terrible incident -- Sarpanch Satyamev, being a Dalit, said 'no' due to which he was killed. Condolences to the family of Satyamev Ji," he said in a tweet. The Uttar Pradesh police has invoked the stringent National Security Act against four persons in connection with the village head's killing, which had triggered a mob violence. Satyamev (42), a Dalit and the head of Basgaon village in the Tarwan area of Azamgarh district, was shot dead last week. In a Facebook post in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of security of women. "Bulandshahr, Hapur, Lakhimpur Kheri and now Gorakhpur. Such repeated incidents have proven that the Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in providing security to women," the Congress general secretary said, referring to reports of crimes against women in these areas. There is no fear of law in the minds of criminals in Uttar Pradesh, she said, adding that as a result, gruesome incidents of crime are taking place against women. The police and administration are neither able to provide security nor take appropriate action, Priyanka Gandhi alleged. "The Uttar Pradesh government should review the law-and-order system and take every step to ensure the safety of women," she said. The Congress has been alleging that the law-and-order situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP rule, a charge denied by the state dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jungle-raj-of-caste-violence-rape-peaking-in-uttar-pradesh-rahul-gandhi-874302.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Call Data Records of patients helping Uttar Pradesh trace Covid-19 contacts||Call Data Records (CDRs), used in crime investigation by police, are being analysed across Uttar Pradesh to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients, officials say. In Kerala, a controversy has erupted over the decision to allow police to access phone call records of Covid-19 patients for effective contact-tracing, with the opposition Congress slamming the Left government, saying it is an "infringement" on the privacy of citizens. Some patients, the officials say, deliberately try to hide their information or share wrong or incomplete information with health officials during treatment, making it difficult to trace their contacts and prevent the chain of virus transmission. Sample this: Ghaziabad has so far detected 6,567 people who have tested positive for Covid-19. According to officials, 637 contacts (almost 10 per cent) were traced by the district police, which used surveillance methods, among others, for the job. Prashant Kumar, additional director general of police (law and order) said, "The police chiefs of all the districts in the state have been instructed to use all viable means as required." "We have said that contact-tracing should be done. But how it will be done is to be decided by the district authorities," Kumar told PTI. Dr Bharat Bhushan, in-charge of contact-tracing in Gautam Buddh Nagar, another high caseload district, said primarily the teams comprising health and administration officials carry out the job. There are five basic methods for contact-tracing, he said. First, the teams call up patients and find out their contacts. Then, there are rapid response teams (RRTs) which a site and gather information on Covid-19 patients. At block levels, the teams gather details on the basis of the results of antigen-based Covid-19 tests. The results are quick, helping officials isolate families and contacts of infected persons. The officials remain connected with private and government labs which test Covid-19. The labs are mandated to fill up an ICMR-made form with details of a person who gets tested and accordingly their contacts are traced. The fifth method is gathering details about patients from L1, L2, and L3 hospitals in the district. "Almost 90 to 95 per cent contact tracing is done by these methods. For remaining people, the police help is sought because at times the phone numbers of patient are switched off or go unresponsive, leading to difficulty in contact tracing," Bhushan told PTI. Ghaziabad Superintendent of Police (Crime) Gyanendra Kumar Singh said at times some people have tried to hide their contact details or given misleading, incorrect or incomplete information. "We get calls from the district integrated control room which provide us with information of infected people whose contacts are to be traced. This happens when the phone numbers given by such people are found inaccessible or address details yield no result," Singh, the senior officer involved in contact tracing in Ghaziabad, said. He said the police then use the CDR or surveillance methods to gather required information and trace contacts. On privacy issues during surveillance of phones, Singh said, “Hiding or giving misleading information regarding Covid-19 is a crime according to the law.” As per the last available UP government update, the state had 51,537 active cases of Covid-19. The overall tally of infection was 1,54,418 and the death toll stood at 2,449. On the brighter side, more than one lakh patients have recovered from the novel coronavirus and the state's recovery rate stood at 65.03 per cent, the official data showed Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/call-data-records-of-patients-helping-uttar-pradesh-trace-covid-19-contacts-874317.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Teen girl's body found in Uttar Pradesh village pond, suspected to have been raped||The body of a 16-year-old girl who is suspected to have been raped was recovered from a pond on the outskirts of a village here on Monday, police officials said. The teen, whose family had returned from Mumbai during the lockdown, had been missing since Saturday. A youth has been detained for questioning and the case will soon be solved, Superintendent of Police (city) Pankaj Pandey said. He said the complaint was filed after the teen went missing on Saturday and her body found two days later from a pond in the Mubarakpur police station area. "Family members have lodged a complaint of murder after committing rape. A case has been registered in this regard," he said. The incident comes a day after news of a 13-year-old girl being raped and strangled to death in the state's Lakhimpur Kheri district. Two men have been arrested for the crime that took place on Friday, police officials said on Sunday. They dismissed reports that her body was mutilated. On Saturday, another teenage girl was allegedly raped and singed with cigarette butts by two men in Gorakhpur district. The girl was found unconscious on Saturday and is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital in the district, police said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-girls-body-found-in-uttar-pradesh-village-pond-suspected-to-have-been-raped-874324.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 693 fresh Covid-19 cases; death toll climbs to 886||Rajasthan reported 10 Covid-19 deaths and 693 fresh cases of the virus on Monday, according to an official report. The deaths were reported from Banswara (2), Bikaner (3), Jaipur (3) and Kota (2). With the fresh fatalities, the death toll in Rajasthan has climbed to 886. Maximum cases were reported from Jodhpur where 157 people have tested positive for Covid-19. The other districts which reported cases include Alwar (165), Bikaner (47), Jaipur (122), Udaipur (55), Sikar (43), Ajmer (54), Sawaimadhopur (7), Bundi (5), Rajsamand (14), Banswara (6), Dungarpur (9), Churu (4) and Hanumangarh (5). A total of 61,989 people have been tested positive in the state so far and the number of active cases at present is 14,451.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-693-fresh-covid-19-cases-death-toll-climbs-to-886-874339.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Communally sensitive video: Another man arrested in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police has arrested the third accused in connection with a “communally sensitive” video which had gone viral on social media, triggering protests and shutdown in Chenab valley region on Monday, officials said. The overall law and order situation in the entire Jammu region is under control, they said. Religious leaders and prominent citizens from all communities on Sunday took to social media to request people to maintain communal harmony. “Rohit Sharma, a resident of Pacca Danga locality, is the third accused arrested in connection with the case related to the communally sensitive video,” a police official said. Earlier, the main accused Satpal Sharma and his associate Deepak were arrested in the city soon after the video containing derogatory remarks against a particular religion went viral on Sunday. A case has been lodged under section 153A IPC (promoting enmity between different groups) and 295A IPC (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) at Pacca Danga police station. Taking note of the incident, Inspector General of Police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh had on Sunday warned people against sharing the video and said strict action will be taken against the guilty. "My appeal to the people is not to circulate such videos which cause harm to brotherhood and communal harmony in the society. It is not good for all of us," he had said. "If we find anybody deliberately sharing the video, we will take strict action against him," he had said. In view of the incident, police took preventive measures in all sensitive areas across Jammu region and strengthened deployment to maintain law and order, the officials said. Prominent citizens and religious leaders of all faiths have appreciated the police for taking prompt action against the accused and asked people to cooperate with the law enforcing agencies. “People are requested not to fall prey to communal hatred and defeat them by maintaining peace and communal harmony,” they said. Different parts of Chenab valley comprising three districts of Ramban, Doda and Kishtwar observed a shutdown on Monday to press for strict action against the accused. People in Banihal town along the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district also staged a demonstration, forcing brief suspension of the traffic on the highway, the officials said. Normal life was affected in Bhadarwah, Doda, Thathri, Bhallesa and Kishtwar areas due to a joint shutdown call given by various religious groups to register their protest. Shops and other business establishments belonging a particular community in Chenab Valley remained closed, but government offices and banks functioned normally, reports reaching here said. In the communally sensitive Kishtwar town, police and paramilitary personnel were deployed in strength and patrolling intensified as a precautionary measure. Elaborate security arrangements were also made in all the major towns of Chenab valley including Doda, Bhadarwah, Thathri and Kishtwar, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/communally-sensitive-video-another-man-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmir-874340.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||PIL challenges rules excluding lawyers from appointment to tribunals; HC seeks Centre stand||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Centre to reply to a PIL which has challenged the rules for appointing of judicial members in tribunals alleging that they bar advocates from applying. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of finance, law and justice and personnel seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer who has also challenged the recent advertisement inviting applications for judicial members in the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). Advocate Tushar Sannu, appearing for the petitioner-lawyer Arun Kumar Panwar, urged the court to pass an interim order allowing lawyers to apply for the post of judicial members in CAT as the last date for doing so is August 21. The court, however, declined to pass any interim order at this stage and listed the matter for hearing on September 7. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said the rules have also been challenged in the Supreme Court and are pending adjudication there. Panwar has challenged the constitutional vires of the Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal and other Authorities (Qualifications, Experience and other Conditions of Service of Members) Rules 2020, which were notified in February, claiming that they exclude lawyers from being considered for appointment to the posts of judicial members. The petition, filed through Sannu and advocate Ankita Bhadouriya, has contended that with the framing of the rules all the advocates who have put in years of practice in law would not be able to become judicial members in any tribunal. The petition also brought to the attention of the bench a Madras High Court order of July 31 directing the Centre to accept the applications of advocates, who claim to be eligible for appointment to the post of Presiding Officer of Debt Recovery Tribunal. The petition has also said that the Kerala High Court on July 27 issued notice to the Centre in a writ petition challenging the exclusion of lawyers in the selection for the post of judicial members in the CAT. Panwar has said in his plea that earlier under the Administrative Tribunals Act an advocate having 10 years practice in the High Court can be appointed as a judicial member as he is qualified to be appointed as a judge of a High Court. Under the newly framed rules, this position has changed and now only a High Court judge, including those retired, or a person who was District Judge for 10 years or a person who was Secretary for one year in the Department of Legal Affairs or Additional Secretary for two years are eligible to be judicial members of a tribunal, the petition has said. "Thus, the lawyers with more than 10 years of practice who could be appointed as the judicial member of the tribunal are completely excluded. Instead the same is now reserved for a government secretary having one year in the Department of Legal Affairs or Additional Secretary for two years in the Department of Legal Affairs," it has said. It has also said that a person can be appointed as a Chairman of the tribunal if, he is or has been the judge of a High Court or has for a period of not less than three years held the office as administrative member or judicial member in the CAT.  "Thus, a government secretary on getting an appointment as a judicial member and continuing as three years can become the Chairman. At the same time a High Court judge appointed as a judicial member has to continue as a judicial member under the above, said person as Chairman.  "Thus a High Court judge will be constrained to function as a judicial member under the Chairmanship of a government secretary who functioned for one year (in Department of Legal Affairs)," the petition has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-challenges-rules-excluding-lawyers-from-appointment-to-tribunals-hc-seeks-centre-stand-874348.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Militants involved in killing of CRPF personnel, policeman neutralised in J&K||Two militants, who were involved in the killing of two CRPF personnel and a policeman earlier in the day, were killed in an encounter with security forces in Kreeri area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. The encounter started after security forces chased the militants following their attack on a joint patrol party of CRPF and the police at Tindim village of Kreeri at around 9:30 am. Two CRPF personnel and one special police officer (SPO) were killed in the militant attack. A police officer said security forces cordoned off the area immediately after the attack and chased the militants. “A contact was established with them and during the exchange of fire, two terrorists were killed,” he said. The identities of the slain militants were not ascertained immediately. However, sources said, both were the locals and affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit. A weapon snatched from the slain policeman was also recovered at the encounter site, they said. Earlier, Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that three LeT militants came from the orchards to attack a joint party of police and CRPF. “After checking the statements of eye-witnesses and other technical details, it seems Lashkar men who were three in number carried out the attack near a shallow stream where a joint team was on a normal naka duty,” he told reporters at the site of the incident. Asked to comment on two back-to-back attacks carried by the militants in last four days, the IGP said: “At times, militants manage to flee. We are developing leads and will neutralize the militants involved in the two attacks.” This was the second attack on security forces in Kashmir in the last three days. On August 14, two policemen were killed and another injured in Nowgam area on the outskirts of Srinagar city in a similar attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-involved-in-killing-of-crpf-personnel-policeman-neutralised-in-jk-874366.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Some Delhi hospitals seeing Covid-19 re-emergence in recovered patients||Some hospitals in the national capital have said they are seeing recovered coronavirus patients returning to them with recurrence of the infection. Earlier this month, the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital saw two instances of patients with relapse of coronavirus, almost one-and-a-half months after they were cured of the infection. In both the instances of relapse, the patients had moderate symptoms. Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka had also reported a case where a cancer patient recovered from coronavirus and contracted the disease again after a couple of months. The second time proved fatal for the patient who succumbed to the virus. Last month, the case of a Delhi policeman having a relapse of the novel coronavirus had emerged which had left experts baffled. In the same month, a similar case had surfaced in the national capital after a nurse employed at a civic-run dedicated Covid-19 hospital had tested positive again after recovering from the contagious disease. According to Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the Delhi government-run hospital, unless the virus is cultured or gene sequencing done, it will be difficult to determine whether it is a different strain of the virus that has infected the person the second time. "There can be a relapse. The virus can be isolated from the body particularly from the sputum. We have the evidence that after ninth or tenth day the virus becomes non-infectious and the patients are not tested again," he said. "However, the virus has been reported to be living in patients who have recovered around 39 to 40 days back," he added. Dr Chandragouda Dodagoudar, director of medical oncology at Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka, shared the case of a 65-year-old patient who had stage 2 lymphoma. The patient first visited the health facility in March and was advised chemotherapy but was very apprehensive due to the coronavirus disease. "The patient delayed the treatment for two and a half months and took alternative medicines and when that medication did not work and she started having pain, she visited the hospital. She had contracted Covid-19 by then and the lymphoma had progressed from Stage 2 to Stage 4. We could not administer chemotherapy while she was undergoing Covid treatment," he said.  The doctor said after the patient recovered from coronavirus, she was administered a slight dose of chemotherapy and became better and was discharged. But after a month, she had a relapse of Covid and ended up in a critical condition and succumbed last month. The senior doctor said the patient did not have any other co-morbidities but called cancer a ''co-morbidity''. Sherwal said patients with weak immunity are likely to get reinfection. "It can be there in any of the patients, cancer patients, HIV patients, etc," he said. He added that immunocompromised patients are at more risk if they do not take precautions like wearing of masks and washing hands frequently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-delhi-hospitals-seeing-covid-19-re-emergence-in-recovered-patients-874367.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||15 Uttar Pradesh districts hit by floods; Yogi Adityanath directs officials to maintain social distancing in relief camps||With 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh hit by floods, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to maintain social distancing in relief camps set up in the deluge-hit areas. He asked officials to segregate those who have fever, cold and headache and get them tested for Covid-19 if required. The Sharda river at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur Kheri and the Saryu and the Ghaghra at Barabanki's Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia's Turtipar are flowing above the danger mark, relief commissioner Sanjay Goyal said. The deluge has affected 788 villages in 15 districts, he said. Among the affected villages, 454 are marooned. Twenty-two teams of NDRF, SDRFand PAC have been deployed in the affected districts for search and rescue operations. Besides, 1,046 boats have been deployed and 741 flood chowkis set up to monitor the situation round the clock. The districts hit by the deluge are Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria,  Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kheri, Kushinagar, Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar and Sitapur, he said The chief minister has asked for regular patrolling on the embankments for keeping a close watch on erosion or any other kind of damage, the relief commissioner said. Officials have also been instructed to ensure proper lighting and cleaning around the relief camps to ward off snakebite-like incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-uttar-pradesh-districts-hit-by-floods-yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-maintain-social-distancing-in-relief-camps-874384.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||More gang-rape cases shake Uttar Pradesh, two minors brutalised||Within days after the gang-rape and brutal killing of a minor in Lakhimpur Kheri district, Uttar Pradesh has been shaken by two more incidents of gang-rape in different parts of the state. A 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped before being burnt with cigarette butts in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's home district of Gorakhpur, about 300 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the victim, whose parents worked as labourers at a brick kiln in Gola area in the district, had gone to fetch water from the nearby hand pump on Saturday evening, when she was abducted by two motorbike-borne youths. They took her to a secluded spot and gang-raped her. They also brutalised the victim by burning her body with cigarette butts, sources said. The victim was found lying in a semi-conscious state by some locals on Sunday morning, sources said adding that she was admitted to the district hospital. Two persons have been arrested in this connection, the police said. In another incident, a minor was allegedly gang-raped by three youths in Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from here. The police said the victim was abducted by the youths when she had gone to answer the call of nature on Sunday evening and was gang-raped after being taken in a forested area. A case was registered and the culprits were arrested, the police said. "A case of kidnapping, gangrape and under sections of the POCSO Act is registered against the two men on a complaint from the survivor's mother. A hunt is on for the accused," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Gupta said.  Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi came down heavily on the BJP regime in the state for failing to ensure the safety of women and said 'jungle raj' prevailed in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-gang-rape-cases-shake-uttar-pradesh-two-minors-brutalised-874392.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||UP BJP lawmaker corners own govt over safety of Brahmin community||Amid the ongoing tussle among the opposition parties to woo the influential 'Brahmin' community ahead of the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, which is due in 2022, the BJP was left red-faced after one of its lawmakers sought to corner his own government over the safety and security of the community in the state. BJP legislator from Lambhua Assembly seat in Sultanpur district, about 150 kilometres from here, Deomani Dwivedi, who hails from the 'Brahmin' community, has sought to know from the state government about its future plan to ensure the community's security. The legislator also wanted to know about the number of 'Brahmins' murdered in the state since the party came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. Dwivedi also sought to know how many 'Brahmins' had applied for arms license and whether the state government would give preference to the community members in issuing the licenses. The MLA said he planned to ask these questions during the forthcoming session of the state Assembly beginning from Thursday. Meanwhile, the saffron party, in an apparent bid to continue to tighten its grip on the community, has proposed a medical insurance scheme for the 'Brahmins'. The proposal came after the Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP declared to construct a statue of 'Bhagwan Parashuram', the most important 'Brahmin' icon, in the state. The Congress party too has hinted that it was mulling to project a 'Brahmin' as its chief ministerial face in the next Assembly polls in UP. 'Brahmins', who formed around 10% of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-lawmaker-corners-own-govt-over-safety-of-brahmin-community-874396.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Woman files rape complaint against BJP MLA; His wife accuses her of blackmail||A woman has filed a police complaint against a Uttarakhand BJP MLA accusing him of raping her several times between 2016 and 2018, and she has been booked for allegedly blackmailing him following a complaint by the legislator's wife, police said on Monday. "The woman who is married levelled the allegations against the BJP's Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi. A complaint was lodged at Nehru colony police station here on Sunday," DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar said. The MLA could not be reached for his reaction. In her complaint, the woman claimed that he had fathered her child and a DNA test can be conducted to find out the truth, according to the police. She has accused the MLA of travelling with her to Mussoorie, Nainital, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Nepal and raping her several times between 2016 and 2018.  The woman who claims to be  the MLA's neighbour said she had met him in connection with the illness of her mother in 2016.  She has also accused the legislator's wife of offering her Rs 25 lakh "to keep her mouth shut", they said.         Meanwhile, the MLA's wife has also lodged a complaint at the Nehru colony police station accusing the woman of blackmailing her husband, Kumar said.  A case has been registered and a probe is underway, he said.           The sensational allegations against the BJP MLA have sent the political temperatures soaring in Uttarakhand with state Congress president Pritam Singh saying the charges are serious and a DNA test should be conducted.  "It is a serious matter that an MLA is being accused of sexual harassment by a woman. As she has a child too. A DNA test of the baby should be conducted to find the truth," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-files-rape-complaint-against-bjp-mla-his-wife-accuses-her-of-blackmail-874412.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||NHRC notice to UP govt, DGP over gang-rape and murder in Lakhimpur Kheri||The NHRC has sent notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state police chief over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 13-year-old girl belonging to Scheduled Caste when she had gone to relieve herself in a farmland in Lakhimpur Kheri, officials said Monday. The incident took place last week in the farmland owned by one of the accused, the rights panel said, while seeking detailed reports from the police and the administration within six weeks. "Reportedly the victim was tortured before being strangled to death. It is mentioned in the news report that there is a toilet in the victim's house but it's not functional," the NHRC said in a statement. "The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that a 13-year-old girl belonging to Scheduled Caste, was gang-raped and killed when she had gone to relieve herself in a farmland," it said. The Commission has issued notices to the state's chief secretary and the DGP of Uttar Pradesh, seeking detailed reports within six weeks, including disbursement of the statutory relief as per rules framed under provisions of the SC/ST (POA) Act to the family of the victim, action taken against the guilty and the status of the FIRs registered in the matter, the statement said. The chief secretary is also expected to sensitise the district authorities in the state to create awareness that the "toilets should not be constructed for mere fulfilment of the government records, they are to be actually made functional", the rights panel said. The Commission found it appropriate to forward a copy of the news item to the Secretary, Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, which is the nodal ministry for the 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan', it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-notice-to-up-govt-dgp-over-gang-rape-and-murder-in-lakhimpur-kheri-874445.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Former Uttarakhand Harish Rawat booked for violating Covid guidelines||A case has been registered against former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, three Congress legislators and 150 others for allegedly violating coronavirus guidelines and holding a protest in Haridwar district, police said on Monday. Rawat led a bullock cart rally from Dhandera to Landhaura near Roorkee on Independence Day to raise the issue of the dilapidated condition of roads, especially NH-58 that links Uttarakhand with Delhi. He was accompanied by Bhagwanpur MLA Mamta Rakesh, Manglaur MLA Qazi Nizamuddin and Kaliyar MLA Furkan Ahmad. A large number of people had gathered for the rally violating social distancing norms and Covid-19 guidelines, Senior Superintendent of Police Senthil Avudai Krishna Raj said. They have been booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) and 150 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code, and also the Disaster Management Act, the SSP said. In Dehradun, BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat criticised the former chief minister for "risking the lives of people just to grab the attention of the media".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttarakhand-harish-rawat-booked-for-violating-covid-guidelines-874459.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||20 Uttar Pradesh Assembly staff test Covid-19 positive||Twenty staff members of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, three days before the session begins, Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said. The brief session of the state legislature is scheduled to start from Thursday and coronavirus tests were carried out on its 600 secretariat staff on Monday. "Of these, only 20 tested positive for Covid-19, while the rest 580 tested negative," Dixit told PTI. "Those who tested positive have been sent to quarantine."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-uttar-pradesh-assembly-staff-test-covid-19-positive-874476.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab MLA tests positive for Covid-19; Finance Minister goes into self-quarantine||Punjab MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali said on Monday that he had tested positive for Covid-19, while Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced he was going into self-quarantine after he came into contact with the Bathinda district police chief who has been infected with the virus. Ayali, the Shiromani Akali Dal legislator from Dakha constituency, made the announcement on Facebook. He said he had undergone a test after developing mild symptoms of the disease and his report came positive. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Badal shared on social media that he had come in contact with the Bathinda Senior Superintendent of Police who tested positive for the virus. "Our SSP from Bathinda has been tested coronavirus positive and I met him on August 15 for the Independence Day function. On medical advice and for the safety of my family and workers, I am going into self-quarantine and as such no public meetings will be held by me during this period," Badal wrote on his Facebook page. On Sunday, Punjab Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths for the past several days. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said he was not averse to imposing harsher measures to check further spread of Covid-19 in the state. The chief minister said the pandemic situation in the state was grim with over 31,000 cases and more than 800 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-finance-minister-goes-into-self-quarantine-874481.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||2 jawans die in car crash as heavy rain continues in Himachal Pradesh||Two Army jawans died on Monday when the car they were travelling in skidded and crashed into a tree amid heavy rains on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway here, police said. The crash took place around 18 km from Dharamshala on the national highway early morning with car driver Vinay sustaining injuries, who was admitted to Tanda Medical College, they added. The deceased soldiers were identified as Des Raj of Jaisinghpur and Ravi of Baijnath. The duo were on their way to catch a train at Pathankot to join back for duty after their leave. The area surrounding Kangra has been experiencing very heavy rain since Sunday night with Gaggal recording the maximum rainfall in Himachal Pradesh with 127 mm followed by Nagrota Surian with 71 mm, Guler with 62 mm and Jogindernagar with 56 mm. The heavy rains led to landslides that disrupted vehicular traffic as several roads were blocked. Debris due to heavy landslide in Shimla-Matour National Highway 88 near Samela Tunnel led to halting of vehicular traffic. Apart from this, Sameerpur-Kangra Link Road, Old Kangra Contact Road and Rajal-Nandrul-Kangra Road have also been closed due to damage to the roads. There was no traffic movement since morning on Dharamshala-Gaggal main road due to a landslide near Skoh. Authorities said efforts are underway to restore the route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-jawans-die-in-car-crash-as-heavy-rain-continues-in-himachal-pradesh-874485.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||IMD warns of another spell of heavy rains in Delhi||A fresh spell of rains drenched the national capital on Monday, bringing relief from sultry weather, with the weatherman predicting increase in intensity of showers over the next two days. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting center of the India Meteorological Department, said the monsoon trough has once again shifted towards north and will remain close to the national capital over the next three days.  "Moderate rains are expected till Thursday. Also, there are chances of one or two spells of heavy rains," he said. The IMD said a low pressure area has also developed over northeast Madhya Pradesh and southeast Uttar Pradesh, which will further intensify the convergence of moisture-laden southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal. On Monday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 23.2 mm rainfall. The Lodhi Road and Ridge weather stations recorded 24.9 mm and 6.4 mm precipitation respectively. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 115.6 mm rainfall against the normal of 149.2 mm in August so far, a deficiency of 23 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 434.2 mm rainfall, 2 per cent more than the normal of 425.3 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-warns-of-another-spell-of-heavy-rains-in-delhi-874493.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Home Ministry approves renaming of Manduadih railway station in UP as Banaras||The Centre has approved the renaming of Manduadih railway station in Uttar Pradesh as 'Banaras'. The Uttar Pradesh government had sent a request for renaming the railway station in Varanasi district. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has issued for changing the name of the Manduadih railway station to 'Banaras'. The railway station is situated in Manduadih area of Varanasi. It is also a terminal station of Varanasi. Following heavy rush at Varanasi Junction, the Indian Railways developed this as a high-facilitated terminal. The home ministry approved the proposal for name change according to the existing guidelines in consultations with agencies concerned. Before giving nod, the Home Ministry will have to take no-objections from the Ministry of Railways, Department of Posts and Survey of India, said an official in the Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-ministry-approves-renaming-of-manduadih-railway-station-in-up-as-banaras-874495.html
17-08-2020||North and Central||Army helicopter makes emergency landings in Mathura||An Army helicopter made emergency landings twice in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district on Monday morning, police said. The helicopter first made an emergency landing around 9 am on a field at Sanchauli village under Kosi Kalan police station area. It took off again after a few minutes, Additional Inspector S K Tomar said. The chopper made another emergency landing on a school playground at Sanket village as it had developed some technical snag, Barsana police station incharge Azad Pal Singh said. Sanchauli, Sanket are almost adjacent villages falling under two different police stations, officials said. Police prevented villagers from going near the helicopter and the gate of the school was also closed. The chopper took off after a few minutes, Singh said. An eyewitness said majority of the villagers watched the helicopter from a distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-helicopter-makes-emergency-landings-in-mathura-874523.html
17-08-2020||Opinion||OTR-16 Aug||Revisiting history As it gears to take on the BJP, Congress has launched its latest effort to acquaint party workers of its rich legacy and in the freedom struggle and building a new India post-Independence. While earlier efforts were in the form of books and pamphlets, in the digital age, Congress has launched a web series on its history. ‘Dharohar’ will look back at the 135 year legacy of this robust history--of India and the ideas that went into making it because the idea of Congress is the idea of India. The web series will be available on the party’s social media platforms. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Letter writing Covid-19 has restricted meetings and travel, and also politicians from putting across their viewpoints on various contentious issues. This has proved good news for letter writing. A deluge of letters, most of which land in the public domain, are being written by MPs on policy issues, which otherwise were circulated via statements or TV bytes. Some of the most prolific writers are Congress’ Jairam Ramesh and CPI’s Binoy Vishwam. Ramesh wrote a series of letters to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on allowing digital meetings of Parliamentary Standing Committee. He also wrote to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar against the Environment Impact Assessment draft, prompting the latter to respond more than once. Vishwam onhis part has written on a variety of issues--from the Prime Minister to various ministers explaining his position and opposition to certain moves. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Unique donations It’s not just cash. Many in Manipur are donating whatever they can to take care of the Covid-19 positive persons. Farmers of Khousabung area in Churachandpur district recently donated nearly 2,000 pineapples to Chief Minister’s Covid-19 Relief Fund. The farmers affiliated with the State Level Manipur Pineapple Festival Committee, handed over the fruits to Chief Minister N Biren Singh. The fruits will be distributed among the Covid-19 positive persons, who are being taken care of in hospitals and in Covid care centres. A few weeks ago, some other farmers donated vegetables to the Chief Minister’s Covid ReliefFund. This comes when Manipur witnessed an increase in Covid-19 positive cases. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Goodbye, Rocky! Rocky, one of the finest police dogs--who helped unearth nearly 356 crimes--passed away in Beed district of Maharashtra. The Beed police gave a befitting farewell to the canine with top officials present. “A heartfelt tribute! Rockyhad prevented terrorist attacks, detected bombs, sniffed out narcotics, helped solving crime and helped in beefing security arrangements...Rocky will always be remembered,” state home minister Anil Deshmukh said paying tributes to one of the finest police dogs of the Maharashtra police. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Online spread of Covid-19? The routine press conferences of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to give updates on Covid-19 has, of late, emerged as a space to react to political allegations regarding the CM’s office’s nexus with gold smuggling case accused. The Chief Minister also lost his cool on many occasions and accused the media of fixating on the gold smuggling row. He has not stopped the routine press conference, as it might trigger allegations that he was trying to evade queries. But as soon as Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan was tested Covid-19 positive, the CM decided to self-quarantine, owing to his close contact with the collector while visiting the AIE flight crash spot. The CM’s decision to call off the press conference raised many eyebrows as the press conference was held online and as he displayed no symptoms of Covid-19, even six days after contact with collector. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/otr-16-aug-874172.html
17-08-2020||Panorama||Make `Seamless, Painless, Faceless’ tax system work||Generally speaking, taxpayers in India can be of three types- those who consider paying taxes as their duty to the nation and do so promptly and completely; those who pay their taxes by taking some chances on the provisions of the Income Tax Act (ITA); and, those who firmly believe that the ITA is a figment of someone’s imagination.  Tax officers can also be classified into three categories - those who follow the provisions of the ITA and Rules in letter and spirit; those who are a bit liberal with the taxpayers in terms of interpreting the provisions; and, those who agree with the taxpayers stance without working up a sweat.  It is a fact that only in extremely rare cases, the taxpayer and the tax officer belong to the same type or category. The moment taxpayers and tax officers of different types get together, it results in litigation, disputes and settlements.  On August 13, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an announcement that will completely change the manner in which taxpayers will be assessed. He stated that the ongoing reforms being made by the government aim at making the tax system “Seamless, Painless and Faceless”.   The Seamless system works to resolve the problems of a taxpayer instead of entangling him further. By being Painless, everything from technology to rules should be simple. The Faceless system will ensure that there is no need for a direct contact between the taxpayer and the Income Tax Officer in all matters of scrutiny, notice, survey or assessment.  The Faceless assessment is being structured in such a manner that both the taxpayer and the tax officer will not know who will be their assessing officer and taxpayer, respectively. While this is indeed a laudable move, the devil would be in the implementation. Tax officers all across the country would need to be trained on the nuances of both small and large tax assessments.  Tax officers in smaller towns would need to be educated on the complexities of tax assessment of large companies. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has clarified that international taxation assessments will not be faceless.  On their part, some taxpayers would need to gear up their use of technology since they would be the primary contact for correspondence. They may still need the assistance of their tax consultant to respond to queries asked.  A significant amount of time, money and resources would be needed to pull this off successfully. It will take some time for both the parties to get used to faceless assessments as the taxpayer would fear that his assessment would be allotted to a trigger-happy officer while the tax officer would worry that he would not know the nitty-gritty of all the taxpayers that are given to him.   Painless assessments are the dream of every taxpayer. However, thanks to a complex ITA and a vast set of Income Tax Rules, painless assessments are easier said than done. The first step towards a painless assessment would be to simplify the ITA and Rules. Here too, much work needs to be done.  Budget 2020 introduced an equalisation levy (also called Google tax) on e-commerce operators. Since the day of the Budget, affected taxpayers have been seeking clarity through FAQs on whether the levy would be on the gross amount or net amount but the CBDT has categorically stated that there is no need for any FAQ since the provisions are as clear as they can be. It is only a matter of time before a clarification is given but the developments reflect how much needs to be done to make assessments painless.   Tax Charter  In Budget 2020, the finance minister had made a reference to a tax charter. In his announcement, the prime minister gave some more information on this. The taxpayer is expected to be honest and compliant, be informed, should keep accurate records, know what his/her authorised representative is doing and respond, and pay taxes in time.  In turn, tax officers would be inter-alia, fair, courteous and give a reasonable treatment to the taxpayer, will hold their authorities accountable and will preserve the confidentiality of the taxpayer. Though the Charter sounds like the prescription for a perfect marriage, it would be really useful if this brings about a change in the culture of both the taxpayers and the tax officers.  This change in culture has to be brought about by publishing cases where the charter has worked and how. It is only then that taxpayers would gain some confidence as there are still quite a few taxpayers who never smile when they pay their taxes. It is for those who smile while paying their taxes that Transparent Taxation - Honouring the Honest scheme has been introduced.  In an effort to reduce litigation, the government increased the threshold limits for filing appeals before the Appellate Tribunal, High Court and Supreme Court in August 2019. The prime minister also stated that tax scrutiny cases have reduced from 0.94% to 0.26% in the last six years. Tax settlement schemes keep getting introduced ever so often. Income tax rates were also rationalised and appear to have settled at a sweet spot. Despite this, Modi gave out worrying statistics - in a country with a population of 130 crores, a paltry 1.5 crore people pay taxes.    The announcements made by Modi have been with an intention to make taxpayers comfortable. What the CBDT should ensure now is that the Honouring the Honest Scheme is implemented at the ground level seamlessly. Past experiences have shown that there is a huge disconnect between announcements made and actual action taken.  Due to this, after a couple of years, the buzz around the scheme dies down forcing the government to think of yet another scheme. Since most taxpayers in India depend on tax consultants for advice and assistance, maybe there should be a scheme for honouring the honest tax consultant - this may solve many tax imbroglios.  (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/make-seamless-painless-faceless-tax-system-work-874171.html
17-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Laughter in uniform||Add a bit of humour to the tough training, hard life, separation from the family and harsh living conditions in the army, life becomes interesting.  We had one Srinivasan with us in NCC in College, who was scared of firing a rifle after witnessing others experiencing recoil. At last, he ventured to come to the ranges. He fired but could not hit the target, then he got up abruptly as he had totally wet his pants, after which he threw the rifle and ran away when the NCO caught him. The rest of us were in splits. Choice of clubs and allotment in the Academy is akin to postings-- you seek Delhi and you will land up in Trivandrum or Leh or better still, Siachen; and vice versa! As our English Instructor, Capt Ramanujam would say there were, "three ways of doing everything-- the right, wrong and the army way!" For two terms, I opted for the camera club. No luck, I was allotted angling! I argued that as a vegetarian, I would not enjoy angling. After learning the rudiments and some practice, on our first outing, for many hours, we had no luck. When we were about to pack up, I got a mighty tug on my reel. With some help, I fished out a big Golden Mahseer. Everyone was happy as it was featured in our dinner. The news spread and I was ordered to be a Mess Committee member to visit restaurants, taste non-vegetarian items for inclusion in the Cadets' Mess.  My plea went unheeded and I became a silent signing member.  Once, I got a chit at the lunch table to report at the Squash Court to the Battalion Commander. I did not even know squash was a game. I borrowed a racquet, and ran to the court, dreaming that the Commander was fond of me! My hopes were punctured, when he asked, "What the hell are you doing here, Surya?" I  showed him the chit. He burst out laughing, "Not you. I wanted Cadet Chander Narain (who was a services player)."  In another instance, we had moved into a huge bungalow at Delhi Cantonment, and got a new telephone connection. Close to midnight, there was a long ring and I picked it up. The caller said, "Maal aa gaya, kahaan par tikaun (The item has come, where to put it)?" I got worried, having seen many Hindi films. I disconnected without answering. It continued ringing, I took it off the hook. After some more nights more of suffering, I found out that the number had previously associated with Kochar Transport; hence those mysterious calls!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/laughter-in-uniform-874170.html
17-08-2020||Second Edit||Repeated landslides: No lessons learnt||Excessive rains have caused widespread and severe devastation in all states along the western coast in the last few days. The impact has been in the form of flooding which destroyed crops, houses and infrastructure, landslides that killed people and caused entire settlements to disappear and major disruption of lives. In the midst of the paralysis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic the monsoon-induced calamities have posed serious challenges to the people and governments. Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra have suffered most by way of loss of lives and damage to assets and property. Last week’s landslide at Rajamala near Munnar in Kerala in which at least 80 people are believed to have been buried alive is the worst monsoon-related disaster in any state this year. There have been other landslides also of lesser impact in these states, and experts have warned of more of them occurring in the coming days.  Two factors have mainly caused the present disastrous conditions and events. One is the change in rainfall pattern resulting from climate change. The monsoon behaviour has changed, and rainfall that used to happen over many days occur in a day or even in hours, making it difficult for the soil in the plains and the hills and for many manmade structures to withstand the impact. The high altitude areas along the Western Ghats have been especially vulnerable, because of encroachments, destruction of forests, quarrying and mining, formation of human settlements, setting up of industries and other commercial enterprises, promotion of activities like tourism without checks and regulations and diminution of biodiversity. All these have separately and collectively contributed to the present situation in the Western Ghats region which is ecologically very sensitive and valuable. Kerala, the state which has inflicted most damage on the environment, has come to suffer the most.    The report of the Madhav Gadgil Committee which studied the destruction caused to the Western Ghats environment and made sensible recommendations to remedy the situation was thrown into the dust bin, and another committee under Dr K Kasturirangan was set up to water down its proposals. The recommendations of the Kasturirangan Committee were also not implemented. Gadgil had prophetically warned in 2013 that the tragedy that is waiting to happen will not take ages but only four or five years to happen. The abnormal natural events and the huge devastation caused by them now may only be intimations of bigger calamities lying in wait in future. Lives which are lost now will not be regained, and nature which is lost will take many hundreds of years to rebuild itself. The greater tragedy is that the lessons of the tragedy are not learnt at all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/repeated-landslides-no-lessons-learnt-874166.html
17-08-2020||South||Kamala Harris's niece shares Tamil Nadu billboard hailing the US Vice President candidate 'victorious'||A few days after Joe Biden's announcement of picking Kamala Harris from the Democatic Party as his presumptive Vice Presidential nominee, a billboard was erected in Harris's native village in Tamil Nadu. In a tweet by Meena Harris, the California senator's niece, uploaded an image of Kamala Harris with a line in Tamil, and called the potential Vice President "victorious". Meena Harris, a 35-year-old lawyer based in California said that the image of the billboard had been erected in Tamil Nadu and had been sent to her. The text in Tamil roughly translates to, "PV Gopalan's granddaughter is victorious." Kamala Harris has Jamaican roots from her father and has been equally outspoken about her mother's Indian heritage. She will be the first woman Vice President, if elected, making her the first Black-Indian woman to achieve this feat. Kamala Harris is the daughter of Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher and activist who was born in India and moved to the United States for education. Her maternal grandfather was a high ranking civil servant, and Kamala Harris has often said how he inspired her when she visited India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamala-harriss-niece-shares-tamil-nadu-billboard-hailing-the-us-vice-president-candidate-victorious-874204.html
17-08-2020||South||Tension at Kerala's Marthoman church over power tussle||Tension prevailed at Marthoman church at Mulanthuruthy in Ernakulam district in Kerala on Monday morning after the district administration forcefully took control of the church as per court directive. In an early morning operation, a police team entered the church, situated about 10 kilometres from Kochi city, by breaking the locks and arrested priests and devotees who tried to obstruct them.  The police action was in view of the court directive to give an update on Monday about the implementation of its earlier order to take control of the church from the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. After a long legal battle, the Supreme Court had given control of about 1,100 churches to the Orthodox faction in 2017. But the Jacobite faction is not willing to hand over the control of many churches under its control. A section of the believers of the Jacobite church, led by a metropolitan of the Kochi diocese, had been staging a demonstration at the church over the last few days to resist the police action. The Jacobite faction alleged that many priests and believers were injured in the police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tension-at-keralas-marthoman-church-over-power-tussle-874247.html
17-08-2020||South||DMK M K Stalin opposes reopening of liquor outlets in Chennai||Opening liquor shops again was like clearing up a "big way" for the spread of the pathogen in the state capital, he alleged in a Facebook post. The government on Sunday said liquor outlets here, shut since March 24, would be reopened on August 18. The DMK chief alleged that TASMAC shops in the rest of TamilNadu had a "big role" in increasing the spread of the virus. It was "inhuman to not worry about those who may be affected by the opening of liquor stores and be concerned only about the revenue to the government," he alleged and said the move to resume liquor sales would lead to further spread of coronavirus here. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran also opposed opening TASMAC shops again in Chennai. Barring shops in Chennai and other nearby areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police, liquor outlets in the rest of Tamil Nadu were reopened on May 7. State-run Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation liquor shops were not reopened here in May in view of a comparatively high number of Covid-19 cases during that period of time.  Virus cases in Chennai began witnessing a declining trend since the first week of last month and in recent times recorded less than 1,000 new virus cases every day. From August 14 onwards, the fresh infections were between 1,000 and 1,200. TASMAC shops were closed on March 24 evening across Tamil Nadu when the lockdown was imposed for the first time in the state to tackle the Covid-19 spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-m-k-stalin-opposes-reopening-of-liquor-outlets-in-chennai-874262.html
17-08-2020||South||Normal life affected in parts of Telangana due to heavy rains||Normal life was affected at various places in Telangana on Monday due to the incessant rains lashing the state for the past few days which inundated several low-lying areas. The flood level in Godavari river at Bhadrachalam was 60.7 ft, crossing the 3rd Warning Level, at 1300 hours on Monday, official sources said. Several rivulets and other water bodies at different places in the state were overflowing due to the incessant rains, leading to inundation of low-lying areas and affecting transport links. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao is reviewing the situation arising out of the heavy rains from time to time, obtaining district-wise information and giving instructions accordingly, an official release said. According to official data (up to 8.30 am on Monday), Venkatapuram (Tahsil office) and Wazeed in Mulugu district and Mujigi in Nirmal district received 166.5, 154.5 and 128 mm of rainfall respectively. Several other places received heavy rains, it said. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender visited the submerged areas and the roads that suffered damage in his Assembly constituency of Huzurabad. Rajender said the north Telangana districts like Karimnagar, Warangal and parts of Khammam received heavy rains which led to rivulets and other water bodies overflowing, according to an official release. The government would provide immediate help like food to the affected people and other assistance after flood-waters receded, he said. State Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavati Rathod reviewed the situation in Mulugu district with Collector S Krishna Aditya and directed that residents of low-lying areas be shifted to safer places like schools. They should be provided with food and other necessary facilities, she said. She said efforts should be made to prevent loss of life and that arrangements should be put in place to rescue if anyone is stranded in the floodwaters. The CM has already put the official machinery in the state on a high alert and relief measures are being carried out at the required places, according to the release. In its weather warning, the Met Centre here said heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana on Monday. It also said thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana. An octogenarian and her 50-year-old daughter died on Saturday night after their house collapsed in a rain-related incident in Nagarkurnool district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/normal-life-affected-in-parts-of-telangana-due-to-heavy-rains-874318.html
17-08-2020||South||4 succumb to coronavirus in Puducherry taking the death toll to 114||Four more people including a 80-year old man succumbed to Covid-19 as the death toll in Puducherry rose to 114, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said on Monday. Also, 302 fresh coronavirus cases were reported, taking the overall tally in the union territory to 8,029, the Minister said at a virtual press conference. He said while 3,288 out of the total 8,029 cases were active, as many as 4,627 patients had recovered and had been discharged so far. The Puducherry region accounted for 299 new cases of the 302 new infections while the Yanam region had three. He said so far 55,937 samples were tested and it was found that 46,456 of them were negative and results of the examination of the remaining specimens were awaited. The rate of positivity was 27.76 per cent while fatality and recovery rates were 1.42 per cent and 57.63 per cent respectively. The Health Minister said 184 patients recovered and were discharged during the last 24 hours. While three of the four deaths (including a woman) were reported at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital, one male patient died in the GH in Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh. The age group of the deceased patients ranged between 45 and 80 years and three of them had comorbidities, Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-puducherry-taking-the-death-toll-to-114-874334.html
17-08-2020||South||River Godavari in spate; two Telugu states on high alert||River Godavari in spate has kept the government machinery on high alert in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The river is flowing at dangerous levels at several points and has inundated many low-lying areas in the two states. The flood intensity is very high in the Bhadradri-Kothagudem of Telangana, East and West Godavari districts in Andhra Pradesh. At the temple town of Bhadrachalam on the two states border, Godavari is gushing at the 61.2 feet mark and rising. Officials had issued the top third level warning. Godavari is flowing over the under-construction spillway at Polavaram. Sandbags are installed at four places near Polavaram where the embankment is identified as weak, to prevent breaches. At the Dowleshwaram barrage downstream in Andhra Pradesh, the last barrier before the river joins the Bay of Bengal, Godavari’s outflow is over 19 lakh cusecs and rising. The third level warning is issued here too. According to the officials, over two hundred villages, many of them river island villages called lankalu in Telugu, are affected in the twin Godavari districts. AP Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has held a review on the flood situation and the evacuation, relief camps etc. arrangements. “Masks and sanitisers are made available in the relief camps and Covid-19 tests are conducted wherever necessary. Nutritious food is provided, and medical camps are also being set up. Primary Health Centres are equipped with generators and medicines for snake bites are also stored. With the possibility of communication systems getting affected, we are keeping satellite phones ready. Mechanised boats are arranged for ferrying essential goods,” officials said adding that the crop losses would be assessed after the flood waters recede. Five SDRF teams and one of NDRF teams were deployed already in the two districts. Telangana CM Chandrasekhar Rao also held a review and asked officials to take all precautionary measures. The meteorological department has forecast that heavy to very heavy rains would continue in the state for the next three to four days, CMO officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/river-godavari-in-spate-two-telugu-states-on-high-alert-874373.html
17-08-2020||South||Police complaint filed against Congress MLA for posting distorted map of India||In an embarrassment to a Congress MLA in Kerala, a distorted map of India was posted on her social media page along with her Independence day greetings. Shanimol Osman, the lone woman MLA of the Congress, faced the embarrassment. The CPM local unit of Aroor in Alappuzha district, the constituency that Osman represents, lodged a police complaint. According to the police, the cyber cell was verifying the complaint and further steps like registering case would be taken only afterwards. As soon as it was noticed that the map was distorted, it was taken off. An apology was also made on the social media for the mistake. An administrator of the MLA's social media page allegedly made the mistake. But the MLA continues to face criticism on the social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-complaint-filed-against-congress-mla-for-posting-distorted-map-of-india-874386.html
17-08-2020||South||Ban on Vinayagar Chaturthi pooja casts shadow on AIADMK-BJP alliance||A political storm is brewing in Tamil Nadu over the AIADMK government’s decision to ban installation of Lord Vinayagar idols and their procession during Vinayagar Chaturthi later this week. The government’s decision has put the ruling AIADMK in a spot with its ally BJP and other Hindu outfits seeking to know why cannot Vinayagar idols be installed when TASMAC shops can be opened across the state. The BJP has come out in the open to condemn the government’s decision and wants rollback of the decision. Vinayagar Chaturthi is celebrated with much fervour in Tamil Nadu as lakhs of idols will be installed in cities, towns, and villages. The state government cited the Covid-19 lockdown as the reason for not allowing installation of idols in the state and their procession. Organisers of the events in various cities and towns wanted installation of idols and given an undertaking that they will not go on a procession like they do normally. The BJP has also come out in support of the Hindu Munnani, the organisation which is at the forefront of Vinayagar Chaturthi celebrations in the state especially in Chennai, which has threatened to install the idols despite the ban. “Why is the government hell-bent on preventing people from worshipping Vinayagar? We told the officials that we will install small-sized idols in the state and asked them to allow people to come out and worship the God in times of Covid-19. When TASMAC shops that sell liquor can be opened, why cannot we install Vinayagar idols?” A T Elangovan, President of Hindu Munnani’s Chennai unit, asked. BJP opposing the decision comes close of the heels of the party projecting itself as the “saviour of Hindus” following a controversy over a YouTube channel making disparaging comments against Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a collection of songs in praise of Lord Murugan. BJP and AIADMK had sparred last month over a statue of the latter’s founder M G Ramachandran draped with a saffron shawl. While the AIADMK called the incident an “insult” to MGR, the BJP said it saw no wrong since saffron was a holy colour. As speculation mounted about the future of AIADMK-BJP alliance, Tamil Nadu BJP Vice-President Vanathi Srinivasan said the tie-up has nothing to do with the issue. “Alliance is purely a political arrangement, but every political party has its own ideology. We only want the ban on installation of idols to be lifted so that people can come out and worship the god. Anyways people are coming out for their needs. Let them come out and pray too,” she told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ban-on-vinayagar-chaturthi-pooja-casts-shadow-on-aiadmk-bjp-alliance-874394.html
17-08-2020||South||S P Balasubrahmanyam still on life support, condition remains critical||Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5, continued to be on life support for the fifth straight day on Monday, even as the doctors treating him described his health condition as “critical.” 74-year-old Balasubrahmanyam, who has sung over 40,000 songs in 16 languages, was moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital here and put on life support on August 13. “Thiru S P Balasubrahmanyam who had been admitted at MGM Healthcare due to Covid-19 continues to be on life support in Intensive Care Unit. His condition remains to be critical. The expert medical team treating him is closely monitoring his vital parameters,” Dr Anuradha Baskaran, Assistant Director – Medical Services, MGM Healthcare, said in a statement. However, SPB’s son and film producer S P Charan released a video message on Monday evening saying his father’s condition was stable. On Sunday, Charan had said his father was moved from the 3rd floor ICU to an “exclusive ICU” on the 6th floor. “Dad is in the same condition as he was yesterday. He is stable. Doctors are calling him critical, but he is stable. There are no complications and doctors feel it is a very good sign,” Charan said in the video message on Monday. He also appealed to his fans to continue with their prayers so that SPB comes out of the crisis. Meanwhile, Opposition Leader M K Stalin and Tamil superstar Rajinikanth expressed the hope that SPB will be “back with us” very soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-p-balasubrahmanyam-still-on-life-support-condition-remains-critical-874401.html
17-08-2020||South||TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu alleges phone tapping; writes to PM Modi seeking a probe||Telugu Desam Party chief and former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu has, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleged illegal tapping of the phones of the opposition leaders, advocates, media persons, and social activists in Andhra Pradesh. Stating the tapping as in violation of the fundamental rights and various laws, the leader of the opposition in the state has appealed to the central government to initiate a probe. Naidu however did not provide any particular instance of such a tapping in the three-page letter, a copy of which was sent to Union Minister for IT and communications Ravi Shankar Prasad. Naidu had made similar charges of phone tapping in 2015 on the Chandrasekhar Rao government in Telangana, when he was operating from the joint capital Hyderabad as the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister. In Monday’s letter, Naidu stated that “the people of Andhra Pradesh are facing a grave threat under the rule of YSRCP”, and mentioned that “the ruling YSRCP has been attacking and threatening leaders of opposition parties etc., through various deceitful means.” “One such modus operandi the ruling party has chosen is by illegally and unlawfully tapping the phones. It appears that the YSRCP government has been tapping phones illegally for its own political gains. Further we are afraid that it is being done through illegal software. This is all the more dangerous as in the long term it could pose a direct threat to national security,” Naidu said adding that such sophisticated technology in the miscreant hands would lead to blackmail threats. “The ruling party in its over enthusiasm to retain power at any cost is dangerously threatening and attacking any person or institution raising their voice against the malfunctioning of the government. It appears that the ruling party has now even targeted judiciary, the third pillar of democracy, as it is facing hurdles from the judiciary,” Naidu said in apparent reference to several of the recent AP high court orders and directions like the reinstatement of the State election commissioner and stay on the three capital plans which are seen as setbacks for the Jaganmohan Reddy government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-chief-n-chandrababu-naidu-alleges-phone-tapping-writes-to-pm-modi-seeking-a-probe-874425.html
17-08-2020||South||Karnataka to set up 16 varsities, 34 institutions in 3 years||The Karnataka government would set up 16 universities and 34 autonomous educational institutions in three years, Deputy Chief Minister of the state Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. With the setting up of the institutions, the aim is to achieve the goals of the new Education Policy by year 2030, he told a press conference. "The government of Karnataka will establish six research-centered universities, 10-teaching-centered universities, and 34 autonomous educational institutions in three years," said Narayan, who holds the portfolio of higher education. Earlier, he chaired a meeting with the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar and senior officials for implementing the education policy. He said the former chief secretary S V Ranganath-led Task Force, which has been formed for the implementation of the policy, would submit a draft report in the next four or five days and the roadmap for carrying out the policy would be furnished before August 29. "Amendment to the laws, administrative reforms, and consolidation of the resources which are required for the implementation of the policy will be done in an expeditious manner," Narayan said. As the policy has to be implemented in 10 years, the government has given the name of 'Target-2030' to achieve its goal. Stating that the government would take into confidence the stakeholders before implementing it, he said there would be deliberations and discussions across the state for a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-to-set-up-16-varsities-34-institutions-in-3-years-874428.html
17-08-2020||South||Madras High Court to pronounce verdict in Sterlite case on August 18||The Madras High Court will on Tuesday pronounce its much-awaited verdict in the appeal filed by Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper challenging the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to shut down its copper smelter in Thoothukudi. The division bench of Justices T S Sivagnanam and V Bhavani Subbaroyan will pronounce the judgement at 10.30 am, seven months after reserving the orders in the case. Hours before the verdict, Thoothukudi city resembled a virtual fortress with policemen dotting the city, as a precautionary measure.  Sterlite Copper moved a petition before the High Court in February 2019 challenging the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to close down the massive copper-smelting unit in Thoothukudi, 610 km from here. The petition was taken up for hearing in July 2019 and the verdict was reserved by the bench of Justices Sivagnanam and Subbaroyan on January 8, 2020. The company moved the High Court here a fortnight after the Supreme Court struck down the order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) allowing reopening of the plant on grounds of maintainability. The apex court, however, gave the liberty to Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court.    Sterlite Copper was shut by the Tamil Nadu government on May 27, 2018, following protests against expansion of the plant by locals that ended in police firing killing 13 civilians. The representatives from the anti-Sterlite movement and residents of Thoothukudi also placed their point of view before the court. While the Tamil Nadu government opposed reopening of the plant accusing the company of polluting the area, the Vedanta-owned company vehemently denied the accusations and maintained that the plant was shut down only to cool down the tempers after the anti-Sterlite protests ended in the police firing. The company also maintained that it followed best practices as mandated by the law.   Both sides fielded senior lawyers to argue their case. While the government side was represented by Advocate General Vijay Narayan and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) by senior counsel C S Vaidyanathan, senior counsel C Aryama Sundaram, G Masilamani, P S Raman and A R L Sundaresan appeared for Sterlite Copper. After the Tamil Nadu government closed down the plant, Sterlite Copper moved the NGT which struck down the order in December 2018 and declared its reopening. Following the NGT verdict, the Tamil Nadu government challenged the NGT decision in Supreme Court in January 2019, which said that the green tribunal did not have the jurisdiction to allow the opening of the plant. However, the apex court said Sterlite Copper had the liberty to approach the Madras High Court following which the company filed a petition. The company maintained that the Supreme Court struck down the NGT order solely on the grounds of maintainability. Besides, shutting down of Sterlite Copper also led to severe shortage of copper in India, forcing the country to import the commodity in large quantities since May 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-to-pronounce-verdict-in-sterlite-case-on-august-18-874461.html
17-08-2020||South||DRI busts Hyderabad drug racket, seizes substances worth Rs 82 crore||Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence have busted a drug racket by seizing substances worth about Rs 82 crore on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The operation carried out on Saturday was followed up by further confiscations in Mumbai as revealed on Monday by the DRI officials. “Acting on a tip-off that Mephedrone was being illegally manufactured in a factory in Hyderabad, we seized 142.6 kg of Mephedrone valued at around Rs 28.52 crores, 31 kgs of Ephedrine valued at about Rs 3.1 crores. Apart from these drugs, raw materials procured for further manufacture of Mephedrone of around 250 kg (worth Rs 50 crore), were also seized from the premises,” officials said in a statement. While Mephedrone is a banned psychotropic substance under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, Ephedrine is a controlled substance under the same act. “The said drugs were meant for supply to various cities in India. One such consignment sent from Hyderabad was intercepted at Mumbai. The Mephedrone consignment was loaded in a private passenger bus as cargo with no person accompanying it to see that no link could be established even if the consignment were caught. However, with our swift follow-up raids, consignment recipients in Mumbai were identified and their premises including a drug manufacturing laboratory in a residential premise were raided, resulting in recovery of Mephedrone and Ketamine ready for distribution, apart from samples of other psychotropic substances,” officials said. The mastermind who was illegally manufacturing the said drugs was arrested in Hyderabad and two persons were arrested in Mumbai. The mastermind is a past offender and arrested by the DRI in 2017 under the NDPS Act and was enlarged on bail. In a coordinated operation spread out over three days in multiple locations of Hyderabad and Mumbai, DRI officers seized over 250 kgs of various drugs and cash of Rs 45 lakh in INR, USD, and EUR currency. “The syndicate had a well-established chain of distribution both within and outside the country. The payment for the raw material and finished products took place through Hawala channels.” This seizure of the contraband from the multi state operation follows the recent seizure of Afghan Heroin worth Rs 1000 crore from a container which arrived from Iran, DRI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dri-busts-hyderabad-drug-racket-seizes-substances-worth-rs-82-crore-874487.html
17-08-2020||South||Death toll breaches 4,000 mark; 6,317 Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka||The Covid-19 death toll in Karnataka breached the 4,000 mark on Monday, as the state reported 6,317 new cases and 115 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 2,33,283, the health department said. The day also saw recoveries overtaking the number of new positive cases, with 7,071 patients getting discharged. Out of the 6,317 fresh cases reported on Monday, 2,053 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of August 17 evening, cumulatively 2,33,283 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 4,062 deaths and 1,48,562 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of 80,643 active cases, 79,948 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 695 are in Intensive Care Units. Thirty nine out of 115 deaths reported on Monday were from Bengaluru urban,followed by Belagavi and Hassan (9 each), Dakshina Kannada (8), Kalaburagi (7), Ballari (6), Dharwad and Mysuru (5 each), Haveri, Koppal and Shivamogga (4 each), Raichur and Vijayapura (3 each), Chikkamagaluru and Tumakuru (2 each), and Bagalkote, Kodagu, Mandya, Udupi and Uttara Kannada (1 each). Contacts of most of the deaths reported today are still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,053, Mysuru 597, Shivamogga 397, Ballari 319, Udupi 268, Hassan 250, Dharwad 201, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases, with 91,864 infections, followed by Ballari 14,507 and Mysuru 11,132. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with 55,972 discharges, followed by Ballari 8,554 and Kalaburagi 6,885, the bulletin said. A total of 20,75,086 samples have been tested so far, out of which 37,700 were on Monday alone. Among the samples tested today, 14,489 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-breaches-4000-mark-6317-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-874522.html
17-08-2020||State||Dakshina Kannada opens up border roads to Kerala||Dakshina Kannada district administration has opened all border roads that connect to Kerala. Following a rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, all border roads were closed since mid-March. Later, amid rising pressure from people, the border at Talapady was opened for the movement of people with passes. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said those who wish to travel to Dakshina Kannada for day-to-day activities should avail monthly pass from the respective Gram Panchayat/TMC/Town Panchayat and furnish their details while entering and exiting from the check post. The daily travellers will have to undergo screening daily at the check post along with a medical test as per the guidelines of the health department. Those from Kerala, who wish to stay in Dakshina Kannada should mandatorily apply under Seva Sindhu portal to avail pass and enter the district via Talapady and Jalsur check post. All should adhere to the Covid-19 quarantine guidelines of the Karnataka government, said the DC.    Dakshina Kannada district administration has cleared the heaps of soil dumped on the road in border areas connecting Kerala. The mud was dumped to check the movement of people in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. On the direction of the authorities, the soil was cleared at Karopadi and other bordering areas in the district.   Following the direction of the previous DC, the soil was dumped on the roads at Karopadi, Perodi cross, Muguli, Betha, Kodla and other places.   Free movement demand Meanwhile, hundreds of employees from Kasargod working in various sectors in Dakshina Kannada have initiated an online campaign with the hashtags #free movement #Unlock3In Kasargod. They have been demanding free movement between Kasargod and Mangaluru. The Twitter campaign initiated by Sahayathri said, "Earlier, Karnataka restricted our movement. Now, Kerala does not allow us to go. We are being separated from our job and other work." They said that there are a lot of restrictions for availing passes to travel to Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dakshina-kannada-opens-up-border-roads-to-kerala-874199.html
17-08-2020||State||ILI cases contribute to Covid-19 surge in Dakshina Kannada||The Dakshina Kannada district recorded a total of 229 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 8,878. Among total cases, 123 persons with the symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) have tested positive. Six persons with SARI symptoms and 22 persons who were primary contacts of those already infected have tested positive. Contact tracing of 78 infected is underway, officials from the health department said. 98 among those infected were asymptomatic. Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest of 122 fresh cases, followed by 36 from Bantwal, 31 each from Puttur and other districts, eight from Belthangady and one from Sullia. As many as 128 infected have recovered and discharged from hospitals and from home isolation. On the other hand, seven Covid-19 fatalities were recorded by the district administration. Three of the deceased were from Mangaluru and four were from outside the district. All were suffering from comorbid conditions along with coronavirus. The total number of deaths in the district has risen to 269. Among the fresh Covid-19 cases, Puttur Taluk Medical Officer and driver of the health department vehicle in Puttur too have tested positive. As a result, the health department office has been sealed for sanitisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ili-cases-contribute-to-covid-19-surge-in-dakshina-kannada-874201.html
17-08-2020||State||2.6L cusecs water released into Krishna River; Bridge submerged||A total of 2.6 lakh cusecs of water was released into Krishna River from Basavasagar dam of the district from  Sunday night, a bridge at Kollur(M) village in Shahapur taluk has been submerged. The submerging of the bridge has snapped road connectivity to Yadgir, Raichur and Kalaburagi districts. As many as 23 villages were facing imminent threat of floods due to huge outflow from the dam. Police have been deputed at the submerged bridge and the vehicles are being diverted. This bridge gets submerged in water every year when over 2.5 lakh cusecs is let out from the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/26l-cusecs-water-released-into-krishna-river-bridge-submerged-874220.html
17-08-2020||State||Three arrested for poaching in Nagarahole||Forest department officials took three persons into custody for poaching, at Kachuvinahalli forest range in Nagarahole Forest. Ningegowda, 55, Abhi, 30 and Suchendra, 30, of Kothur village, near the forest, were arrested and two others, Mahadev, 56, and Ranju, 47 are absconding. According to officials, the accused were waiting to hunt animals for meat. A team of forest officers surrounded them near Maramma temple and arrested them. They also seized a car and guns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-arrested-for-poaching-in-nagarahole-874242.html
17-08-2020||State||80 people fall sick after wedding feast in Hassan village||More than 80 people, who attended a post-wedding feast fell sick in Ibbeedu village in Belur taluk in Hassan district on Sunday evening. The villagers attended the non-vegetarian feast, arranged by one Ramegowda. By evening, a few complained of vomiting and diarrhoea and stomachache. The villagers immediately shifted them to the government hospital in Belur. Doctors suspected food poisoning as more than 80 people have fallen ill. However, most of them were discharged after observation and treatment, on Sunday night and Monday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/80-people-fall-sick-after-wedding-feast-in-hassan-village-874266.html
17-08-2020||State||D K Shivakumar in Delhi to meet Congress leaders||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar on Monday said he would hold a meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi on strengthening the party in the state. Shivakumar, who came to the national capital to meet the party top brass for the first time after became the state unit president, told reporters that he came here on the invitation of the party leaders. He also said he would hold a meeting with party leaders through video conference due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Shivakumar also said he would submit the report to party high-command about the activities of the party after he took charge. He also attacked the BJP for constituting a fact-finding committee comprising saffron party leaders for the KG Halli violence. The BJP is trying to cover up its failure to control the root and indulging in diversionary tactics. Terming that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is helpless, he said the CM charged officers for corruption over procurement of expensive hospital materials to treat Covid-19 patients instead of sacking Ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-k-shivakumar-in-delhi-to-meet-congress-leaders-874296.html
17-08-2020||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi lobbying for Karnataka's Deputy Chief Minister post||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Monday met BJP national president J P Nadda here to lobby for the deputy chief minister's post in the Yediyurappa government. Jarkiholi also accompanied by former minister C P Yogeshwar. The latter is also lobbying for a ministerial post, sources in the BJP said. The two leaders also met Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi later in the day. They are likely to meet BJP general secretary B L Santosh on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholi-lobbying-for-karnatakas-deputy-chief-minister-post-874483.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | How will serosurvey help in Karnataka's fight against Covid?||For some time now, the state government has been considering conducting a sentinel survey to help evaluate earlier estimates of how many Covid-19 cases can be expected in the future while determining if there were any unknown sources of transmission. The survey (also known as a serosurvey) is a key tool used by epidemiologists to determine the prevalence of a disease in a population. It will help determine how much of the target population has generated antibodies, which is an indicator of how many people had contracted the disease at some point. A similar survey conducted in Delhi last month discovered that 23% of the residents had antibodies for Covid-19. The final results of that survey are expected soon. In Karnataka, the State Covid Task Force had proposed a pilot sentinel survey in Bengaluru and Udupi in June. Although the survey was supposed to start on July 15, it appears to have stalled. Why is this kind of survey so important and why has it not gone into effect so far?  Why do we need a serosurvey in Karnataka? The consensus among several experts and officials is that the survey is necessary because of the need to discover the extent of the community transmission of Covid-19 in the state. In Karnataka, according to the proposal made by an expert committee, the survey is to cover specific sample sizes across three categories: high-risk, moderate-risk and low-risk groups. Following the conclusion of the pilot programme (if it ever gets started) in Bengaluru and Udupi, the plan is to expand it to the whole state.  What goes into the survey and where will it be carried out? The primary focus of sentinel surveys is their employment in "reporting sites", in this case, hospitals, explained noted epidemiologist, Dr Giridhar Babu, who was involved in proposing the survey to the government. "Once the hospitals are recruited, whoever comes to the hospital will be asked if they are willing to be part of the study. Upon informed consent, they will be made a part of the study," he said. Also considered will be an external "moderate-risk group” made up of various occupations outside the hospital setting, with a high chance of contact with other humans. These are people such as vegetable vendors, BMTC drivers and conductors.  Is the sentinel or serosurvey the same thing as a sentinel or a sero-surveillance? While these terms are sometimes used interchangeably by the media and people, they are not the same, according to Dr Babu. For one, the survey which has been proposed will be limited to three rounds, but a surveillance indicates that it is always happening.  What are the specific professions that will fall under the testing criteria? Some 20 occupations make up the three "risk" categories, including bus conductors and auto drivers, vendors at vegetable markets, healthcare workers such as doctors, opticians, laboratory technicians, radiographers, attendants at hospitals, veterinarians, medical practitioners, ambulance staff, paramedics, auxiliary nurse midwives, ASHA workers, nurses, pharmacists and hospital receptionists. Other professions include those employed in markets, malls, retail stores, bus stops, railway stations, pourakarmikas and other waste collectors. Individuals living in containment zones are also included.  What sort of testing will be carried out during the survey? The survey involves using a special antibody test (not to be confused with the Rapid Antigen Test kits) to test the blood serum (sero means relating to serum) of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against the coronavirus infection. According to the experts, the proposal is to procure 16,000 such kits to kick-start the pilot survey.  So what is the problem? Why hasn't testing begun yet? Well, for one, the antibody test kits have not been procured. The government appears to be hesitant to invest the Rs 59 lakh needed to procure the initial batch of 16,000 antibody kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-how-will-serosurvey-help-in-karnatakas-fight-against-covid-874177.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kin attack couple for posting SC order on equal rights in Bengaluru||Enraged over sharing in Whatsapp the recent Supreme Court order about women's rights on the ancestral property, four youth allegedly attacked their uncle and aunt here, police said on Monday. M Shashikala lodged a complaint that the sons of her brothers Dhanaraj and Mohan attacked her and her hotelier- husband Muttu on August 12, the police said. She stated that Muttu had in the family WhatsApp group posted the court order saying women too have equal rights on the property of their parents, they said. On the night of August 12, Dhanraj's sons Vaishak, Vaibhav and Vaishnav and Mohan's son Varun went to Muttu's hotel and attacked him with sticks and stones. When Shashikala went to the rescue, she was also attacked and threatened. When contacted, the police said the four have not been arrested yet. The Supreme Court recently ruled that women will have equal coparcenary rights in joint Hindu family property even if the father died before the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. The verdict makes it clear the amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 granting equal rights to daughters to inherit ancestral property would have retrospective effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kin-attack-couple-for-posting-sc-order-on-equal-rights-in-bengaluru-874364.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru violence: MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy demands CBI probe||Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose house was destroyed during last week's violence in the city, on Monday met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. The Congress legislator has also appealed for more security to him. "Earlier the Chief Minister had spoken to me over the phone. Today I met him personally and sought more security. Many of my neighbours' properties including vehicles have been burnt or damaged. ..I requested compensation for them, most of them are poor," Murthy said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said the Chief Minister has assured him that security will be increased and those behind the violence punished, how much influential they are. "....I have requested for it (CBI inquiry), he said he will look into...," the MLA added. In response to a question on his security, the MLA said, while security has been provided to his current residence, he personally hasn't got additional security other than two gunmen while outside,and has asked for it. The violence in D J Halli and adjoining areas on August 11 night was unleashed by hundreds of people over a purportedly inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of MLA Murthy. The MLA's residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and his sister. Murthy was accompanied to the Chief Minister's residence by BJP MLAs Arvind Limbavali and S Raghu. In response to a question, Murthy said, Bovi community legislators and leaders had accompanied him. Amid speculation about him making any political shift, the MLA clarified he is in the Congress and will continue in the party. Asked about speculation that his opponent Prasanna Kumar who had contested against him on JD(S) ticket wanting to come back to the Congress party, Murthy said "I'm not aware of it. In Congress anyone comes or goes, it is left to the party president.I don't have any problem...there is no question about me quitting Congress. Congress is in my blood." Murthy had joined the Congress from JD(S) ahead of the 2018 assembly polls and got ticket from Pulakeshinagar, following which Kumar shifted to the JD(S). According to reports, many local Congress workers are in favour of Prasanna Kumar returning to the party, as they prefer him over Murthy. Meanwhile, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel visited the locality where the violence took place on August 11. Kateel, who met Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the visit, complimented the state government and police for containing the violence within a couple of hours and not allowing it to go out of control. He said a team led by party legislator Arvind Limbavali, constituted by him, has submitted a report to him on the incident, and he was visiting the locality to assess the situation and build confidence among people there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-violence-mla-akhanda-srinivasa-murthy-demands-cbi-probe-874448.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to reserve hospital beds for SARI patients without Covid-19 test||Karnataka Health Commissioner conducted an online meeting with government and private hospitals here on Monday to ensure that beds are immediately provided to patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) without a confirmatory Covid-19 test. The hospitals empanelled with the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust were instructed to reserve ICU beds according to fixed targets, and add beds where necessary. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey also issued a circular that stated that patients with SARI will be admitted to a Covid hospital as a potential Covid case. The patients will then undergo a Covid test, and in the case of a positive test result, he/she will be transferred from isolation to the Covid block of the hospital. If the test is negative, the patients will be shifted from the isolation ward to the non-Covid block. To prevent hospitals from turning away a person with SARI without a Covid test, Jawaid Akhtar, the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) held a meeting in which it was decided that 15 hospitals (five government and ten private) will be identified who will admit such patients and treat them according to their symptoms. They will reserve 143 beds, in total, including beds with oxygen support, and beds in the ICU with and without ventillators. The 15 hospitals are: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, KC General Hospital, CV Raman General Hospital, Jayanagar General hospital, Bangalore Baptist Hospital, Chinmaya Mission Hospital, HBS Hospital Trust, ProMed Hospital, Sakra Hospital, Santhosh Hospital, Saptagiri Super Speciality Hospital, SSNMC Super Speciality Hospital, St Philomenas Hospital, and Vikram Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-reserve-hospital-beds-for-sari-patients-without-covid-19-test-874499.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Krishna, tributaries unleash flood fury in north Karnataka districts||Torrential rain in Konkan and massive outflows from dams in Maharashtra have unleashed a flood havoc in Krishna river basin districts - Belagavi, Bagalkot, Yadgir and Raichur.  The swollen Krishna and its tributaries have left a trail of destruction in Belagavi district. The overflowing Krishna has submerged Raibag-Kudachi bridge and Datta Mandir near Kallol. Inflow into Krishna river at Kallol barrage clocked 1.51 cusecs on Monday and it is expected to go up to 2.75 lakh cusecs in the next 48 hours. The NDRF and SDRF teams have been kept ready to face any eventualities in Nippani and Chikkodi taluks. Pandari river has triggered a mudslide near Shivthan railway station in Khanapur taluk while Hiranyakeshi river inundated several villages on its banks in Hukkeri taluk, including Kotabagi, where the Durgadevi temple is completely under water. The flood situation in Malaprabha river basin is grim. The surging Malaprabha has flooded many villages in Saundatti and Ramdurg taluks.  Munavalli village is the worst-hit, where the floodwaters have gushed into the houses, shops and banks. The Ramdurg-Sureban bridge and Sharane Gangambike Aikya Mantap near MK Hubballi are inundated. The swollen Ghataprabha river has meandered its way to low-lying residential areas in Gokak town. The Gokak Fall has come alive. The Lolasur bridge on the outskirts of the town is under water. The situation is no different in Gadag and Bagalkot district. The floodwaters of Malaprabha and Ghataprabha have flooded vast tracts of farmland in both the districts. While Malaprabha has raised flood alert in Nargund and Ron taluks in Gadag and Badami and Hungund in Bagalkot, Ghataprabha is causing flood woes to Mudhol taluk. Malaprabha has turned Hole Alur town in Gadag district into an island.  Kudalasangama faces flood threat With Krishna and Malaprabha in spate, the flood threat to historic Sangamanatha Temple in Kudalasangama appeared imminent. The backwaters of Narayanpur reservoir have only worsened the situation.  As much as 2.40 lakh cusecs of water was released to Krishna downstream from Narayanpur reservoir on Monday. The heavy discharge of water has raised flood alarm in more than 20 villages in Yadgir district. The flooded Huvinahedige bridge on Raichur-Kalaburagi state highway is closed for traffic. With Sheelahalli bridge going under water, the island villages in Lingasugur taluk have been cut off. More rain forecast The state received a fairly widespread rain on Monday. According to the India Meteorological Department, coastal region and many parts of the north interior districts are likely to receive widespread rain on Tuesday. Orange alert has been declared for Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Hassan districts while yellow alert warning has been issued for Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Bidar and Kalaburagi districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/krishna-tributaries-unleash-flood-fury-in-north-karnataka-districts-874518.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy discharge from dams triggers flood in Krishna Basin||Five districts in North Karnataka — Belagavi, Bagalkot, Gadag, Yadgir and Raichur — are facing flood threat as rivers Krishna, Ghataprabha and Malaprabha are in spate. Torrential rains in south Maharashtra, Belgavi and Bagalkot districts have caused these rivers to swell.  The River Krishna is receiving 1.21 lakh cusecs of water from various reservoirs, including 55,958 cusecs from Koyna dam in Maharashtra. The volume is likely to go up to 2.75 lakh cusecs over the next two days. In addition, more than 2.50 lakh cusecs of water is being released from Almatti dam in Bagalkot district. Water is also being released from 10 crest gates of Tungabhadra dam in Hosapete of Ballari district. The swollen rivers have flooded agricultural lands in several villages of Belgavi and Bagalkot districts. These villages are yet to recover from the extensive damages suffered during last year’s flood. Ghataprabha waters have gushed into Gokak town in Belgavi district, inundating residential areas. Standing crops on thousands of acres of land in Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot district are under water. With the water level in the river going up every hour, the district administration is shifting people to safer locations. In Yadgir, 23 villages are facing flood threat and the local administration has asked the residents to be cautious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-discharge-from-dams-triggers-flood-in-krishna-basin-874544.html
17-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Central Water Commission issues flood forecast for Karnataka||The Central Water Commission (CWC) on Monday issued a flood forecast based on the expected rainfall in the next 24 hours in several parts of Karnataka including Cauvery and Krishna basin. The CWC also warned that due to continuous inflows from the previous spell of rainfall, number of reservoirs have reached their full storage capacity. Most of the dams in Cauvery Basin have reached very close to 90-97% storage. Any local rainfall in association with convective activity may also help in adding to the flow in these basins. Round the clock watch has to be maintained for proper reservoir operation and information to all downstream Districts as well as to lower riparian States well in advance. The releases from Kabini and Krishna Raja Sagar through river are becoming in flows into Mettur Dam which is likely to get slow in flows for next 3-4 days, the CWC said. Most of the dams in Krishna Basin are also having storage between 86% to 97%. Hidkal Dam on River Ghataprabha is filled to 97% of its full capacity and hence close watch has to be maintained for any increased inflows likely due to the very heavy rainfall forecasted in Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days. Due to heavy rain in Madhya Maharashtra, Hidkal and Malaprabha are also getting heavy inflows, the Commission said. Due to river flows from upstream areas of river Krishna, Almatti Dam and Narayanpur Dam are getting heavy inflows and since these dams are filled around 90% to 92% of the capacity, both the dams are releasing the excess flow. There is forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra for next 4-5 days. Due to this there is likelihood of rise in water levels in Upper Krishna Basin in the upstream of Almatti Dam. It is advised that close watch has to be maintained for increased inflows likely during the next 2-3 days. Releases from any of these reservoirs may be done as per rule curve and standard operating procedure, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-water-commission-issues-flood-forecast-for-karnataka-874545.html
17-08-2020||West||Covid-19 cases doubled faster in Mumbai last week: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation||The coronavirus cases doubled at a faster rate in Mumbai last week as compared to the previous week and the average growth rate of the viral infection also went up, according to the city civic body. On August 8, the country's financial capital recorded the slowest doubling rate of 89 days and the lowest growth rate of 0.79 per cent. On Saturday, the rate of doubling became faster at 83 days and the average growth rate of Covid-19 cases rose to 0.84 per cent. The average doubling rate in the city again slowed a bit on Sunday to 85 days and the growth rate decreased to 0.82 per cent, as per figures of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The city's D-ward, which includes areas like Peddar Road and Malabar Hill, had the fastest doubling rate of 50 days on Sunday, while the M-East ward, that includes Chembur (East) area, had the slowest doubling rate of 119 days. The D-ward also had the highest growth rate of 1.40 per cent, while the M-East ward had the lowest growth rate of 0.58 per cent as on Sunday. The average doubling and growth rates are calculated taking Covid-19 cases of past seven days into consideration. Till Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,28,726 Covid-19 cases and 7,133 deaths due to the disease. On June 15, the city had an average doubling rate of 28 days and the average growth rate of 2.49 per cent. On July 31, the doubling rate improved to 77 days and growth rate to 0.9 per cent, according to BMC data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-doubled-faster-in-mumbai-last-week-brihanmumbai-municipal-corporation-874319.html
17-08-2020||West||5 persons at Sharad Pawar's Mumbai residence test Covid-19 positive||Five persons at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence in south Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus, a senior civic official said on Monday. Pawar's test results have come out negative, but he will be asked not to go on any state tour for next some days, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters in the morning. "Three security guards, a cook and the latter's son at Pawar's 'Silver Oak' residence here have tested positive for coronavirus," a senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. As a precautionary measure, tests of nearly 100 people are being conducted, including personal assistants, secretaries and other officials working daily with Pawar, who came in contact with these persons in the last couple of days, he said. "We have also informed the state health department to communicate with health and civic officials in Pune as Pawar was there on Sunday. If he has met some people, they should also be tested as a precautionary measure, he said. Pawar returned from Pune on Sunday. He recently also travelled to Karad tehsil in Satara district where he met state cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil. The minister, who is also an NCP leader, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. In the morning, Tope said Pawar was taken to Breach Candy Hospital here on Sunday for test and the results came out negative. "He is safe and sound...but will ask him not to go on state tour for next some days," the minister said. As a standard procedure, efforts were on to trace those who came in contact with the cook and security guards in their residential areas, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-persons-at-sharad-pawars-mumbai-residence-test-covid-19-positive-874381.html
17-08-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Many Ganesh Mandals cancel public celebrations in Mumbai||With the Ganesh festival not even a week away, it appears that several Sarvajanik Mandals have cancelled the celebrations this time in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Since 1893, public Ganesh festival celebrations have been part of the identity of Mumbai. But with Covid-19 pandemic, things have changed in the new normal. The MMR comprises five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburbs, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The 11-day festival, during which people worship God Ganesha, commences on 22 August on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 1 September on Anant Chaturdashi. In the MMR there are nearly 4,500 to 5,000 Sarvajanik Mandals, who erect pandals in streets, complexes and playgrounds to celebrate the festival. In Mumbai itself, there are 2,700-odd Mandals. According to figures collected from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), the apex body of Ganesh Mandals, several public celebrations have been cancelled. Nearly 60 to 70% of applications have been received which is a drastic drop. “There are various issues...health, hygiene, physical distancing. People have suffered pay cuts, companies have incurred losses,” BSGSS president Naresh Dahibhavbkar told DH on Monday. Similarly, several housing societies, who install idols, would be skipping and so would many households. The first one to cancel celebrations was the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Ganesh festival at Wadala and 21 Ganesh Mandals of Khetwadi, which decided not to have celebrations and instead do it during Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi, that falls on 15 February 2021. The Lalbaugcha-Raja cancelled the celebrations and would be undertaking blood donation and plasma donation camps. The Shivaji Park Sarvajanik Ganesh Utsav Mandal would be organising blood donation camps. The coastal Konkan belt and the golden triangle of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, is in a way the focal point of celebrations in the state with the maximum public celebrations being held here. In some of the villages in the twin Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, in some places, they have decided to have one Ganesh idol per village. According to journalist and writer Prakash Akolkar, from the 1st day to the 11th day, there are activities. “The Aagaman and Visarjan too are big events. In Pune and Nashik, the procession is grand and so as the immersion ceremony in Mumbai,” he said, adding that because of norms of physical distancing and hygiene, the people who depend on the festival for livelihood are going to be impacted. “In Mumbai itself, the turnover of the Ganesh festival is of the order of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 crore,” said veteran Mumbai expert and writer Ajit Joshi, who tracks small businesses. "The Ganpati market is huge. It encompasses idol making, decoration items, flowers, sweets, fruits and coconuts, electric items, decoration items, transportation, jewellery and imitation jewellery, clothes, band troupe and so on," said Joshi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-many-ganesh-mandals-cancel-public-celebrations-in-mumbai-874410.html
17-08-2020||West||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes Sudha Bharadwaj's bail plea in Bombay High Court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday opposed the bail plea of activist Sudha Bharadwaj, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case, in the Bombay High Court saying her ailments were not of serious nature. The NIA also said authorities at the Byculla prison were capable of attending to Bharadwaj's medical needs. After hearing arguments from the NIA and Bharadwaj's counsel, the HC directed the Maharashtra government to submit the latest health report of the activist. Appearing for the NIA, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh told a bench led by Justice Amjad Sayed that Bharadwaj had been denied bail on merits on previous occasions. He said the plea of Bharadwaj, 58, seeking bail on the ground that she might contract coronavirus infection in the prison, should not be allowed by the court. Bharadwaj's counsel Ragini Ahuja had earlier told the HC that the activist had been in jail for over two years. Ahuja said Bharadwaj had comorbidities that put her at a higher risk of contracting the virus. Earlier this month, the Byculla prison authorities had submitted a report in the HC stating that Bharadwaj was diabetic and suffered from ischemia, a heart condition, but that her vital parameters were normal. The HC, however, pointed out that a bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta had presided over a PIL filed by the People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) and had sent detailed guidelines for prison authorities across the state to ensure the safety of inmates in light of Covid-19. "The prison authorities are bound to follow the guide so what remains in your petition?" the bench asked. The NIA too argued that the PUCL order had taken care of all the grievances raised by Bharadwaj in her plea. "These are not serious ailments. As and when she complains, she is attended to, by medical authorities. And the prison authorities are following all ICMR guidelines on maintaining social distancing and also other safety measures," ASG Singh said. Ahuja, however, argued the Byculla prison was severely over-crowded, and it was impossible to follow the guidelines there. "The court's directions do not mitigate the petitioner's comorbidities and the fact that Byculla prison remains severely over-crowded. The court's directions can't possibly be implemented," Ahuja said. At this, the bench directed the Maharashtra government to submit Bharadwaj's latest health report and an affidavit within a week clarifying how it proposed to implement safety guidelines and the court's PUCL judgement in the Byculla prison to protect inmates. Bharadwaj had approached the HC after a special court in the city rejected her plea seeking bail on medical grounds on May 29 this year. The case pertains to caste violence that took place near the Koregaon Bhima war memorial in Pune district on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave at Pune a day earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-nia-opposes-sudha-bharadwajs-bail-plea-in-bombay-high-court-874419.html
17-08-2020||West||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, drive-through condolence meet held in Ahmedabad||When 49-year-old Panna Thakkar died battling cancer last week, the devastated family knew that it was not just the funeral that had to be cut short but also the condolence meet. The lurking danger of coronavirus infection pushed the family to think of an idea that would be safer and allow people to come to pay their respect. While the global pandemic has reduced rituals of death and condolences to grieving family affairs, the Thakkar family in Ahmedabad meticulously organised a "drive-through besna (condolence)" where over 200 people came in cars and paid their respect while remaining seated. With restrictions on gathering and social distancing norms, the Thakkar family's effort has become the talk of the town on social media where images and video clips of the condolence meeting are shared widely. "We had arranged everything as per the guidelines prescribed by the government because of coronavirus. We had made kept hand sanitizers, masks, and other such arrangements to check the virus spread. At the entrance, we had a person who would distribute the flowers to visitors, who in turn, hand them over to another person standing near the picture of my mother where they would pay the respect while being seated inside the car," said Prem Thakkar, son of Panna, who along with his wife Sherin came up with the idea. He added that more than 200 people attended the meet who came in cars and left immediately after paying their respect. The family organised the meeting at Shivalik Bungalows in Satellite area on Sunday. Panna Thakkar passed away on August 9 from lung cancer. Prem said that his mother struggled with the disease for nearly a year. Earlier, she had been diagnosed with breast cancer and was cured. "My mother was vocal about cancer and worked to encourage others not to take it negatively. She inspired others to fight chemotherapy and other taboos attached to it. She was an NRI wedding planner and enjoyed lots of popularity among her groups," Prem said. With reports of over ,1000 people getting detected with coronavirus every day, Gujarat continues to be one of the worst-hit states in the country. Till Sunday evening, the number of infected persons stood at 78,783, death toll 3,787, and 61,496 people recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-covid-19-pandemic-drive-through-condolence-meet-held-in-ahmedabad-874430.html
17-08-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crosses 6 lakh mark; 228 die, 11,391 recover||Maharashtra on Monday crossed the six lakh mark with the addition of 8,493 new cases of Covid-19, while 228 more patients succumbed to the infection, 40 of them in Mumbai, said a health department official. The state's coronavirus count rose to 6,04,358 after 8,493 fresh cases were reported, while 228 new deaths took the fatality tally to 20,265, he said. Also, 11,391 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recovered cases to 4,28,514. There are 1,55,268 active cases in the state, the official added. Mumbai reported 753 new cases and 40 deaths, taking its tally to 1,29,479 and the toll to 7,173, he said. The number of active cases in Mumbai stood at 17,704, he added. Pune city reported 919 new cases along with 26 deaths, pushing up its Covid-19 tally to 80,407 and the toll to 2,077, the official said. Of the 228 deaths reported on Monday, 172 deaths had taken place in the last 48 hours and 36 in the last one week. The remaining 20 deaths occurred before the last week and were added to the fatality tally now, the official said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region -- which covers Mumbai and surrounding towns -- reported 2,104 new coronavirus cases, taking its total to 2,89,402. Also, 74 deaths took the total fatalities in the region to 11,614, the official said. The Pune division's Covid-19 tally increased to 1,54,625 with 2,333 cases, while 72 fatalities took the death toll to 4,115. The Nashik division has reported 65,038 cases and 1,720 deaths so far, and the Kolhapur division 24,466 cases and 714 deaths. The Aurangabad division has reported 24,537 cases and 766 deaths and the Latur division 15,773 cases and 505 deaths.  The Akola division has reported 12,660 cases and 373 deaths and the Nagpur division 17,297 cases and 398 deaths so far. As many as 560 people from other states have been treated in Maharashtra, including 60 who died, the official said. There are 10,53,659 people under home quarantine and 37,556 in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 6,04,358, new cases 8,493, deaths 20,265, discharged 4,28,514, active cases 1,55,268, people tested so far 32,06,248.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-lakh-mark-228-die-11391-recover-874494.html
17-08-2020||West||Rains kill 7 in two days Gujarat; NDRF teams deployed||Seven people were killed in rain-related incidents in Gujarat in the last two days as intense spells caused flooding and water-logging, prompting the government to deploy 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force in the state, officials said on Monday. Widespread rains lashed many areas in the state in the day, with Mandvi taluka in Surat receiving 249 mm of downpour between 6 am and 6 pm. The Met department has predicted "heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places" in different parts of the state during the next three days. "Seven persons have died in various rain-related incidents in Gujarat on August 15 and 16. We have deployed 13 teams of the NDRF to tackle any emergency situation," Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar. Heavy rains prompted authorities to suspend traffic on 195 roads, including 16 state highways, during the day, a government release said. Dolvan in Tapi district received 205 mm rainfall, followed by Talala in Gir-Somnath (180 mm), Valod in Tapi (156 mm), Vansda in Navsari (155 mm), Waghai in Dang (135 mm), Mahuva in Surat (132 mm), Vyara in Tapi (114 mm) and Jodia in Jamnagar (110 mm), the release said. Rains also lashed parts of arid Kutch district, including Mandvi (133 mm) and Mundra (132 mm), it said. The fresh spell of rains has lifted water stocks in several dams. Gujarat has so far received 79.44 per cent of its average annual rainfall, the release said. A high alert has been issued as 94 dams are 90 per cent filled, while an alert has been sounded for 10 dams which are 80 to 90 per cent full. 74 dams are filled 70 to 80 per cent of their capacity while 87 dams are holding less than 70 per cent of water against their capacity, as per the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rains-kill-7-in-two-days-gujarat-ndrf-teams-deployed-874510.html
17-08-2020||West||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes Varavara Rao's bail plea||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday opposed poet-activist Varavara Rao's bail plea before the Bombay High Court, saying the Elgar Parishad case accused was being provided with the best possible medical aid and that the prison authorities would continue to offer him adequate medical treatment whenever required. The 81-year-old accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case has been undergoing treatment at the Nanavati Hospital in the city since July 16 after he tested positive for coronavirus. The HC, however, directed the state prison authorities to permit Rao's family members to contact him through video call. He is also being treated for various other ailments, including a head injury that he sustained while at government-run JJ Hospital before he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital, a private facility. A bench, led by Justice Amjad Sayed, was hearing a bail plea filed by Rao on health grounds before he contracted Covid-19. On Monday, the NIA counsel, Additional Solicitor General, Anil Singh reminded the court that Rao had been denied bail on merit on previous occasions by the HC. He added that "this was a case in which the petitioner (Rao) was involved in anti-national activities." "He (Rao) was shifted from JJ Hospital to Nanavati Hospital, one of the best super speciality hospitals in the city, at the family's request. Jail authorities are taking best care in prisons. "They are taking safety precautions, following ICMR guidelines," Singh said. "In the present case, jail authorities have taken best care, given best treatment so the family can't complain. "Jail authorities have stated they will continue taking care (of Rao) so nothing remains in the petition," Singh said, urging the court to not allow Rao's bail plea. At this, the court asked if Rao was in the ICU or in a "regular room" at the hospital, and if his condition required regular monitoring? Rao's counsel R Satyanarayan told the court that Rao's family had no information on his health since the last video call they were permitted to make was on July 31. Satyanarayan said that the hospital authorities had told the family they were "taking some legal advice" before they could pass on any information on Rao's condition to them. The bench then said that Rao be permitted to contact his family through a video call in accordance with hospital protocol. It directed the state prison authorities to permit Rao's family members to contact him through video call. Following a previous order of another bench, the Nanavati Hospital had filed a report in court on August 10 detailing Rao's health condition and the treatment being given to him among other things. Rao's family and the NIA both submitted that they were yet to receive the copies of the report. The court, therefore, permitted the parties to receive copies of the report. It is likely to hear Rao's bail plea further after two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-nia-opposes-varavara-raos-bail-plea-874514.html
17-08-2020||West||Part of vacant building collapses in Mumbai, two hurt: BMC||A portion of a vacant building collapsed on the compound wall of an adjoining building in suburban Bandra here on Monday night, leaving two persons injured, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The building is located on Shirley Rajan Road near Rizvi ArchitectureCollege in Bandra (west), an official said. "Eight fire engines have reached the spot," a fire brigade officer, said adding that the incident occurred around 8:30 pm. According to the BMC official, the fire brigade has tagged it as a level-3 incident, and along with eight fire engines, a rescue van has also been sent to the spot. A search operation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/part-of-vacant-building-collapses-in-mumbai-two-hurt-bmc-874533.html
