18-08-2020||Comment||Ram Temple: Architecture as symbol||The August 5 ‘bhoomi pooja’ for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya has been seen as the beginning of a new era for the country. The event was remarkable in many ways, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself leading the religious ceremony, with the RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat by his side, and declaring that a ‘new India’ would be built on the stone laid by him for the temple. The occasion was pregnant with many meanings, which will become clear in the years to come. These will be different for different people, but they will be used as tools to define politics and society in the coming days. There is much rhetoric and assertion of the symbolic value of the temple for the country. This value can be illustrated in a way that has not yet been thought of because the conventional idea of a temple has dominated the thoughts of its proponents and planners.    If the temple stands for a vision of a ‘new India’, it should visually demonstrate it, and when it is completed, show it by the way it functions. The model of the temple is available now. As it is visualised now, the temple is to be built in the Nagara style which is common in North India. It is a North Indian temple, in the best sense of the term. Some of the most impressive temples in the country have been built in the Nagara style and they evoke great admiration. But, by stated intent, the Ayodhya temple is being built for the entire nation. Why can’t some elements of South Indian temple architecture be incorporated in its the design to make the idea real? If Ram is a symbol of the nation, his abode should reflect its diversities. The temple will be richer with some Chola grandeur and Chalukya finesse and possible elements from other regional traditions of temple architecture.  A meeting of the Nagara and the South Indian styles can be seen in the Vesara architecture in some temples in Karnataka. An Ayodhya temple that combines the main architectural styles of the country will be more representative and inclusive. People from other parts of the country who go there will be able to relate to it better. The ambience of a temple, derived from its physical features and design, is important for many devotees who go there. Limiting the Ram temple at Ayodhya to a North Indian temple will limit Ram and the appeal of the temple. The temple has been projected as a symbol of national unity. Let the architecture talk unity and embody the vision of unity in diversity. Creative fusion of architectural styles has produced wonderful structures in India and elsewhere. It is not too late to act on this. The design of the temple has been changed many times and it is not difficult to make changes even now, because the construction is going to take many years. There is no need to worry much about the ‘Vastu’. If there is a will to do it, the shastras will not stand in the way. A house is good and beautiful when it meets the dweller’s needs, goes with his nature and becomes him. Architecture reflects the culture of a society, and society can express its values, pre-occupations and aspirations through it. Can the builders of the Ayodhya temple take up that challenge?  There is a view that a temple or any place of worship is built to reflect the region and the period of its construction. Tamil King Raja Raja Cholan’s empire extended up to the Ganges and overseas up to Java and Sumatra. He never imposed Tamil language anywhere, let alone the Thanjavur big temple architecture, a marvel though it is. Angkor Wat in Cambodia is another symbol of Indian influence, but it is done in the Khmer style. The argument is that since it is the local ethos and style that has shaped such temples, there is nothing wrong in the Ayodhya temple being built in the local style. A Ram temple built in the Nagara style is not wrong, but it can be more right if it is cosmopolitan and has a composite style. It is true that most temples are built to reflect local or regional styles. That is why each temple is unique and different, though they are built according to the same standard rules. That is also why they are beautiful. The point is that in the case of Ayodhya, the idea of region can be expanded to cover the whole country, as Ram is presented as a representative and symbol of the nation. Hence the argument that a national idiom should express a national Ram. It should also be noted that all temples are not strictly regional, when special considerations go into their making or working. In Ayodhya itself, there are many styles. The Vijaya Raghav Mandir, which is a major temple there dedicated to Ram and Sita, follows Ramanuja’s Vishishtadvaita school of Vedanta, and has a South Indian stamp on it. The Kochi Thirumala Devaswom temple has a style different from the usual Dravidian style. The various Ayyappa temples across the country are not built according to local and regional styles but follow a general Kerala pattern of temple architecture.  The bigger idea of the temple can go beyond the design, too. For this, according to a view, the temple should adopt a new mix of practices and worship, adornment rituals, music and bhajans drawn from all over the country. Individual worshippers may carry their methods of worship to the temple but a ‘pooja’ plan and ‘aradhana’ scheme evolved from various practices in other parts of the country can be adopted in Ayodhya.  Finally, who will be the priests of the temple? Are they going to be the Brahmins from Ayodhya, going by the tradition? Every Indian should have the right to be a priest of the Ram temple. Since a person from a  backward community from a different part of the country has done the ‘bhoomi pooja’, the priesthood should also be open to everyone from all parts of the country — the south, the east and the west — and to backward communities, scheduled castes and tribes and all other sections of people. Lord Ram, who travelled south and had a close friend in the boatman Guha, would be happy about it. (The writer is a former Associate Editor of Deccan Herald)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/ram-temple-architecture-as-symbol-874552.html
18-08-2020||First Edit||Women’s property rights: Welcome ruling||The Supreme Court has done well to remove the confusion over the interpretation of a clause in the Hindu Succession Act (HSA), 1956, caused by an earlier judgement of the court. The HSA was a progressive legislation at the time of its passage, but it fell short of recognising women’s rights in a family. It took about 50 years to recognise them and give legal backing to them. After much debate and a push from the Law Commission, Parliament enacted in 2005 an amendment to the 1956 law which held that a woman could be a coparcener (sharing inheritance in an undivided property) by birth “in her own right in the same manner as the son”. This was an important statement of rights because it ensured that there is no discrimination against women in the ownership and sharing of family property and men and women had equal rights to it.  However, there was some lack of clarity with the wording of the 2005 amendment. The Supreme Court ruled in 2015 that equal right was available to daughters if the father was alive in 2005 when the amendment to the 1956 law came into force, thus granting the right to “only living daughters of living coparceners’’. But another ruling by the court in 2018 held that a coparcener’s legal right flows from being born in the family and that it has nothing to do with whether the father was alive at the time of the 2005 amendment. The latest ruling has removed the incompatibility between the two rulings by upholding the 2018 ruling. It has declared that women have the right to equal property even if they were born before 2005 and whether the father was alive or not at that time. If the woman died before the amendment came into force, her share can be passed on to her children.  The judgement has finally put an end to male primacy in the sharing of ancestral property in the Hindu family. It has also ruled that registered settlements relating to sharing or alienation of property made before December 2004, when the amendment was tabled in the Rajya Sabha, cannot be reopened. This was to avoid disputes and litigation that would have resulted from giving retrospective effect without limit to the ruling. But the court has allowed opening of cases settled on the basis of the 2005 cut-off date and told high courts to decide such cases within six months. The judgement is important because equal right to property is a key factor in ensuring the equality of women with men and in empowering them. It will make gender justice more real to women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/women-s-property-rights-welcome-ruling-874554.html
18-08-2020||First Edit||Bhushan verdict will have a chilling effect||The conviction by a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of senior advocate and activist Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt of court is unfortunate and disappointing. He has been held guilty of contempt for posting two tweets — one in which he said that the Supreme Court, especially the past four Chief Justices of India, had aided in the “destruction” of democracy in the country, and another in which he made a remark about the Chief Justice in the context of the court remaining locked down. The bench held that such “scurrilous/ malicious attack … which tends to create disaffection and disrespect for the authority of this court cannot be ignored”. It also said that “if such attack is not dealt with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations.” This is a strong indictment, but the rationale behind it does not seem convincing and the finding does not appear to be sound.  The citizens look up to the Supreme Court as the highest seat of justice and the protector of fundamental rights. It has given the impression that in Bhushan’s case, it has not followed the standards of justice it has always followed. The court has through various orders and judgements in the past expanded the scope of fundamental rights. A key right of citizens is freedom of expression, which manifests in dissent and criticism. The harsh treatment of Prashant Bhushan’s comments does not belong to the high tradition the court has always set for itself in upholding that right. Dismissing Bhushan’s remarks as an expression of the right to free speech would only have enhanced the prestige and authority of the court. It also did not take into consideration the fact that Bhushan himself, as a senior lawyer who advocated public causes and acted as amicus curiae, has helped the court in the administration of justice. The judgement has disquieting implications. It may make any criticism of the judiciary or of the judges liable for criminal contempt. The court has, unfortunately, taken a very literal and narrow view of the contempt provisions in the law. It also showed great urgency in taking up the case and deciding it when the court was not fully functional because of the Covid-19 situation and when many important cases were waiting to be heard.  Courts have taken a liberal view of contempt in mature democracies, and the UK has even dropped it from the statute book as a criminal offence. A more liberal interpretation of the contempt provision is called for and it can lead to better dispensation of justice in this case. Hopefully, the court will do that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bhushan-verdict-will-have-a-chilling-effect-874929.html
18-08-2020||In Perspective||The warning of 'Animal Farm' remains relevant today||Seventy-five years ago, almost to the day, a slim book replete with meaning was published, captivating the minds of readers worldwide. Even today, George Orwell’s Animal Farm remains relevant. When I first read the book, I found it interesting, humorous, a simple tale of animals managing themselves after rebelling against their masters. Later, at a seminar on Orwell’s works, I discerned what a powerful book it was -- a biting satire on totalitarianism, written in the wake of World War II and published amidst the rise of the Soviet Union. Animal Farm is a story told through animals living in a barn. The animals are treated harshly, leading to a widespread rebellion in which they overthrow their human masters. The motive being that the animals must reap the benefits of their labours, create a society where all animals are equal, free and happy, and lead a life of their own  Following the rebellion, the pigs in the farm become more educated, even learning to read and write and formulating a legal code (including one that says “All animals are equal”), that all must follow. In time, the pigs become powerful, corrupt and change the legal code for their own benefit (“…some animals are more equal”), betraying the rebellion, thus taking the farm life to its former state under the dictatorship of a pig named Napolean. When the book was published, reviewers didn’t think it was a simple, straight-forward story, terming it a “caustic satire”, a “gentle satire on a certain State,” etc. Since then, the book has been subject to much critique. More than a fairy tale, it is about human nature, social systems and more. Orwell himself noted that the book reflects events leading up to the Russian Revolution of 1917 and then on into the Stalinist era. Orwell was a critic of Joseph Stalin and his brutal dictatorship, built upon a personality cult and enforced by a reign of terror. In fact, Orwell, in his essay, ‘Why I write’ wrote that Animal Farm was the first book in which he tried, with full consciousness, “to fuse political and artistic purpose into one whole.” Indeed, the book may be an allegory for Communism in the Soviet Union, with the then Soviet leaders depicted as animals and demonstrating how revolutions usually freed the oppressed only for the new leadership to then create its own form of oppression. Crucially, it tells of power and corruption and how a democratic farm turns into a dictatorship by using propaganda, fear and force.   We live in similar times and it is precisely at these times that books like Animal Farm become relevant and merit reading regularly to remind us how dictators take advantage of the human desire for a better world for their own selfish interests. And thus for people to be alert to question power, hold leaders and the government accountable, and put society into perspective. Orwell cleverly used the key characters in the book to take a dig at what every dictatorial regime, whether Stalinist USSR or regimes of our own times, looks like. ‘Napoleon’, the farm’s power-hungry Pig-In-Charge is full of lies, distorts reality and lacks empathy for those he rules. ‘Squealer’, Napoleon’s ‘mouthpiece’ has no qualms of the conscience in perpetuating the lies of Napoleon to distort the truth to control. ‘Snowball’, Napoleon’s lieutenant is an intelligent pig, gifted with oratory skills and thinks of his own gain, only to be exiled by Napoleon. ‘Benjamin’ is a donkey who thinks rationally but is unwilling to speak up or stand up against wrongdoing. Do not the brilliant analogies bring to mind some present-day charismatic leaders of our world? Don’t we recognise a Napoleon, a Snowball, a Squealer, a Boxer or a Benjamin in some regime or the other? As one of the significant socio-political works of all time, the book is a true reflection of the political system across the world. It depicts human beings at their best and their worst and the demons within them -- how good intentions can be subverted into tyranny and the betrayal of the hopes of the masses. There are messages in the book that ring true even today. One of the most well-known quotes is “All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.” A rule that was conveniently changed from the initial “all animals are equal.” A telling comment on how leaders change the rules to suit their own agendas, on governments guaranteeing equality to all but ensuring power and privileges to a select few. Orwell, through his characters, shows how those in power get corrupt by abusing it for personal gain and how they try to control the people to remain in power. In the final analysis, one can only doff one’s hat to Orwell for his incredible foresight and writing such a remarkable allegory to highlight issues such as greed, betrayal, inequality, deceit, oppression, manipulation, corruption, hunger for power and a warning that history can repeat itself. It is also an eye-opener for the masses not to be brainwashed by the ruling class; not to remain neutral or silent and to be wary of false propaganda of any new leadership that might take control over personal freedoms and liberties. Aptly enough, the happenings in Animal Farm need not be confined to just politics but to businesses, corporates, institutions, even families where people in power could be manipulative and employ various ways and means for their own selfish ends. All in all, a powerful book that is as relevant today as it was 75 years ago. (The writer is a senior journalist and author/editor of three books on Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-warning-of-animal-farm-remains-relevant-today-874553.html
18-08-2020||In Perspective||Covid-19: Clinical autopsies a crying need||Around 300 BCE, Herophilus of Chalcedon performed the first autopsies on humans and animals and recorded his findings. Later, Antistius, a Roman physician performed a forensic autopsy on the body of Julius Caesar and determined that the sovereign had been stabbed twenty-three times and one of the wounds had perforated the aorta, resulting in the death of the Roman emperor Autopsies can be performed for several reasons but very broadly, the reasons for performing an autopsy are two. In cases where the death is suspected to be an accident, homicide or suicide, an autopsy may be performed in order to determine the exact cause of death. Such autopsies are termed as medicolegal autopsies and often, the findings may have to be presented in a court of law. The second category of autopsies are called clinical autopsies and are performed primarily for scientific advancement. The clinical autopsy is performed to ascertain the cause of the disease in cases where the diagnosis could not be established antemortem. It can also be used for scientific research to determine exactly how the patient died. Many lives can be saved if a clinical autopsy advances knowledge about the disease. The life of another patient with the same or a similar disease can be saved if the knowledge gained from the clinical autopsy is utilised to develop new treatment protocols. The common axiom used to justify the clinical autopsy is ‘The dead teach the living’ and this maxim holds true even today. Unfortunately, there has been a tremendous decline in the number of clinical autopsies being performed in various institutes. This is a global phenomenon and it would be wrong to place the blame squarely on one institute or one country. The reasons for this decline are numerous, however, the most commonly quoted reason is that there is a belief that diagnostics are very advanced today and the clinical autopsy is not required to ascertain a diagnosis. Sadly, this fact does not appear to be true. In a paper which I had published in 2013, it was seen that in an astonishing 9.3% of hospital deaths, there was a discrepancy between the antemortem and post mortem diagnosis. That is an enormously high figure and should humble the entire physician community. About three decades ago, the pathologist had to rely on the gross and microscopic appearance of the tissues in order to establish a diagnosis. The organs were examined and small pieces of tissue were taken from the areas which appeared to be involved by the diseases. These tissue fragments were then processed using standard histological techniques and then examined under a microscope. This combination of ‘gross’ and ‘microscopic’ examination of the body organs was sufficient to arrive at a diagnosis in the majority of cases. In addition, today, we have a host of molecular biology technologies like genomics and proteomics. These technologies help us delve deep into the molecular biology of a disease. Today’s technology can tell us how an organism enters into a cell, the mechanism by which it causes the disease and finally, how it kills the patient. This data accentuates the importance of the role of the autopsy in Covid-19 deaths. When the keywords ‘Autopsy’, ‘Covid-19’ and ‘Post-Mortem’ are typed into the PUBMED database, only 128 papers could be retrieved as on 9th July 2020. Out of these publications, barely 40 publications focus on the autopsy in cases of Covid-19 infections. Barely 10% of the studies focus on the molecular pathological aspects of the disease, which would be a key factor in determining the pathogenesis or the temporal profile of the disease. Pathogenesis has a direct impact on treatment. If the profile of the disease is understood, it would be possible to develop means to treat the disease. I can provide a crude analogy if I compare the treatment of disease as synonymous with apprehending a gangster. If you know the favourite haunts of a gangster and his modus operandi, it would be possible to arrest him easily. Similarly, if the disruptive mechanism of a microorganism is known, it would be possible to intervene at certain points and treat the infection.  Everyone would agree that treatment is of utmost importance. Treatment of protocols in the present pandemic have been changing very frequently. Hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir and ritonavir were the flavours of the season. On the 4th of July, the World Health Organisation accepted the recommendation from the Solidarity Trial’s International Steering Committee and recommended that these drugs should not be used in the treatment of Covid-19 infections. Perhaps a lot of these ‘hit and miss’ treatment protocols stem from the fact that we are as yet, ignorant about the exact pathogenesis of the disease. This could easily be remedied by performing clinical autopsies, backed up by the latest molecular techniques which would identify the disease pathogenesis. However, there are problems in performing autopsies in Covid-19 patients. Firstly, it will be necessary to obtain the consent of the next of kin before an autopsy is performed. Secondly, pathologists may not be willing to perform clinical autopsies on Covid-19 patients in spite of the guidelines which have been issued by various authorities and the fact that performing an autopsy is not necessarily the same as writing your own obituary. Most certainly challenges remain, predominantly in the areas of logistics and sentiment. However, the advantages far outweigh the hazards. An insight into the pathogenesis of this disease would perhaps go a long way in framing treatment protocols and guiding humanity in preventing the spread of the disease. (The writer is Senior Consultant, Surgical Pathology and Molecular Diagnostics, Neuberg Anand Reference Laboratory, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-clinical-autopsies-a-crying-need-874931.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada sees dip in fresh Covid-19 case; death toll continues to rise||According to officials, of the fresh cases, 67 are asymptomatic. Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest number of new Covid-19 cases at 88, followed by 19 from other districts, 18 in Bantwal, 10 in Belthangady, eight in Puttur and one in Sullia. Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) contributed to a majority of fresh cases in the district. As many as 60 people suffering from ILI have been tested positive while 16 diagnosed with SARI have been confirmed with Covid-19 infection. The source of infection of 47 infected is being traced in the district. Twenty-one infected were primary contacts of already infected persons.  Among the deaths, three were from Mangaluru, one each from Bantwal and Puttur and three from outside the district. All were suffering from various diseases along with Covid-19 infection. A total of 70,657 samples have been tested in Dakshina Kannada district so far. The total cases in the district stood at 9,022. On Monday, the number of discharges outnumbered fresh cases. A total of 209 infected persons have recovered and they have been discharged from hospitals, Covid care centres and home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-sees-dip-in-fresh-covid-19-case-death-toll-continues-to-rise-874606.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Pejawar Mutt seer seeks Rs 200 crore package for gaushalas||A minimum of Rs 200 crore should be set aside for the maintenance of the gaushalas, the seer said. He said the Covid-19 scare in the last few months has affected all sectors in the country. The maintenance of gaushalas has become challenging. The Govardhana Giri Trust has been managing gaushalas in Neelavara, Kodavooru, Hebri and other places. The monthly expenses of these gaushalas come around Rs 35 lakh.  There are several gaushalas run by mutts, temples and individuals in different parts of the country. The management of these gaushalas was possible in the past due to help rendered by the donors. Now, the donation has reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic affecting all the sectors. The heavy rain in the last two months has affected the collection of fodder as well. He said just like the way the government announced a relief package to boost the economy, the government should announce a minimum of Rs 200 crore for managing gaushalas in the country, thereby helping in the conservation of cattle, he said in a letter to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pejawar-mutt-seer-seeks-rs-200-crore-package-for-gaushalas-874616.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Search for 4 missing persons in river Krishna resumes in Raichur||A search for four people including a girl who were feared dead after a coracle capsized in River Krishna near Peddakuram on Karnataka-Telangana border resumed from Tuesday morning.  A team of NDRF pressed into the service have been carrying out search operations in the river. As the river is swollen, they are suspected to have washed away towards Telangana.  Out of 13 people in the coracle, nine were rescued on Monday evening.  Tahsildar Hampanna Sajjan said the incident took place while they were returning in the coracle after a weekly shanty at Panchapadu under Makthal police station limits in Telangana. All are residents of border village, Peddakuram, in Raichur taluk.  Raichur Tahslidar Hamppanna Sajjan and the police are camping there to oversee the search operation. Deputy Commissioner Venkatesh Kumar and Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikkam and others visited the spot on Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/search-for-4-missing-persons-in-river-krishna-resumes-in-raichur-874633.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Probe will unearth link of any organisation with Bengaluru violence: Shettar||In the wake of the demand for a ban on Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and other organisations with regard to recent violence at DJ Halli and KG Halli in Bengaluru, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday stated that the government would take a suitable decision after collecting evidences through a thorough probe. "Required preparations have to be made before taking any decision. An investigation from all angles is going on into the matter of violence in Bengaluru, and the link of any organisation including the SDPI is being checked. All the details would be out at the earliest," he said. A thorough discussion was also held on how to recover the loss caused due to damage of properties during the violence, he noted. On the Ganesh festival, Shettar also sought the co-operation of the people in celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi as per the guidelines issued by the government, as a precaution to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. "The government has not asked people not to celebrate the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, but some restrictions are put on community celebrations. Idols can be installed at houses and temples, but not on roads or junctions. This measure is to prevent crowding in the wake of the Covid-19 situation. People should co-operate in such situations. Though hotels are allowed to open, not many people are going there," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/probe-will-unearth-link-of-any-organisation-with-bengaluru-violence-shettar-874725.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||MP Srinivas Prasad tests positive for Covid-19||MP V Srinivas Prasad, who has tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to Manipal Hospital, in Bengaluru, for treatment. According to sources, Prasad was suffering from body ache from Monday evening and had a light fever. Hence, he was subject to the Covid-19 test on Tuesday morning. By afternoon, it was confirmed that he tested positive. Prasad took precautionary measures and stayed at home all these days. But, he had attended an officials' meeting in Chamarajanagar recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mp-srinivas-prasad-tests-positive-for-covid-19-874869.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Inauguration of buildings at Central University of Karnataka postponed||The inauguration of various buildings at Central University of Karnataka by Union Human Resources Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal was postponed abruplty. The inauguration through video conferencing was scheduled on Tuesday at 4:00 pm. The reason for postponement is not known. The newly constructed 17 academic buildings (Block D-7 to D-23), two OBC hostels, a guest house and a multi-purpose hall, a pond with the storage capacity of 1.20 lakh cubic meter water and a 20 lakh-litres storage capacity sump was to be inaugurated was to be inaugurated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/inauguration-of-buildings-at-central-university-of-karnataka-postponed-874891.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru SP tests Covid-19 positive; DC under quarantine||Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. It has to be noted that Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar is already under quarantine, as his driver tested positive on August 15. Most of the district-level officers are under self-isolation, as they had come in contact with the DC and SP. It has to be recalled that all officials had attended the Independence Day celebration on August 15, at Bannimantapa Stadium, along with District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar. Later, most of them attended the meeting on Covid at the Zilla Panchayat Hall. The SP’s office was sanitised on Tuesday. ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra said that after all meetings, the ZP hall is sanitised on a regular basis. The SP underwent a rapid antigen test on Monday evening and was found to be positive. As he is asymptomatic, despite the infection, he is under home isolation and treatment. It has to be recalled that 92 police officials, including Inspector General of Police Southern Range Vipul Kumar, Ryshyanth himself and then Additional SP P V Sneha, were under quarantine as a police personnel had tested positive for Covid in the fourth week of June. Thus, the IGP, SP and ASP were under home quarantine, while other officers were in facility quarantine, since June 21. All the 92 policemen tested negative on June 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-sp-tests-covid-19-positive-dc-under-quarantine-874903.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||B Y Vijayendra's visit after appointment as BJP state VP celebrated||The first visit of B Y Vijayendra to Mysuru on Monday, since his appointment as one of the vice presidents of BJP state unit, was widely celebrated by party leaders and workers. It has to be noted that his claim to contest against Dr Yathindra, son of ex-chief minister Siddaramaiah, in Varuna Assembly constituency in 2018, had created a BJP wave in the segment. His popularity in the region, where Congress and JD(S) are the main parties, shot up, giving hopes to his partymen. However, due to various reasons, he had to abstain from filing his nomination, even though all arrangements were made, on April 23, 2018. Vijayendra, who had even rented a house in Varuna village to contest the election, was made general secretary of the state BJP, youth wing. Leaders, including his father, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, had announced that Vijayendra would stay in Mysuru, even though he was not a candidate, and strive for the victory of party candidates in the region. Soon, a disappointed Vijayendra left Mysuru and Dr Yathindra won from Varuna segment, with a huge majority of 58,616 votes, by defeating BJP’s Thotadappa Basavaraju. Thus, the strength of BJP remained almost the same in the 2018 Assembly polls in Mysuru region with five MLAs winning. The JD(S) had maintained its lead, with 18 MLAs, while the Congress managed with five MLAs. Even though BSP managed to win one seat in Kollegal of Chamarajanagar district, it was an alliance with the JD(S). The by-election in KR Pet of Mandya district in 2019, facilitated by the resignation of K C Narayana Gowda of JD(S), brought Vijayendra into focus again. Even though the ground work was done by BJP organisers, with financial support by Narayana Gowda, Vijayendra, along with Deputy CM Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and Hassan MLA Preetham J Gowda, was supervising the arrangements and striking deals with leaders of various communities. The victory of BJP, the first one in Mandya, the native district of Yediyurappa, was a new development. With this, the strength of the BJP MLAs grew to six in Mysuru region. A senior BJP leader said, “The post of vice president in the state BJP is not a significant one. There are nine more vice presidents like Vijayendra. In fact two of them — M Rajendra and MP Prathap Simha — are from Mysuru.” “If Vijayendra is getting so much attention, it is only because he is the son of the Chief Minister. Vijayendra should understand this and use his clout to strengthen the party, to grow as a natural leader. Otherwise, examples of the sons of many ex-CMs are before us,” he added. Another senior BJP leader said, “Vijayendra should avoid his coterie, whenever he comes to Mysuru region. These ‘confidants’ or ‘close-acquaintances’ are misleading him. They are creating a divide between Vijayendra and party leaders and workers. They are checking his interaction with party organisers, with various capacities and skills. The coterie would be the main cause, if Vijayendra ends up just being the CM’s son.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-y-vijayendras-visit-after-appointment-as-bjp-state-vp-celebrated-874904.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Student ends life for not getting mobile phone||A 10th standard student of Sagade Government High School ended her life, by consuming poison here, on Monday evening. The girl's father has lodged a police complaint that she took the extreme step as her demand for buying a mobile phone to attend online classes was not met. Harshitha (15), daughter of Rajesh and Padma, of Sagade village, was pestering her parents to buy her a mobile phone, claiming that all her friends had phones, according to a resident of the village. Her father, a tailor, was facing financial problems and thus, he had assured her of buying a phone, after a few days. Upset over this, Harshitha consumed pesticide, that was brought to spray for plants. Harshitha was rushed to the primary health centre at Kabballi. From there, she was shifted to the district hospital for further treatment, where she breathed her last. Chamarajanagar Rural Police Inspector Lohith Kumar said, "We have registered a case, based on the complaint lodged by Harshitha's father, that his daughter consumed pesticide for not buying her a mobile phone, to follow online classes." When contacted, Sagade Government High School Headmaster Gajendra said that they are not conducting any online classes for students. The teachers go to the villages, gather students at a common place and conduct classes, under Vidyagama programme, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/student-ends-life-for-not-getting-mobile-phone-874906.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru riots prove that Congress’s Dalit champion claim is hollow: Basavaraj Bommai||It’s been a week since the Pulakeshinagar riots in Bengaluru and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has been dealing with its aftermath and the politics surrounding the incident. Making rioters pay for the damages will be the strongest message the government will send, he tells Bharath Joshi. Excerpts: Many say the Pulakeshinagar riots could have been avoided. The facts speak for themselves. Between 5.40 pm and 6 pm, that boy Naveen made that post on social media. It didn't get circulated immediately, but by 7 pm, it was in various (WhatsApp) groups. At 7.30 pm, we received a complaint and at 7.45 pm, an FIR was registered. We had almost located the boy. In the meantime, there were 300-400 people and this number swelled to 1,000-2,000, going on to become an unruly mob outside the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. The police had to control this unruly mob. About 1.5 km away, another mob had gathered. This means, it was planned. We acted promptly. And mind you, such incidents took 3-4 days for the previous government to contain. We quelled it in two hours. The real violence started at 10.30 pm, and by 12.30 am, the situation was under control. The police acted efficiently, promptly.  If it was planned, won’t that point to the failure of intelligence?  Planned means what? The violence was planned within a few hours. But there were political differences of opinion and a simmering discontent. We knew it, we were watching it and we were containing it as well. But the discontent was so deep that one spark was enough to ignite this whole thing. There’s no question of any intelligence or police failure.  The BJP is projecting this as an attack on a Dalit MLA. The counter is, it was the government’s responsibility to protect the Dalit MLA.  Congress always claims to be the champions of Dalits and minorities. Here, what is the stand they took? Isn't it the duty of the party to protect the MLA? The ‘Dalit MLA’ situation was known to them better than anybody else. They were the first people to know the inside thing. So, responsibility lies more on them. Their very claim of being the champion of Dalits has been found to be hollow now. They question us, but the maximum Dalits in the state and to Lok Sabha have been elected on the BJP ticket. People know well how they defeated Babasaheb Ambedkar. That's why they're trying to wriggle out from that.  Every time such incidents take place, the demand to ban organisations such as SDPI and PFI is renewed. What’s taking you so long to make a decision? It's not a question of taking time. PFI and other organisations are different from SDPI. The SDPI is a political front registered with the Election Commission. There are certain procedures and processes. Right from Mangaluru incident, the moment we came to power, we've taken it up seriously. We're collecting information. It's not only information of the institution, but also information of each member. That process is on. Once everything is collected and put in proper order, we will move for (ban). The CM and cabinet will have to take a call. I'm confident the day will come very soon.   Take us through the process of making rioters pay for the losses to public, private property.   We’ve started this process for the Mangaluru rioting. There has to be a claim commissioner and the losses have to be assessed. Culprits have to be identified for each individual loss. Then, the claim commissioner will start the recovery process, which includes attaching the properties of the culprits. There’s a Supreme Court order on this that’s very clear. It's a law by itself. The order has laid down the procedure to recover losses from people who've caused the damage and it’s an elaborate one. We already have different kinds of laws, but the SC order has come in handy. We're also studying the UP ordinance. Both put together, we will make it much stronger. We're very serious about making good the losses by rioters themselves so that a message is sent to those who vandalise public and private property. Following the incident, the government wants to hold a meeting with social media platforms. Yes. Most issues now are being triggered on social media. There are no checks and balances. Someone somewhere in the Middle East can post something that can trigger violence here. Lots of things are not within the reach of the Home department. Taking action after something happens is one thing, but I feel the need of the hour is prevention. Platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram have the technology. There has to be some filter on materials that are inflammatory and breach peace and tranquility. We want to discuss this and I’m sure they will cooperate with us. Police reforms have largely remained on paper across India. Is Karnataka any different?   Police reforms are at different stages at the Centre and in the states. I’ve started certain reforms without getting into the larger aspects. We've started administrative reforms. I've asked my senior officers to give me a comprehensive report on maintenance of law and order, crime detection, increasing prosecution success, the service condition of the police personnel and so on. They will probably come up with comprehensive solutions for all this. We want to have a roadmap for the next 10 years. We want the police to have a respectful, honourable position in society through their work. But can the police as an institution be insulated from political interference?  For decades, the administration and politics have been intertwined in India. Now, we have to unwind that. When the entire system is unwinded, police will be independent. We are insulating the police from political interference in cases and we are trying to insulate the police when it comes to postings, thanks to the police board that we have now. But comprehensive change will happen once the system changes. Police can't be treated away from the system.  You have announced a war on drugs. What’s the situation in Karnataka like? Drug menace goes beyond the state's borders. Drugs are being transported from outside the state and the country. We have controlled checks on borders. We have seized more drugs in the last six months than we have in a few years. We even broke into the ‘Dark Web’, and I think we’re the first state to do that. Earlier, only consumers and peddlers were nabbed. We’re going deeper to nab the kingpins as well. That’s why we were able to arrest some Canadians and Africans. We've also started using the anti-drug law effectively: A culprit booked will go to jail compulsorily for one year. Once schools and colleges start, a huge campaign will be taken up. I've already warned the managements of colleges and hostels that they will be held accountable if drugs are found on their campuses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-riots-prove-that-congress-s-dalit-champion-claim-is-hollow-basavaraj-bommai-874549.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi quashes rumours of lobbying for Deputy Chief Minister post||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Tuesday dismissed rumours of him lobbying for the Deputy Chief Minister post. Speaking to reporters, he said that he went to Delhi to meet Union Ministers on departmental works. During the visit, he also met the party as a courtesy.   Jarkiholi along with senior BJP leader C P Yogeshwar camping in the national capital for the past two days and meeting the party top brass. Both leaders met BJP national president J P Nadda and BJP General Secretary B L Santosh and some union ministers during their stay.  Earlier there was speculation that Jarkiholi was trying to become Deputy Chief Minister in the Yediyurappa headed government. He also was requesting the high command to make C P Yogeshwar as Minister.  " I am not lobbying for Deputy Chief Minister post. It is up to the party leaders whom to appoint as Deputy Chief Minister," Jarkiholi said.  "I met the party top brass on behalf of my friend Yogeshwar and thank the party leaders for making him as member of Karnataka Legislative Council," he said.  Speaking to media, Yogeshwar said he never asked for Ministership. He came here to thank the party leaders for nominating him as a member of the Karnataka Legislative Council. Talking on Water Resources Department issue, Jarkiholi said though several parts of the state witnessed flood this year, it was handled better due to early warning issued to people living near rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-quashes-rumours-of-lobbying-for-deputy-chief-minister-post-874834.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP targeting Congress leaders in KG Halli violence: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress President D K Shivakumar on Tuesday alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka was unnecessarily targeting Congress leaders on the K G Halli violence without any basis. Shivakumar, who was here to meet the party top brass, told reporters that "Congress leaders have no role in violence. However the BJP is trying to politicise the issue by linking Congress leaders names to the incident." Alleging that the BJP failed to provide security to MLAs, Shivakumar said the BJP leaders were harassing local Congress leaders. To a question on whether few more Congress MLAs were quitting the party and joining BJP under another Operation Kamala, Shivakumar said "let the BJP make an attempt to get more Congress MLAs to resign. We also know how to counter their attempt," he said. Separately, Tourism Minister C T Ravi questioned the fact-finding committee formed by Congress on violence. "What is the purpose of this committee? To justify the attack on Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy?" Ravi questioned. "To settle political score, some Congress leaders instigate public to attack Congress MLA's house. Truth will come out soon," he said. Ravi was in Delhi to meet the Union Ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-targeting-congress-leaders-in-kg-halli-violence-d-k-shivakumar-874846.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Some Congress leaders involved in Bengaluru riots: Roshan Baig||Disqualified legislator and former Congress leader R Roshan Baig on Tuesday asserted that Congress leaders were involved in the Pulakeshinagar riots. His statement has led to a political slugfest. Baig was speaking to reporters here after meeting Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “Some leaders in Congress are involved in the riots,” he said. This came two days after Baig alleged that the Congress was working hand-in-glove with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for the last decade in order to secure Muslim votes. KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre said there was no link between the Congress and the unrest in Pulakeshinagar. It was BJP that was playing mischief by adding fuel to the fire, he said. Baig’s allegations come even as the BJP is pointing fingers at Congress for fuelling the riots in cahoots with SDPI. Speaking to DH, Baig said he met the Home minister to brief him about the situation at the ground-level since he also had handled the Home ministry portfolio. “This was an organised riot. People from Gurappanapalya, BTM Layout, Tipu Nagar, Goripalya among other places had gathered at the spot. In the evening time, you need at least 45 minutes to one hour to come from these areas to the area where riots happened. This cannot be spontaneous,” he said. Baig also said that some innocent people arrested in connection with the riots should be released. On Monday, Congress’ Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan had accused Baig of seeking to prove his saffron credentials. Baig said Khan should work as the watchman at Yediyurappa’s house. This was in reference to Khan’s dare last year that he would take up that job for a day if Yediyurappa became the CM. Meanwhile, Baig’s meeting with Bommai also set off speculations about him trying to secure a place for himself within the BJP. Baig is the only one among the 17 rebel candidates who was unable to find a place within BJP, after he estranged himself from Congress. It is believed that BJP had reservations about accommodating him as he was facing an inquiry in the IMA ponzi scam. However, Baig told DH that his meeting was purely related to the recent riots. As for joining BJP, he said he would take a call when the time arrived for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/some-congress-leaders-involved-in-bengaluru-riots-roshan-baig-874899.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Pro-RSS BJP leaders using riots to topple BS Yediyurappa: Siddaramaiah||Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said one section of BJP leaders close to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was trying to “take advantage” of the Pulakeshingar riots to make life difficult for Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. Siddaramaiah, in a series of tweets, also accused the BJP of “misleading” the investigation into last week’s violence. “BJP is clearly divided into 2 factions. One that is closer to RSS is trying to take the advantage of Kaval Byrasandra incident to topple Yediyurappa’s position,” Siddaramaiah said.  The former chief minister, who is under home quarantine after being discharged from the hospital last week for Covid-19, said the BJP government was trying to mislead the investigation into the riots. “BJP ministers and MLAs are giving conflicting opinions. They initially blamed SDPI, then Congress & now claims it to be an act by terrorists. What are they trying to hide? Instead of identifying the actual culprits, BJP leaders are more interested in targetting Congress party. They see politics in all crises,” he tweeted. He further accused the BJP of “using SDPI as pawn for political reasons and to divide Muslim votes,” and added that the SDPI should punished if it was involved in the incident. According to Siddaramaiah, the investigation should begin with the “failure” of the intelligence department. “If this incident, according to BJP, is pre-planned then why did this not come to the notice of the intelligence department? What was the reason for the delay in filing a case against Naveen?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pro-rss-bjp-leaders-using-riots-to-topple-bs-yediyurappa-siddaramaiah-874905.html
18-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP’s BL Santhosh continues to fire at Congress over Bengaluru riots||BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh on Tuesday continued his attack on the Congress over the Bengaluru riots, even as the police are investigating last week’s violence.  Rioters belonged to a “minority community” and that three Congress and four SDPI leaders have been arrested, Santhosh said.  Santhosh has been leading the charge against the Congress ever since violence broke out last week at DJ Halli, KG Halli and Kaval Byrasandra in which three persons were killed in police firing and Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s house was gutted.  “Dalit MLA house from Cong ransacked. Rioters from minority community. 3 leaders from Congress arrested. 4 SDPI leaders arrested. But Congress doesn’t want to condemn rioters, wants no arrest, wants release of arrested. Secularism of Cong = appeasement,” Santhosh said in a Tuesday evening tweet.  “Their discomfiture is palpable. The number of tweets that are making, the threads, the fact finding teams shows the nervousness of Congress leaders (sic),” Santhosh said. “A party & leadership which thrives upon vote bank & appeasement politics has its hands tied to rioters.” According to pundits, the BJP is looking to make inroads into the Dalit vote base. Santhosh, who is seen as Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s bete noire, has been tweeting feverishly on the riots.  “It’s amusing to see the somersaults, twists & turns being executed by Congress leaders in attack on their own Dalit MLA by rioters. They just can’t condemn because rioters were their vote bank,” Santhosh charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-s-bl-santhosh-continues-to-fire-at-congress-over-bengaluru-riots-874925.html
18-08-2020||Main Article||Time to regulate Facebook now||In the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections in the United States, the Guardian newspaper published a story on how the Obama re-election campaign was building a huge database on voters using the power of Facebook. This was thus the first election in history in which Facebook became a dominant political force. Using data mining techniques, connecting user data with their friends’ and others’ profiles, experts could build an amazingly detailed, micro-focused central database which could then be used to customise electoral messages to individuals and communities.  This style of micro-targeting was borrowed from the methods of marketing and advertising campaigns of successful consumer goods companies. This strategy was a phenomenal success. As the Guardian article said, if the 2008 Obama campaign was about pioneering the use of social media, the 2012 campaign was all about data. The exponential rise of Facebook itself, which grew from 40 million to 160 million users in the US in those four years, was crucial to the success of the 2012 election. Of course, television was more important, but the use of Facebook data in electoral campaigns was fast catching up. That was eight years ago. Today, social media-based campaigns are on par, if not surging ahead, in terms of efficacy in comparison to television. Today, Facebook also owns WhatsApp and Instagram, making it the single largest repository of user data owned in the private sector. After the 2016 elections, the role of Facebook came under increasing scrutiny. Was it biasing electoral outcomes? President Trump has accused it of creating prejudice, which the company has denied. Its co-founder Mark Zuckerberg has said that his company offers a platform to all people to voice their ideas. It does not censor free speech. It is a platform for civic engagement between voters and candidates. It remains non-partisan. It claims to remain a politically agnostic tool. But Facebook faced severe criticism that it allowed Russian-funded advertisements, with fake information, to influence voters. In fact, increasingly, its role in catering to politically well-funded campaigns has been in the spotlight. Does this information get transparently disclosed? Does the company take care of removing fake information or misinformation? Actually, as per Bloomberg reports, since 2011 Facebook has been asking the US Federal Election Commission to exempt it from disclosing revenue from political ads. This would put it in a more exclusive situation as compared to television and broadcast media. In general, the company will push back any government request about user data, to maintain users’ privacy, unless it is legally warranted. But then, its close work with political party campaigns means its employees get close to what can be called electioneering. Facebook helps elected officials connect to citizens, through live streaming, participative interactions and, in that process, helps governance. But its proximity to governments, combined with its enormous reach, power and data make it a formidable force in electoral democracies. Added to all this, the phenomenon of hate speech, organised harassment and trolling. There are enough instances when bigotry and hate speech have been spread through social media. There have been cases of lynching and violence which arose out of messages circulating on social media. It is a company like Facebook (which also owns WhatsApp) which decides what is trolling or harassment and what is protected free speech. It has to draw the thin line between hate speech and free speech. But the company is not the judiciary, nor is it subject to broadcast licensing. So, what if it tilts, even unwittingly, to one side? After all, the incumbent candidates and governments can be lucrative ad buyers, and could potentially influence Facebook’s internal policing decisions. It does employ sophisticated Artificial Intelligence tools to detect fake news or hate speech, but that still may not be good enough. India has the world’s largest number of Facebook and WhatsApp, and possibly Instagram, users as well. In China, these are banned. The reach, influence and potential power of social media can only be imagined. Prime Minister Modi has the largest number of followers on a variety of social media platforms, including Facebook. He has leveraged the medium to a great extent, and established direct connections with citizens in a way which is a break from the olden days or radio or television. The implication for electoral politics is obvious. A few years ago, the Chief Election Commissioner of India said that in earlier days, the EC had to worry about the influence of two “M”s. These were money and muscle power. But increasingly there is a third “M” which is “media”. By which he meant the menace of paid news, fake news, misinformation and disinformation. He was mostly referring to print and electronic media, which are all licensed businesses. The EC’s job is to ensure free and fair election without the undue influence of money, muscle and media power. But to this third M, we have to include social media. The recent revelation in a Wall Street Journal article on the role of Facebook in India’s electoral politics, and in being uneven in its treatment of curbing hate speech or trolling, to help a particular political party, raises many questions. How should we regulate this immense power? Even in the domain outside electoral politics, the CEOs of the big four, i.e. Facebook, Google, Amazon and Apple were recently summoned to Washington to appear before a Congressional hearing. This was to grill them about their growing clout in stifling competition in the marketplace. There is a demand that some anti-trust, i.e. anti-monopoly, measures be introduced to curb their power.  Similarly, in the domain of elections, too, messaging, networking and microblogging social media platforms have to be regulated to curb misuse and also partisanship. This is a huge challenge for the Election Commission. Luckily, there is evidence that voters themselves, are becoming sceptical of fake news and paid news. Ultimately, an enlightened citizenry, or voters who invest time and effort in educating themselves, and don’t remain passive consumers of social media content, are the best protection and guarantee of a free and fair election. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/time-to-regulate-facebook-now-874930.html
18-08-2020||Mysuru||One arrested for poaching deer in Mysuru||A Forest Department personnel has arrested a person for poaching deer and seized deer meat weighing 14 kg from him at Metikuppe forest range, Nagarahole forest in Karnataka. The arrested man is identified as Mohan, a resident of Hirehalli 'A' colony. Mohan's accomplices Mahadev, Prakash and Shivalingegowda, residents of the same colony, however, escaped. The Forest Department personnel, who found the bloodstains on the route from Hirehalli to Paduvarahalli lake, traced it and nabbed the accused, along with the deer meat. The other three have fled the spot, according to Range Forest Officer Santosh M Hugar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/one-arrested-for-poaching-deer-in-mysuru-874681.html
18-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 18||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected nearly 27 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 27,60,354 as of August 18 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 52,931   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-18-874576.html
18-08-2020||National||The maestro who saw god in the audience||Kamani Auditorium, New Delhi. The spacious hall is filled with music lovers. Many are even seated on the floor. The stage is all set. All accompanists are in place. Except for the singer. In comes Pandit Jasraj, the doyen of Hindustani classical music. His entry to the stage—his  hands towards the sky folded in a Namaste—would be nothing short of a rock star’s. He’s attired in a flowing, starched dhoti, long silk kurta and angavasthram while several gold chains and rudraksha mala adorn his neck. That entry would electrify the audience. Everyone at Kamani would stand up and welcome the “Sangeet Martand”. No one would sit until he gives the signal. Apart from the accompanists, music students are allowed to sit on the stage. And they don’t want to miss the once-in-lifetime kind of opportunity to listen to the legend from such close quarters. “I see god in each one of you. You are my inspiration,” he would say to the audience as he takes his seat. “I am honoured.” The next three hours or more would be an evening of sheer joy, a feeling of being transported to a different planet. The magic of Panditji’s performance can never be described in words. No wonder former prime minister A B Vajpayee once described the musical virtuoso as “Rasraj”. Incidentally, Panditji is the only Indian musician after whom a minor planet is named. After rendering the first couple of bhajans, the maestro would invariably ask the audience if they want him to sing any particular bhajan. But by then, innumerable requests would have already made their way to the dais. He would oblige and sing a few favourites. As requests continue, he would remark: “Look at my age. You still want me to continue?” The audience would not take no for an answer. At the concert, he remarked: “You know, as you make the request, I am reminded of an Amul advertisement. The Pakistan cricket team was touring India. Their ace batsman Zaheer Abbas had scored a double century and remained not out when stumps were drawn. The Amul ad said: ‘Zaheer, ab bus karo’. It should apply to me now!” As Pandit Jasraj would sing bhajans of Lord Krishna, there would be hardly anyone whose eyes do not well up with tears. Such was the power of his voice. As he ends the concert, there would be a long line starting from the dais, to seek his blessings. Not one student would leave without touching his feet. Panditji would talk to as many of them as possible.  This concert was one of the many that this writer was fortunate to attend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-maestro-who-saw-god-in-the-audience-874582.html
18-08-2020||National||India records 55,079 Covid-19 cases in single day, total tally passes 27 lakh||A spike of 55,079 cases took India's Covid-19 tally past 27 lakh on Tuesday just a day after it crossed the 26-lakh mark, while 19.77 lakh people have so far recuperated from the disease pushing the recovery rate to 73.18 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The Covid-19 caseload stood at 27,02,742, while the death toll climbed to 51,797 with 876 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Case fatality rate stands at 1.92 per cent. There are 6,73,166 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.91 per cent of the total caseload, while the number of recoveries has risen to 19,77,779. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,09,41,264 samples have been tested till August 17 with 8,99,864 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-55079-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-total-tally-passes-27-lakh-874639.html
18-08-2020||National||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid-19 care||Sources said the 55-year-old top BJP leader was admitted to AIIMS here at around 2 am on Tuesday. AIIMS issued a statement saying he has been complaining of fatigue and body ache for the last three to four days and was admitted to the post-Covid-19 Care Centre. "He is comfortable and is continuing his work from the hospital," the statement said. Shah, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, had on August 14 announced on Twitter that he had recovered from the virus infection and the fresh tests had confirmed he was Covid-19 negative. He also had said that he would be staying in home isolation for "a few more days" on the advice of doctors. Shah had missed the Ram Temple 'bhumi pujan' function in Ayodhya on August 5 and the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort where Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag and addressed the nation. Soon after the news of Shah's hospitalisation on Tuesday, several leaders wished him a speedy recovery. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted, "I pray that you (Shah) soon be fully healthy and get ready to serve the country again with old energy. My best wishes to you and the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-post-covid-19-care-874640.html
18-08-2020||National||Incumbent Goa Guv Satya Pal Malik appointed as Governor of Meghalaya||Goa Governor Satyapal Malik, who was critical of the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the BJP-ruled state, on Monday was transferred to Meghalaya. The shifting of Malik to Meghalaya triggered criticism from Opposition leaders in Goa, who said he was transferred because he spoke "truth" on various issues mishandled by the Goa government like the pandemic and the Mahadayi river water dispute. Malik will be replacing Tathagata Roy, who has completed his term and speculated to be fielded as a BJP candidate in 2021 Assembly elections in West Bengal where the saffron party is hoping to dethrone Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will discharge the functions of the Governor of Goa in addition to his own duties. Roy, who had was in the centre of a controversy last year when he supported a tweet by a retired army official calling for banning of Kashmiri goods following a terrorist attack on the CRPF convoy that killed 40 personnel, tweeted, "upon receipt of news from Rashtrapati Bhavan, I spoke to Satyapal Malikji, the new Governor-designate and welcomed him to Shillong. It may take him a little time to come here. I was supposed to have been relieved on 20th May. Now the end of the road is in sight!" Malik was first appointed the Governor of Bihar in 2017 and shifted to Jammu and Kashmir and the next year. He was the first career politician to be appointed as Jammu and Kashmir in 51 years and had famously claimed that he did not receive the letter faxed by the PDP staking claim to form the government as there were no officials present to check Raj Bhavan's fax machine, which was not working. However last year, he was transferred to Goa last year after the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two union territories. The 74-year-old politician has grabbed headlines in recent times after he criticised the Pramod Sawant government for its handling of the Covid-19 situation in the coastal state. In what was seen as a direct confrontation with the BJP-led state government, Malik had last month said that complacency led to the Covid-19 spike in Goa. “As far as the tests are concerned, Goa is doing very well, management too is fine. But what happened here is that we became satisfied too early when we shouldn’t have. We relaxed the lockdown, and now when the cases are rising we are locking down again...It has grown a lot and now we are doing it. There was an error of judgment,” he was quoted as saying last month. He had also said that the “synergy” between ministers was lacking and that the response to the pandemic was being held back “due to political reasons”. Opposition parties in Goa did not take the transfer kindly, saying Malik was shifted for speaking the "truth" on issues like the Covid-19 pandemic, environment and the Mahadayi river water dispute. Goa Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said, "the governor stood by truth, emotions and sentiments of every Goan on the core issues like Mahadayi water diversion by Karnataka, economic revival and austerity measures, besides the government's handling and management of the COVID-19 pandemic." He said it was sad that an honest and upright person like Malik has been transferred at a time when Goa needed him the most. Goa Forward Party (GFP) chief Vijai Sardesai said Malik spoke truth about the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the coastal state. "He had taken a strong stand on the Mahadayi issue and other austerity measures including opposition for new Raj Bhavan. He had called out the Goa chief minister for being uncultured," Sardesai said. Sardesai also wondered how Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was given additional charge of Goa, saying how can anyone justify that governor of a state (Maharashtra) with maximum number of Covid-19 cases and deaths being given the additional responsibility of another state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/incumbent-goa-guv-satya-pal-malik-appointed-as-governor-of-meghalaya-874644.html
18-08-2020||National||Money from PM Cares Fund cannot be directed to NDRF: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the money collected for the PM Cares Fund, a registered public charitable trust, can't be ordered to be utilised or transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan rejected a plea by advocate Prashant Bhushan made on behalf of an NGO CPIL for the CAG audit of PM Cares Fund.  The guidelines issued in 2005 with regard to NDRF specifically provided for audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India whereas for public charitable trust there is no occasion for audit by the constitutional body.  "It is not open for anybody to question the wisdom of trustees to create PM Cares Fund, constituted with an objective to extend assistance in the wake of public health emergency that is Covid-19 pandemic," the court said. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, also pointed out the PM Cares Fund was set up as a charitable trust on March 27, 2020 with voluntary contributions by individuals and institutions and without any budgetary support and government money. The top court also refused a plea to direct for transfer of all the money collected in the PM Cares Fund till date to the NDRF, a statutory fund. It noted that after the March 14, 2020 notification, Covid-19 has been treated as a national disaster, enabling the Union government to provide financial assistance to fight the pandemic. As much as Rs 11,092 crores out of Rs 22,184 crores, the central share has already been released to the State Disaster Risk Management Fund.  Congress party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed the judgement as "body blow to transparency and accountability". The judgement came as much relief to the Union government and the ruling BJP, facing attack for not disclosing the thousands of crores of contributions received to the fund at the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The verdict...is a resounding blow to nefarious design of Rahul Gandhi and his band of 'rent a cause' activists. It shows the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates," BJP President J P Nadda tweeted. "The Gandhi family treated PMNRF as it’s personal fiefdom for decades & brazenly transferred citizens’ hard-earned money to its family trusts.The country very well knows that the orchestrated smear campaign against PM Cares is an attempt by the Congress to wash its sins," he added. Advocate Bhushan, for his part, said it is "unfortunate that the SC allows the non-transparent & unaccountable PM Cares fund set up as a secret trust to garner money in the name of Covid relief, rather than transferring such funds to the Statutory NDRF which is accessible under RTI & audited by CAG."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/money-from-pm-cares-fund-cannot-be-directed-to-ndrf-sc-874646.html
18-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee remains critical||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be critical and he is on ventilator support, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Tuesday "There is no change in the medical condition of  Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He continues to be on ventilator support and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital statement said. Mukherjee underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 and has been on ventilator support since. He also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-remains-critical-874662.html
18-08-2020||National||India was known as 'vishwa guru', must regain its intellectual leadership, says VP Venkaiah Naidu||India must regain its intellectual leadership and once again emerge as a global hub of learning and innovation, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday. "Innovation has always been key defining feature of human progress. India has its own illustrious history of innovations spanning at least 20 centuries right from the invention of 'zero' and the decimal system. India was known as the 'vishwa guru'. We must regain that intellectual leadership, we must again emerge as a global hub of learning and innovation," he said. "We have highly talented youths brimming with new ideas, with a passion for implementation and willingness to forge a new path. The youth will define our country's future. They need encouragement, facilitation and recognition, they must be given needed guidance and freedom to explore new frontiers," Naidu said while releasing the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA). Noting that innovation should become a people's movement, the vice president said that concerted efforts are needed to make students out-of-the-box thinkers. "There should be concerted efforts to inculcate the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship among our students to make them out-of-the-box thinkers, creative problem solvers, entrepreneurs and job creators than job seekers," he added. IIT Madras retained the top rank in the Institute of National Importance index under the ARIIA ranking 2020. IIT-Madras is followed by IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi. At ranks 4 and 5 are IISc and IIT-Kharagpur, respectively. ARIIA is an initiative of the Ministry of Education to systematically rank higher education institutions and universities in India on indicators related to innovation. This year, the ranking had a special category for women only higher educational institutions. The other five categories are — centrally funded institutions, state-funded universities, state-funded autonomous institutions, deemed universities and private institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-was-known-as-vishwa-guru-must-regain-its-intellectual-leadership-says-vp-venkaiah-naidu-874708.html
18-08-2020||National||Act against those spreading hatred on Facebook: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday sought action "irrespective of party affiliations" against those who spread hatred and talk of disintegrating the country on social media platforms like Facebook. Companies like Facebook can't ignore someone spreading hatred because the persons belong to the ruling party, the Sena said and asked the social media platform to observe rules and ethics of business. The party's comments come a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP and RSS of spreading fake news using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate. Gandhi's claim followed a Wall Street Journal report that said Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to politicians of the ruling party in India. "There is no objection to debates on a medium like Facebook. But action should be taken irrespective of party affiliation if hatred is spread and language of disintegrating the country and communities is used," the Sena said in an editorial of its mouthpiece Saamana. "Companies like Facebook cannot ignore the person spreading hatred just because he/she belongs to the ruling party, it said. The Sena said India's population forms a big market for Facebook. Politics is being played the most on social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp, it said. The world has come closer, but these platforms have also caused a divide between communities, the party said. The Sena said it has now become a "paid profession" to defame others on social media and nobody has been spared. "You (Facebook) have come to our country to do business and will have to observe minimum ethics-rules of business," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/act-against-those-spreading-hatred-on-facebook-shiv-sena-874711.html
18-08-2020||National||SC to decide if state can override UGC's power to hold final exams||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would decide if the state and its Disaster Management Authority can override the UGC's power and cancel the final examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court reserved its judgment on a batch of petitions, including by Praneeth K, a Bengaluru resident, challenging the validity of UGC's July 6 notification to varsities and Institutions to hold final exams by September 30. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, "One of the points we need to keep in mind is that welfare of the students is not for the students to decide. It's for the statutory body. Students are not qualified to decide it." The notification has been vehemently by the states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Odisha and others, and students as well, due to Covid-19 situation. During the hearing, the bench said, there are two parts, one is that the State says it cannot hold exams, and second it seeks to declare results based on earlier marks. The court said the question also arises if the State is right in saying it will pass every student without holding exams and whether it would violate rules. Moreover, if we allow the State to pass students without any exams, won't it lead to problems, the bench said. "Can the Disaster management act be interpreted in this manner to allow the State to take such a decision? Suppose the UPSC says we will hold competitive exams, can the State say that don't hold the exams and pass all students," the bench asked. The court said the issue was if the situation is such the state says it cannot hold exams, can it give degrees? "The issue is if the State Disaster Management Authority has decided the situation is not conducive to hold exams, can they overrule the UGC," the bench said. During the hearing, the Centre maintained that it is a national disaster. The state authorities cannot override the UGC authority. It had earlier maintained the guidelines issued on July 6 were based on the recommendations of experts, after due deliberations, and taking into account Covid-19 situation and balancing of all relevant factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-if-state-can-override-ugcs-power-to-hold-final-exams-874719.html
18-08-2020||National||IIT Madras best centrally funded institute, IISc fourth: Atal rankings||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras on Tuesday was adjudged as the best centrally funded technical institute in the Education Ministry’s Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu released the ARIIA rankings here in which IIT Mumbai and IIT Delhi bagged the second and third place respectively, while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru stood fourth. Pune’s College of Engineering was adjudged the best in the government or government-aided colleges category followed by PES college of engineering in Karnataka. Coimbatore Institute of Technology was placed third. In the private or self-financed colleges category, the top position went to S R Engineering College in Warangal, Telangana while G H Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur ranked second. Among private or self-financed universities, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Odisha bagged the top position while S R M Institute of Science and Technology in Tamil Nadu and the Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore ranked second and third respectively. Mumbai’s Institute of Chemical and Technology and Chandigarh’s Punjab University took the top two positions respectively in the government and government-aided universities category. Among women-only higher educational institutions, Avinashlingam Institute for Home Sciences and Higher Education in Coimbatore bagged the top honour while Delhi-based Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women came second. The ranking aims to promote innovation among Indian educational institutions, assess colleges, and varsities on criteria that include intellectual property generation, support for entrepreneurship, innovative learning method, technology transfer, and commercialisation among other aspects. A total of 674 educational institutions participated in the rankings that were launched last year by the Innovation Cell of the Ministry of Education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-best-centrally-funded-institute-iisc-fourth-atal-rankings-874733.html
18-08-2020||National||Supreme Court judgement on PM CARES Fund a 'body blow to transparency': Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said the Supreme Court's judgement on the PM CARES Fund is a "body blow to transparency and accountability" of the government to the people. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Apex Court let go an opportunity to bring in transparency in the fund which has "its own opaque and murky rules" and, thereby, deviated from the belief that "sunlight is the best disinfectant". The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM CARES Fund for battling the Covid-19 pandemic to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that voluntary contribution can always be made to the NDRF as there is no statutory bar under the Disaster Management Act. Reacting to the verdict, Surjewala said, "The SC judgment is a body blow to transparency & accountability of Govt to people. It marks a sad letter day for responsibility & answerability of rulers to the electorate and remind them that they are not 'Monarchs' but 'servants of the people'." "SC scrupulously believed that 'sunlight is the best disinfectant'. Today, the Court, in a departure from that tradition, passed up an opportunity to demand answers on the #PMCaresFund that seeks public money but plays by its own opaque & murky rules," he said in another tweet. NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation, in its plea before the Supreme Court, had sought a direction that all the money collected under the PM CARES Fund for the Covid-19 pandemic should be transferred to the NDRF. In March, the Centre set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-judgement-on-pm-cares-fund-a-body-blow-to-transparency-congress-874739.html
18-08-2020||National||3.65 crore jobs to be created under PMAY(U): Hardeep Singh Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said around 3.65 crore jobs would be generated in the construction of houses sanctioned under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) in the country. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Puri said that so far, 1.65 crore jobs have already been generated under the PMAY(U). The Union housing and urban affairs minister said that the ministry has sanctioned 1.07 crore houses against the demand of 1.12 crore and of these, 67 lakh houses have been grounded for construction and 35 lakh delivered so far. During the webinar on 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Fostering Steel Usage in Housing & Construction and Aviation Sector', Puri said that it is estimated that 158 lakh metric tonnes of steel and 692 lakh metric tonnes of cement would be consumed in the construction of the houses sanctioned under the scheme. "An estimated 3.65 crore jobs would be generated in the construction of all sanctioned houses, of which about 1.65 crore jobs would have already been generated in the construction of houses grounded under PMAY(U) so far," he said. He also said that presently, about 700 kilometres Metro network length is operational in 18 cities and about 900 km network is under construction in 27 cities. "In Delhi-NCR alone, Metro network of 378 km is operational, which is likely to be extended by another 146 km (including 82 km Delhi-Meerut RRTS network)," the minister said. He said that 40 per cent of the country's population or 600 million Indians are expected to live in urban centres by 2030, adding that to cater to this growing urban population, India has to build 600 to 800 million square metres of urban space every year till 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/365-crore-jobs-to-be-created-under-pmayu-hardeep-singh-puri-874746.html
18-08-2020||National||SC's reputation can't be dislodged by tweets: BAI||The Bar Association of India on Tuesday expressed dismay with the Supreme Court's judgment on August 14 holding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt, saying the top Court's reputation can't be dislodged by two tweets. A statement issued by BAI's president Lalit Bhasin on behalf of its executive committee stated that trenchant criticism, commentary, satire and humour helped build institutions in a free society. "At a time that the citizenry is facing huge challenges, the stature of the Supreme Court would stand enhanced by allowing criticism rather than taking umbrage at such remarks," it said. It further pointed out freedom of speech and the freedom to criticise the working of institutions are imperative for bringing about improvements through democratic means. The BAI also said it sought to intervene in the Suo Motu criminal contempt against Bhushan arising out of his tweets made in June, but the top court's registry declined to list its application. The court had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt and fixed August 20 as the date for hearing arguments on quantum of sentence, which may extend up to a maximum six months jail term under the Contempt of Courts Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scs-reputation-cant-be-dislodged-by-tweets-bai-874750.html
18-08-2020||National||Covid-19: EC to frame guidelines for polls within three days||The Election Commission will set the broad guidelines for holding polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic within the next three days. The commission will leave it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans, based on the broad guidelines to be framed by itself, for putting in place specific measures required for holding elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC on Tuesday had a meeting and studied the responses it received from the political parties in response to its letter seeking suggestions on holding polls during the Covid-19 pandemic. The commission also studied the measures suggested by the Chief Electoral Officers of the States and the Union Territories. "After considering all these, the Commission directed to frame broad guidelines within three days,” the poll panel said in a press release issued after the meeting, which was chaired by the Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora. The commission directed the Chief Electoral Officers to chalk out comprehensive plans based on the broad guidelines to be issued by it, for the districts and the states or the Union Territories concerned, “taking into account the local conditions”. The EC embarked upon framing the guidelines ahead of the forthcoming state assembly polls in Bihar. Though the state is likely to go to polls in October, the Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal and other opposition parties in Bihar demanded postponement of the election, in view of the raging pandemic. The Lok Janashakti Party (LJP) – a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) – too asked for postponement of the polls in Bihar. The Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rule the state, however, stated that they were ready if the EC decided to hold the polls in October. The poll panel had last month asked the political parties to submit suggestions on holding elections – both on campaigning by the political parties and on conducting the polls and counting process – in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC already postponed several by-elections across the country over the past few months since the pandemic reached India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ec-to-frame-guidelines-for-polls-within-three-days-874751.html
18-08-2020||National||S Jaishankar wishes Sri Lankan counterpart on reappointment||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday called his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena to congratulate him on his reappointment. Jaishankar said he looked forward to working closely with Gunawardena to take their partnership to greater heights.  "Called up to congratulate Sri Lankan FM @DCRGunawardena on his reappointment. Look forward to working closely with him to take our partnership to greater heights. #NeighbourhoodFirst," Jaishankar said in a tweet. Gunawardena was reappointed the foreign minister in Sri Lanka's new Cabinet that was sworn in last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-wishes-sri-lankan-counterpart-on-reappointment-874754.html
18-08-2020||National||One-fourth migrant workers got food grains from govt during Covid-19 lockdown: Report||Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharath, the programme aimed to distribute 8 lakh tonne of emergency ration to the migrants who usually don’t opt for rations as they are scattered all over the country. However, states have been unable to make sure that migrant workers get their share of 5 kg of food grains for a month.  "The issue really is reaching any benefit to an undocumented beneficiary will be a challenge in itself. States should not rely on just the public distribution route, which would have been overwhelmed, nor should federal authorities insist on it," Economist Abhijit Sen told the publication. The former Planning Commission member added that authorities should distribute food for migrants at convenient points such as a bus-stop or quarantine centre. Just over 6 lakh tonne food grains had been withdrawn by the states and 2 lakh tonne distributed to 2.03 crore migrant workers, the panel led by Bahtruhari Mahtab was told by the food secretary. According to data accessed by the publication, the states were able to distribute only 10.9% of cereals they had withdrawn due to an overwhelming number of migrant workers who moved from cities to rural areas in May. The following month, the number dipped to 7.5% of the total stocks.  The time-consuming process of availing food assistance was abandoned by the states and the Centre for easier access.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-fourth-migrant-workers-got-food-grains-from-govt-during-covid-19-lockdown-report-874756.html
18-08-2020||National||India negotiating with 13 countries to establish bilateral air bubble arrangements: Puri||India is negotiating with 13 countries, including Australia, Japan and Singapore, to establish separate bilateral air bubble arrangements for international flight operations, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, airlines of both countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. Since July, India has established such bubbles with the following countries - the US, the UK, France, Germany, the UAE, Qatar and the Maldives. Puri said on Twitter, "We are now taking these efforts forward & are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements." We continue to further strengthen the reach & scope of VBM. Air Travel arrangements are already in place with USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar & Maldives. We are now taking these efforts forward & are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements. "These countries include Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea & Thailand," he added. Puri said air bubbles have also been proposed with our neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-negotiating-with-13-countries-to-establish-bilateral-air-bubble-arrangements-puri-874757.html
18-08-2020||National||PM Modi to announce results of cleanliness survey 'Swachh Survekshan 2020' on August 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce the results of the fifth edition of the nationwide annual cleanliness survey, 'Swachh Survekshan 2020', on Thursday, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry has said. Ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said on Tuesday that 1.87 crore citizens participated in the survey of 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 towns along the Ganga river. Jain said that a total of 129 awards will be handed over to the top performing cities and states at the "Swachh Mahotsav" event. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, which is organising the event, said that the prime minister will also interact with select beneficiaries of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) -- 'swachhagrahis' (people adopting cleanliness by building toilet at their homes) and 'safaikarmis' (sanitation workers) -- from different parts of the country through video conference. The prime minister will launch the 'Swachh Survekshan 2020' results dashboard on the occasion, the ministry said. It stated that 'Swachh Survekshan 2020', which was completed in 28 days, saw registration of 1.7 crore citizens on Swachhata App, over 11 crore impressions on social media, more than 5.5 lakh sanitary workers linked to social welfare schemes and over 84,000 informal waste-pickers integrated into the mainstream. Swachh Survekshan was introduced by the government with the objective of generating large-scale citizen participation in the Mission, along with inculcating a spirit of healthy competition among cities towards becoming India's cleanest cities. Another feature of the event will be the bringing together and felicitation of MoHUA's partner organisations in the SBM-U journey, including United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) and Google, the ministry said. The cleanliness survey report, along with reports on Swachh Survekshan Innovations and best practices, Swachh Survekshan Social Media Report and Report on Assessment of Ganga Towns, will also be released at the 'Swachh Mahotsav' event, it also said. While Mysuru had won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years (2017,2018, 2019). The results to be announced on August 20 will bring the curtains down on the much-anticipated results for the 2020 edition which were delayed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, it added. MoHUA had conducted Swachh Survekshan 2016 survey for rating 73 major cities in January 2016, followed by Swachh Survekshan 2017 conducted in January-February 2017 for ranking 434 cities. Swachh Survekshan 2018 ranked 4,203 cities. The 2019 edition not only covered 4,237 cities, but was also the first-of-its-kind completely digital survey completed in a record time of 28 days, it stated. According to the ministry, in 'Swachh Survekshan 2020', in order to ensure continuous assessment and sustainability of on-ground performance of cities, the government had also introduced Swachh Survekshan League, a quarterly cleanliness assessment of cities and towns conducted across three quarters, with 25 percentage weightage integrated into the final Swachh Survekshan results for this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-announce-results-of-cleanliness-survey-swachh-survekshan-2020-on-august-20-874758.html
18-08-2020||National||Condition of law and order in UP is very poor: Mayawati attacks state govt||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Tuesday slammed the state government over the law and order situation, saying the public does not see any difference in the style of working of the BJP government and the SP government in the past. She also termed the crime committed on different sections of the society especially the Dalits as "shameful". In a series of tweets in Hindi, Mayawati said, "Murders, rapes and harassment of different sections of the society especially Dalits have proved to be shameful for humanity. The condition of law and order in the state is very poor. The government must pay attention." "It is clear from these heinous incidents that the public does not see any difference in the style of working of the BJP government and the SP government. During the reign of Congress government, FIR of aggrieved persons were not even registered. The media was not very active then as it is now," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condition-of-law-and-order-in-up-is-very-poor-mayawati-attacks-state-govt-874762.html
18-08-2020||National||India records highest single-day recoveries of 57,937; positivity rate remains low at 8.81%||A total of 3,09,41,264 tests for detection of Covid-19 have so far been conducted in India with record 8,99,864 tests done in a single day, even though the positivity rate remained low at 8.81 per cent compared to the weekly national average of 8.84 per cent, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The total number of recoveries crossed the 19 lakh-mark with 57,937 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours, the highest recorded in a day so far, it said. "A total of 8,99,864 samples have been tested on Monday, the highest in a day, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far to 3,09,41,264," the ministry said. "Even with such high level of testing, the positivity has remained low i.e. 8.81 per cent compared to the weekly national average of 8.84 per cent," it said. India also recorded the highest single-day recoveries of 57,937 in a span of 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data updated at 8 am on Tuesday. It is higher than the 55,079 confirmed cases of coronavirus added during the same period, the ministry highlighted. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have surged to 19,77,779.  "With this the gap between recovered patients and active cases has crossed 13 lakh as on date (13,04,613)," the ministry said. Continuous increase in average daily recoveries has led to India's Covid-19 recovery rate rising to 73.18 per cent and a low case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.92 per cent, it said. As a result of collaborative and focussed efforts by the Centre, state and UT governments built on effective implementation of the 'test, track and treat' strategy of the Union government, 30 states and UTs, including Chhattisgarh, Assam, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, are reporting lower CFR than the national average. it stated. "Aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of positive cases. This coupled with efficient clinical treatment has ensured low Fatality Rate," the ministry underlined. The actual case load of the country --- 6,73,166 active cases of coronavirus infection-- is only 24.91 per cent of the total cases, it said. An ever-expanding national network of diagnostic labs has ensured the exponentially growing number of tests being conducted across the country. As on date, 1,476 labs are operational, with 971 labs in the government sector and 505 private labs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-recoveries-of-57937-positivity-rate-remains-low-at-881-874775.html
18-08-2020||National||India rushes top diplomat to Bangladesh to stop it from moving closer to China||Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla flew to Dhaka on Tuesday amid growing concerns in New Delhi over China’s bid to spread its tentacles over Bangladesh – one of the friendliest neighbours of India. Shringla called on Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina during his visit to Dhaka. He handed over to her a special communique from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also called on Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen, apart from holding a meeting with his counterpart Masud Bin Momen. The two sides discussed “security related issues of mutual interests”, a source said after Shringla called on Hasina. The issues discussed during Foreign Secretary’s meeting with Bangladesh Prime Minister included New Delhi’s support to the development projects in the neighbouring country, enhancing connectivity, revival of the economy after the Covid-19 crisis, cooperation on dealing with the pandemic, including on therapeutics and vaccine, sources said. It was the Foreign Secretary’s first visit to a foreign capital after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic prompted the governments around the world to impose restrictions on international travels almost five months back. He flew from New Delhi to Dhaka onboard an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi officially announced the visit only after the Foreign Secretary landed in Dhaka. It said that he was on a two-day visit to Dhaka “to discuss and take forward cooperation on matters of mutual interest”. Shringla was also the first foreign visitor whom Bangladesh Prime Minister met after the outbreak of the pandemic. Hasina, according to the sources, appreciated Modi’s gesture of sending the top diplomat of the Government of India to Dhaka to touch base, convey the message and to see how the two sides could take relationship forward. India’s top diplomat rushed to Bangladesh soon after reports from the neighbouring country indicated that Sheikh Hasina’s government asked for a $ 983.27 million soft loan from China to implement the Teesta River Comprehensive Management and Restoration project. Teesta is a river which originates in Sikkim and flows through West Bengal in India before entering Bangladesh. A move by New Delhi and Dhaka to clinch a water sharing deal remained stalled for the past several years as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee refrained from giving her consent, stating that such a pact would result water scarcity in the northern region of the state and hit hard the farmers. Hasina Government recently also moved to award an airport expansion project in eastern Bangladesh to a state-owned company of China. Bangladesh is the fourth South Asian country after Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives, which China is trying to win over – ostensibly to spread its geopolitical influence in the neighbourhood of India. Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was engaged in a stand-off with the Indian Army along the disputed boundary between the two nations, China recently brought into effect a zero-tariff policy for 97% of its imports from Bangladesh, allowing the South Asian nation to export to the communist country an additional 5161 items without paying any customs duty. Beijing is also understood to be in discussion with Dhaka for granting loans to the tune of $ 6.4 billion for several infrastructure projects across Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rushes-top-diplomat-to-bangladesh-to-stop-it-from-moving-closer-to-china-874783.html
18-08-2020||National||41 lakh youth lose jobs in India due to Covid-19 impact: ILO-ADB Report||As many as 41 lakh youths in the country lost jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic while construction and farm sector workers account for the majority of job losses, according to a joints report by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). "For India, the report estimates job loss for 4.1 million youth. Construction and agriculture have witnessed the major job losses among seven key sectors," said the ILO-ADB report, titled 'Tackling the Covid-19 youth employment crisis in Asia and the Pacific', released on Tuesday. The young people's employment prospects in Asia and the Pacific are severely challenged due to the pandemic, it added. Youth (15–24 years) will be hit harder than adults (25 and older) in the immediate crisis and risk-bearing higher longer-term economic and social costs, said the report. The report is based on a regional assessment of the 'Global Survey on Youth and Covid-19' and arrived at estimates based on available unemployment data in different countries. It said that in India, two-thirds of firm-level apprenticeships and three-quarters of internships were completely interrupted during the pandemic. The report calls on governments in the region to adopt urgent, large-scale and targeted measures to generate jobs for the youth, keep education and training on track, and to minimise future scarring of more than 660 million young people in the region. Even before the Covid-19 crisis, youth in Asia and the Pacific faced challenges in the labour market, resulting in high unemployment rates and large shares of youth excluded from both school and work. In 2019, the regional youth unemployment rate was 13.8 per cent, compared to 3 per cent for adults; and more than 160 million youth (24 per cent of the population) were not in employment, education or training. Four in five young workers in the region were engaged in informal employment — a higher share than among adults — and one in four young workers was living in conditions of extreme or moderate poverty. "The pre-crisis challenges for youth are now amplified since Covid-19 hit. Without sufficient attention, our fear is that this risks creating a 'lockdown generation' that could feel the weight of this crisis for many years to come," said Sara Elder, lead author of the report and head of the ILO Regional Economic and Social Analysis unit. The report cites three ways in which young people are affected in the current crisis. These are job disruptions in the form of reduced working hours and earnings, and job losses for both paid workers and the self-employed; disruptions in their education and training; and difficulties in transitioning from school to work, and moving between jobs in a recession. Youth unemployment rates in the region increased sharply in the first quarter of 2020 from the last quarter of 2019, it said. Compared to the first quarter of 2019, the youth unemployment rate increased in six of the nine economies with available data — Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, and Vietnam, as well as in Hong Kong, China, which showed the largest increase of 3 percentage points. In all these economies, youth rates increased more than adult rates, the report showed. Between 1 crore and 1.5 crore youth jobs (full-time equivalent) may be lost across 13 countries in Asia and the Pacific in 2020, according to the report's projections. According to the report, a reasons young people in the region face greater labour market disruption and job losses than adults is that nearly half of them (more than 10 crore ) were employed in the four sectors hardest hit by the crisis. The sectors are wholesale and retail trade and repair; manufacturing; rental and business services; and accommodation and food services. Young women are over-represented in three of the four most-affected sectors, particularly in accommodation and food services, it said. Compounded by the forced suspension of education and training, the Covid-19 crisis will affect young people's transitions to and within labour markets, and could result in scarring effects, as seen in previous crises, according to the report. It recommends urgent, large-scale and targeted responses, including youth-targeted wage subsidies and public employment programmes, and measures to mitigate the impact on students of the disruption to their education and training. Governments should consider balancing the inclusion of the youth in the wider labour market and economic recovery measures, with youth-targeted interventions to maximise effective allocation of resources. "Prioritizing youth employment in the Covid-19 recovery process will improve Asia and the Pacific’s future prospects for inclusive and sustainable growth, demographic transition and social stability," said Chris Morris, head of the ADB NGO and civil society centre and leading ADB's Youth for Asia initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41-lakh-youth-lose-jobs-in-india-due-to-covid-19-impact-ilo-adb-report-874789.html
18-08-2020||National||Ashok Lavasa resigns as Election Commissioner; to join ADB as vice president||Ashok Lavasa on Tuesday resigned as Election Commissioner and would soon be joining the Asian Development Bank as vice president, sources in the poll panel said. Lavasa was next in line to head the EC. Lavasa, the sources said, has sent his resignation to Rashtrapati Bhavan and has requested to be relieved on August 31. He would be joining the Philippines-based ADB sometime in September, they added. He was named the bank's vice president last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-lavasa-resigns-as-election-commissioner-to-join-adb-as-vice-president-874810.html
18-08-2020||National||Millions in India face eviction amid coronavirus recovery push||Thousands of people were evicted across India during lockdowns to contain the coronavirus pandemic, with millions more at risk of being uprooted as authorities push infrastructure projects to spur economic growth, housing rights campaigners said. At least 20,000 people were evicted from their homes between March 16 and July 31, despite court orders that banned such actions during lockdowns, according to a report published by the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) in Delhi on Tuesday. In the last three years for which HLRN has records, at least 568,000 were forcibly removed from their homes across India, or 22 people every hour. Last year alone, more than 107,600 people were evicted. "India's grave housing crisis has been exacerbated by the forced eviction and home demolition of marginalised, low-income communities - even during the Covid-19 pandemic," said Shivani Chaudhry, HLRN's executive director. "Many of these evictions were likely carried out during the lockdown to take advantage of the curfew-like conditions, when movement of affected persons was restricted and they did not have access to legal remedies. This is indefensible," she said. Nearly half of all evictions were for so-called city beautification drives, with infrastructure projects, conservation schemes and disaster management also being reasons for displacement, according to HLRN. In nearly all cases, authorities did not follow due process including giving sufficient notice, and only about a quarter of those removed were resettled, it said. There is no official data on evictions in India. Officials in Delhi and Mumbai, which had evictions during the lockdown, did not respond to requests for comment, while an official in Gurugram near Delhi, which also had an eviction, said none took place then, and that notice is generally given. "These are illegal structures on public land. By removing these structures and people who reside there, we are able to use the land in a manner that benefits more people," said Hariom Attri, a joint commissioner. Worldwide, eviction bans are ending as lockdowns lift, putting millions at risk of losing their homes. The Indian government's Housing for All plan aims to create 20 million urban homes and 30 million rural homes by 2022. But implementation has been slow, and campaigners say it does not address the issue of homelessness. Last month, federal authorities approved a plan to develop affordable urban rental housing for migrant workers after millions of labourers fled lockdowns that left many without jobs and homes. The government is also mapping rural residential areas and legalising nearly 2,000 informal settlements in Delhi, enabling millions of residents to get property rights. Yet nearly 15 million people live under the threat of displacement from infrastructure and development projects, including about 2 million people whose rights to forest land have been rejected, according to HLRN. With the government keen to boost economic growth in the wake of the pandemic, people living at sites earmarked for mines, ports, dams and highways are likely to be removed, Chaudhry said. "With every house demolished, the state backtracks on its commitment of housing for all," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "It is important for the government to recognise forced evictions as gross violation of human rights. Even one person rendered homeless by the state is too many."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/millions-in-india-face-eviction-amid-coronavirus-recovery-push-874812.html
18-08-2020||National||Number of Information Commissions hearing cases drops in July compared to June: Survey||The number of Information Commissions hearing RTI appeals has dropped in July considerably compared to June though the more and more facilities have been opened up under Unlock 2.0 guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic. The analysis by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), a private rights watchdog, showed that only 13 State Information Commissions out of 29 were holding hearings in July as against 23 in June when Unlock 1.0 was on. The CHRI had conducted three rapid surveys on the functioning of Information Commissions and its latest study showed that 80% Information Commissions were open in June during Unlock 1.0 but it dropped to 44% during Unlock 2.0.  "This shows that most of the Information Commissions across the states could not put sustainable efforts to perform their role as champions of transparency during lockdowns in their states," the CHRI analysis said. In its second survey during Lockdown 3.0 that ended on May 17, only 12 SICs were open out of which only eight were holding hearings. Last month, 16 Information Commissions were not holding hearings and it included Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. Among the 16, only seven, including Karnataka, have put up notice on their website regarding adjournment of all hearings. The survey said during Unlock 1.0 in June, the CHRI reached out to the office of 11 SICs because information about their working was not available on their websites. Out of these, phone calls made to the office of SIC of Assam, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura remained unanswered. During Unlock 2.0, phone calls made to the office of SIC of Assam, Manipur and Tamil Nadu remained unanswered. It also said six SICs -- Bihar, Goa, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh -- are headless for several months. In Jharkhand, there is no Information Commissioner for conducting hearings. The SICs of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh do not have functional websites. In its findings on the SIC of Karnataka, it said no update was available on its website about the status of hearings during Unlock 1.0. It said the SIC was uploading cause lists and decisions on its website since June, which showed it was working during this phase. Quoting an RTI activist in Bengaluru, the CHRI report said all the Information Commissioners had started holding hearings in person but parties were not appearing due to restrictions imposed by the government. During Unlock 2.0 in July, the report said the SIC website said that due to unavoidable reasons the 2nd appeal cases listed for hearing from July 27 to 31 have been postponed and the next date of hearings will be advertised later. However older Cause Lists continue to be displayed on the SIC website. "The challenges posed by the spread of Covid-19 have acted as brakes on the regime of transparency established by the RTI Act...The State Information Commissions need to address the dilemma between staying open and risking the spread of Covid-19 infection; and remaining closed and not promoting RTI. As the role of Information Commissions during public emergencies is crucial, hearings shall be conducted virtually using smart phone apps or using ordinary phones until in-person hearings are not suitable," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-information-commissions-hearing-cases-drops-in-july-compared-to-june-survey-874813.html
18-08-2020||National||Hike in platform ticket price to prevent crowding at station premises, says railways||After a row over collection of hefty charges for platform tickets, Indian Railways on Tuesday said to stop crowding at railway stations during Covid-19 pandemic, it has asked local officials to take a decision to increase platform ticket fare. "Instructions have been issued to divisional railway managers to take local decision to increase platform ticket fare to control the crowd at the stations during Covid-19 pandemic. This decision will be reviewed post the pandemic," said Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav. The railways issued clarification after Rs 50 printed on a platform ticket issued at Pune Junction Railway Station went viral on social media. The railways said the increase the platform ticket at Pune Junction was done mainly to prevent people from coming unnecessarily onto the platforms, and to maintain social distance norms only during Covid-19 period. However, the railways also said that during post-Covid period platform tickets with normal fare will be issued. Earlier, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tweeted that during BJP regime platform ticket shot up to Rs 50 from Rs 3 in Congress regime. "Rs 3 railway platform ticket in Congress raj has become Rs 50 under BJP raj," Singh had tweeted, along with photos of two platform tickets. While the first ticket, dated December 14, 2011, showed a value of Rs 3, the second one issued at Pune junction, Maharashtra in August 2020 had a price of Rs 50. Reacting to the issue, the railways said there is nothing new in this as the national transporter taking number of steps to prevent unwanted crowd at station premises since the beginning of the pandemic. "The objective of Pune junction pricing the platform ticket at Rs 50 is to stop those who unnecessarily come to the station so that social distancing can be followed. Railways have been controlling the platform ticket rates in this way through the start of the corona pandemic," the Railway Ministry tweeted. While regular train operation were suspended till further notice, at present the railways operating 15 pair special Rajdhani trains and 200 special time tabled, trains connecting different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hike-in-platform-ticket-price-to-prevent-crowding-at-station-premises-says-railways-874814.html
18-08-2020||National||India allows entry of foreign journalists and dependents with valid visa||India on Tuesday allowed re-entry of foreign journalists, who had left the country and could not return due to restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, if they have a valid visa. The orders were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday allowing journalists with J-1 visa and their dependents with J1-X visas to fly into India. The decision came after the government considered the need for relaxation of visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals who want to travel to India, which had earlier lifted restrictions on certain categories of people on June 30 and August 7. According to the new order, journalists and their dependents, whose visas had expired will have to obtain fresh visas from Indian missions abroad. "It has been decided to permit foreign journalists holding Journalist (J-1) visa and their dependents holding J1-X visa to enter India...It has also been decided that the existing restrictions on incoming passenger traffic into India through the Immigration Check Posts will not apply in respect of these categories of foreign nationals," the office memorandum said. The arriving passengers will have to adhere to the guidelines on quarantine issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. On August 7, the government had allowed Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cardholders from the United States, Germany, France and Kuwait with which India entered into an "air bubble" agreement. Other foreigners have also been allowed to avail Indian visa facilities for business, medical and employment purposes. In June, the government had relaxed visa rules further to allow minor foreign nationals whose one of the parents is an Indian national or an OCI cardholder and foreign nationals married to Indian citizens among others to fly into the country. Foreign nationals who are single parents of minor children holding Indian passports or OCI cards and students who are foreign nationals with at least one of their parents is an Indian citizen or OCI cardholder were also allowed to enter the country in June. Earlier on May 22, India had allowed minor children born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards and OCI cardholders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like a death in family were allowed to travel to India/ Similarly, couples where one spouse is an OCI cardholder and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India as well as university students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India were also allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-allows-entry-of-foreign-journalists-and-dependents-with-valid-visa-874827.html
18-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Dream11 bags IPL sponsorship||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Fantasy sports platform Dream11 has bags the Indian Premier League's title sponsorship rights after a winning bid of Rs 222 crore; Rohit Sharma, star wrestler Vinesh Phogat, TT player Manika Batra and Paralympic gold-winning high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu picked for this year's Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award; Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office has asked officials to speed up the process of trimming government stakes in at least four primarily state-owned banks within the current fiscal year.  Here are the top news of today, Tuesday: August 18, 2020: Fantasy sports platform Dream11 has bagged the Indian Premier League's title sponsorship rights after a winning bid of Rs 222 crore. Learning platforms Byju's and Unacademy lost out after bids of Rs 201 crore and Rs 171 crore respectively. BCCI had invited bids for the title rights of the delayed 13th edition after the Chinese mobile manufacturers Vivo and the Indian Board mutually suspended their contract for 2020 after the "boycott Chinese" calls following border clashes between the Indian and PLA troops. India's limited-overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma, star wrestler Vinesh Phogat, TT player Manika Batra and Paralympic gold-winning high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu were on Tuesday picked for this year's Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award by the sports ministry's selection committee. This is the second time since 2016 that four athletes have been finalised for the country's highest sporting honour. With more and more BJP lawmakers coming out in the open to corner their own government over law and order, corruption and other issues, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet colleagues are likely to have a tough time in Uttar Pradesh Assembly during its brief session beginning from Thursday. Several saffron party legislators have raised a question mark on the state government's ability to fight corruption, provide succour to the common people and tame, what they termed an 'unbridled' bureaucracy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office has asked officials to speed up the process of trimming government stakes in at least four primarily state-owned banks within the current fiscal year, according to two officials familiar with the discussions. The sources said the four lenders are Punjab & Sind Bank, Bank of Maharashtra, UCO Bank and IDBI Bank, in which the Indian government owns majority stakes through direct and indirect holdings. The Supreme Court on Tuesday said there was no need to transfer contributions made to the PM cares Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund for the purpose of fighting Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said that there was no statutory impediment for any individual or corporate to make contributions to the NDRF. It also said that anyone could contribute to the PM Cares Fund, which was a separate fund. There was no need to transfer money from PM Cares Fund to the NDRF. Congress on Tuesday shot off a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, asking him to set up a high-level inquiry in the company’s leadership team in India in the wake of a media report alleging the social networking giant’s interference in the electoral democracy in the country. “Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook headquarters into Facebook India's leadership team and their operations in a time-bound manner, and publish and make transparent all instances of hate speech since 2014 that was allowed on the platform. Facebook India should appoint a new team so that the investigation is not influenced,” Venugopal said in a three-page letter to Zuckerberg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dream11-bags-ipl-sponsorship-874838.html
18-08-2020||National||Rhea's plea to shift Sushant Singh Rajput case to Mumbai: SC to deliver judgement on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Wednesday its judgement on a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty to transfer an FIR lodged by the Patna police in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death to Mumbai. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy will deliver the verdict at 11 am on August 19 in the case, which has seen both the Bihar and the Maharashtra government in a war of words. The Union government has also joined the legal battle with the CBI registering a case during the pendency of the matter on a recommendation made by the Bihar government. Sushant's father K K Singh, who lodged the FIR with the Patna police on July 25, had accused Rhea, live-in partner of the deceased, of cheating and swindling off money. During the hearing, he questioned the Mumbai police's failure to even formally register a case after the death on June 14. The 34-year-old actor was alleged to have committed suicide at his Bandra flat in Mumbai. Rhea' counsel senior advocate Shyam Divan said the FIR in Patna was lodged due to political bias and at the instance of Bihar Chief Minister, so there was a serious apprehension on the fairness of probe. He sought a direction to shift the investigation to Mumbai. He also asked the court's intervention to stop the media trial. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, representing the Maharashtra government, said the state was sought to be given a bad name in the entire episode. Principles of federalism will take a hit if the argument for lodging the FIR in Patna was accepted. "It is all about politics. Since Bihar has to go to elections, all this is happening," he said. Questioning the recommendation for a CBI probe, he said the consent by the state was mandatory for it. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the Bihar government, submitted that political pressure was working in Maharashtra in this case, so no FIR was registered till date. "The Mumbai Police didn't cooperate with the Bihar Police. It is they who have to hide several things," he said, referring to the forceful quarantine of IPS officer Vinay Tiwari. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta questioned the Mumbai police for recording statement of 56 witnesses without registering an FIR. He said the Enforcement Directorate was already investigating the matter. Once one central agency has registered a case, another central agency, CBI should be engaged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rheas-plea-to-shift-sushant-singh-rajput-case-to-mumbai-sc-to-deliver-judgement-on-wednesday-874850.html
18-08-2020||National||Drop in Covid-19 cases and deaths in last five days 'reassuring', says Centre||The last five consecutive days witnessed a slow but gradual decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the country as well as a drop in the death toll, offering a thin silver lining amidst the pandemic gloom as the number of Covid-19 infections raced past the 27 lakh mark. On August 13, the number of new cases was more than 64,000. The number came down to 63,000 plus on the subsequent two days and dipped further to 57,000 on August 16. On August 17, India recorded 55,000 plus new cases. Similarly the death toll was 1,003 on August 13. It came down to 996 on Aug 14; 944 on Aug 15; 941 on Aug 16 and 876 on Aug 17. "The downward trend in deaths and fresh cases are reassuring but the time span is too small to make any interpretation. There is no reason to lower our guards,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said here on Tuesday. There is also a decline in the weekly positivity rates since July end. It was 10.94% in the last week of July (between July 29 and Aug 4), which was lowered to 9.52% (Aug 5-11) and further to 7.72% (Aug 12-18). Previously in the first three weeks of July, the positive rate decreased from 10.03% to 9.03% before rising a bit at the end of the month. "Numbers are reassuring because they are stable despite a huge increase in the tests as more than 9 lakh tests are being conducted daily. However, it does not mean that challenges are over,” said NITI Ayog member V K Paul. Asked about the introduction of on-demand testing of Covid-19, Paul said a decision would soon be taken after reviewing the existing strategy. At the moment, the plan is to cross the one-million mark in Covid-19 testing. On the vaccine trial, he said the ongoing phase-I/II trial of the two indigenous vaccines developed by Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila were progressing well and the results might be expected in four to six weeks. A phase-III trial of a third vaccine (Oxford University-Serum Institute of India-AstraZeneca product) would commence in a day or two. However, being a phase-III trial, it would take more time. With the government permitting export of personal protective equipment and ventilators, Bhusan said Indian companies exported 23 lakh PPE kits in June 15 lakh kits in August so far. The recipient countries are UK, USA, UAE, Senegal and Slovenia. Data on ventilators was yet to be compiled as the Director General of Foreign Trade issued the export notification only on August 4, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drop-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-in-last-five-days-reassuring-says-centre-874855.html
18-08-2020||National||Data, artificial intelligence can add $450-500bn to India's GDP by 2025: Nasscom||Data and artificial intelligence (AI) can add USD 450-500 billion to India's GDP by 2025, representing about 10 per cent of the USD 5 trillion economy aspiration of the Indian government, a report by industry body Nasscom said on Tuesday. Nearly 45 per cent of this value is likely to be delivered by 3 sectors - consumer goods and retail (USD 90-95 billion), agriculture (USD 60-65 billion), and banking and insurance (USD 60-65 billion), the report said. The report - titled Unlocking Value from Data and AI - presented an action plan with five key building blocks to promote increased data utilisation and adoption of AI, including strategy, data, technology stack, talent and execution. It emphasised that datasets of national importance be identified with each ministry with specific use cases, a programme to create a marketplace of data and derived assets be created, and a central agency be established for defining and enforcing data standards. The report said platform(s) to securely host data, AI services, models, open-source libraries, applications and testbeds should be created and that policies be formulated to ensure the security, reliability, interoperability and economic viability of the stack. It also suggested the launch of the National Programme for AI and creation of a central, apex body to steer its execution, in collaboration with various ministries, industry groups and other stakeholders. The report highlighted the importance of building an AI innovation ecosystem and to seek greater participation from the private sector and entrepreneurs. It added that schemes to engage the AI ecosystem (industry, startups, civil society, and academia) should be created and guardrails be set up to protect public interest, while accelerating programme and economic impact. Launching lighthouse projects in the public sector, partnerships to create data, tech and services, and grants or incentives to invest in research and innovation were also key suggestions of the report. Unveiling the report, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Digital India has reimagined how the government connects with citizens, and the accelerated deployment of AI and other emerging technologies will help this objective further. "...the kind of data we are generating because of the sheer size of India, we need to leverage it...Data is a national asset and this asset, we have to leverage it... "What Covid has done is enable the world to see India's potential...we need to further exploit it. AI for three areas of human development (education, agriculture and healthcare) is very important to be focused upon," the minister said. Debjani Ghosh, President of Nasscom said the report can help India emerge stronger from the Covid crisis. "Data and AI's true potential emerges from its ability to drive transformation across multiple sectors through a diverse range of applications. The report articulates the key structural steps that India needs to take to realise the value of this opportunity," she added. The action plan and report has been reviewed by industry leaders including Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran, Wipro Chairman Rishad Premji, Infosys COO UB Pravin Rao, and Microsoft India President Anant Maheshwari. Nasscom will also hold Xperience AI summit 2020 in partnership with the Telangana AI Mission from September 1-4 with curated discussions on four key themes - Build AI from and for India, Scale AI Adoption in India, India's AI Policies, Thought Leadership in AI. Additionally, deep-dive sessions will be organised for developers to understand latest trends in AI technologies and use cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-artificial-intelligence-can-add-450-500bn-to-indias-gdp-by-2025-nasscom-874877.html
18-08-2020||National||Bar Association of India comes in support of Prashant Bhushan||The Bar Association of India (BAI) Tuesday came out in support of activist-lawyer Prasant Bhushan, convicted for contempt of court, saying that at a time the citizenry is facing huge challenges, the stature of the Supreme Court would stand enhanced by allowing criticism rather than taking umbrage at his remarks. The Executive Committee of the BAI said it was “deeply dismayed and concerned by the manner of exercise of suo motu contempt jurisdiction by the Supreme Court of India against a member of the legal profession in the case relating to Bhushan.” A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, on August 14, had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. Bhushan faces six months simple imprisonment or fine upto  Rs 2,000 or both as the maximum punishment for the contempt. The top court would hear on August 20, the arguments on the quantum of sentence. The BAI, in a statement, said, it was of the view that “the exercise of contempt jurisdiction by the court in this manner has potential for more self-harm than the avowed purpose of safeguarding the prestige of the institution.” “Trenchant criticism, commentary, satire and humour help build institutions in a free society. Judgments that curb the exercise of freedom of speech and expression by a member of the Bar by resort to suo motu powers is conspicuously old fashioned.  “The reputation of the Supreme Court of India cannot be dislodged by a couple of 'tweets'. At a time that the citizenry is facing huge challenges, the stature of the Supreme Court would stand enhanced by allowing criticism rather than taking umbrage at such remarks,” it said. Besides BAI, several eminent lawyers have also come out in support of Bhushan saying that the verdict against the activist-lawyer "must not be given effect to" until a larger bench review the standard of criminal contempt in an open court hearing post-pandemic.  Former judges, activists and lawyers have been issuing statements in support of Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-association-of-india-comes-in-support-of-prashant-bhushan-874882.html
18-08-2020||National||India has largest number of children with Thalassemia Major: Harsh Vardhan||India has the largest number of children with Thalassemia Major who need a regular blood transfusion and 10,000-15,000 children having the blood disorder are born every year in the country, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Tuesday. Lauding the work of the Indian Red Cross Society at the inauguration of a Thalassemia Screening and Counselling Centre at its National Headquarters Blood Bank here, the minister said such initiatives "will enable us in educating the common people on prevention of this disease". He said there are around 270 million Thalassemia patients in the world. "India has the largest number of children with Thalassemia Major in the world, about 1 to 1.5 lakh, and about 10,000-15,000 children having Thalassemia Major are born every year. "The only cure available for such children is bone marrow transplantation (BMT). However, BMT is difficult and not affordable by the parents of all these children. Therefore, the mainstay of treatment is repeated blood transfusions, followed by regular iron chelation therapy to remove the excessive iron overload, consequent to the multiple blood transfusions," he was quoted as saying in a statement. Vardhan said that this new initiative of IRCS will provide a golden opportunity to administer adequate therapy to those affected enabling them lead a better life and preventing the birth of children affected with hemoglobinopathies, through carrier screening, genetic counselling and prenatal diagnosis. "This programme will aid in prevention of birth of children affected with hemoglobinopathies, through well-planned screening programmes, information dissemination and awareness generation activities and help avert the imminent threat of this genetic disorder turning into a major health problem. "With these progressive initiatives, we shall soon be able to achieve the New India being envisioned by the mrime minister by 2022," he said. Haemoglobinopathies such as Thalassemia and sickle cell disease are inherited disorders of red blood cells and are preventable. These illnesses are chronic, life impairing and in some cases, life-threatening and impose a heavy emotional and financial burden on families. In India, Thalassemia Major and the severe form of Thalassemia Intermedia (TI) constitute the major burden of disease. Both are commonly managed by regular lifelong blood transfusions and regular iron chelation, the statement said. These Thalassemia syndromes are caused by inheritance of abnormal (beta) Thalassemia genes from both parents or abnormal beta-Thalassemia gene from one parent and abnormal variant haemoglobin gene (HbE, HbD) from the other parent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-largest-number-of-children-with-thalassemia-major-harsh-vardhan-874908.html
18-08-2020||National||Govt to review guidelines to see if 'on-demand' Covid-19 testing can be allowed||With nearly nine lakh Covid-19 tests being held per day, the government on Tuesday said it would review the guidelines for testing to see if it can be made available on an on-demand basis for the people. Responding to a question on why on-demand testing is not being implemented for those who are willing to pay for it even as the testing capacity has been significantly ramped up, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, at a press briefing on Tuesday, said the government would review the guidelines for testing. "Practically it is already on-demand in many ways. We will review this looking at the capacity and access to people. We are almost there. We have to make sure that the resources are used for the very best purpose. Frivolous use of these technologies and resources is not desirable," he said. At present, an individual needs to get a Covid-19 test prescribed by a qualified medical practitioner. The daily new cases of Covid-19 and deaths due to the disease have shown a declining trend from August 13, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday, but warned against any laxity, underlining that the five-day span is too short a duration in the context of a pandemic. Responding to a question on whether India is past its Covid peak, Bhushan said the government does not believe in mathematical models that predict peaks as in several instances in the past projections were made which turned out to be "far from reality". He stressed that the states and UTs should focus on effective implementation of containment measures, surveillance, contact tracing, aggressive testing, timely treatment in hospitals and better quality care to increase the recovery rate and reduce the fatality rate. On a query related to pricing of Covid-19 tests, Bhushan said the price rate has decreased from the start of testing in January.  The diagnostic kits were mostly imported and hence prices were high till March, he said. “Now, most of these testing kits are available on government e-marketplace and also the prices are in public domain. So, now the state governments have become empowered to negotiate and procure better test-kits at a reasonable rate," he said. In reply to a query, Bhushan said though “we are getting satisfactory results of all the measures taken, there is no reason to slacken our guard”. He said the services of those who have recovered from Covid-19 are being taken as volunteers in many states. They work for raising awareness about Covid-19 and urging people in urban as well as rural areas to go for testing on having symptoms. They are also encouraging people to seek treatment in Covid Care Centres or Hospitals on being tested positive, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-review-guidelines-to-see-if-on-demand-covid-19-testing-can-be-allowed-874916.html
18-08-2020||National||‘Nai Udaan’ scheme to help civil services aspirants from minority communities: Jitendra Singh||The ‘Nai Udaan’ scheme of the Centre will help youths from minority communities to prepare for the civil services examination, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday. The scheme, started by the Modi government through the Union Ministry of Minority Affairs, offers financial support to civil services aspirants clearing the preliminary examination, according to an official statement. "The Nai Udaan scheme will help civil services aspirants from minority communities to prepare for the test," the minister said, lauding the scheme. He said over the years the profile of civil services has undergone a demographic change. “Now the successful candidates are coming from virtually all sections of the society, every region of the country and from different socio-economic strata,” said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes keen interest in the training curriculum of IAS/civil services officers, he said. Singh said that over the past few years, several path-breaking reforms were brought in with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Modi. “One such major reform was the introduction of a three-month stint as Assistant Secretary for every new IAS officer before he or she took up the first assignment in the respective state/union territory cadre,” the minister said. While addressing a function organised to felicitate successful civil services candidates from minority communities in the results announced recently, Singh complimented Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi for not only giving impetus to the “Nai Udaan”, but also for deciding the eligibility of the candidates for financial support on the basis of a transparent process through an online exam. He also appreciated Naqvi’s decision to enhance the family income limit for availing the benefit of the scheme from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 8 lakh per annum during 2019, the statement said. Singh also referred to the valedictory function of the last batch of IAS probationers which was addressed by Prime Minister Modi at Gujarat's Kevadia, the site of the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who is known as one of the architects of the Indian Administrative Service. He also referred to visits undertaken by the Prime Minister to the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, and his regular interactions with every new batch of IAS passouts, it said. PTI AKV TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nai-udaan-scheme-to-help-civil-services-aspirants-from-minority-communities-jitendra-singh-874924.html
18-08-2020||National||Central Water Commission issues flood advisory for states, warns of landslides and flash floods||As monsoon rains continue to batter parts of India, the Central Water Commission issued a flood advisory for several states Tuesday, including Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, warning some hill districts of possible flash floods and landslides. It also said heavy rainfall will lead to more inflow of water into reservoirs in several states. An advisory for Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh said heavy-to-extremely heavy rainfall is likely in the coming days. And the water level in Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Ghaggar, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Alaknanda, Ganga, Ramganga, Sarda, Sarju and Ghaghra would rise. "There is a likelihood of flash floods in some of the hill districts. Necessary precautions have to be taken for possible landslides and blockages of river flows due to landslides in high ranges of these states," the advisory said. It advised for monitoring of the rivers for increased inflow. An advisory for Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa said heavy-to-very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall is expected. There would be a rise in the water levels in the basins of Lower Mahi, Lower Narmada, Lower Tapi and Damanganga, the advisory said. Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga rivers are rising rapidly and further increase in water level is expected as there is a forecast of heavy rainfall for the next 4-5 days, it said. Madhuban Dam in Valsad district of Gujarat at present has storage of 67 per cent and is likely to get heavy inflows due to heavy rains. "Close watch is to be maintained and released if any has to be done, it should be with due care and after informing all downstream districts including Union Territory of Daman," it said. Many of the small dams in Saurashtra and Kutch are already near their (Full Reservoir Level) FRL and as extremely heavy rain has also been predicted for Tuesday, a close watch is to be maintained for proper reservoir operation. Due to forecast of heavy rainfall for 4-5 days in Konkan and Goa and in hill ranges of western ghats in Maharashtra, there is a probability of sudden rise in water levels in the west-flowing rivers. "Maximum vigil is to be maintained along the low lying areas of these rivers which are near to railway lines and highways during the above period,” the advisory said. In an advisory for Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh & Telangana said heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha and Chhattisgarh during next 4-5. The Godavari River is also getting good flows due to rain in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Telangana. The Polavaram project on Godavari in Andhra Pradesh is likely to get around 53,000 cumec (cubic metre per second) till 8.30 am on Wednesday and Laxmi Barrage is likely to get inflows of around 16,500 cumec till Tuesday night. River Godavari at Kunavaram and Dowlaiswaram Barrage (Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage) in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh is flowing in “severe flood situation”, it added. The Mahanadi is also likely to get inflow of about 10,100 cumec in Hirakud Dam and the reservoir is likely to continue getting heavy inflows due heavy rainfall in Chhattisgarh catchment, the advisory said. For Karnataka, it said most of the dams in the Krishna River basin are having storage between 86 to 98 per cent. Due to the very heavy rainfall forecasted in central Maharashtra, Hidkal and Malaprabha are also getting heavy inflows. The Krishna at Gokak Falls in Belagavi district of Karnataka is flowing above danger level. The advisory for Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh said water levels in rivers such as Chambal, Mahi, Sabarmati, Kalisindh, Banas are likely to rise. The Narmada at Mandla in Madhya Pradesh is flowing close to danger level. The advisory for Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal said many rivers in Bihar continue to flow in severe to above normal flood situations with falling trend. The situation will continue for another 3-4 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-water-commission-issues-flood-advisory-for-states-warns-of-landslides-and-flash-floods-874938.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress members write letters asking for leadership change||Rumblings in the Congress over lack of clarity over the leadership issue are rearing its head. The latest to seek clarity on the issue was AICC Secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy, who shot off a letter to Rahul Gandhi questioning his refusal to accept the demand of party workers seeking his return as the Congress President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-members-write-letters-asking-for-leadership-change-874578.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||Yechury asks if EC took action against BJP over NaMo TV expenses during Lok Sabha polls||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury has shot off a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora asking whether the Election Commission has taken action against the BJP for not including the expenses incurred for running a campaign through NaMo TV during Lok Sabha polls. In his letter sent on Monday, he said 'NaMo TV' had surfaced during the elections in "contravention of the existing law and then disappeared mysteriously" after the polls and the EC itself had acknowledged that the channel run by DTH platforms was paid for by the BJP. However, he said the BJP did not show this in its returns to the EC on its expenditure account, which is an "outright electoral offence".  "The immediate question that arises, has the EC initiated any penal action against the BJP on this account? If not, why not? I dare say, the absence of absolute unambiguous firm action seriously questions the EC’s responsibility for ensuring a level-playing field, not to speak of weeding out electoral malpractices with a heavy hand," Yechury wrote. He also found fault with the social media campaign of the EC, saying that an advertising and social media company owned by a BJP office-bearer was hired by the Maharashtra Chief Electoral Officer to issue election-related online advertisements during the 2019 Assembly elections. It has also come to light that the EC itself had authorised government bodies to appoint the same social media agency for the 2019 elections, he said. "With its independent Constitutional status, the authority of Article 324 is a recognition of the EC’s responsibility for ensuring fair play. Therefore, it becomes all the more necessary that EC is not only fair but also explicitly appears to be so," he added. With the Bihar Assembly elections round the corner, Yechury also demanded the shelving of plans for allowing digital campaign during upcoming Bihar elections. Arguing that the BJP has massive resources while other parties would be lagging behind, he cited the comments of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the eve of 2019 Lok Sabha elections during which he said that the BJP has a network of 32 lakh WhatsApp groups and can make any message viral within hours. Ahead of the Bihar polls, Yechury said the BJP has kicked off a virtual election campaign by putting up 72,000 LED TV monitors for Shah’s speech. "After holding 60 virtual rallies, the BJP has claimed that its election campaign efforts would involve 9,500 IT Cell heads who will coordinate 72,000 WhatsApp groups, one for each polling booth, of which 50,000 have been formed in the last two months. The amount of expenditure that would be involved to put together such manpower for a technology-driven system is simply mind-boggling," he wrote. Yechury said even with figures for corporate contribution available in the public domain before the "anonymous funding through electoral bonds came into vogue", it was clear that the gap between the BJP and all other parties added together in securing corporate poll funding has widened manifold. "Obviously, with the anonymous corporate funds without any upper ceiling, will certainly be the death knell for electoral democracy," he said, recalling that the Election Commission itself has told the Supreme Court that electoral bonds will signal “serious repercussions on the transparency aspect" of political funding. He said several experts were of the view that if the electoral bonds scheme had been introduced to bring about greater transparency and the government must not restrain from allowing details of such donations to be made public. "Therefore, even if we go by the Commission’s contention on the electoral bond regime in its affidavit before the Supreme Court, it becomes obvious there can be no free and fair poll, not to speak of a level-playing field," Yechury said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yechury-asks-if-ec-took-action-against-bjp-over-namo-tv-expenses-during-lok-sabha-polls-874715.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||Congress party writes to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg over alleged bias||The Congress party in India on Tuesday shot off a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, asking him to set up a high-level inquiry in the company’s leadership team in India in the wake of a media report alleging the social networking giant’s interference in the electoral democracy in the country. “Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook headquarters into Facebook India's leadership team and their operations in a time-bound manner, and publish and make transparent all instances of hate speech since 2014 that was allowed on the platform. Facebook India should appoint a new team so that the investigation is not influenced,” Venugopal said in a three-page letter to Zuckerberg. The Congress party missive came days after a report in a US media outlet claimed that Facebook deliberately ignored disruptive content from members of the BJP despite being flagged internally. “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by @WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians,” Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter. Venugopal said Congress leaders had raised issues of bias with several executives of Facebook and WhatsApp, “mostly to deaf ears”. Congress leaders said that the party was disappointed by the revelations made in the US-based Wall Street Journal's article and added that this was a “damning and serious allegation of Facebook India's interference in India's electoral democracy.’ They have accused the BJP and the RSS of controlling Facebook and WhatsApp in India, a claim dismissed by Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS,” Prasad said. Venugopal said Congress and other leading political parties have also demanded a Parliamentary Committee probe into Facebook’s purported role in manipulating India’s electoral democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-party-writes-to-facebook-ceo-mark-zuckerberg-over-alleged-bias-874718.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||Is it time for a non-Gandhi to lead Congress? Priyanka and Rahul believe so||As Congress grapples with a leadership crisis, the Gandhi family believes that it is time for a non-Gandhi to helm the 135-year-old party. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who took a plunge into active politics ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year, has said that she was in “full agreement” with her brother Rahul Gandhi that a non-Gandhi should be appointed as the president of Congress. “And perhaps not in the (resignation) letter but elsewhere, he said that none of us should be the president of the party and I am in full agreement with him. I think that the party should find its own path also,” Priyanka has said in an interview that appears in the book ‘India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next Generation of Political Leaders’. Besides Priyanka, the book features interviews with young political leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Aditya Thackeray, Akhilesh Yadav, Rajya Vardhan Rathore, Supriya Sule among others. The interviews with Priyanka and Rahul were conducted in 2019 before Congress faced fresh challenges in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Both Priyanka and Rahul believe that ideologically the party is clear about its stand but it has not been communicated with that clarity to the public in a long time. “I think part of that issue is perhaps the internal shift of some of the leaders of the Congress party towards the end of the last government where ideological stances were diluted to some extent,” she told the authors Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah. “I think where we might have failed is in the public articulation of the ideology,” Priyanka said and favoured a brainstorming session for the party to come out with a clear vision. Rahul told the authors that he did not see the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as a failure of the Congress ideology but as a victory for the RSS-BJP propaganda machine. “As a politician, I respect the will of the people. They wanted to try Mr. Narendra Modi again, okay, try him again,” the former Congress President said. Rahul said while Congress believed in building consensus to take India forward, the RSS-BJP have a “narrow, rigid, view of India that they want to impose on the Indian people.” “Eventually, it is the rising anger against the imposition of their ideology on every Indian, that will lead to the electoral downfall of the BJP,” Rahul said when asked about how he planned to reinvent the party to make it electorally competitive against the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-it-time-for-a-non-gandhi-to-lead-congress-priyanka-and-rahul-believe-so-874847.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||Divya Spandana returns to Twitter; attacks Modi government over PM Cares Fund verdict||More than a year after her abrupt exit from politics, actor-politician Divya Spandana made a comeback on Tuesday with a sharp attack on union minister Jitendra Singh over his remarks on the Supreme Court verdict on PM Cares Fund. “Clear as daylight – dal mein definitely kuck kaala hai,” said Divya Spandana in a retort to Singh welcoming the Supreme Court’s refusal to direct the Centre to transfer the PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund. She followed it up with a swipe at Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, saying that the Supreme Court did not say the government cannot transfer funds. “SC said if the govt wants to, it can. You are choosing not to. If the Govt has nothing to hide, in the interest of transparency, why won’t you do it? It’s public contribution & we have the right to know,” said Divya Spandana, popularly known by her screen name Ramya. Divya Spandana headed the social media team of the Congress and had taken a digital detox by deactivating her Twitter account after the Congress lost the Lok Sabha elections last year. She had last tweeted on June 1, 2019. Divya Spandana was credited with turning around the Congress’ social media presence, but her spunky responses to the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi triggered many a controversy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/divya-spandana-returns-to-twitter-attacks-modi-government-over-pm-cares-fund-verdict-874870.html
18-08-2020||National Politics||BJP 'scripted' northeast Delhi riots, alleges AAP; BJP hits back||The AAP on Tuesday alleged that the BJP engineered the northeast Delhi riots by instigating Hindus and provoking Muslims at the Shaheen Bagh protest, drawing a sharp rebuttal from the saffron party. The Delhi BJP said the AAP is on the "backfoot" and is trying to change the narrative by alleging that the BJP instigated Hindus. But the actual story is something else, the party said. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson and MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that the BJP leaders provoked people of both the communities which led to the communal violence in northeast Delhi on February 24, leaving 53 people dead. "Two days back when the key functionaries of the Shaheen Bagh protest joined the Bharatiya Janata Party, it exposed the fact that on one side, the leaders of the saffron party were spreading hatred among the Hindus and on the other, their other leaders were spreading hatred among the Muslim protesters of Shaheen Bagh. This way a script was prepared and the riots took place in Delhi," Bharadwaj claimed. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Several members of the minority Muslim community from Shaheen Bagh area, which was the centre of the anti-CAA protests here, joined the BJP on Sunday. Bhardwaj demanded a thorough probe against the Muslim community from Shaheen Bagh area who joined the BJP. "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that a thorough probe should take place against the 50 people who have joined the BJP and were also the organisers of Shaheen Bagh protest. "Police should check the records of these people, find out with which BJP leaders they were in touch with, what kind of instructions the BJP leaders have given them and other issues. The police should also probe the role of these people in organising and continuing the Shaheen Bagh protest," he said. Bhardwaj further alleged that the Delhi police under the BJP was silent when clashes erupted between anti-CAA and pro-CAA protesters which led to the riots. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said AAP is on back foot so now they are trying to change the narrative by alleging that the BJP instigated Hindus. However, the actual story is something else, he said. "I think Saurabh Bharadwaj is confused, yesterday he himself admitted that anti-India slogan was chanted at Shaheen Bagh. Then when the BJP revealed Manish Sisodia's (Delhi Deputy Chief Minister) video supporting Shaheen Bagh, now they are on back foot. So now they are changing the angle that BJP instigated Hindus, but the actual story is something else," Khurana claimed. He further claimed that AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan provoked Muslims. "On one hand, the Delhi police has already given a clean chit to BJP leaders Pravesh Verma and Kapil Mishra over so called Hindu instigation. So my suggestion to Saurabh is to get his facts cleared first," Khurana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-scripted-northeast-delhi-riots-alleges-aap-bjp-hits-back-874901.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Govind Saini, accused in Vikas Dubey case surrenders||Another accused of the Kanpur ambush during which eight policemen were killed by henchmen of slain gangster Vikas Dubey surrendered before a court on Monday. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Brajesh Srivastava told PTI that Govind Saini surrendered before the court in Kanpur Dehat. The UP Special Task Force (STF) and the Kanpur police were on the lookout for Govind Saini ever since his name had figured in the massacre that took place at Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 2 night. The SP said Saini's advocate had moved an application before the court for his surrender. Srivastava said they have decided to seek his custody for proper questioning. The Kanpur SSP had earlier announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 for providing information about him, the SP said. Earlier, several aides of Vikas Dubey, including Daya Shankar Agnihotri, Shyamu Bajpai, Jahan Yadav, Shashikant, Monu and Shivam Dubey, were arrested either by the UP STF or the Kanpur police. Govind Saini’s brother Gopal Saini had surrendered before a special court in Kanpur Dehat about 20 days ago. Those who are still at large are Chotu Shukla, Shiv Tewari, Vishnu Pal Yadav, Ramu Bajpai, Hiru Dubey and Bal Govind. As many as six prime accused-- Vikas Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Amar Dubey, Bauan Dubey, Prem Kumar Pandey and Atul Dubey-- have been gunned down in separate encounters since July 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govind-saini-accused-in-vikas-dubey-case-surrenders-874580.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath gives nod to set up property damage claim tribunals in Meerut, Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has approved setting up property damage claim tribunals in Meerut and Lucknow, an official spokesperson said. While the Lucknow tribunal will accept claim applications from Jhansi, Kanpur, Chitrakoot Dham, Lucknow, Ayodhya, Devi Patan Prayagraj, Azamgarh, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Basti and Vindhyachal Dham divisions; the Meerut tribunal will have the jurisdiction over Saharanpur, Meerut, Aligarh, Moradabad, Bareilly and Agra divisions, the spokesperson said on Monday. Taking a stand against the anti-CAA protests in December last year, the state government had promulgated an ordinance for the recovery of damages from the protesters. The legislation provided for setting up of tribunals to adjudicate claims of damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-gives-nod-to-set-up-property-damage-claim-tribunals-in-meerut-lucknow-874661.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh health minister Atul Garg tests positive for Covid-19||Garg requested all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested for the disease. "On August 15, RT-PCR test was done and I had tested negative. Yesterday, in the rapid test conducted at around 9 pm, I tested positive. People who came in contact with me from August 16 to August 18 should get themselves tested," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Two UP ministers, Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, recently succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-health-minister-atul-garg-tests-positive-for-covid-19-874689.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Overnight showers break dry spell in Kashmir Valley||A spell of overnight rainfall broke the prolonged dry spell in Kashmir valley even as the summer capital Srinagar had on Monday recorded the hottest August day in the last nearly four decades, officials said on Tuesday. Many places in the Kashmir valley received a spell of rainfall during the night, the officials said. They said the valley witnessed rains and thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds which continued at few places till the morning. Srinagar city recorded 20.2 mm rainfall, while Qazigund 12.2 mm, Pahalgam 6.2 mm, Kupwara 5.2 mm, Gulmarg 2.6 mm, and Kokernag 1.8 mm, they said. The clouds dispersed in the morning, the officials said, adding, there is no forecast of rainfall ahead in the union territory. The rainfall broke the prolonged dry spell in Kashmir valley which had been witnessing hotter days in the recent weeks. On Monday, Srinagar city recorded a maximum temperature of 35.7 degrees Celsius, which was the hottest August day in the last 39 years, the officials said. They said Monday's maximum temperature was six degrees above the normal. The city remained hotter than Jammu -- the winter capital of the UT -- which had recorded 32.1 degrees Celsius on Monday. While the Met office had announced the arrival of monsoon on June 24 this year, the valley witnessed dry weather conditions amid soaring temperatures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overnight-showers-break-dry-spell-in-kashmir-valley-874701.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire in J&K's Kathua district||Pakistani Rangers opened fire on border out posts (BoPs) along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district, sources said on Tuesday. BSF troops guarding the border retaliated, resulting in exchanges, the sources said. They said Pakistani Rangers fired from machine guns at forward BoPs of Chandwa and Karol Matraya in Hiranagar sector on Monday night. There were no casualties in the firing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-jks-kathua-district-874713.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||HC asks Centre, AAP govt, MCDs to hold meeting on financial aspects of 3 corporations||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed that a meeting be held between the Centre, the AAP government and representatives of the municipal corporations here to find a solution to the financial difficulties being faced by the three MCDs. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the committee so constituted can look into the financial aspects of the corporations as well as the Delhi government which that claimed it has not received from the Centre over Rs 10,000 crore as its share of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection. "We expect that this meeting shall be convened at the earliest," the bench said and listed the matter for further hearing on September 8. The order came on an application moved by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) which has alleged that Rs 90.60 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head, for the first quarter ending June 30, has not been released yet and Rs 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter is also due. NrDMC has said that the funding was meant for payment of salaries of ''safai karamchaaris'' and sanitation activities. The application has been filed in a pending writ petition by one Rahul Birla seeking directions to the Delhi government and the municipal corporations to pay the salaries with arrears of sanitation workers employed by them. In its application, NrDMC has said that expenditure towards the salary till May 2020, sanitation services and providing PPE kits, gloves, masks, sanitizers to the workers has been incurred by the corporation from its own internal resources, in the absence of any amount being released by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-centre-aap-govt-mcds-to-hold-meeting-on-financial-aspects-of-3-corporations-874726.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Will ensure local people get government jobs, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said necessary legal provisions will be made to provide government jobs to local people. He also said resources of the state are meant for residents of the state. "The state government has taken an important decision that government jobs will be given to youths of Madhya Pradesh. We are making necessary legal provisions for this. Resources of Madhya Pradesh are meant for children of the state," Chouhan said in a video statement. He, however, did not elaborate about the proposed legal provisions. In his Independence Day speech, Chouhan had said preference would be given to locals in government jobs. He had also said his government will devise a mechanism to ensure employment to youths on the basis of their marksheets of classes 10 and 12. Earlier, the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government had also announced to reserve 70 per cent of jobs in industrial units for locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-ensure-local-people-get-government-jobs-says-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-874727.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||4 booked in Aligarh for promoting communal hate after interfaith marriage||Four people have been booked for allegedly promoting communal hate following an inter-religious marriage here, police said on Tuesday. An FIR was registered against Asiya, the bride's sister, Faizan, Mohamed Nazim and Siraj after they addressed a press conference on Sunday accusing the former mayor of Aligarh of orchestrating the marriage. According to police, Siraj and Faizan have been arrested and sent to judicial custody. The marriage between a Muslim woman and a Hindu man took place on Saturday. The sister of the bride had accused former Aligarh mayor and prominent BJP leader of the district Shakuntla Bharti of allegedly pressurising the police in the matter and abetting, what she described as, "forced conversion" of her younger sister. However, SP (city) Abhishek Kumar told reporters that the bride was an adult and had given her statement in front of a magistrate that she had married "on her own free will and there was no pressure on her".   Responding to the allegations, Bharti told media on Monday that the woman who belonged to a Muslim family was an adult and had married the Hindu man "according to Hindu customs on her own free will".   "I came into the picture only after some persons from the bride's family started threatening her for converting and marrying a Hindu man," the BJP leader said. The police said Asiya had on August 7 filed a complaint at the Sasni Gate Police Station that her sister had "gone missing". They also said that Asiya, in her press conference, had passed comments which could disturb the peace of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-booked-in-aligarh-for-promoting-communal-hate-after-interfaith-marriage-874729.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport likely to have Covid-19 testing facility for international arrivals||The Delhi airport is likely to have a Covid-19 testing facility for international passengers who if tested negative will get exemption from the seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine, said senior government officials on Tuesday. As per the Union health ministry, passengers arriving from abroad have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine. "The government is considering establishing a Covid-19 testing facility at the Delhi airport. It takes around eight hours to get the results, which means the international passenger will have to remain at the airport premises for that duration," said a government official. If the test result is negative, the passenger will not be required to undergo institutional quarantine, the official added. Post August 8, if an international passenger has a Covid-negative certificate from a test done 96 hours prior to the journey, he or she can avoid the seven-day institutional quarantine in India. "The testing facility at the Delhi airport would be for those international passengers who do not have such a Covid-negative certificate and still want to avoid institutional quarantine," said another government official. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights and international charter flights have been permitted by the aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Moreover, since July, India has formed separate bilateral air bubbles with countries like the US, the UAE, France and Germany under which airlines of both the countries are allowed to operate international flights with certain restrictions. Since August 8, a total of five categories of passengers are exempted from mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine -- pregnant women; those who have suffered death in the family; those suffering from serious illness; parents accompanying children below 10 years of age; those who have Covid-negative certificate from a test done 96 hours prior to the journey. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. The airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. However, the occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-likely-to-have-covid-19-testing-facility-for-international-arrivals-874747.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Army begins probe in encounter killing of 3 'militants' in JK's Shopian||The army has begun its probe and recorded statements in connection with last month's encounter in Shopian area of South Kashmir after families in Rajouri area of Jammu region filed a complaint with the Jammu and Kashmir police about its members missing from the same region. Srinagar-based Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia issued a statement saying a high-level Court of Inquiry into Operation Amshipora in Shopian is under progress. "Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and progress is being monitored closely. Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the Court of Inquiry," he said. The spokesperson said the DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri by the Jammu and Kashmir police and sent for matching with those of the terrorists killed on July 18. Col Kalia said the army is committed to ethical conduct of all Counter-Terrorist operations. "Cases, where doubts are raised, are investigated under due process as per the law of the land. Since the case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting due legal process," he said. The relatives of three youths, belonging to Dhar Sakri village in Kotranka of Rajouri area in Poonch, had lodged a written missing persons report in the local police station after they lost contact with their kin on July 17. In their complaint, they informed the police that they had last spoken to the three, who were mainly involved in apple and walnut trading, on July 16 when the youths had informed their families that they had got a room at Ashimpora in Shopian. The same place was the site of the encounter the next day and since then there was no report about the three, the families said in their complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-begins-probe-in-encounter-killing-of-3-militants-in-jks-shopian-874748.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Unnao rape case: Delhi HC orders treatment for BJP MLA Sengar's brother Atul||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the jail authorities to give adequate medical treatment for oral cancer to expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s brother Atul, who was sentenced to 10 years in jail for his role in the custodial killing of the Unnao rape victim's father. Justice Vibhu Bakhru was informed that the convict, Atul Singh Sengar, has been diagnosed with oral cancer and requires extensive treatment. The court was hearing Atul’s plea seeking eight- week parole to get medical treatment for multiple health issues and has to undergo surgery in Kanpur. The court had on August 13 suggested that it could grant custodial parole to him and asked his counsel to seek instructions as to which hospital in Delhi he wanted to get the medical treatment. In Tuesday’s hearing, Atul’s counsel told the court that subsequent to the earlier order, it has been discovered that he was suffering from oral cancer. Keeping in view the Delhi government counsel’s submission that jail authorities shall ensure adequate treatment is provided to the convict, Atul’s lawyer did not press for the parole plea. The court disposed of the plea “with the direction that the jail authorities shall ensure necessary and adequate treatment, as advised by doctors, is provided to him (Atul).” The CBI counsel had earlier submitted that considering his medical condition, he shall be granted custody parole as he is an influential person and shall not be released. A trial court on March 13, had sentenced Sengar, Atul and five others to 10 years imprisonment for the death of Unnao rape victim’s father in custody. Sengar and his brother were also directed to pay Rs 10 lakh each as fine within three months to legal heirs of the deceased, including the rape victim, as compensation. The father of the rape victim was arrested at the behest of Sengar in the Arms Act and had died in custody on April 9, 2018 owing police brutalities in custody. The woman was kidnapped and raped by Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. The trial, which started on August 5 last year after it was transferred from Unnao to Delhi on the Supreme Court's directions, was carried on a day-to-day basis. Sengar was sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court for the offence of raping the minor and he has challenged his conviction and punishment in the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-rape-case-delhi-hc-orders-treatment-for-bjp-mla-sengars-brother-atul-874788.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath braces for attack from BJP MLAs in Uttar Pradesh Assembly||With more and more BJP lawmakers coming out in the open to corner their own government over law and order, corruption and other issues, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet colleagues are likely to have a tough time in Uttar Pradesh Assembly during its brief session beginning from Thursday. Several saffron party legislators have raised questions on the state government's ability to fight corruption, provide succor to the common people and tame, what they termed an 'unbridled' bureaucracy. To compound the woes of the state government, a senior BJP lawmaker has virtually supported the opposition's allegation that the saffron party regime was 'targeting' the 'Brahmin' community. The MLA Deomani Dwivedi said that he would question the government on this issue. BJP MLA from the Gopamu assembly seat in Hardoi district said that corruption was at its 'peak' under the current dispensation. A similar allegation was levelled by its legislator from Puranpur assembly constituency Baburam Paswan. ''The government has no control over bureaucracy....corruption is thriving as the bureaucrats are not afraid of any action,'' Shyam Prakash said. The wariness of the state government stems from the fact that during the assembly session in December last year as many as 100 BJP lawmakers had held a dharna inside the House and joined the protest by one of the ruling party MLAs over denial of permission to him to speak about his alleged mistreatment by the police. ''Even the ruling party lawmakers now admit that their government has done precious little for the people during its three-year tenure....naturally they are upset....we will support if they raise issues of public interest in the House,'' said the Opposition leader Ram Govind Chaudhary. The three-day session of the Assembly would begin from Thursday amid Coronavirus scare. As many as 24 staff of the assembly secretariat have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-braces-for-attack-from-bjp-mlas-in-uttar-pradesh-assembly-874790.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Maneka Gandhi shares video of dog being run over; man booked in Kapurthala||BJP MP Maneka Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video on social media in which a man can purportedly be seen killing a dog by running his car over the animal, following which he was booked in Kapurthala. In her tweet, Gandhi said, "He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. This dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain." The accused, identified as Gurjinder Singh, has been booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of a representative of the People for Animals, police said. Singh, a resident of Dandupur in Kapurthala, is absconding, they said. "We have registered a case in this regard," Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Jaspreet Singh Sidhu told PTI over phone. The case has been registered at Talwandi Chaudhrian police station in Kapurthala.          The accused is said to be in the business of dog breeding, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maneka-gandhi-shares-video-of-dog-being-run-over-man-booked-in-kapurthala-874816.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Anti-Sikh riots case: Court directs Delhi police to continue providing security to witness Abhishek Verma||A court directed Delhi Police on Tuesday to continue providing security for a month to controversial arms dealer Abhishek Verma, a witness in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case against former Congress leader Jagdish Tytler. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Harjyot Singh Bhalla directed the DCP (South) Delhi Police to reassess the threat perception to Verma as well as senior advocate H S Phoolka, who is representing the complainant in the case. The CMM directed that the court's earlier order, in which it was recorded that the judge had received a letter containing threats to Verma and Phoolka, be sent to DCP. The CMM noted that the Delhi High Court had also sent the copy of the letter to the police commissioner earlier and had asked to look into it and enhance the security granted to Verma. The CMM directed the DCP to reassess the threat perception keeping in view the orders passed by the high court and the trial court. The court also said that Verma may approach the high court in the matter. In his application, Verma told the court that the security cover provided to him has suddenly been withdrawn by Delhi Police without any prior notice or intimation and also without re-evaluating the threat perception to him and his family members. “Direct the DCP (South) Delhi Police to immediately reinstate round the clock Police Security cover of three armed PSO's as already provided for the protection from South District Police Lines, Hauz Khas to the Applicant and his Family members. “Direct the Intelligence Bureau and/or Special Cell Delhi Police to re-evaluate the threat perception of the Applicant and his family members...direct the DCP (South) to continue providing round the clock Police security cover to the Applicant and to his family members till the examination of the Applicant is conducted in the present case,” the application said. The conduct of the CBI and the police has left Verma and his family members totally exposed and vulnerable and at the mercy of the anti-social elements, who are looking for an opportunity to eliminate the applicant and his family members, the application said. It said that Verma is constantly receiving death threats vide calls and e-mails to pressurise him not to depose against Tytler before the court and subsequently not to proceed with Polygraph Test as directed by the court. “The sudden withdrawal of Police Protection as provided to the Applicant (Verma) is a clear example of non- seriousness and disinterest on the part of the CBI in seeking justice for the victims of 1984 Riots by protecting its witnesses,” it said. It further claimed that several witnesses in the case are already tampered with and many others have not been forthcoming to depose against influential persons.  “It is shocking that under these circumstances the CBI and the Police are not willing to protect the Applicant a key witness and his family...,” it said. It further said that “the sudden withdrawal of security cover provided to the Applicant has left the Applicant and his family members extremely disturbed and distress due to the fear of being at the mercy of criminals and anti-social elements, who have always been eyeing for such an opportunity to pressurize the Applicant by putting him and his family under fear of being eliminated”. The case pertains to the riots at Gurudwara Pulbangash in North Delhi where three people were killed on November 1, 1984, a day after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-sikh-riots-case-court-directs-delhi-police-to-continue-providing-security-to-witness-abhishek-verma-874818.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Death toll in overnight Kreeri gunfight reaches eight as militant killed, two injured army jawans succumb||The death toll in overnight Kreeri, Baramulla gunfight jumped to eight with the killing of another militant while two soldiers who were critically wounded during the operation succumbed on Tuesday, the army said. The operation was carried out by security forces after Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants attack on Monday left two CRPF personnel and a Jammu and Kashmir policeman dead in Kreeri area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. The security forces had chased the militants after the attack and gunned down two of them during an encounter on Monday. Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said that one more militant was killed in the gunfight on Tuesday, taking the number of ultras killed in the operation to three. He said two soldiers who were wounded in the gunfight also succumbed. “An AK rifle and three pistols were recovered,” he said, adding that the joint operation was in progress. One of the militants killed on Monday was identified as Sajad alias Haider, a resident of Sopore, who was the top most commander of north Kashmir and figured among 10 most wanted insurgents of J&K. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh equated Haider with slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani and said the LeT commander was involved in a series of attacks on security forces since 2016. “Haider was chief recruiter in north Kashmir and was also behind several killings which included panchs and sarpanchs in the northern parts of the Valley,” he said “Haider was the main architect and brain behind the killing of BJP worker Wasim Bari, his brother and father. Besides, he was also responsible for the killing of a CRPF trooper in Sopore on July 1.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-in-overnight-kreeri-gunfight-reaches-eight-as-militant-killed-two-injured-army-jawans-succumb-874829.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Mobile internet in Jammu and Kashmir gives social media humour a 4G edge||High speed mobile internet services are back in Jammu and Kashmir but only in Ganderbal and Udhampur and humour mills are on overdrive with whacky one liners, visual jokes and a veritable meme fest playing out on social media. Sharp, satirical and sometimes just slapstick, the posts, mostly on Twitter, reference Bollywood, use photographs and also some nifty photoshop editing to make their point and tickle a few funny bones while they are at it. So there is one post featuring an 'Air Company' boarding card from Srinagar to neighbouring Ganderbal, the prized Kashmir district 30 km away where 4G mobile services started from August 16 as a trial till September 8. The administration has also started 4G services in Udhampur in Jammu. And Twitterati just can’t get over it, it seems. There are plenty of Bollywood memes – an anguished Alia Bhatt sobbing as she clings to a wall in a scene from her film "Raazi" and a speech bubble which has her saying, "Mujhe Ganderbal jaana hai" (I want to go to Ganderbal). Then there is Hrithik Roshan in a scene from 'Koi Mil Gaya' standing tall – dressed in glares, blue shirt and red shirt -- amongst a gaggle of little children. He is labelled Ganderbal and the children the various other districts in the Valley. "Heh, main bachcho se baat nahin karta" (I don’t talk to children) is the line scrawled at the bottom of the picture. Ranveer Singh stars in the meme carnival too. Looking very serious and pensive in a still from 'Gully Boy' with the words, "Apna time aayega" (Our time will come), a snatch from a rap song from the film. A scene from 'Partner' starring Salman Khan and Govinda is also doing the rounds. Salman is 'Srinagar' looking glumly at a beaming Govinda, who is, of course, 'Ganderbal'. Using the hashtag #4GTrial, one Twitter user said, "4G restored in only Ganderbal and Udhampur. Meanwhile, rest of Jammu and Kashmir." The photograph accompanying it is from another Bollywood film with Akshay Kumar, Paresh Rawal and Suneil Shetty walking glumly with this dialogue – “Bahut galat hua re deva" (things have gone so wrong). If not Bollywood, there is inspiration aplenty from photographs in the news and other sources too. "Ganderbal and Udhampur taking 8mbps speed… Meanwhile other districts," said a Twitter, choosing a picture with two formally dressed elderly gentlemen, one Ganderbal and the other Udhampur, talking earnestly while a Neanderthal like figure, labelled 'other districts' listens in. The contrast between the two 'pilot' districts and the others was driven home, tongue firmly in cheek but effective nonetheless. Another post had a bus, impossibly crowded with people on the roof and hanging on precariously to windows and doors, and the simple two words – "Ganderbal Chalo". People in the union territory, particularly in the Valley, have long demanded high-speed mobile connectivity. It was suspended for months after Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, on August 5 last year. From February this year, 2G services were started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-in-jammu-and-kashmir-gives-social-media-humour-a-4g-edge-874832.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||UP MSMEs to get up to Rs 5 lakh aid under new start-up policy||MSMEs in Uttar Pradesh will get marketing assistance of up to Rs 5 lakh under a new start-up policy, a senior official said here Tuesday. New start-up policy 2020, aimed at extending support and encouragement to start-ups and incubation centres in Uttar Pradesh has been notified, said Additional Chief Secretary (Electronics and Information Technology) Alok Kumar. “Under the new policy, there is a window of up to Rs 5 lakh as marketing assistance to MSMEs," he added. Kumar gave this information while addressing a virtual conference on "Role of Information Technology in transforming MSMEs' future during Covid-19", a PHDCCI release said. The conference had been organized by the Uttar Pradesh Chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Kumar also said the Department of IT & Electronics is working hand in hand with SIDBI to facilitate venture capital funding for new start-ups and MSMEs. Focusing on the important role that IT is playing these days, Additional Chief Secretary, Deptt of MSME, Khadi & Village Industries, Navneet Sehgal said with the help of information technology now, almost all District Industries Centre (DICs) are online. He said most of the government schemes for the MSMEs and other units are posted online now and can be accessed and availed online. Both of the top bureaucrats also thanked the PHDCCI for taking the initiative of discussing the importance of information technology which has been playing a pivotal role in almost all domains amid the pandemic. In his keynote address, UP IT and Electronics Minister Ajit Singh Pal said with the optimum use of Information Technology, MSMEs will transform the nation into a new India where IT will play an important role that will lead the country as a major player in the global economic competition. In his special address, PHDCCI secretary-general Saurabh Sanyal said the trade body has a huge membership base of more than 1,50,000 members with 70 percent of them being MSMEs. With over 115 years of existence, the Chamber is committed to working hand in hand with the government for the betterment of these industries to turn India into a favoured and ideal destination for industrialisation and investment, said Sanyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-msmes-to-get-up-to-rs-5-lakh-aid-under-new-start-up-policy-874839.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister Atul Garg tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Atul Garg was hospitalised on Tuesday after he said he had tested positive for Covid-19. The 63-year-old Garg, an MLA from Ghaziabad, requested all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested for the disease. "On August 15, RT-PCR test was done and I had tested negative. Yesterday, in the rapid test conducted at around 9 pm, I tested positive. People who came in contact with me from August 16 to August 18 should get themselves tested," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Garg was admitted to the private Yashoda Superspeciality Hospital, Kaushambi in Ghaziabad, where doctors stated his condition to be stable. "The minister was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. According to preliminary investigations done at the hospital, his condition is stable now. He is under observation and a team of doctors attending on him, as he is a known diabetic and hypertensive,” a hospital official told PTI. Two UP ministers, Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, recently succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-atul-garg-tests-positive-for-covid-19-874843.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Missing 7-year-old boy found dead in Rajasthan's Kota||A seven-year-old boy who had gone missing two days ago was found dead near a sewage treatment plant in Rajasthan's Kota on Tuesday morning, police said. According to police, the body was found in a nearly decomposed condition. A resident of the city’s Jawahar Nagar area, Sabeer had gone missing on Sunday. He was found dead near the Kishorepura sewage treatment plant, police said, adding that the body has been handed over to family members after autopsy. Kishorepura police station Inspector Shambu Singh said the boy’s family had lodged a complaint regarding his abduction with the Jawahar Nagar police on Sunday evening after they failed to trace him. The inspector said they have lodged a case under relevant sections of the IPC for further investigation into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missing-7-year-old-boy-found-dead-in-rajasthans-kota-874851.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Army probe into alleged fake encounter in Shopian begins||The Army on Monday said that a court of inquiry (CoI) is underway into the alleged fake encounter of July 18 in Shopian and the statements of key witnesses are being recorded. “Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and progress is being monitored closely. Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the CoI,” Defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia, said. He said concurrently, DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri under the aegis of Jammu and Kashmir police and sent for matching with the “militants” killed on July 18, 2020. The controversy erupted after family members of three labourers from Rajouri in Jammu, who went missing from south Kashmir’s Shopian district on July 17 alleged, on the basis of photographs, that the three unidentified militants the army said it killed in a gunfight there on July 18, were, in fact, their innocent relatives. They said the trio had gone to Shopian in south Kashmir to work as laborers to earn a living. The bodies of the trio were buried in north Kashmir’s Baramulla after being listed as unidentified. On August 11, the Army had stated that it had taken note of the social media reports where netizens had termed the encounter as fake and maintained that “investigation into the matter was ordered.” Col Kalia said that the Army was committed to the ethical conduct of all the counter-insurgency operations. “Cases, where doubts are raised, are investigated under due process as per the law of the land. Since the case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting the due legal process,” he added. The J&K police have already collected DNA samples of three families to match them with those of three young men killed in the alleged fake encounter in Shopian. The samples have been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for cross-matching the reports of which are expected by September 5.  The families have been demanding an independent probe, and it has been supported by Amnesty International and other civil society groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-probe-into-alleged-fake-encounter-in-shopian-begins-874853.html
18-08-2020||North and Central||Security scare at IGI after unattended bag found; returned to owner||There was a brief security scare at the Delhi international airport after an unattended bag was noticed inside the terminal but it later turned out to belong to a passenger returning from the US, officials said on Tuesday. The incident took place at around 6:30 PM on Monday at the Indigo airlines counter at Terminal-3 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport here. The bag, that contained about Rs 7.40 lakh cash in US Dollars, was spotted by a CISF personnel on security duty in the area and after no one claimed it, the bomb disposal squad was summoned. After no explosive traces were found, the bag was opened and $9,900, credit cards and travel documents in the name of an Australian national who had arrived from San Francisco by Air India flight AI-174 was recovered by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, they said. The CISF team scanned the CCTV footage and found that the passenger was about to take a flight to Hyderabad. He was intercepted and handed over his lost bag, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-scare-at-igi-after-unattended-bag-found-returned-to-owner-874865.html
18-08-2020||Oasis||To be beautiful from within||‘Tis not a lip or eye we beauty call/But the joint force and full result of all,’ wrote the English intellectual poet Alexander Pope. So very true. Beauty is not the ostensible features of an individual. Beauty consists of a person’s whole persona.  A heart full of goodness has a face beautiful to look at. Humans tend to judge a person on the basis of society’s standard parameters of beauty. We all harbour a mundane perception of beauty. Mahabharat’s noble and exalted character Vidur wasn’t good-looking conventionally, but Krishna called him, ‘Sundartam sudhesham’ (epitome of beaut). It was Vidur’s wisdom and his nous that made him so graceful. Every individual is beautiful because a beautiful soul resides in all of us. Once Anand, Buddha’s favourite disciple asked him, “Master, who’s beautiful?” Buddha calmly replied, “One whose thoughts are beautiful and who’s full of care, compassion and empathy for all the living and non-living creatures in the universe.” True beauty has an all-encompassing compassionate streak to it. Handsome is one who handsome does is a popular aphorism in English. This maxim has great profundity. A person’s (good or bad) deeds make him/her beautiful or ugly as per the inner fabric. Michelangelo used the same person to make statues of Jesus Christ and Satan! When he bumped into a young man who looked like an angel, he sculpted Jesus with the angelic looks of that young man and after many years, when he again ran into the same person waiting to be executed in a prison in Florence, Michelangelo used the same man to sculpt the Satan! When the great Renaissance master’s subject was good at heart, he looked like Jesus in his innocence and when the same person turned a rogue and a criminal to be executed, he appeared devilish like Satan. It is the inner beauty that seals and settles one’s appearance. Roop, rang pe marta aaya sadiyon se ye zamana/Main man ki sundarta dekhoon, pyaar ka main deewana (The world is enamoured of external appearance/But I prefer the internal and immanent goodness). To encapsulate, beauty is to be beautiful from within.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/to-be-beautiful-from-within-874551.html
18-08-2020||Opinion||Trump vs Biden: US Presidential debates need not be circuses||With many usual fixtures of campaigning upended by the coronavirus pandemic — rallies, town halls, fundraisers, conventions — President Donald Trump has been looking to beef up one of the few remaining pieces: the debates. The Commission on Presidential Debates has scheduled three matchups between Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden, the first set for Sept. 29. Noting that many states will have already begun early voting by then, the Trump campaign this month sent a letter to the commission asking that a fourth debate be added in early September — or, barring that, that the final debate be moved up from Oct. 22. “A debate, to me, is a Public Service,” Trump tweeted on Thursday. “Joe Biden and I owe it to the American People!” The commission rejected the request, insisting such a move was unnecessary. The truth is that scheduling is way down the list of problems with presidential debates, in this election cycle or any other. Debates are indeed a public service, providing voters a rare opportunity to see the presidential contenders side by side and take their measure for an extended stretch of time in a high-pressure setting. But in practice, the events have degenerated into media spectacles, showcasing much that is wrong with both electoral politics and journalism. Designed to maximize ratings — and, increasingly, the number of viral moments — the debates are light on meaningful discourse and heavy on ginned up conflict, regurgitated talking points and cheap zingers. With their countdown clocks, twitchy graphics and breathless hype, the media hosts too often package the events like pro wrestling matches. The moderators often focus more on burnishing their personal brands than on facilitating discussion. This year’s dynamic is complicated by Trump, whose relationship with truth is tenuous at best. With his penchant for prevarication, his desire to turn every appearance into a carnival, his defensiveness about his job performance and his growing desperation to improve his poll numbers, the debates seem bound for a new low. Much research has been done, and many recommendations made, on how to improve the debates. One starting point is to rein in the media outlets that host them. Networks need to tone down the gladiator vibe. The campaigns are not helpless bystanders. They should have a say in the basic tone of the proceedings. (Of course, Trump seems just as likely to advocate even gaudier showmanship.) The role of the moderators is a perennial area of concern. “The single largest criticism of the debates centers on the inability of moderators to do their job,” noted a 2015 report by a debate-reform working group put together by the Annenberg Public Policy Center. The most common complaints were that the moderators play favorites and that they “either do not have the skills to control the candidates or to call them on ‘nonanswers.’” This critique is as relevant as ever. Moderators are in a tough spot. If they let candidates bluster on or wander too far afield, they get criticized for losing control of the debate. If they cut candidates off and strictly enforce time limits, they get criticized for being too intrusive. But, in general, moderators need to avoid becoming part of the story. They should encourage direct interaction between the candidates, even if that means sitting back and missing out on the occasional follow-up question. Debates are not meant to be modified news conferences or interviews. The Annenberg report recommended cutting moderators out of the action as much as possible. With the particular challenges that Trump poses, of course, that may call for some adjustments. The president has made clear that he will say anything, without regard to the truth. The debate hosts and moderators need to have multiple systems in place to deal with this and be willing to call him out. Real-time fact-checking resources should be beefed up, along with morning-after analyses. As an additional check, particularly egregious lies spread in one debate could be revisited in subsequent ones, with the candidates asked to respond. The basic debate structure could use some tweaking as well. The common format of allowing each candidate 60 to 90 seconds to answer, followed by 30 seconds for rebuttals, is too rigid and provides insufficient time for thoughtful responses. It pushes participants to give every question equal time. One proposed alternative is the chess clock model, in which each candidate would receive a total of 45 minutes, which would tick down whenever he or she spoke. Within reasonably broad parameters, a candidate could devote different amounts of time to different questions, for instance, spending twice as long on climate change as on decriminalizing border crossings — or vice versa. Another Annenberg suggestion for helping candidates define their priorities: Give each contender two or three topics in advance, for which they would prepare meaty four-minute statements, and their opponent would prepare equivalent rebuttals. Topics could be determined variously by the candidates, the moderators and the voters. Organizers really ought to consider losing the live audiences — even after crowding into a college auditorium is no longer a public health hazard. All the jeering and cheering encourages the candidates, and even some moderators, to play to the crowd. The crowd reaction, in turn, influences how the home audience processes the event. The entire set up lends itself to the kind of stunt Trump pulled at a 2016 debate with Hillary Clinton, to which he invited several women who had accused President Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct — and tried to seat them in his VIP box next to the former president. The presidential debates don’t have to be such circuses. The public and the candidates ought to demand better.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trump-vs-biden-us-presidential-debates-need-not-be-circuses-874612.html
18-08-2020||Opinion||Soft power challenges for Chinese propaganda machinery||China’s Confucius Institutes (CIs) have been in the news for the last few weeks. There has been increasing global backlash against these Chinese government-linked Institutes set up with the stated aim of promoting the study of Chinese language, culture and calligraphy.  In the newly altered global scenario we are witnessing a surge of anti-China sentiment after the outbreak of Covid-19. In this situation, these Institutes have become a focal point for countries, including India, wanting to reassess their engagement with Chinese soft power.  It may be interesting to look at what makes these Institutes so contentious and why China may have failed to sell them as mere centres of learning and sites for cultural exchange. The genesis The Chinese government started its first CI in 2004. By 2014 there were around 548 CIs in 154 countries in addition to around 1193 Confucius classrooms, out of which India hosts 3 CIs. One of the aims in opening these Institutes was to develop the image of China as a benign and peaceful rising power and counter increasing assessments that instead portrayed Beijing as a hegemonic rising power. CIs are established between a local university/institute and a Chinese university/institute. The funding is shared between the Hanban, a body that comes directly under the Chinese Ministry of Education, and the host university/institute. Post the recent pushback against the Institutes, the Chinese government has attempted to alter the image of these Institutes by changing the name of the governing body managing them from Hanban to Centre for Language Education and Cooperation. However, this move seems to have failed to help as it is viewed as only a cosmetic change.  Problems with functioning There have always been issues regarding the working of the CIs. A number of universities like Pennsylvania State University and the University of Chicago in the US had expressed concerns about the working of CIs and their close relationship with the Chinese government. As a result, they had cut ties with the CIs in 2014. There were some reports which showed that the institutions which hosted CIs were pressured to avoid discussions on issues such as Hong Kong, Tibet, Taiwan, Tiananmen etc., which are generally viewed as sensitive issues by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Such incidents had raised suspicions that the CCP through CIs was trying the influence free and liberal spaces in other countries and universities, and shape the narrative on the lines of the CCP agenda and worldview. Further, because of continuous involvement of the CCP in the working of the CIs, it was argued that CIs were being used by the Chinese government for global propaganda.  US, India, Germany all have been reconsidering the existing CIs and may decide to close them. In the case of India the border clashes have soured the relationship. After India decided to ban a number of Chinese apps, the next obvious choice was CIs. The United States has, for its part, decided to look at the CIs as ‘foreign missions’. In a statement Mike Pompeo, US Secretary of State described the Confucius Institute Centre U.S. Centre in Washington as “an entity advancing Beijing's global propaganda and malign influence campaign" in the country’s classrooms. Blow to China’s soft power ambitions The move to bring CIs under greater scrutiny is undoubtedly a setback to the Chinese government’s hope and dream of building a strong soft power reach like the United States, France (Alliance Française) and Germany (Goethe-Institut). However, there are some structural issues that will make it hard for China to reposition these Institutes as merely avenues of cultural interface going forward.   A major hurdles for the CCP will be its inability to disassociate from CIs and let them be just educational institutes. The fear and inability of the CCP to let the CIs be independent has led to its criticism and may result in countering the ultimate Chinese goal.  On the whole, the Chinese dream of having a strong soft power appeal has not succeeded so far. The economic growth of China did provide some appeal to the Chinese model, but Beijing has still not managed to ‘sell’ the Chinese way of life. CIs would have become a strong foothold for Beijing and may have helped in expanding the reach of Chinese language and culture if only Beijing could keep out of overt involvement.  Understanding soft power The CIs will continue to face criticism and the cosmetic changes undertaken by Beijing will not manage to assuage global concerns. Soft power is definitely an essential aspect for any nation aiming for global position and prestige. However, what Beijing needs to understand is that soft power is successful only if it works and exists independent of hard power and government involvement. If it is perceived that the government is directly involved it weakens the appeal and raises questions and will continue to face pushback. (Dr Gunjan Singh teaches at the O P Jindal Global University. She specialises in China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/soft-power-challenges-for-chinese-propaganda-machinery-874691.html
18-08-2020||Opinion||MS Dhoni: The unassuming changemaker from Ranchi||In a storied and well-chronicled career, there is little Mahendra Singh Dhoni has not achieved. Were he to make a short list of his accomplishments, one suspects the pivotal role he played in integrating the one-time hinterland with the mainstream ecosystem of Indian cricket will figure prominently. It’s not as if, before Dhoni, players from relative cricketing outposts hadn’t donned national colours. Kapil Dev’s stirring exploits lent a new dimension to the sport in Haryana, from where alone a fair few emerged in the wake of the ace all-rounder’s debut in the late 1970s. The sheer impact of Dhoni’s meteoric rise, however, is unparalleled. Ranchi isn’t an insignificant stop in Indian topography, the bustling industrial city already a major force in mineral-based activities by the 2000s. Dhoni made Ranchi a household name in the cricketing world through sheer weight of his presence; equally significantly, he triggered a revolution not just in his home town but also in other non-traditional cricketing centres, widening the base from which India could mount its challenge to conquer the world. That he did so without feeling, or yielding to, the pressure of conforming to expected norms is telling. Dhoni’s breakthrough came in the era of the Tendulkars, Dravids, Gangulys and Kumbles, suave and polished and clean-cut. Dhoni breezed in, not irreverentially but with a strong streak of individualism, and retained his individuality as his career evolved and blossomed while polishing the rough edges with experience and experiences. Not until he perceived the need to do so did he lop off the flowing mane which captivated his legion of fans. He didn’t try to change himself to fit into a team of established superstars, singularly unaffected by the fame, the spotlight and the clamour for attention that less deserving and less strong have found impossible to cope with. He didn’t attempt to banish his past and reinvent himself as a ‘city boy’. And even when he moved out of Ranchi and set up home elsewhere, he made sure Ranchi did not move out of him. Shaking the centre Without intending to, Dhoni’s resounding message to aspirants of his ilk from what are conveniently called ‘smaller centres’ was that if you were true to yourself and didn’t compromise on character and integrity, all you needed to travel the distance was skill and hard work. That where you came from was secondary to who you were and what you were capable of. That you didn’t need to speak the Queen’s English to succeed at the highest level. That your background didn’t define you, your actions did. To those who might have harboured a sense of insecurity and a feeling of inferiority because of the cricketing pedigree, or lack of it, of their respective hometowns, his glorious journey proved an invaluable life-lesson. The surge of cricketers from beyond the celebrated bastions of Mumbai, Bengaluru, New Delhi, Chennai and Kolkata in the last decade and a bit is every bit a by-product of the sweeping Dhoni wave that forced officialdom to acknowledge that the time had come to burst the unspoken but widely perceived elitist bubble of the country’s most popular sport. There has been a steady stream of players from Ranchi-like centres who have taken the Dhoni route to international caps. From Jharkhand alone, Varun Aaron and Shahbaz Nadeem have earned Test caps. So have Pankaj Singh from Rajasthan and Naman Ojha from Madhya Pradesh, and a slew from Uttar Pradesh for whom the first salvo had been fired by Under-19 World Cup-winning skipper Mohammad Kaif at the start of the millennium.  The list is far too exhaustive to bear reproduction in its entirety; suffice to say that Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh can both also boast international cricketers today. It would have to be a remarkably weird coincidence for none of them to have been inspired by Dhoni’s scything run and his larger-than-life yet head-firmly-on-the-shoulders persona. Dhoni opened the eyes of administrators nationally, of course, but he also shook local officials out of their stupor. That manifested itself in upgradation of infrastructure and ramping up of training facilities across the country. Those hitherto required to travel to state capitals for access to top-class facilities and quality coaching found that those essential requirements had now been delivered to their doorsteps. It will be simplistic, admittedly, to credit Dhoni alone for these improvements. But without Dhoni, this organic development would have taken many more years to fructify, of that there is little doubt. Dhoni the cricketer and captain is peerless, among the most sparkling gems in a star-studded Indian crown. Dhoni the trend-setter, the ticket-checker who effortlessly made it to the big-ticket league, hardly pales in comparison. If anything, the former assumed greater lustre because of the latter, which can’t be said of too many others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ms-dhoni-the-unassuming-changemaker-from-ranchi-874742.html
18-08-2020||Panorama||Improve nutrition in poor children||Inequitable distribution of resources is a major challenge in India that has impeded access to nutrition for a sizable population and harmed children the most. According to the National Health Survey, 2015-16, every second child, aged 0-5 years, from 20% of the poorest households in India suffers from some form of undernutrition. However, the conventional indicators of stunting (height-to-age), underweight (weight-to-age) and wasting (weight to height) are based on binary cutoffs and do not reflect those children who are just around the cutoff. These children are at an elevated risk of falling in the category of undernourished. Therefore, the issue assumes urgent policy salience in the current time of distress due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing policy response that has caused catastrophic impacts on food and health delivery systems. A recent study contextualises the sensitivity of undernutrition among poor children in India amidst Covid-induced disruption. Given the policy response of national lockdown of more than two months in India, it is plausible to assert that children from the poorest strata will succumb to dietary shock both in terms of quantity as well as quality. These shocks can be in the form of possible weight-loss among children due to Covid-19-induced economic distress among poorest households, including casual labourers who barely survive on wages even in normal times. Through household-level data from NFHS 2015-16, even with a minor weight-loss of 0.5% of body weight, the prevalence of underweight and wasting among poor children in India can increase substantially. Such a miniscule change would imply a weight loss of about 50 g for a child who weighs 10 kg. Assuming a scenario of 5% weight-loss, India will experience an increase of about 4,393,178 and 5,140,396 additional cases of underweight children and wasting. The study found that about 5 million children are at risk of falling in the wasting category of malnourishment, while an additional 2 million children are at risk of being severely wasted. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh will be most affected and will account for the higher share of the possible increase in the undernutrition cases. It is critical at this juncture for these states to navigate their policy focus to remedy the current problems of such high magnitude of job-losses and mass in-migration of poor families. India runs the risk of reverting to the old trajectory of slow improvements and compromise with the recent achievements made under POSHAN Abhiyaan. As the hardships posed by the pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown is lingering on and is expected to be further aggravated because of the bleak economic outlook for the next few quarters, the risk for about 77 million undernourished children in India is real. The vulnerability is expected to be higher particularly in rural areas as more than half of children rely on it as more than half of children from poor households rely on food supplementation from such government schemes such as Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), and mid-day meal programme. The abrupt diversion of Aanganwadi Workers (AWWs) towards Covid-19 related tasks has disrupted their usual activities of providing food supplementation under ICDS via hot cooked meals and take-home ration, and is likely to have an adverse impact on dietary intake of children. It is recommended to direct the policy focus towards the poorest section, as they are the section most vulnerable to these shocks and economic distress due to Covid-19 related disruptions. It is imperative at the moment to ensure a smooth and uninterrupted supply of nutritious meals and food supplements in order to maintain the nutritional status of poor children in India. Alternatively, measures such as direct cash benefits and transfers to reach out to the needy households and those from the lowest economic strata, as done by the government a few months ago, may need to be extended. It is also critical to enable ground-level functionaries (such as ASHA, AWWs) to maintain their active participation in preserving ongoing nutrition efforts such as take-home ration, and vitamins and iron supplementation to pregnant women and lactating mothers. (The writer is Assistant Professor, Health Economics, IIHMR University, Jaipur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/improve-nutrition-in-poor-children-874550.html
18-08-2020||Panorama||The Naga talks saga: Flag, Constitution and the fresh imbroglio||The declaration last October by the Centre’s interlocutor R N Ravi that the negotiations to find a solution to the six-decade-long Naga conflict had concluded successfully had brought relief and hope to the insurgency-torn Northeast. After all, the negotiation this time was different from earlier attempts as it was based on the ‘Framework Agreement’ that the rebel group National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) had signed with the Centre in 2015 that agreed to “share sovereign power for an honourable solution.”  Things looked brighter as Ravi had similarly signed another agreement with the Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), a forum of seven other rebel groups, for a “comprehensive solution” and to avoid past mistakes. The war of words since then between Ravi and the NSCN-IM regarding the contents of the agreements seems, however, to have brought the 23-year-long negotiations back to square one. Although Ravi, who is also the Governor of Nagaland since August 2019, claimed that negotiations on the major issues was over and only some “symbolic issues” (flag and constitution) remain to be resolved, the NSCN-IM on August 13 made it known to him that it did not think so. The rebel group, which has observed a ceasefire since 1997, charged Ravi with “twisting” the Framework Agreement to give an impression that the Naga outfit had decided to resolve the issues within the framework of the Indian Constitution. It has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to find a new interlocutor.  On August 14, while celebrating its “Independence Day” at its “headquarters” at Camp Hebron near Nagaland’s commercial town Dimapur, NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah was straight and clear. “The Nagas will co-exist with India, sharing sovereign power as agreed in the Framework Agreement and defined in the competencies. But they will not merge with India,” Muivah said in his “Independence Day speech.” “The Naga people have neither accepted the Union of India nor her Constitution at any point of time. We will not accept them today and even in the days to come...Nevertheless, we said we must work out a common ground for a meeting point so that we may co-exist together as two entities,” Muivah said after unfurling the “Naga National Flag.” This left many observers perplexed about Ravi’s repeated claim that the negotiations were over and only a few minor issues remained to be resolved. Flag and Constitution  “We are not asking for Naga national flag and constitution from the Government of India. Recognise them or not, we have our own flag and constitution. Flag and constitution are ingredients of our recognised sovereign entity and the symbols of Naga nationhood. The Nagas must keep their flag and constitution,” Muivah declared, making it clear that the NSCN-IM was firm on its core demands for a separate flag, constitution and integration of all Naga-inhabited areas in the Northeast. There are reports that most Naga groups, including the NSCN-IM, were cold to the Centre’s proposal for a satellite autonomous council to govern the cultural and identity issues of the Naga-inhabited areas in Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. Leaders of at least 14 Naga tribes queered the pitch on Monday when they wrote a letter to PM Modi declaring that nothing except “territorial integration” of the Naga-inhabited areas was acceptable to them.  Nagaland already enjoys special provisions under Article 371-A, which states that no central laws would be applicable in the state unless it is approved by the state Assembly. Nagas became worried after the Modi government quashed Article 370 in respect of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year, notwithstanding Home Minister Amit Shah’s assurance that Article 371-A would remain untouched. So, can the Centre recognise the demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution?  “Yes. The Centre may agree on a special flag and constitution in the spirit of the 2015 agreement. The flag and constitution will only represent Naga history, customs and their internal diversity and will signify the place of Nagalim in India. In no way will such a flag and constitution contravene India’s federal framework. Indeed, the Naga constitution could be made a part, maybe part four, of the Indian Constitution. Constitutional law allows for such inclusion with specificity,” said Prasenjit Biswas, Associate Professor of North-East Hill University, based in Shillong, the capital of Meghalaya. Past tense   What if the Centre rejects the NSCN-IM’s tough stance and signs the final pact with NNPG? Many in Nagaland believe that such a move would lead to similar mistakes made in the past and not bring about the “comprehensive solution” that the Modi government is looking for to end the Naga conflict once for all. Peace is still elusive in Nagaland despite the signing of two major agreements with the rebel groups in the past -- first the 16 Point Agreement with some moderates in the Naga National Council (NNC) in 1960 and then the Shillong Accord in 1975 with some others. But the NNC group led by Muivah formed the NSCN in 1980 and continued the armed fight till 1997, when it agreed to a ceasefire pact. Its cadres, with weapons, are still at its headquarters at Hebron. Way forward  The Centre held an “informal meeting” with NSCN-IM in New Delhi on Friday, without Ravi, and sources said that even PM Modi asked the Intelligence Bureau top brass to take the negotiations forward and try to bridge the “trust deficit.” This, many believe, is an indication that the Centre still wants the NSCN-IM on board for signing the final pact. “Naga peace talks are heading towards a conclusive moment, where both Naga groups and the Government of India can agree on recognition of Naga rights anywhere in India without curtailing the existing boundaries of states of the Union,” Biswas said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-naga-talks-saga-flag-constitution-and-the-fresh-imbroglio-874935.html
18-08-2020||Right in the Middle||A new friendship||If one is born an introvert like me, they would be the last person to mingle with a crowd. I am happy in my own web. Even when I used to travel in a crowded bus, I would be happy if I got a seat and then I would immerse myself in the newspaper reading the news. I would glance at the person sitting next to me, indulging in idle talk or talking to the strangers. I was trying to learn the tricks of the trade but could not.   With the imposition of lockdown and the self-isolation after, a new opportunity emerged for me to widen my horizon. I had enough stock of magazines that I subscribed to every month. But for a few days, there was no supply of newspapers. No doubt I read a few newspapers online, but the smell of physical copy of the paper was missing.  I avoided taking morning and evening walk in the nearby parks. The rule of “Lakshman Rekha”, of not getting out of house, was followed strictly. I walked on the rooftop of my home daily for the first time during this national crisis. I saw a few men from my house top spreading clothes on the railing and helping their wives in the daily household chores.  I walked every day and listened to Bollywood songs on my mobile. One day, I saw a stranger waving his hand towards me. I took off my earphones and asked him if I could help in any way. He told me that he was new to the city and did not know anyone. Even his landlords were away to visit their son. He told me that he had been blessed with a daughter and there was no one to look after his wife and daughter as his parents and in-laws were stranded due to the unavailability of flights. He asked me where he could get grocery, milk and vegetables.  I shared our conversation with my wife. She asked me quietly what the house number of the neighbour was. During the relaxation of curfew hours on the next day, she visited the family with a bouquet, aloo paranthas, cookies and few chocolates. On return from the visit, she was happy to tell me that this neighbours’ family was from Kangra, her home town and she knew the family. They were strangers no more to me and my family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-new-friendship-874933.html
18-08-2020||Second Edit||The uncommon impact of Mahendra Singh Dhoni||Two incidents – one from a teammate’s point of view, the other from a fan’s perspective -- in the wake of the announcement of his retirement captured M S Dhoni’s persona. Dhoni’s India and Chennai Super Kings teammate Suresh Raina, 33, ended his own international career the same day in a touching gesture. A day later, thousands of miles away in Chicago, one of Dhoni’s biggest fans, Mohammad Bashir Bozai, declared that he would stop travelling the world to watch India-Pakistan matches. ‘Chacha Chicago’, of Pakistani origin, averred, “Dhoni has retired, and so have I.” That’s how much Dhoni touched teammates and fans alike. The depression stemming from the pandemic briefly disappeared into the background, even Independence Day fervour took a backseat and the raging debate over the mysterious death of a famous actor – who ironically had reprised Dhoni on celluloid -- was given a breather following Dhoni’s Instagram declaration. Dhoni’s announcement of the end of his 16-year international career in a 16-word message was as organised as his game itself. It had a rippling effect, too, again not unlike his game, which was unorthodox in every aspect but unquestionably effective. Dhoni broke into the team when it was considered unfashionable for small-town boys to dream of an India career. By the time he was finished, he had become hinterland India’s hero, a role model to emulate and an inspiration to pursue one’s dreams. It is not difficult to explain the Dhoni phenomenon. His uninhibited batting, spectacular wicket-keeping, composed captaincy and no-frills demeanour made him the complete package. Dhoni is the perfect example of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts. As a finisher in limited-over contests, he was as calculative as he was explosive. Though not in the classical mould, as a wicketkeeper, he could conjure stumpings and runouts out of thin air, literally. And as captain, his reading of the game was impeccable, especially in the shorter formats. He didn’t enjoy great success in Test matches outside of the sub-continent and the West Indies, but that was largely because of the lack of pacemen in the team. The emergence of CSK as one of the dominant teams in the Indian Premier League greatly contributed to the Dhoni cult. As captain and undeclared mentor of the team, he has been the indomitable force holding the CSK team together. Fortunately for his fans, he isn’t lost to franchise cricket yet, and will soon get down to the business of shepherding the yellow brigade in the UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-uncommon-impact-of-mahendra-singh-dhoni-874555.html
18-08-2020||Second Edit||A mesmerising voice has fallen silent||India has lost a legacy in the passing away of Pandit Jasraj. He was not merely the founder of schools of classical music in India and abroad, he was an institution in himself. His voice has mesmerised audiences worldwide. His firm belief that music is a spiritual thing -- “prayer reaches God faster on the wings of music” -- gave his singing a special quality that will be hard to replace. When this iconic artist spoke of morning ragas and evening ragas, he became a scientist. “Depending upon the air, the temperature, you can feel the rishabh. In the morning rishabh, the notes rise higher because the sun is rising. In the evening rishabh, they go lower and lower to describe the setting sun,” he told this newspaper once in the course of an interview. As he wrote in his diary, he became a musician more out of necessity than talent. The death of his father forced him into becoming a professional tabla player. His introduction to vocal music was also accidental. As a percussionist, young Jasraj was enraged at the treatment meted out to accompanying artistes. So, he decided instead to sing. And the world of classical music became all the richer for it. He became an innovator, too, by creating a unique form of jugalbandhi (duet) called jasrangi. In this unprecedented format, he matched male and female voices, where each singer would sing two different ragas in their respective scales that blend and become one. It was a novel concept and Jasraj himself revealed its beauty when he performed harmoniously with celebrated singers. Inspired by great artistes like Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, he cultivated a style that was rich in its emotional content. His music moved his listeners as much as it moved him. He sincerely believed that listening to music by great masters was a “life-giving experience.” The hope of Indian classical music growing beyond the borders of this country motivated him to set up a unique institution for music and research in the US. Established on the traditional guru-shishya parampara, this institute carries the rich legacy of the Mewati gharana which was so dear to his heart. His dream was to make its students “the true ambassadors of this country.” But Pandit Jasraj was no mere singer. He was an institution, a living legend who defied age, custom and practice with his ground-breaking imagination that made his music one of a kind. Today, the voice that spoke the language of music, that moved effortlessly over multiple octaves, has become silent. And we are the poorer for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-mesmerising-voice-has-fallen-silent-874928.html
18-08-2020||South||Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi to remain shut; Madras HC dismisses Vedanta’s plea to reopen the plant||Handing down a major victory to anti-Sterlite protesters and the Tamil Nadu government, the Madras High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea by Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper seeking permission to reopen its massive copper smelter in the southern port city of Thoothukudi. The court also upheld the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to shut down the plant on the outskirts of Thoothukudi, 610 km from here, based on an order passed by its pollution watchdog on May 28, 2018. The plant was closed down permanently, exactly seven days after the protests against expansion of Sterlite Copper turned violent resulting in police firing that killed 13 civilians. While anti-Sterlite protesters and almost all political parties welcomed the verdict, Sterlite Copper termed the judgement as “utter shock” and dropped hints that it would move the Supreme Court. Political parties also asked the Tamil Nadu government to take a policy decision not to allow such industries in the state in a bid to ensure that the smelting unit does not get a new lease of life. The division bench of justices T S Sivagnanam and V Bhavani Subbaroyan dismissed all the ten writ petitions filed by Sterlite Copper against rejecting its application for renewal of consent and challenging orders passed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) directing closure under the Air and Water Acts. ‘Environment is supreme’ “The petitioner has been consistently stating that if their plant is shut the requirement of copper in India cannot be met, it will be a great blow on the economy, etc. The Courts have held that when the economy is pitted against the environment, the environment will reign supreme,” the judges said the division bench said in its voluminous 815-page order.  “Therefore, economic considerations can have no role to play while deciding the sustainability of a highly polluting industry and the only consideration would be with regard to safeguarding the environment for posterity and remedying the damage caused,” the judges added. In a voluminous order running into 815 pages, the division bench said the GO issued on May 28, 2018 announcing shutting down of the plant cannot be stated to be devoid of reasons, as it directs permanent closure and sealing of the unit and “has referred to the mandate cast on the State by the Constitution and bearing in mind the larger public interest.” The judges also came down on the company for its contention that Thoothukudi was safer than Chennai and that statements given by the public in the villages surrounding the unit to the officials are all “tutored” and everybody in Thoothukudi District is happy to have the factory. “All these submissions deserve to be outrightly rejected after going through the compilation filed by the TNPCB…As per the report of the Government of India - National Clean Air Programme dated 10.01.2019, giving a list of most polluted cities in the Country, in Tamil Nadu, Thoothukudi is the only District which finds place in the list of most polluted city in Tamil Nadu,” the judges noted. Sterlite Copper approached the Madras High Court after the Supreme Court struck down a 2018 order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) allowing reopening of the plant on the grounds of maintainability and gave the liberty to approach the high court. Reactions of anti-Sterlite protesters and Sterlite Copper Prof Fathima Babu, one of the first to move the court against Sterlite Copper, said the verdict is being dedicated to the 13 people who laid their lives for the cause. “We are upbeat and in a happy mood. The struggles of the people of Thoothukudi for 25 years have succeeded. But I do feel the journey is not yet over. We may have to travel some more distance. We will chase them even if they (Sterlite Copper) go to Delhi,” Prof Babu told DH. However, Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper said the verdict was a “big letdown to the people of Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu and India.” “There has been no complaint of pollution by Sterlite Copper from competent authorities of the Tamil Nadu government in the past five years. As a knee-jerk reaction, the government shut the plant and I would say the verdict is a big letdown to the people,” Pankaj Kumar, CEO, Sterlite Copper, told DH via video-conferencing. He added that the company may move the Supreme Court after “studying the order.” The judges also said the 2013 judgment of the Supreme Court that allowed the plant to reopen cannot be a bar for the authorities issuing directions for closure and noted that Sterlite Copper was not exonerated by the apex court judgment. “Therefore, on facts, we hold that the doctrine of res judicata can have no application to the facts of this case and it is not a case where the matter has been determined in a former proceedings and therefore, it is not open to the parties to re-agitate the matter again,” the judgment read. ‘Sterlite not able to establish decisions of Govt and TNPCB malafide’ The division bench also said Sterlite Copper has not been able to establish that the decisions of the Tamil Nadu government and TNPCB are “malafide” or on account of extraneous consideration or political consideration or a “colourable exercise of power.” “The petitioner being the biggest in the area cannot plead that they have been singled out and victimized when they have been found to be a violator. This observation will equally apply to the argument of the petitioner that 101 red category industries do not have authorization under HW Rules. This is a sorry state of affairs, the reasons are unknown but that can hardly be an argument to exonerate the petitioner,” the judges said. The judges also did not agree with the company’s contention that the Pollution Control Board may direct closure of industry, but it cannot seal the entire industry bringing every unoffending activity to a standstill, pointing to a judgment of the Delhi High Court in relation to another company’s case. “The petitioner cannot be heard to say that an ancillary unit, ancillary to a main unit, should be permitted to function when the main unit has been locked, sealed and directed to be dismantled. Therefore, we reject such submission,” the verdict read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-copper-plant-in-thoothukudi-to-remain-shut-madras-hc-dismisses-vedanta-s-plea-to-reopen-the-plant-874645.html
18-08-2020||South||From 1994 to 2020: Sterlite Copper's journey in Thoothukudi||Ever since Sterlite Copper began its operations in 1996, it has been at the centre of a raging row with villagers around its sprawling factory alleging gas leaks and bad effluent management. In a major blow to Sterlite Copper, the Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to allow opening of the Vedanta-owned copper smelter in the southern port city of Thoothukudi.  Here is a chronology of events: 1994: Sterlite Copper, a unit of Vedanta Limited, enters Tamil Nadu after the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board gives No Objection Certificate (NOC). 1995: TNPCB allows Sterlite Copper to begin construction of the smelting plant, ignoring protests by locals who opposed setting up of the industry citing environmental concerns. 1996: Though the National Trust for Clean Environment approaches the Madras High Court to challenge the environmental clearances, the Government issues licence to Sterlite Industries to operate the unit. 1997: Villagers near the Sterlite Copper smeltering unit fall sick and allege that their illness was due to pollution generated from the plant. 1998: National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) in its report comes down heavily on Sterlite for building the plant within 14 km of the Gulf of Mannar, flouting government's rule that the location should not be within 25 kms of the ecologically sensitive area. 1999: Locals allege gas leak from Sterlite Copper plant. Many people get hospitalised. 2001: Residents complain of toxic waste water reportedly flooding into the Silverpuram, Milavittan and Kaluthaikuttan tanks. September 2010: Madras High Court orders shutting down of Sterlite for violations of the law and heavy pollution. September 2010: Sterlite Copper gets a stay from Supreme Court on the Madras High Court order shutting down the plant. The apex court allows the plant to continue. March 2013: The Tamil Nadu government shuts Sterlite Copper after a gas leak was reported from the plant April 2013: Supreme Court fines Sterlite Copper Rs 100 crore for flouting environmental norms, but refuses to shut down the firm. June 2013: Sterlite Copper reopens after being shut for almost three months. February 2018: Villagers of A Kumarareddiapuram resume their agitation against Sterlite's expansion plans. Sterlite Copper planned to open a second plant at a cost of Rs 2,500 crore to double its capacity to 800,000 tonnes per annum. March 24, 2018: Thousands of people in Thoothukudi hold a silent march in solidarity with the villagers in their protest against Sterlite. The people march for a couple of kilometres by flashing the lights on their mobile phones. March 27, 2018: Sterlite Copper shuts the plant temporarily for annual maintenance work. April 9, 2018: TNPCB refuses to renew Consent to Operate (CoT) to Sterlite Copper for flouting environmental norms. April 10, 2018: Sterlite Copper informs the Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange of India Limited that its application has been rejected for want of more clarifications. May 22, 2018: More than 20,000 people march from Our Lady of Snows Shrine Basilica (Pani Maya Madha Kovil in Tamil) to the District Collectorate demanding closure of the plant. The protests turn violent, resulting in the killing of 12 people due to police firing. May 23, 2018: One more person killed in fresh violence erupted in Thoothukudi. May 24, 2018: TNPCB suspends electricity and water supply to Sterlite Copper. May 24, 2018: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announces that the government was moving towards shutting down the plant. May 28, 2018: The Tamil Nadu government orders permanent closure of the plant; Collector Sandeep Nanduri seals the plant in Thoothukudi. July 3, 2018: Sterlite Copper moves National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to close down the plant. December 15, 2018: NGT orders reopening of Sterlite Copper plant. January 2, 2019: The Tamil Nadu government moves Supreme Court against NGT order to reopen the Sterlite copper plant. February 18, 2019: The Supreme Court sets aside NGT order allowing reopening of the Sterlite Copper plant; allows the Vedanta-owned group to approach the Madras High Court. February 27, 2019: Sterlite Copper moves the Madras High Court seeking reopening of the plant. June 27, 2019: Madras High Court bench of Justices T S Sivagnanam and Bhavani Subbaroyan begins hearing the case. January 8, 2020: Madras High Court reserves its verdict in the case. August 18, 2020: Madras High Court dismisses Vedanta’s plea to reopen Sterlite Copper plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-1994-to-2020-sterlite-coppers-journey-in-thoothukudi-874655.html
18-08-2020||South||Telangana BJP MLA Raja Singh denies posting communally charged content on social media||Raja Singh, the lone BJP MLA from Telangana and apparently in the centre of a row over social media giant Facebook's policy on hate speeches, has rejected allegations that he makes communally loaded posts online, asserting he only works in the national interest. He said his official FB page had been "hacked and blocked" in 2018 but that there has been no response from the police on a complaint filed by him on the matter so far. In a report published last week, US newspaper Wall Street Journal had cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. Incidentally, Singh, known for his pro-Hindutva views, is the only saffron party legislator from the southern state. In a video released on Monday, Singh said, "I am being projected in such a way that I am the most dangerous in the entire world (like) he (Singh) says something on social media, then something or the other happens. I would like to tell the media that I am a person who works in national interest. Cite one example where I could be blamed for any social strife," he said. He claimed many social media accounts have been opened across the country in his name and said it was not possible for him stop all those people. He said he cannot be held responsible if somebody shared or posted something. "My official Facebook account was hacked and blocked in 2018," he said, adding he lodged a complaint with the police in this connection but that there has been no reply so far. He never posted any inflammatory speeches on his official social media accounts, Singh contended. Alleging there were many in the country who made inflammatory speeches, including AIMIM leaders in Telangana, he said nobody initiated action against them. He sought to know why he was being targeted and said it was 'wrong.' The legislator said he would continue to work in the national interest. A slugfest had erupted between the Congress and the BJP following a report in the Wall Street Journal claiming that Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to politicians of the BJP. Seizing on the report, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had accused the BJP and RSS of spreading "fake news" using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate, triggering a sharp counter-attack from Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. Congress and the CPI (M) have demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-bjp-mla-raja-singh-denies-posting-communally-charged-content-on-social-media-874670.html
18-08-2020||South||Sterlite Copper 'shocked' at Madras HC verdict, to pursue all legal remedies to reopen Thoothukudi plant||Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper on Tuesday said it was “shocked” at the verdict of the Madras High Court dismissing its petition challenging Tamil Nadu government’s decision to close down the copper smelter in Thoothukudi, 610 km from here.  Sterlite Copper CEO Pankaj Kumar told DH via video-conferencing that the company was studying the verdict and may move the Supreme Court against Tuesday’s order. He also alleged that “certain forces” are conspiring to stifle India’s ability to be an independent copper manufacturer.   "The verdict comes as an utter shock to the employees of Sterlite Copper and the thousands of small businesses, entrepreneurs and community members dependent on our continued operations,” Kumar said, adding that the government authorities did not raise any complaint with regard to pollution with the company in the past five years. He said more than 1.5 lakh people are dependent – either directly or indirectly – on the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi and the verdict was a “let down” to the people. He also spoke about India’s dependence on copper imports after the Sterlite plant was shut down in 2018 and warned the demand for the commodity would increase once normalcy returns after Covid-19. “The imports will increase as the copper industry grows by 5 to 6 percent every year and when normalcy is restored post-Covid, the demand will shoot up and our dependence on copper import will automatically go up,” he told DH. He said the company firmly believes in the safe and environmentally sound nature of its operations and is discouraged by the wilful reliance on “anecdotal evidence and half-truths by certain parties to spread falsehoods against our operations.” “At no point in our operations were any concerns of pollution raised by the appropriate authorities. We will, therefore, be pursuing all available legal remedies in the pursuit of justice over the coming days," he added in the statement. Kumar also said it is also disheartening to note that at a time when India is forced to depend on hostile neighbours for copper imports, certain forces are conspiring to stifle “our nation’s ability to be an independent copper manufacturer.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-copper-shocked-at-madras-hc-verdict-to-pursue-all-legal-remedies-to-reopen-thoothukudi-plant-874683.html
18-08-2020||South||Godavari river flood eases, several Andhra Pradesh villages inundated||After touching a peak of 22.90 lakh cusecs on Tuesday morning, the flood in Godavari river eased a little with the flow dwindling to 22.40 lakh cusecs by afternoon, but tens of villages in East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh still remained inundated. The flood flow is expected to further decline as the water level at upstream Bhadrachalam fell by over six feet on Tuesday after touching a high of 61 feet on Monday. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the situation, directed the Collectors of the two districts to immediately distribute Rs 2,000 each to the flood-hit families. The State Disaster Management Authority has asked people to remain cautious as the third warning signal continued at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowaleswaram near Rajamahendravaram. In East Godavari district, 95 relief camps have been opened where 14,477 people have been accommodated from flood- hit villages. In all, 147 villages under 23 revenue mandals in the district remained marooned due to the deluge, according to the district Collector Muralidhar Reddy. Standing paddy crop in over 2,385 hectares was inundated in the district while cotton in 225 ha and horticulture crops in over 5,000 ha were also affected. Full-scale enumeration of the damage would be undertaken after the flood recedes. In the neighbouring West Godavari, 55 villages under three mandals were still facing the flood fury. Vasishta Godavari, a tributary of the perennial river, was in spate, cutting off road communication network. Nine relief camps were continuing in the district where about 2,000 people were provided shelter after they were evacuated from the flood-affected villages, according to a Joint Collector. On river Krishna, the Srisailam reservoir received an inflow of 2.81 lakh cusecs on Tuesday morning of which 63,947 cusecs was discharged downstream. Nagarjuna Sagar received 40,259 cusecs and Pulichintala 27,322 cusecs but discharges from these two projects have not yet begun as they still have a large flood cushion. Flood discharge from Muniyeru rivulet also dropped on Tuesday to about 70,000 cusecs. Though the Prakasam Barrage downstream at Vijayawada received an inflow of 1.29 lakh cusecs, only 1.08 lakh cusecs was being let out into the sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/godavari-river-flood-eases-several-andhra-pradesh-villages-inundated-874772.html
18-08-2020||South||Kerala: Wife denies husband entry into house citing Covid-19||A person who returned from the United States to meet his family near Thenmala in the rural parts of Kollam district in Kerala was allegedly denied entry into the house by his family citing chances of Covid-19, though personal reasons were suspected to be involved. A Madurai native, married to a woman hailing from Thenmala, about 60 kilometers from Kollam city, came down to meet his wife and two kids on August 15. He had to wait in the gate for hours as his wife denied entry citing Covid-19 suspicion. He had to return as efforts of the local panchayat authorities also did not yield any result. Kerala witnessed several such incidents of persons coming from abroad and other states facing resistance from family and neighbours owing to Covid-19 suspicion. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had strongly condemned such tendencies. The person, aged around 35, came down from the US about a month back and reached Thenmala where his wife and two children were staying at a rented house. But the gate of the house remained locked and his wife did not respond to his calls to open the gate. Though local panchayat authorities intervened on seeing the person's plight, his wife maintained that since there was a risk of Covid-19 spread he could not be allowed to enter the house. Thenmala panchayat president Lailaja R, who tried to sort out the issue, said that though the woman was citing chances of Covid-19 as the main reason, it seems that there were other personal issues between the couple. Though panchayat authorities suggested him to undergo institutional quarantine, he maintained that he had already undergone mandatory quarantine after coming down from the US. Since the woman was adamant on her stand, the panchayat authorities intervened and asked her to give the key of their car to the husband and he went to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-wife-denies-husband-entry-into-house-citing-covid-19-874781.html
18-08-2020||South||Police constable killed in country bomb attack by rowdy in Tamil Nadu||A constable was killed when a history-sheeter allegedly hurled country bombs at a special police team that came to nab him here on Tuesday, police said. Constable Subramaniam died on the spot while the history-sheeter Durai Muthu suffered injuries in hand while throwing the bombs in the incident at Manakkarai area here, a senior official said. Two murder cases among others were pending against Muthu and the special team reached the area following information, he said. Of the two bombs that were hurled at the police team, the second one exploded, fatally injuring the constable in the head, the official said. Muthu had been rushed to a government hospital in neighbouring Tirunelveli, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-constable-killed-in-country-bomb-attack-by-rowdy-in-tamil-nadu-874820.html
18-08-2020||South||Sterlite effect: India’s dependence on copper imports to continue||Industries that depend heavily on copper for manufacturing products like wires, and by-products such as Sulphuric Acid and Phosphorous Acid, said the continued closure of the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi, 610 km from here, would only push the country towards importing them at a time the government is stressing on ‘Atmanirbhar’ (self-reliance). They also said such industries would continue to suffer for a longer time as there is a huge gap between demand and supply of the commodity. India’s copper imports doubled within a year of Sterlite Copper being shut down by the Tamil Nadu government in May 2018. While India imported 44,245 tonnes of refined copper in 2017-18, the figure rose to 92,290 tonnes in 2018-19. The country, which had been exporting 50 per cent of its total copper production till 2018, became a net importer of the commodity after 18 years and spending Rs 14,000 crores in foreign exchange. The Vedanta-owned Thoothukudi plant alone was supplying 40 per cent of the country’s copper, while HINDALCO supplies around 38 per cent of the market demand, and Hindustan Copper accounts 10 per cent. “It is also disheartening to note that at a time when our nation is forced to depend on hostile neighbours for copper imports, certain forces are conspiring to stifle our nation’s ability to be an independent copper manufacturer,” Pankaj Kumar, CEO, Sterlite Copper, said. He told DH that the country would continue to import copper for the foreseeable future and lose in foreign exchange. “The imports will increase as the copper industry grows by 5 to 6 per cent every year and when normalcy is restored post-Covid, the demand will shoot up and our dependence on copper import will automatically go up,” he said. Copper Consumers Association of South India treasurer Hemant K Mehta told DH that the news that Sterlite Copper will not reopen soon is “bad” since it would only increase the country’s dependence on import of copper from other countries. “For the past two-and-a-half-years, we have been experiencing a shortage of copper and we have been importing copper in huge quantities from countries like South Korea and Japan. It is bad news especially because we are talking of self-reliance. How can we be self-reliant if our industries continue to remain closed?” he asked. K E Raghunathan, Convenor of Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA), said the government could have imposed stringent rules on the company rather than shutting down the entire plant. “We are now importing more than 40 per cent of copper that we need. Then how do we become self-reliant as Atmanirbhar is the most used phrase today. In case of Sterlite, they could have at least allowed the 160 MW power plant. Closing down an industry completely is like chopping the neck of a person instead of amputating his injured arm. Why chop the neck when the injury is only on the arm?” he asked. The plant was also supplying Sulphuric Acid among other chemicals that are used to produce fertilizer and detergent products. After it shut down, major fertilizer manufacturers were forced to look for raw materials from other states and abroad. "Sterlite Copper was supplying Sulphuric and Phosphoric Acid to several companies across the country. We had to depend on import of the chemicals to keep our factories afloat. So many companies had even scaled down production due to shutting down of Sterlite,” S Gurumurthy, Vice-President of Chennai-based Chemical Industries Association, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-effect-india-s-dependence-on-copper-imports-to-continue-874823.html
18-08-2020||South||Kerala CM's popular dialogue hits him back||"There is a life involved in each file," a popular statement of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan a couple of years back urging government employees to avoid undue delay in processing files, is now hitting him back with popular personalities like Padma Shri recipient architect G Shankar and filmmaker Joy Mathew recollecting this statement while pointing out lapses of government machinery. Shankar, known for his cost effective and eco-friendly architecture, had posted a video the other day lamenting that he was struggling to pay salaries to his employees owing to the huge dues from the government for various projects completed. This was happening at a time when a Chief Minister who stated that there is a life involved in each file is heading the state. Shankar who run the Habitat Technology group also said that payments for the construction of K R Narayanan National Institute of Visual Science and Arts completed over four years back were even still pending. A section of officials were trying to find out reasons for delaying payments. The government may take steps so that employees could be paid salaries during the coming Onam festival season, he urged. Filmmaker and actor Joy Mathew came in support of Shankar and said in a social media post that it was not lives involved in files, but bribe. "While coming to power, popular statements like each file involved a life was made. But the people have now realized that it was not lives, but officials who seek bribe involved in each file," he said. Mathew also said the bitter experience of renowned architect Shankar was not an isolated one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-popular-dialogue-hits-him-back-874830.html
18-08-2020||South||Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh gets its first Vice-Chancellor||Prof TV Kattimani, former Vice-Chancellor of the Indira Gandhi National Tribal University at Amarkantak has been appointed as the first vice-chancellor of the Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh. CTUAP was established in 2019 in the Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh. The educational institution is presently running under the aegis of the Visakhapatnam based Andhra University. In a communication, on Monday, to the Registrar of Andhra University, CTUAP’s mentor university, the HRD ministry (ministry of education) has stated that the President of India, in his capacity as CTUAP’s visitor, has appointed Prof Kattimani as the first VC of CTUAP for a term of five years or until he attains 70 years age, whichever is earlier. CTUAP, fully funded by the Central Government through the University Grants Commission, is established with the objective of providing avenues of education especially higher education and research facilities primarily for the tribal population. CTUAP’s objective is also to disseminate and advance knowledge by providing instructional and research facilities in tribal art, tradition, culture, language, medicinal systems, customs, forest base economic activities, flora, and fauna besides making available to the students advancement in technologies concerning the natural resources of the tribal areas, the university website says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-tribal-university-of-andhra-pradesh-gets-its-first-vice-chancellor-874835.html
18-08-2020||South||Flood situation grim in Andhra Pradesh; CM Jaganmohan Reddy conducts aerial survey||Even as the surge of river Godavari waters is waning at Telangana’s Bhadrachalam, the flood situation continues to be grim in Andhra Pradesh’s Godavari districts. On Tuesday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of the affected areas in the East and West Godavari districts. According to East Godavari officials, 105 villages were affected by the floods and communications were cut off with 71 villages. In the 95 relief camps set up by the government, 14,477 people have taken shelter. NDRF and SDRF teams have been kept on standby in case of any emergency. Reddy has announced an immediate relief of Rs 2,000 to every family of the inundated areas. Given the Covid-19 prevalence, the CM instructed that once the floods recede, sanitary works should be taken up along with chlorination of water and health camps set up to monitor public health. “Ensure a proper supply of ration and other essential goods, including milk for children, masks and sanitizers. Covid-19 tests should be conducted at every relief camp,” the Chief Minister said. About two lakh water packets, vegetables and other essentials were distributed to the tribal villages of the West Godavari district through boats, officials said. In Telangana, a ministerial team led by municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao visited Warangal, the second largest city of the state, which was badly affected by the heavy rains of the past several days and reviewed the relief and rehabilitation measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-situation-grim-in-andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-conducts-aerial-survey-874854.html
18-08-2020||South||Kin of police firing victims welcome Sterlite Copper verdict; seek justice||49-year-old Vanitha was glued to the television since Tuesday morning to catch updates on the Madras High Court verdict in Sterlite Copper’s plea regarding reopening of its Thoothukudi plant. As television channels flashed that the Vedanta-owned copper smelter will not open, albeit for now, the news brought tears of joy in Vanitha’s eyes. Her daughter Snowlin, then just 17, is the youngest victim of the police firing that killed 12 other people on May 22, 2018 when the 100-day protests against the expansion plans of Sterlite Copper turned violent. “I could not sleep properly last night. Since morning, I was only glued to the television. Tears rolled down my cheeks the moment I heard the news. Those were tears of joy. The tears have a meaning, that my daughter’s sacrifice has not gone waste,” Vanitha told DH over phone from Thoothukudi. Snowlin was the youngest of Jackson-Vanitha couple’s three children and their only daughter. The family which is into fishing and had participated vociferously in the protests against Sterlite Copper that aggravated in the first half of 2018. The 17-year-old girl had wanted to pursue law, but her dreams were cut-short abruptly. Her brother Godwin and her father Jackson too expressed happiness at the verdict of the Madras High Court but said no amount of “good news” could bring Snowlin back home. “We are happy that people of Thoothukudi have got what they wanted. But who will compensate us for the loss of my sister? She was the most pampered child in our family. The void left my Snowlin remains,” Godwin said. Under pressure, the Tamil Nadu government handed over the case relating to police firing to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and constituted a judicial enquiry by retired judge Justice Aruna Jagadeesan. Two years on, there has been no forward movement in either of the enquiries, eluding justice to the victims. The brother of another victim, Selvasekar, said though the court’s verdict was welcome, he is still apprehensive of what would happen if Sterlite Copper moves the Supreme Court against today’s judgement. “We are happy for the people of Thoothukudi that their collective struggle has resulted in success. But we need to be careful and cautious as Sterlite will definitely move the Supreme Court. Our road for justice will be long. I think we will just keep waiting,” he said. Vanitha said she does not wish any “stringent punishment” on policemen involved in the incident but says the government should ensure such incidents never recur in the future. “Will I get back my daughter if these men are punished? I know I will not. I do not believe in revenge or tit-for-tat. But what we seek is justice for the people who have laid down their lives,” the mother added. However, Jayakumar said he does not have any hope that justice will be served to the victims. “It has been more than three years since my family lost my brother. We do not have even an iota of confidence that the policemen who shot innocent civilians will be punished. Will the government punish its own men?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kin-of-police-firing-victims-welcome-sterlite-copper-verdict-seek-justice-874857.html
18-08-2020||South||Kerala Landslide: Three more bodies recovered from Pettimudi, toll climbs to 61, nine still missing||Three more bodies were recovered from the landslide site at Pettimudi in the high range Idukki district on Tuesday, taking the toll to 61, officials said. Nine people are still missing. The remains of a six-year-old boy and a 57-year-old man were recovered while one body is yet to be identified and nine more bodies have to be retrieved. Two Ground Penetrating Radars (GPR)s from Chennai along with a four-member team joined the search operations by Tuesday afternoon, Idukki collector H Dinesh told PTI. The radars have been brought from the Institute of Oceanography, he said. The help of the dog squad was also used for search operations earlier, but due to inclement weather, their services are not being utilised now,sources said. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), fire force, police and forest officials are jointly engaged in the search operations. A massive mound of earth and slush triggered by heavy rains had flattened a row of 20 oneroom 'row houses' of tea plantation workers made of tin and asbestos sheets which acccommodated at least 82 workers at Pettimudi in Rajamala on August 7. Twelve people were rescued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-landslide-three-more-bodies-recovered-from-pettimudi-toll-climbs-to-61-nine-still-missing-874880.html
18-08-2020||South||People in Tamil Nadu village erect banners, pray for Kamala Harris to win US election||People in a Tamil Nadu village, which US Vice President hopeful Kamala Harris visited as a kid, erected banners, held special prayers and wished her success. Villagers in Painganadu, Harris' ancestral village, put up her banners. Harris' mother, who migrated to the United States to study, traces her roots to this non-descript hamlet in eastern Tamil Nadu. "They (Kamala Harris) have gone to the level of contesting for a vice-presidential candidate in America. Naturally, the villagers are very happy," Ramanan, a trustee at a local temple, told Reuters Television. Harris, born to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father who both immigrated to the United States to study, made history last week when U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden picked her as his vice president. Ramanan, who goes by only one name, said Harris' maternal grandfather P.V. Gopalan, a former high-ranking Indian government official, donated funds to the temple when he visited. On annual trips to India as a child, Kamala Harris would go for strolls with her maternal grandfather and his friends. In a speech in 2018, Senator Harris recalled those early visits to her grandparents in India. Further south, in Tamil Nadu's Rameswaram town, priests held special rituals and prayed for Harris' victory. "Kamala Harris - she is of Indian descent, she should win the election and also should be in favour of India," said Ananthapadmanaba Sharma, a priest at the Ramanathaswamy temple. "We will do all kinds of worship and the Lord will answer our prayers for her victory," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/people-in-tamil-nadu-village-erect-banners-pray-for-kamala-harris-to-win-us-election-874900.html
18-08-2020||South||103-year-old man recovers from coronavirus in Kerala||In a ray of hope for many, a 103-year-old man has recovered from Covid-19 at Ernakulam in Kerala on Tuesday. Pareed, a native of Avula in the Ernakulam, recovered after three weeks of treatment. Earlier a 105-year-old lady and a couple aged 93 and 88 respectively recovered from coronavirus in the state, which is significant as older people are thought to be most vulnerable when infected with the virus. Pareed was subjected to the Covid-19 test on July 28 after he complained of fever and body pain. Considering his age, a special medical team took care of him and the condition was stable. His son was also infected with Covid-19 and has already recovered. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that it was a major achievement of the Kerala health sector that many aged persons who got Covid-19 infection recovered. Pareed was honoured by the hospital authorities during the time of his discharge. Meanwhile, the state has witnessed the highest single-day spike of 1,758 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total coronavirus cases to 47,898, of which 16,274 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/103-year-old-man-recovers-from-coronavirus-in-kerala-874927.html
18-08-2020||State||Karnataka govt relaxes norms for celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi||Keeping religious sentiments in mind, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday announced revised guidelines for celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi on August 22, allowing public installation of idols with a limited number of participants.  The government has decided to allow the festival to be celebrated in public open spaces such as playgrounds where the height of the Ganesha idol should not exceed four feet. The height of the Ganesha idol that will be installed at homes should not exceed two feet.  Earlier, the government had restricted the festival to temples and homes.  Ganeshotsava committees (mandalis) that have been celebrating the festival in a traditional manner for years should obtain prior permission from the local municipal corporation/administration. One public function will be encouraged in every ward or village. Such events shall not have more than 20 people, the government has said.  Taking out processions with idols has been prohibited. Also, no cultural events will be permitted in public places where the Ganesha idols will be installed.  Citizens will have to immerse the Ganesha idol at home, whereas idols installed in public places can be immersed in ponds or mobile tanks arranged by the local administration or the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board.  Temples that are celebrating the festival must follow sanitisation and administer thermal screening on disciples. Those visiting temples must wear face masks and maintain 6-feet distance.  “I request all to celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly manner as per the revised guidelines while being mindful that the containing is the spread of Covid-19 is everybody’s responsibility,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-relaxes-norms-for-celebrating-ganesh-chaturthi-874702.html
18-08-2020||State||Covid-19: Recovered Congress MLA to donate plasma||Kunigal Congress MLA HD Ranganath, who recovered from Covid-19, has decided to donate plasma to help two patients recover from the infection. The convalescent plasma therapy involves using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those affected by the virus. Ranganath will donate plasma at the HCG Cancer Hospital on Wednesday. Ranganath, who is related to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, was tested Covid-19 positive last month. According to a statement from Shivakumar’s office, Ranganath will be the first MLA to donate plasma for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-recovered-congress-mla-to-donate-plasma-874878.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans six research varsities under NEP||The state government is mulling establishing six research-oriented universities besides setting up 10 universities focused on ‘teaching’ under the Centre’s ambitious National Education Policy (NEP). The state is also considering setting up 34 autonomous higher education institutions, said Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan, who held a high-level meeting with experts and officials from the higher education department on Monday on implementing the NEP. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar and Prof M K Sridhar, who was part of the NEP drafting committee, were also present during the meeting.  “We have already formed a task force to look into the possibilities of implementing the NEP,” Dr Ashwath Narayan said. “The committee will submit a draft report in the next four to five days. Besides, a detailed road-map on these plans will be submitted before August 29.” The government is also considering possible changes that can be introduced into the primary and secondary education system.  “Steps will be taken for bringing changes in the education system by implementing NEP through deliberations with the task force,” the Deputy Chief Minister added. However, during the meeting, experts said that existing law needs to be amended before implementing the NEP. “The government has decided to achieve all the goals mentioned in the policy in a time frame of 10 years, and this has been termed “Target-2030”. The expected results should be visible by then,” said Narayan. Consultation Deliberations and discussions about the NEP will be held across the state and will last for a minimum of a one-year duration. The policy will be implemented by discussing and taking all stakeholders into confidence, said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-six-research-varsities-under-nep-874560.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||High Court dismisses plea against release of 'KGF-2'||The High Court has dismissed a PIL filed seeking directions to the state government not to allow the release of the movie KGF-2, for casting Mumbai bomb blast convict Sanjay Dutt. The court said the petition has failed to point out any illegality. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi dismissed the petition. The plea, filed by G Shivashankar, a resident of Siddharudhanagar in Hubballi, contended that the government had allowed the terror case convict Sanjay Dutt to act in the movie, produced by Hombale Films. According to the petitioner despite the fact that Sanjay Dutt has been convicted in the Mumbai blast case, which has been upheld by the Supreme Court, he has been permitted to act in the film. He said the government should not have permitted the release of the film. The major submission of the petitioner was that the people of Karnataka are opposing the release of the movie because Sanjay Dutt has been allowed to act in it. "We have considered the submissions. The petitioner has not shown any provision of law under which the third respondent (Sanjay Dutt) incurs a disqualification from acting in the films. Similarly, the petitioner has not shown any provision of law which prevents the first and second respondents (state government and the film producer) from allowing the third respondent to act in the film. There is nothing placed on record to show that such a permission of the first respondent was necessary,’’ the bench observed. The bench dismissed the petition stating that no illegality was pointed out and also holding that there was no merit in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/high-court-dismisses-plea-against-release-of-kgf-2-874458.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||As Covid-19 cases and deaths rise, Karnataka government hides critical information||In less than two months since earning nationwide praise for the quality of its Covid-19 data disclosures, the state government has stepped down from many of its data commitments to the public. Not only is the government not sharing patient histories, but on Sunday, the latest dataset to be axed was the dates of diagnosis and the dates of deaths for Covid-19 fatalities, plus the location of deaths. An official attributed it to the challenges in handling the large number of daily cases and deaths in the state. On Monday, some of death information was restored but not the site of deaths. The situation is a marked change from June 25, when Karnataka was feted as being one of only two states in India to not only issue regular bulletins but also offer an archive download, data on deaths and cases, data on samples tested, patient demographics, district-level data, detailed data on deaths and details of imported cases.  However, just two days later on June 27, a week after the Covid-19 surge in Bengaluru started, a data column indicating how patients were infected was removed. It was eventually reinstated. On July 18, nearly 3,800 missing patient numbers were discovered. This culminated, four days later, with the government stripping all patient demographics and case details. Missing data effect Just what is the state trying to hide? In the omission of Covid-19 deaths, a public accounting of monthly deaths can be hindered, especially with fatalities going up. “Hiding such critical information ultimately makes recovery from the epidemic harder as the public is not given all the facts,” said the technologist P G Bhat, an Indian Navy veteran who helped the government to clean up common errors found in electoral rolls across the country. “This sort of data withdrawals happen when the government realises that the public is carrying out analysis based on the disclosures, which could potentially reveal some things,” he added. Munish Moudgil, director, Covid War Room, said there’s a hesitancy to share data if it was not 100% accurate as it could result in negative mediacoverage. “There are daily about 8,000 patients, and an average of 1.12 lakh patients to watch at any given point in time. Hospitals (are slow to) enter their discharge or death in a system. If they are at home isolation then it becomes even harder. Tracking more than a lakh persons per day without any mistake isn’t easy,” he said. Vikranth (name changed), a data expert who has been tracking Karnataka’s Covid-19 data, described the government’s actions as counterproductive. “When data which is once shared is withdrawn, it reduces public trust in government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-rise-karnataka-government-hides-critical-information-874516.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan tests positive for Covid-19||Former Congress minister BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan on Tuesday said he had tested positive for Covid-19.  “In the backdrop of minor fever, I got myself tested and the report has confirmed that I’m positive,” Khan said in a tweet, attaching a copy of his test report.  “As per the advice of doctors, I have been admitted to the hospital,” he said, requesting “all those who came in contact with me” to get tested. Over the past week, Khan, the Chamrajpet MLA, has visited the riot-hit areas in Pulakeshinagar, after which he visited Manipal Hospital to accompany leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah during his discharge after recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-mla-zameer-ahmed-khan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-874793.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to convene meeting to address coffee growers' issues: C T Ravi||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman promised to call a meeting soon to address the problems faced by coffee growers in Karnataka, said Tourism Minister C T Ravi here on Tuesday. Ravi, along with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, met Union Finance Minister Sitharaman and appraised her of the problems faced by coffee and other plantation crop growers. Emerging out of the meeting, Ravi told reporters that "we have appraised FM Sitharaman of the problems faced by plantation sector in Karnataka including price crash and pests. We have also requested her to take steps to prevent entry of low quality pepper from foreign countries. The Union Minister assured us to convene a meeting soon to find out a solution to the issue." In a memorandum submitted to the Finance Minister, Ravi also demanded more relief measures, including GST exemption on crop inputs, for plantation growers of Chikkamagaluru district for sailing through the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. He sought relief measures at the earliest to protect the interest of coffee, areca, pepper and cardamom growers in the district. The state minister demanded the central government announce a cash relief to plantation growers, grant one year moratorium on repayment of short-term crop loans and development loans, besides restructuring the principal and unpaid interest on crop loans. He also demanded the central government exempt GST on fertilisers, chemicals and nutrients in the current year and increase the rate of export incentive from 3 per cent to 5 per cent among others. The minister said that these relief measures are necessary as about 15,000 coffee growers in Chikkamagaluru district, who are paying nearly Rs 1,000 crore as tax to the government, are now in severe distress and financial crisis. Ravi also called on Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju with a proposal for construction of multi-purpose indoor stadium and laying of synthetic athletic track at a district stadium in Chikkamagaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-convene-meeting-to-address-coffee-growers-issues-c-t-ravi-874819.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NIA arrests Bengaluru doctor for alleged links with ISIS||The NIA has arrested an ophthalmologist from a medical college in Bengaluru for allegedly being in touch with ISIS operatives, working to develop medical and weaponry-related applications to help terrorist cadres and furthering its activities in the country, officials said Tuesday. Abdur Rahman, 28, working at M S Ramaiah Medical College, was taken into custody on Monday in connection with the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) case being probed by the agency, they said. The ISKP case was initially registered by the Delhi Police Special Cell in March 2020, after the arrest of a Kashmiri couple -- Jahanzaib Sami Wani and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh -- from Okhla Vihar, Jamia Nagar in the national capital. The couple having affiliations with the ISKP, an affiliate group of ISIS, were allegedly involved in subversive and anti-national activities and were in touch with a member of the Abu Dhabi module of the ISIS, Abdullah Basith, who was arrested in a separate NIA case and lodged in Tihar jail. "During interrogation, arrested accused Rahman confessed that he was conspiring with accused Sami and other Syria-based ISIS operatives on secure messaging platforms to further ISIS activities. He was in the process of developing a medical application for helping the injured ISIS cadres in the conflict zones and a weaponry-related application for the benefit of ISIS fighters," NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said. The NIA has found that Rahman allegedly toured Syria and visited an ISIS medical camp in early 2014 for treatment of the terrorists for 10 days and returned to India. After Rahman's arrest, the NIA carried out searches at three of his premises and seized digital devices, mobile phone, laptop containing incriminating material, Narang said. Besides Rahman and the Kashmir couple, the agency had also arrested two Pune residents -- Sadiya Anwar Sheikh and Nabeel Siddick Khatri -- for allegedly being part of the conspiracy to further the activities of ISIS/ISKP in India and to carry out subversive activities in the garb of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nia-arrests-bengaluru-doctor-for-alleged-links-with-isis-874831.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MP Srinivas Prasad tests Covid-19 positive; CM B S Yediyurappa's son under home quarantine||BJP MP V Srinivas Prasad on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. Prasad, a former Minister, said he was following doctor's instruction and there was no reason to worry. He has also requested all those who had come in contact with him during the last one week to undergo tests and go into home quarantine. Prasad represents Chamarajanagara constituency. Meanwhile, state BJP vice president and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra, who had met Prasad earlier in the day, said he was under home quarantine. Wishing Prasad a speedy recovery, Vijayendra in a tweet said, "as I had come into his contact, I have taken all the precautionary measures, and I'm in home-quarantine. I request all those who were with me to take precautions." Vijayendra was under home quarantine earlier this month too, when his father and Chief Minister Yediyurappa had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mp-srinivas-prasad-tests-covid-19-positive-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-son-under-home-quarantine-874858.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre to grant autonomous status to CESCK||Karnataka on Tuesday demanded the Centre grant autonomous status for the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK), Mysore. Minister for Kannada and Culture C T Ravi met Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and submitted a memorandum in this regard. CESCK was inaugurated in 2011 at the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in Mysore. Already, the state government has sanctioned 3 acres of land for construction of a building and temporary office in Mysore University, he said. In his representation, Ravi recalled that the central government had acceded to the Tamil Nadu government's request immediately and transferred the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) to Chennai with autonomous status. Granting autonomous status to CESCK will open avenues and opportunities to Kannada research in a big way, Ravi explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-to-grant-autonomous-status-to-cesck-874902.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC tells govt to justify Seva Sindhu rule for inter-state travel||The government on Tuesday filed a memo before the High Court stating that the Dakshina Kannada district administration had issued an order on August 15, permitting free movement at the Saradka checkpost on the Kerala-Karnataka border, subject to conditions. The bench asked the government to justify the mandatory registration on Seva Sindhu portal and obtaining of e–pass for daily travellers. The PIL was filed by Radhakrishna Nayak and others, seeking direction for allowing access to the road connecting Perla town and Charkala-Kalladka state highway through Saradka checkpost, which was closed due to Covid-19. The government submitted that the restrictions have been removed with effect from August 15, subject to conditions. As per the conditions, daily travellers have to obtain a monthly pass from the local gram panchayat and register information at the checkpost. The travellers will have to undergo medical screening and check-up. Travellers who wish to stay back in Karnataka will have to register on Seva Sindhu portal and travel through Talapadi or Jalsur checkposts. The bench directed the government to file an affidavit justifying the legality of the order dated August 15 on compulsory registration on Seva Sindhu portal, in view of complete relaxation of restrictions as per the unlock-3 guidelines from the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-tells-govt-to-justify-seva-sindhu-rule-for-inter-state-travel-874918.html
18-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Private colleges fear more vacant engineering seats this year||The Covid-19 crisis has left private engineering college managements in the state in fear as many of them face the threat of more seats going vacant this year. The managements feel that students from other states may not prefer to join colleges in the state this year considering the Covid-19 scenario. Every year, the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (Comed-K) takes around 18,000 candidates for seats available in over 190 private engineering colleges by conducting entrance test and counselling. As per the details available from Comed-K, around 9,000 seats were left unfilled during 2019. “The number of unfilled seats is likely to increase this year due to Covid,” said Dr S Kumar Executive Secretary of Comed-K. Not just the average colleges, this fear is also haunting the top colleges. “Every year, we used to get flooded with calls relating to management quota seats. But, this year such calls have become rare,” says principal of one of the top 10 engineering colleges in Karnataka. “We don’t think we can fill even 50% of the seats available under Comed-K quota at our colleges because the majority of students who opt for these seats are from outside Karnataka,” said a principal of one of the private engineering colleges in Bengaluru. The colleges are also coming up with initiatives to draw students. Some are thinking of offering discounts on fee and giving installment options for paying fees.  “Instead of keeping seats vacant, it’s better to give some offers and fill them,” says a management representative of a private engineering college in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, to help the member colleges, Comed-K is thinking of conducting at least two additional rounds of counseling this year. Generally Comed-K conducts three rounds of counseling. Entrance test The entrance test (Comed-K) for undergraduate engineering courses at over 190 private engineering colleges for 2020-21 academic year will be conducted on Wednesday. This year, Comed-K will be held in two sessions at 259 centres in 160 cities. Over 61,290 candidates have registered for the test all over India. A release sent by Comed-K directed candidates to wear masks compulsorily and report as per the details sent via SMS. Candidates have been asked to download the admission ticket and carry the same along with two recent passport size photographs. Candidates must carry a transparent water bottle, mask, gloves, sanitisers along with related documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-colleges-fear-more-vacant-engineering-seats-this-year-874921.html
18-08-2020||West||Less than 6,000 Covid-19 patients in hospitals in Mumbai||The Chase-the-Virus policy – launched by the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) - has started showing results and is now being replicated in the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region and hotspots like Pune, Solapur, Jalgaon and Aurangabad. The Chase-the-Virus model and then the Chase-the-Patient policy involves 4 Ts – tracking, tracing, testing and treating. After the praise of recovery in Asia’s biggest slum cluster of Dharavi by the World Health Organisation (WHO), a similar plan is now being implemented in the Philippines. In Mumbai, which includes two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, the total cases reported are 1,29,479 and deaths 7,173. The active cases now stand at 17,704, BMC officials said. “The total active patients is 17,704 and only 5,338 symptomatic patients are in hospitals,” Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. According to him, a total of 6.6 lakh tests have been conducted in Mumbai, the highest in the country. The recovery rate is 80 percent and the doubling rate is 86 days, the officials said. On average, the total cases reported in Mumbai per day is below 1,000. As part of the strategy, dedicated war rooms have been set up in each of the 24 wards in the city – and any suspected patients have to just call up the number – and the BMC team reaches out to them. After examination, they are being suggested home treatment or sent to hospitals. While CCC1 is for high-risk contacts, CCC2 is for mild and asymptomatic patients. Besides, patients are also being referred to the DCHC (oxygen facilities) and DCH (ICU/ventilator facilities). Several small isolation-and-quarantine facilities have been closed in Mumbai now. Patients are being sent to jumbo facilities like the Dome of National Sports Club of India in Worli, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Bandra-Kurla Complex and the suburbs in Dahisar and Mulund. As of now, the total bed strength of DCH and DCHC - for serious and moderate patients and complicated cases - is 16,075. The CCC2 beds for mild and asymptomatic patients are 23,437. There are 10,525 oxygen beds, 1,844 ICU beds and 1,096 ventilator beds in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/less-than-6000-covid-19-patients-in-hospitals-in-mumbai-874628.html
18-08-2020||West||Beed shopkeepers to be tested to detect 'super spreaders'||Beed district in Maharashtra is starting rapid antigen tests of shopkeepers, vegetable vendors, milk sellers and petrol pump employees from Tuesday to detect Covid-19 'super spreaders', an official said. Beed Collector Rahul Rekhawar issued an order on Monday for the conduction of these tests in Kej, Ambejogai, Majalgaon, Ashti and Parli towns of the district. The rapid antigen tests would be conducted for three days from Tuesday on shopkeepers, vegetable and fruit vendors, milk sellers, and bank and petrol pump employees, the official from the district administration said. Shopkeepers will be called for tests by appointment to avoid crowding, he said, adding that staff of the local governing bodies have been deployed for the task. During the three days, shops in these five towns will remain closed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/beed-shopkeepers-to-be-tested-to-detect-super-spreaders-874654.html
18-08-2020||West||Over 50% people in Pune have developed Covid-19 antibodies, suggests sero survey||The study was conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in collaboration with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU); Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad; Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and funded by Persistent Foundation. “Results show 51.5% seroprevalence in five PMC areas. This study was to estimate proportion of population in high-incidence areas of PMC who have been infected and have developed antibodies against Covid-19. Study does not provide information on immunity from subsequent infection,” the IISER-Pune tweeted. The principal investigators of the ‘Epidemiological and Serological Surveillance of Covid-19 in Pune City’ are Aarti Nagarkar (SPPU, Pune); Aurnab Ghose (IISER Pune).  The five ‘prabhags’ (wards) where the survey was undertaken are Yerwada, Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi, Rastapeth-Ravivarpeth, Kasbapeth-Somwarpeth, Navipeth-Parvati. Blood samples from 1,664 consenting individuals, chosen as per the study design, were collected (from 20 July to August 5) and processed to detect the presence of IgG antibodies against the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the viral spike protein using the highly specific (100%) and sensitive (84.7%) THSTI-RBD-ELISA assay. The study indicates that there has been an extensive spread of infection in the five ‘prabhags’ studied: seroprevalence ranging from 36.1% to 65.4% and it is substantive across all types of dwellings. Seropositivity of 43.9% was observed among people residing in bungalows, while it was 56-62% among those who live in tenement or hutment dwellings. People who live in apartments have somewhat lower prevalence (33%). The prevalence is 45.3% among the people who have access to independent toilets as against 62.2% among those who share toilets. There was no difference between men (52.8%) and women (50.1%), while people of older age (above 66) have a lower prevalence (39.8%). As on Monday, the total progressive Covid-19 cases in the PMC jurisdiction were 80,407 and 2,077 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-50-people-in-pune-have-developed-covid-19-antibodies-suggests-sero-survey-874660.html
18-08-2020||West||Height curbs, raw material shortage hit Ganesh idol trade in Maharashtra||Ganesh idol makers, whose businesses used to thrive ahead of the annual Ganpati festival in Maharashtra, are facing tough times this year due to restrictions on the height of idols and difficulty in procurement of raw material amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Craftsmen from Aurangabad and neighbouring Jalna say the rise in manufacturing costs due to shortage of raw material coupled with higher transportation expenses have added to their woes. Ganeshotsav is the most popular festival in Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals across the state attract thousands of devotees during the 10-day festival, which begins on 'Ganesh Chaturthi'. This year, 'Ganesh Chaturthi' falls on August 22. With the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic looming, the state government last month decided to restrict the height of idols installed by Ganpati mandals to only four feet. Even the Ganesh idols installed at homes cannot be taller than two feet, it said. "This time, the business is very less. The raw material required for making these idols is brought from Gujarat. This year, the transportation of raw material got hampered and so it affected our work," Ganesh Joble, an idol maker from Begumpura area in Aurangabad, told PTI. "Many of us work round the year to make big size Ganesh idols. But this year, idols of more than four feet in height cannot be sold which is a loss for us. Now we also need to safely keep these big idols till next year," he rued. Earlier, idols made in Aurangabad were sent to places like Nizamabad, Hyderabad (Telangana) and Pune (in Maharashtra). This time the trade is limited to some neighbouring districts, Joble said. Artisan Manoj Rakhe, from Partur in Jalna, said the coronavirus-induced lockdown adversely affected the availability of raw material and moulds for making idols. "We made less number of idols this time and also did not make big size idols," he said. Aurangabad-based trader Prabhakar Ingle, who gets idols from Pen in Raigad district for sale here, had to curtail his business this year due to higher costs of idols and their transportation. "The costs this time are high as compared to last year. The raw material used for making the idols and their transportation have become costlier this time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/height-curbs-raw-material-shortage-hit-ganesh-idol-trade-in-maharashtra-874673.html
18-08-2020||West||HC rejects parole plea of former DU professor G N Saibaba||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant emergency parole to Delhi University's former professor G N Saibaba to attend his late mother's post-funeral rituals. A division bench of Justices Z A Haq and A G Gharote, however, directed the Nagpur jail authorities to make necessary arrangements for Saibaba to talk to his family via video conferencing on one day. Saibaba, who is serving a life sentence in the Nagpur Central Prison of Maharashtra for links with Maoists, had sought parole to go to Hyderabad to attend the post-funeral rituals of his 74-year-old mother who died on August 1. Special public prosecutor PK Sathianathan, appearing for the government, opposed Saibaba's plea and argued that most of the post-funeral rituals are complete. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound with 90 per cent physical disabilities, had last month also sought parole to visit his ailing mother which was rejected by the prison authorities. In March 2017, a sessions court in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district convicted Saibaba and four others, including a journalist and a student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), for Maoist links and indulging in activities amounting to waging war against the country. The court had held Saibaba and others guilty under various provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Since his conviction, Saibaba has been lodged in the Nagpur Central Prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-rejects-parole-plea-of-former-du-professor-g-n-saibaba-874716.html
18-08-2020||West||HC seeks Maharashtra government's stand on reopening temples amid Covid-19||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to clarify its stand on reopening places of worship amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown in the state. A bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta was hearing a Public Interest Litigation filed by a city-based NGO seeking that the state reopens temples and permit a limited number of devotees at a time to enter the temples. The court directed Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to file an affidavit clarifying the state's stand over it. Kumbhakoni, however, told HC that on August 12, the state filed a reply before another bench of the court saying it did not intend to open any place of worship currently as it would pose an imminent risk of spread of coronavirus. While the above reply was filed in a petition seeking specifically that Jain temples be allowed to open for devotees to mark the ongoing festival of Paryushan, the state maintained the same stand on the opening of any place of worship, "irrespective of its religion," Kumbhakoni said. The petitioner NGO's lawyer, Dipesh Siroya, argued that the Tirupati temple in Andhra Pradesh was opened for devotees despite the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Tirupati temple is much larger than any of the temples in Maharashtra and receives a large number of devotees. Still, it has been opened for the public. Maharashtra can also frame guidelines to open temples and regulate devotees entering them," Siroya said. The bench, therefore, directed the state to file a separate affidavit addressing the issue raised in the present petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-seeks-maharashtra-governments-stand-on-reopening-temples-amid-covid-19-874738.html
18-08-2020||West||112 Maharashtra police personnel test positive for Covid-19, two deaths recorded||At least 112 personnel of Maharashtra police tested positive for coronavirus and two died of the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said on Tuesday. The detection of new cases has taken the tally of infections in the state police force to 12,495, the official said. At least 10,111 police personnel, including 1,000 officers, have recovered from the infection, while the toll in the department stood at 128, he said. Currently, 2,256 policemen are undergoing treatment at various hospitals, he added. Meanwhile, the police have registered over 2.30 lakh cases of violation of prohibitory orders ever since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in March, the official said. A total of 33,507 persons were arrested for these offences, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/112-maharashtra-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-two-deaths-recorded-874770.html
18-08-2020||West||Bombay High Court asks Maharashtra govt about system to ensure hospitals don't overcharge||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the Maharashtra government if it has a regulatory mechanism in place to ensure that private hospitals and nursing homes in the state don't overcharge for PPE kits and other ancillary items during the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Revati Mohite Dere observed while the state government has issued guidelines putting a cap on charges that hospitals can levy on patients, there is no mechanism in place to ensure that hospitals follow them. "We think the state government has not paid attention to the aspect of having a mechanism in place to keep a check on hospitals overcharging. How does the State propose to regulate? With no mechanism in place, the government is giving these hospitals unbridled power to fix prices," Chief Justice Datta said. The court directed the state government to file an affidavit stating if there is any mechanism in place to ensure that private hospitals and nursing homes follow the state government's guidelines. "How do you (the government) deal with violators? How do you ensure that the guidelines are followed by all hospitals?" Chief Justice Datta asked. Assistant government pleader Nisha Mehra told the court that as per a resolution issued on August 7, flying squads have been set up to carry out surprise checks on hospitals. The court directed Mehra to also state in the affidavit how many such checks have been conducted from the time these squads were set up till September 21, when the matter will be heard next.  The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocate Abhijeet Mangade, pointing out instances where private hospitals in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane district had overcharged patients for PPE kits and other ancillary items such as gloves, N95 masks and sanitisers. Mangade on Tuesday told the court that there is no mechanism in place and that flying squads were an eyewash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-asks-maharashtra-govt-about-system-to-ensure-hospitals-dont-overcharge-874786.html
18-08-2020||West||Stop partying through Covid-19 pandemic: Goa minister||The Indian resort state of Goa is cracking down on revellers throwing illegal, drug-fuelled parties as coronavirus cases climb in the tourist hotspot, a government minister said Tuesday. The coastal region has long been a magnet for backpackers and other travellers drawn to its scenic beaches and easygoing vibe, but the pandemic has meant that large get-togethers are now banned. Lots of bars and restaurants are also unable to operate after many workers fled the state for their home villages when India imposed a strict lockdown in late March. The partying has not stopped, however -- including in private villas, stone quarries and at secret locations in the jungle involving thousands of dollars' worth of drugs, according to local media. Goa's Tourism Minister Manohar Azgaonkar warned revellers on Tuesday that the good times are over. "These parties are happening illegally... police are looking into it", he told AFP. "We are asking people to be vigilant and if they come to know about any such case, they should inform the police," he added. "There are guest houses and villas that are operating illegally," he said, accusing owners of renting out their homes to visitors without informing the authorities. In a recent case, police busted an underground rave at a private villa on Saturday, seizing drugs worth 900,000 rupees ($12,000) and arresting 23 people, including foreign nationals, according to a report in the Hindustan Times newspaper. "All aspects of the party are being investigated. Where did the drugs come from? How did they arrange the party, who arranged it," said Shobhit Saxena, police narcotics superintendent.  The police has "zero tolerance for such cases and gives priority to public health and safety especially in these times", he told AFP. Foreign tourists cannot travel to India but Goa is home to a substantial number of foreign residents including many Russians, Israelis and Britons. Earlier this month an all-night rave fuelled by alcohol and drugs descended into a brawl with knives and bottles, while last month a Russian hotel owner was reportedly arrested for throwing a large party. Goa, home to around 1.8 million people, has registered nearly 12,000 coronavirus cases so far, with the vast majority of infections recorded over the past month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stop-partying-through-covid-19-pandemic-goa-minister-874791.html
18-08-2020||West||Maharashtra witnesses record one-day toll of 422 coronavirus deaths||A record single-day high of 422 Covid-19 deaths has been reported in Maharashtra on Tuesday. With this jump, the state's Covid-19 toll has surged to 20,687. In the last 24 hours, 11,119 fresh coronavirus cases have been reported in Maharashtra, pushing the state's tally of positive cases to 6,15,477. As many as 9,356 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of discharged patients to  4,37,870. The recovery rate stands at 71.14 percent and the case fatality rate is  3.36 percent. Out of the total 32,64,384 samples collected for coronavirus testing, 6,15,477 have tested positive (18.85%) till date. Currently, 11,35,749 people are in home quarantine and 38,175 people are in institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-witnesses-record-one-day-toll-of-422-coronavirus-deaths-874859.html
18-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Insurance for NGOs performing last rites of Covid-19 victims||The Maharashtra government has decided to provide Rs 25 lakh insurance cover to non- government organisations (NGOs) from rural areas which perform final rites of people who die of Covid-19, Minister Hasan Mushrif said on Tuesday. The insurance cover to NGOs will be provided till September 30, the rural development minister said, according to an official statement here. Mushrif said the government issued a circular in this regard on Tuesday. "A decision has been taken to give Rs 25 lakh insurance cover to non-government organisations from rural areas and their staffers who perform final rites of those who die due to Covid-19," he said, according to the statement. The cover is being offered considering the risk of members of such organisations getting infected by the disease, he said. NGOs and their members, however, need to be registered with the local gram panchayats for availing the cover, the statement said. The staffers of organisations concerned must have reported to work 14 days prior to getting admitted to hospital or their death due to the infection, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-insurance-for-ngos-performing-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims-874937.html
