19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Six held for stone-pelting at Mangaluru Maulana Azad Bhavan||The Mangaluru South (Pandeshwara) police arrested six persons including a minor in connection with the pelting of stones at Maulana Azad Bhavan, that houses offices of Minority Development department at Pandeshwara. The arrested are Dhanraj Shetty (21) of Goodshed, Sushanth (20) of Emmekere, Karthik Shetty (26) of Kanduka, Sangar Bangera (20), Maneesh Putran (20) and a minor, all hailing from Hoige Bazar. The court has granted bail to the minor while others have been remanded in judicial custody. Some unidentified miscreants had pelted stones at the Maualana Azad Bhavana on August 13 midnight and damaged windowpanes of the first floor of the building. Based on the CCTV footage, the police arrested the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-held-for-stone-pelting-at-mangaluru-maulana-azad-bhavan-875063.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two swept away, one killed in house collapse as rain and flood fury continues in Karnataka||Two people, including a 16-year-old-girl, were swept away and a man was killed when a house collapsed in rain and flood-related incidents in different parts of Karnataka, officials said on Wednesday. A Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre official told PTI the girl went to wash clothes in a river near Malakanahalli in Ranebennur Taluk of Haveri district on Sunday and was swept away by the strong current. "Search is going on by the Fire and Emergency Services Department and Police department," the official said. There were reports of a shepherd being swept away in the Krishna river in Raichur while a man died in house collapse at Sadalga village in Chikkodi Taluk of Belagavi following rains. According to reports, bodies of two women were found in Jurala dam on Krishna river in Telangana.Search is continuing for two other women. It is suspected that they were from Raichur in Karnataka. Since August 1, at least 19 people have lost their lives and 63 head of cattle have died in rain and flood related incidents. The state government has opened 104 relief camps across the flood hit areas where 3,810 people are staying. According to the information received, a majority of rivers in the state are in spate for the last few days. The floodgates of all the important dams in the Krishna river basin have been opened in North Karnataka leading to flooding in Belagavi, Bagalkote, Gadag, Koppal, Davangere and Raichur districts in north Karnataka. In Kodagu district in South Karnataka, the originating point of Cauvery, the rain fury continued on Wednesday as well. According to the KSNDMC, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Markandeya, Krishna and Bhima rivers were in spate. Reports said that due to floods in Malaprabha river, the Cholachagudda Bridge was submerged in Bagalkote district. At least ten people, most of whom are shepherds, were reportedly stranded in Madaragadda in Lingasugur Taluk of Raichur district. In Anegundi in Gangavathi Taluk of Koppal district, the Sri Krishnadevaraya Samadhi (tomb) was partially submerged. Rain and thunderstorms are very likely to occur at most places over coastal Karnataka and at a few places over Interior Karnataka in the next 24 hours, the KSNDMC said in a statement. The KSNDMC said that since August 1 about 5,500 houses have been damaged including 216 completely. The rains damaged crops in at least 60,000 hectares in the state. It also hit horticulture crops in about 50,000 hectares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-swept-away-one-killed-in-house-collapse-as-rain-and-flood-fury-continues-in-karnataka-875214.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka requests Centre to set up IIHC at Mysuru||Karnataka on Wednesday requested the Centre to set up proposed Indian Institute of Heritage and Conservation (IIHC) at Mysuru. With the Government of India announcing its plan to set up Indian Institute of Heritage and Conservation under the Ministry of Culture, Karnataka Tourism Minister C T Ravi requested the government to set up the institution at Mysuru. Ravi, who met Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday, informed that there is sufficient land available for the proposed IIHC and the state government is ready to provide the necessary support for the institute. "Mysuru is a central place for all heritage centres in south India and the city also offers an engaging and meaningful environment for heritage conservation for the future generation," he said in his memorandum. He also said Karnataka is the most suitable place for such institution as the state has rich cultural history and has a large  number of historically significant places attracting huge domestic and foreign tourists every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-requests-centre-to-set-up-iihc-at-mysuru-875277.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Karnataka reports 8,642 new cases, tally nears 2.5 lakh; state sees 126 more fatalities||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 8,642 fresh cases taking the total infection to 2,49,590 while the toll reached 4,327 with 126 deaths. As many as 7,201 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,64,150 and the number of active cases was put at 81,097, including 704 in the intensive care units of various hospitals, the Health department said in a statement. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum numbers in the fresh cases (2,804) and deaths (56). The city has so far reported 96,910 cases and 1,588 deaths due to the coronavirus and there were 33,280 active cases after 329 discharges on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 62,041. In a big spike, Shivamogga recorded 915 fresh cases on a single day. Mysuru reported 562 fresh cases followed by 537 in Ballari, 379 in Belagavi, 375 in Udupi, 253 in Dharwad, 234 in Dakshina Kannada, 228 each in Davangere and Hassan. Cases were also reported in Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi and other districts. On fatalities due to Covid-19, the health department said nine deaths each occurred in Ballari and Dharwad, eight in Koppal, seven in Davangere, five each in Mysuru and Tumakuru and four in Dakshina Kannada. Deaths were also reported in Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Gadag and other districts. While a majority of those who died of the coronavirus were aged above 50, there were also young people who succumbed to the infection. There was one victim in his 20s, four in their 30s and 14 in their 40s, the bulletin said. Most of those who died of coronavirus had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, or the Influenza Like Illness. The department said as on Wednesday 3.26 lakh people were under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-karnataka-reports-8642-new-cases-tally-nears-25-lakh-state-sees-126-more-fatalities-875287.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||No takers for large size Ganesha idols this year||Though the state government allowed installation of Ganesha idols at temples, public places, with certain restrictions, there are no takers for big idols, as people have already placed orders for small idols. Installation of idols measuring up to four feet is allowed now. Kumbara Gowri Ganesha Manufacturers' Welfare Association president Raghavendra said, "There is no demand for big idols and wholesale dealers refrained from placing the orders, as there was no clarity until two days ago. However, small idols are in demand, for celebration at houses." Blaming the government for the delay in issuing the notification, another manufacturer said, "The business would have been better if the government had issued the orders at least a fortnight ago. We did not make big idols this year. But, the idols, which were made last year is available. We had orders for small idols, but now, a few wants to cancel the earlier order and want big idols.” According to him, there are 60 families in the city, involved in manufacture of Ganesh idols. Each family used to sell a minimum of 350 idols, every year. But, this time, the business is totally dull. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said, “MCC plans for a safe and eco-friendly celebration. Public gathering will not be allowed. We encourage people to celebrate festival at their houses. We will set an example for other cities." Hegde said, "Karnataka State Pollution Control Board has warned not to use idols manufactured using chemicals. The people must adopt eco-friendly celebration from installation to immersion." As per the guidelines issued by the government, it has suggested installation of one idol at one ward or village. Permission from the civic body or local body is mandatory. Procession as part of the festival and gathering of more than 20 persons at a venue is strictly banned. The government has suggested the people for immersing the idol at their houses and the committees installing idols at public places, are suggested to immerse the idols at the nearby tanks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-takers-for-large-size-ganesha-idols-this-year-875289.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ex-MLA Guru Swamy dies||Former MLA C Guru Swamy (68) died of cardiac arrest, at a private hospital in Mysuru on Wednesday. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5 and was isolated at JSS Hospital. District Health Officer Dr R Venkatesh confirmed the death and said that the patient suffered from cardiac attack, but he was isolated as he tested positive for Covid a few days back. Guru Swamy, an advocate, was a follower of former Union minister Rajshekar Murthy. He started his political career in Janata Dal and ended in BJP. Guru Swamy was elected an MLA on a BJP ticket from Chamarajanagar segment in 1999. He was the first and the only MLA elected on a BJP ticket in Chamarajanagar Assembly segment until now. Guru Swamy, who was with Janata Dal, joined the BJP following Rajshekar Murthy in 1999. He defeated Vatal Nagaraj in the election. Swamy had foiled a hat-trick for Nagaraj. Later, Guru Swamy joined the Congress due to certain political developments in 2004. He also served as Chamarajanagar district Congress president. But, he rejoined BJP and continued in the party till the last. Swamy leaves behind two daughters, including, Nagashree, Zilla Panchayat former president, also BJP district general secretary, and wife Sheela. Nagashree performed the last rites as per the government protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ex-mla-guru-swamy-dies-875290.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Be safe, celebrate festival with ‘Turmeric Ganesha’||With just a couple of days left for Gowri-Ganesha festival, the usual charm of a variety of colourful Ganesha idols attracting passersby is missing this year, due to the Covid pandemic. Businessmen selling textiles, readymade garments and fancy stores, displaying a variety of bangles, an integral part of the festival, complain dull business. With the government and district administration restricting the installation of idols at public places, citing safety measure, rows of Ganesha idols, in a variety of colours, sizes and concepts, displayed by roadsides, announcing the festival a month in advance is missing. This has affected the idol-makers of the city. However, the concept of Do It Yourself (DIY) Ganeshas, made of eco-friendly materials, is gaining momentum. A large number of people have decided to go for seed Ganesha idols, small clay idols made of mould at home and also turmeric Ganeshas. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) too has launched a turmeric ganesha campaign. The digital campaign has gained momentum, advising the people to make their own Ganesha idols, using turmeric powder, rice flour or maida, sugar, and pepper, which are all available in the kitchens. The KSPCB is educating the public on the use of eco-friendly Ganesha idols every year. This year is different, as bringing clay idols to home would pose a risk of Covid, as the markets are crowded. The idea of turmeric Ganesha has come as a blessing for the people. Besides, it is eco-friendly and readily dissolves in a bucket of water. The water can be used for plants and also to sanitise around the house, as turmeric is a natural disinfectant. While a section of the people are still insisting on an idol from the market, to keep the tradition, they are opting small clay idols, this year. But, many are searching on YouTube and internet to learn how to make an idol at home, using turmeric. The KSPCB has also released videos as part of the campaign. Some have already placed orders for seed Ganesha idols and clay with a mould. The KSPCB campaign has set a target of one million home-made turmeric idols, this festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/be-safe-celebrate-festival-with-turmeric-ganesha-875291.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Umesh Jadhav, his son test positive for Covid-19||Gulbarga MP Umesh Jadhav and his MLA son Avinash Jadhav have tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Jadhav told DH that they got themselves tested for Covid-19 and the results came back positive. As a precautionary measure, he and his son and Chincholi MLA Avinash Jadhav are admitted to Bowring & Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru. "We will defeat the virus and come. The people of the constituency need not worry," he said. He had shared the dais with Deputy Chief Minister Govind M Karjol in Sedam on August 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/umesh-jadhav-his-son-test-positive-for-covid-19-875300.html
19-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Both expansion, reshuffle on cards for B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet could be in for both expansion and reshuffle, as the BJP central leadership has obtained the performance reports of incumbent ministers.  While the Cabinet expansion is imminent, sources say a reshuffle will be inevitable with ministers from Belagavi in the crosshairs.  Yediyurappa is under pressure to expand his Cabinet, an exercise that is overdue. There are six berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet. The chief minister will have to accommodate MLCs M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar — rebels who helped the BJP come to power. He has also publicly assured a berth for eight-time MLA Umesh Katti, who is sulking. There are several others who are vying to become ministers. Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, along with senior BJP leader C P Yogeshwar, is camping in the national capital for the past two days and meeting the party top brass, triggering speculation that Jarkiholi is eyeing the post of deputy chief minister while lobbying for Yogeshwar to be made a minister. They have met BJP national president J P Nadda, BJP national general secretary B L Santhosh (organisation) and some Union ministers.  Up to leaders: Jarkiholi “I’m not lobbying for the deputy chief minister’s post. It is up to the party leaders to decide whom to appoint to that post,” Jarkiholi said. “I met the party top brass on behalf of my friend Yogeshwar and thanked them for making him a member of the Legislative Council.” Yogeshwar maintained that he was there to thank the party leaders and that he “never asked for ministership”.  According to sources, the Cabinet expansion should have happened by now.  “If it happens immediately, say next month, it will be just an expansion. If it gets delayed further towards the end of the year, it will be a reshuffle. The central leadership already has the performance reports of every minister,” a senior Cabinet minister said. Apparently, the party is considering a reshuffle because “there’s too much representation for Belagavi”. While the Cabinet has seven ministers representing Bengaluru, there are four from Belagavi — Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle, Textiles Minister Shrimant Patil and Jarkiholi. “Bengaluru’s case is different because three ministers were rebels,” the minister said.  According to a top BJP office-bearer who is close to Yediyurappa, the party has observed that migrants such as S T Somashekhar, B C Patil and K Sudhakar were “more active” than native BJP ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/both-expansion-reshuffle-on-cards-for-b-s-yediyurappa-s-cabinet-874964.html
19-08-2020||National||Cancer cases in India estimated to be 13.9 lakh in 2020, may rise to 15.7 lakh by 2025: Report||The number of cancer cases in India is estimated to be 13.9 lakh this year and may increase to 15.7 lakh by 2025, according to a report released by the ICMR and the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the estimates presented in the National Cancer Registry Programme Report, 2020, are based on information collected from 28 Population Based Cancer Registries. Additionally, 58 hospital-based cancer registries provided data, it said. According to the statement, tobacco-related cancer is estimated to contribute 3.7 lakh cases which is 27.1 per cent of the total cancer burden in 2020. "Among women, breast cancer is estimated to contribute 2 lakh (14.8 per cent) and cervix cancer is estimated to contribute 0.75 lakh (5.4 per cent), whereas for both men and women, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract is estimated to contribute 2.7 lakhs (19.7 per cent) of the total cancer burden," it said.  Cancer incidence rate among males per 1,00,000 population ranges from 269.4 in Aizawl district, which is the highest in India, to 39.5 in Osmanabad and Beed districts.  As for females, cancer incidence rate per 1,00,000 population ranges from 219.8 in Papumpare district to 49.4 in Osmanabad and Beed district, the statement said. Incidence of cancer related to use of any form of tobacco was the highest in the northeastern region of the country and in higher proportion in men. Cancer of lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus were the most common cancers among men, it highlighted. Cancer of breast and cervix uteri were the most common cancers among women. Cancer of lung was diagnosed at a stage of spread to distant sites, while cancers of head and neck, stomach, breast and cervix were in higher proportions with loco-regional spread, the statement said.  Multimodality treatment -- a varied combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy -- was administered for cancers of breast, and head and neck, while cancer of cervix was treated mainly with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. For cancers of the lung and the stomach, systemic therapy was the mode of treatment, according to the ICMR statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cancer-cases-in-india-estimated-to-be-139-lakh-in-2020-may-rise-to-157-lakh-by-2025-report-874961.html
19-08-2020||National||Railways introduces drone based surveillance system to ensure passenger safety||To keep a watch on railways assets and ensure safety for passengers, Indian Railways has purchased Ninja unmanned aerial vehicles. "Eye in the Sky: Improving Surveillance System, Railways has recently procured Ninja Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. With real-time tracking, video streaming & automatic fail-safe mode, the drones will enhance monitoring of the railway assets and ensure additional safety for passengers," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet. The Mumbai Division of Central Railway has recently procured two Ninja UAVs and used for better security and surveillance in railway areas like station premises, railway track sections, yards and workshops. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has planned extensive use of drones for the purpose of railway security, the railways said. The RPF purchased 9 drones at a cost of Rs 31.87 lakh so far at South Eastern Railway, Central Railway, Modern Coaching Factory, Rae Bareli and South Western Railway, the statement said. It also plans to buy another 17 drones in future at a cost of Rs 97.52 Lakh. The RPF has so far trained 19 its personnel to operate and maintenance of drones out of which four have received licenses for flying drones. Six more RPF personnel are being trained, the ministry said. The drone will help the railways to monitor its assents and its safety including yards, workshops and car sheds. Besides, it also help to launch surveillance on criminal and anti-social activities like gambling, throwing of garbage, hawking in railway premises, it added. These drones are capable of real time tracking, video streaming and may be operated on Automatic Fail Safe Mode, the Ministry said. "It may be deployed for data collection, analysis of such data collected may prove to be extremely useful in vulnerable sections for safe operations of trains. The drone may be pressed in service at disaster sites for helping in rescue, recovery and restoration and coordinating of efforts of various agencies," the ministry said. "It is very useful while undertaking mapping of railway asset to assess the encroachments on railway property. During large scale crowd management efforts, it may give vital inputs like crowd magnitude, probable time of arrival and dispersal based on which crowd regulation efforts may be planned and executed," the statement said. "Drones were used to enforce lockdown and monitor the movement of migrants during the Covid-19 lockdown," it said. A drone camera can cover large areas which requires 8-10 RPF personnel. Thus, it may lead to substantial improvement in utilisation of scarce manpower. Drone beats have been designed based on railway asset, sensitivity of area, activity of criminals. Any suspicious activity if noticed is intimated to the nearest RPF post of division to apprehend the criminal live. One such criminal was apprehended on a real time basis in Wadibunder Yard area while he was trying to commit theft inside railway coach stationed in the yard, the Railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-introduces-drone-based-surveillance-system-to-ensure-passenger-safety-874963.html
19-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 19||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 27 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 28,31,785 as of August 19 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 53,914   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-19-874981.html
19-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's health now stable, says son||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee is now stable, his son Abhijit Mukherjee said, adding that the doctors have noticed positive signs of improvement in his health. "My father is stable now. His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable. Positive signs of his improvement noticed," Abhijit Mukherjee said in a tweet.  Mukherjee underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 and has been on ventilator support since. He also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-health-now-stable-says-son-875021.html
19-08-2020||National||India reports 64,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 27,67,273||The death toll climbed to 52,889 with 1,092 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.91 percent. There are 6,76,514 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.45 percent of the total caseload, while the number of recoveries has surged to  20,37,870.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,17,42,782 samples have been tested till August 18 with 8,01,518 samples being tested on Tuesday. Of the 1,092 fresh deaths, Maharashtra reported the highest number of fatalities at 422 followed by 139 from Karnataka, 121 from Tamil Nadu, 88 from Andhra Pradesh, 70 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 35 from Punjab, 20 from Gujarat, 13 each from Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, 12 each from Delhi and Jharkhand and 11 from Rajasthan. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Odisha and Puducherry, eight each from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Telangana, seven from Haryana, six each from Assam, Kerala and Uttarakhand, five from Goa,  three each from Ladakh and Tripura, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim and Manipur have registered one fatality each. Of the total 52,889 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 20,687, followed by 6,007 in Tamil Nadu, 4,226 in Delhi, 4,201 in Karnataka, 2,820 each in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, 2,585 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,528 in West Bengal and 1,141 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 898 people have died of Covid-19 each in Rajasthan and Punjab, 719 in Telangana, 557 in Haryana, 561 in Jammu and Kashmir, 476 in Bihar, 362 in Odisha, 262 in Jharkhand, 203 in Assam, 175 in Kerala and 164 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 158 deaths, Puducherry 123, Goa 116, Tripura 65, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 30 each, Himachal Pradesh 19, Manipur 18, Ladakh 17, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Sikkim two each. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-64000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-2767273-875053.html
19-08-2020||National||SC orders CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput death's case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday accorded its approval to the ongoing CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai on June 14, saying "a fair, competent and impartial investigation is the need of the hour." A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy said, Rajput was a talented actor in the Mumbai film world and died well before his full potential could be realised. His family, friends and admirers are keenly awaiting the outcome of the investigation so that all the speculations floating around can be put to rest. In order to "ensure public confidence" in the investigation and to do complete justice, the court used its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to accord approval for the ongoing CBI investigation. It said this would ensure "a measure of justice for the complainant, (Sushant's father K K Singh) who lost his only son" and for actor Rhea Chakraborty, Sushant's live-in partner. "For her too, it will be the desired justice as she herself called for a CBI investigation," the court pointed out.  The dissemination of facts through unbiased investigation would certainly result in justice for the innocents, who might be the target of the vilification campaign, the court said, in an allusion to speculation in social media on the role of important functionaries in the case. The court held the Bihar government's recommendation for a CBI probe into an FIR lodged with the Patna police by the actor's father on July 25, was "lawful". The court directed the CBI to investigate any new case, if registered, on the death of the actor and the surrounding circumstances. "As the CBI has commenced its investigation, uncertainty and confusion must be avoided in the event of Mumbai Police also deciding to simultaneously investigate the cognizable offence, based on their finding in the inquiry proceeding," the bench said. Ending days of bickering between Bihar and Maharashtra police on the issue of jurisdiction, the court said the FIR lodged by the Patna police was valid. The court pointed out the Mumbai police so far conducted inquiry into the matter and did not register any FIR. "The Patna police committed no illegality in registering the complaint. Looking at the nature of the allegations, which also relate to misappropriation and breach of trust, the exercise of jurisdiction by the Bihar Police appears to be in order," the court said. The court rejected a plea by Rhea, to transfer the Patna FIR to Mumbai as the alleged offence took place in Mumbai. "At the stage of investigation, they were not required to transfer the FIR to Mumbai police," the court said. "For the same reason, the Bihar government was competent to give consent for entrustment of investigation to the CBI and as such the ongoing investigation by the CBI is held to be lawful," the bench added. Singh had accused Rhea of cheating, extortion, illegal confinement and swindling off his son's money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-cbi-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-deaths-case-875065.html
19-08-2020||National||Pawar writes to PM on co-operative banks||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the “co-operative character” of co-operative banks having a legacy of over 100 years is protected. In his Independence Day speech, Modi had said: “Bringing co-operative banks under the ambit of RBI, in itself is a guarantee for safety of the money of middle-class families.” Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra Chief Minister and Union Agriculture Minister for 10 years, in the letter said he welcomes and appreciates the objective of the Centre for the benefit of the small and middle-class sector. “Indeed, in order to fulfill the objectives, it is essential to bring in financial discipline in the co-operative banks, however, at the same time, I honestly feel that the existence of co-operative banks and their ‘co-operative’ character shall be preserved. The co-operative banking sector has always been the backbone of India’s rural economy. After Independence, from the first five years planning, in every financial planning of our country, a policy is implemented to set up a gram panchayat, a school and a co-operative society in every village of India,” Pawar, a former Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha, said in the letter to Modi. Needless to say, the importance and utility of the co-operative banks in spreading out the banking literacy and reaching out to the grassroots to implement the Jana Dhan programme for bringing Financial Inclusion to the masses is clearly apparent. Drawing the attention of the Prime Minister on Reserve Bank’s policy issues pertaining to the co-operative banking sector in the country, he said: “Prima facie, with regret I conveyed the ‘untouchable’ approach of the Reserve Bank, based on pure financial and commercial considerations towards the co-operative banking sector. The outlook of the RBI is that the share of the co-operative banking sector in the overall banking sector is merely about 3%. At present out of the 1544 Urban Co-operative Banks (UCBs) in the country, around 897 UCBs have a deposit base of less than Rs 100 crore and 115 UCBs have a deposit base of less than Rs 10 crore.” “I agree that there should be financial discipline in the banks, but certainly, it would be incorrect to say that such conversion of the co-operative sector into private sector would completely or partially prevent misappropriation of funds, financial irregularities and frauds in the banking sector,” Pawar said. According to him, as stated by the Reserve Bank, the amount involved in the fraudulent transactions that occurred in nationalised banks is approximately Rs 95,700 crore, out of which the amount involved in State Bank of India alone is Rs 25,400 crore. “In the financial year 2019-20, an alleged fraud of Rs 4355 crore was identified in PMC bank’s scam while during the first half-year itself a fraud of approximately  95,700 crores was reported in nationalised banks. Therefore, it is not correct to say that misappropriation of a fund or financial irregularities is observed in co-operative banks only. Further, it seems absurd to claim that privatisation of co-operative banks would curb or reduce banking frauds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pawar-writes-to-pm-on-co-operative-banks-875072.html
19-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition declines as he develops traits of lung infection, says hospital||The health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee declined and he developed traits of lung infection according to the latest hospital statement on Wednesday.  Mukherjee remains on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee as he has developed features of lung infection. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialist," the Army Hospital statement said. Earlier in the day the former President's son, Abhijit Mukherjee Tweeted that his father was showing signs of improvement. "My father is stable now. His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable. Positive signs of his improvement noticed," he said in the Tweet. The 84-year-old was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and he underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 and has been on ventilator support since. He also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-declines-as-he-develops-traits-of-lung-infection-says-hospital-875078.html
19-08-2020||National||Pandit Jasraj's mortal remains to arrive in Mumbai||Mortal remains of Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, who passed away on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, would be brought to Mumbai on Wednesday, his family said in a statement. The 90-year-old music doyen, who belonged to the Mewati Gharana, was in the US when the coronavirus-led lockdown was announced and decided to stay back in the country. According to a statement from the family, his body would be kept for "family darshan" later in the day around 4 pm at his Versova residence after formalities are completed upon arrival. "Pandit Jasraj ji's mortal remains will arrive in Mumbai on Wednesday, 19 August 12.30 pm," the family said in the statement. The classical vocalist, who infused life into the most complex ragas and held audiences spellbound with his craft, leaves behind a storied legacy spanning more than eight decades. He is survived by his wife Madhura, son Shaarang Dev Pandit and daughter Durga Jasraj, both musicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandit-jasrajs-mortal-remains-to-arrive-in-mumbai-875080.html
19-08-2020||National||Vikas Dubey encounter case: SC dismisses plea against Justice (retd) B S Chauhan led panel||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea questioning setting up of a three-member judicial commission led by former apex court judge Justice B S Chauhan to inquire into the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that there were enough safeguards to ensure fair inquiry by the judicial panel into the encounter which took place in Kanpur. On August 11, the bench also comprising justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian has said that it would not allow anyone to cast aspersions on the basis of media reports on the retired apex court judge heading the panel. The verdict came on a plea filed by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhaya seeking re-constitution of the inquiry commission and substituting its members -- Justice (retd) B S Chauhan, former Supreme Court judge, Justice (retd) Shashi Kant Agarwal and retired Uttar Pradesh DGP K L Gupta -- with other former judges of the apex court and retired DGPs. He had alleged that brother of Justice Chauhan is a legislator in Uttar Pradesh and his daughter is married to a Member of Parliament. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, the police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vikas-dubey-encounter-case-sc-dismisses-plea-against-justice-retd-b-s-chauhan-led-panel-875108.html
19-08-2020||National||SSR case: Conspiracy against Mumbai police, says Sanjay Raut||Refusing to make a “political statement” on the Supreme Court order on Sushant Singh Rajput case, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that it was evident that those who made the demand for a CBI probe conspired against the Mumbai Police. “The Supreme Court has given its order…it is not proper to make any comment on it….the Advocate General, Director General of Police or Mumbai’s Commissioner of Police can comment on it,” said Raut. However, he said those doubting the credentials of the Mumbai Police and demanding a CBI probe have actually conspired against the force. However, he did not take any names. “Maharashtra has always upheld law and order….small or big, no one is above law here,” said Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. He said that he is yet to see the judgement of the Supreme Court and would not be able to comment further. Asked about the name of state’s Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray being dragged into the controversy, he refused to comment. “Who is naming him?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-case-conspiracy-against-mumbai-police-says-sanjay-raut-875113.html
19-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries cross 2 million; case fatality rate declines to 1.91%||With a record 60,091 people recuperating from coronavirus infection in a day, the total recoveries on Wednesday crossed 2 million pushing the recovery rate to 73.64 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate hit a new low of 1.91 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said. The recoveries have surged to 20,37,870 in the country, while there 6,76,514 active cases of Covid-19, according to the data updated at 8 am. The record high recoveries have ensured that active cases of coronavirus infection, the "actual caseload" of the country, currently comprises less than 1/4th (only 24.45 per cent) of the total cases.  Higher number of recoveries and declining fatality has shown that India's graded strategy has worked. India has posted 13,61,356 more recoveries than the active cases, it said. "With high number of Covid-19 patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, the recovery rate has scaled the peak of reaching 73.64 per cent. This has also led to the declining case fatality rate, which stands at a new low of 1.91 per cent today," the ministry said. From the beginning of January 2020, Government of India assiduously followed a graded, pre-emptive and proactive response and management strategy for Covid-19 in the country, it said.  "The focussed, collaborative and 'whole of government' approach has yielded success," it underlined. Building on the continuum of care approach, the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently is led by the Centre and implemented in conjunction with the state and UT governments.  "Focussed attention on effective surveillance and house-to-house contact tracing has led to early detection and identification of Covid-19 cases. The mild and moderate cases are treated under supervised home isolation.  "As per the standardized clinical management protocol based on the holistic standard of care approach, the critical and severe patients are hospitalised and provided the best medical care," the ministry said. Government of India along with efforts of the state and UT governments has ramped up the hospital care infrastructure across the country to ensure that medical care for different categories of positive cases is provided through the Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH).  Their numbers has substantially increased too. As on date there are 1667 DCHs, 3455 DCHCs and 11,597 DCCCs. Cumulatively they provide 15,45,206 isolation beds, 2,03,959 oxygen supported beds, and 53,040 ICU beds, the ministry said. The seamless and point–to-point medical management of Covid-19 patients has been made possible through effective ambulance services with zero tolerance on refusal of care and service, and measures such as use of non-invasive oxygen combined with use of investigational therapies.  AIIMS, New Delhi through its tele-consultation sessions has helped to build clinical capacities of doctors in the states and UTs. Through this unique initiative, specialist doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi provide expert guidance and knowledge support to doctors manning ICUs in state hospitals. Integral to these efforts has been the remarkable contribution of ASHAs in states and UTs. Being part of the Active Case Search teams, they have strengthened the surveillance and contact tracing, and supervised patients in home isolation.  "They have played a key role in ensuring critical patients reach hospitals for timely treatment. They have also supported communities through awareness regarding measures for prevention and control of Covid-19, and helped the needy to access healthcare services," it said. With 64,531 people testing positive in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 27,67,273 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 52,889 with 1,092 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-cross-2-million-case-fatality-rate-declines-to-191-875125.html
19-08-2020||National||Navy Commanders begin 3-day conclave, review maritime security scenario||Top commanders of the Indian Navy on Wednesday began an in-depth review of the evolving regional maritime security architecture as well as the border row with China in eastern Ladakh on the first day of a three-day conclave, officials said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh attended the inaugural session of the conclave. The key focus of the conclave included reviewing the Indian Navy's operational readiness as well as issues relating to India's security interests in the Indo-Pacific, a region where China has been rapidly expanding its military presence, the officials said. All possible security challenges that the country may face, including from China in the Indian Ocean Region, were discussed at the conclave, people familiar with the meet said. The Indian Navy has deployed a range of its frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region to send a clear message to China following escalation of the border dispute. "The conference assumes greater significance in the backdrop of recent events on our northern borders, coupled with the unprecedented challenges posed by Covid-19," the Indian Navy said in a statement on Tuesday. The naval commanders would also deliberate on ensuring tri-services synergy as well as functional reorganisation within the Navy to improve efficiency, it said, adding the conference would also discuss the larger security imperatives in the Indo-Pacific. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to India's strategic interests. Over the years, the region has witnessed increasing Chinese presence. China has constructed the deep-sea Gwadar Port in southern Pakistan and a naval base in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. In the last few weeks, the Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, positioning a plethora of warships and submarines following the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-commanders-begin-3-day-conclave-review-maritime-security-scenario-875150.html
19-08-2020||National||Haryana police arrest sharpshooter, thwarting plot to kill Salman Khan: Report||The gangster was arrested on August 15 on the charges of murdering Praveen, a Faridabad resident who ran a ration depot. The report said that the sharpshooter had already conducted a recee in Mumbai earlier this year.  "During questioning, it has emerged that Rahul had travelled to Mumbai in January to conduct a recce for the murder of Salman Khan. He went to the actor’s house in Bandra for the purpose and stayed in the area for two days,” DCP Rajesh Duggal told the publication. Salman Khan received death threats from the same gang twice in the past two years. Last year, in September, during his Blackbuck case hearing, a gangster named 'Garry Shooter' from Lawrence Bishnoi gang had issued a threat to Khan via a Facebook post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-police-arrest-sharpshooter-thwarting-plot-to-kill-salman-khan-report-875155.html
19-08-2020||National||Truecaller identifies 29.7 bn spam calls, 8.5 bn spam SMS for users in India in 2019||Caller identification app Truecaller on Wednesday said it identified 29.7 billion spam calls and 8.5 billion spam SMS for its users in India last year. The Swedish company has also rolled out a new spam activity indicator for Android phone users that will give detailed statistics on the spammer. "Truecaller has become indispensable in the lives of 240 million (monthly) global active users... In 2019 alone, we identified 29.7 billion spam calls and 8.5 billion spam SMS for our users in India," Truecaller said in a statement. Truecaller has over 170 million monthly active users in India. The company, in a previous report, had said India had ranked fifth in 2019 in terms of the number of spam calls received by users per month, and eighth position in terms of spam SMS. Talking about the latest feature, Truecaller on Wednesday said it has rolled out the Spam Activity Indicator for Android users to build upon its core proposition of making communication safer and more efficient for everyone. Currently, three trends - spam reports, call activity and peak calling hours - will be shown to users when they tap on the spammer's profile image in the app. A future update will show users the stats right in the caller ID itself to help users make the decision before even picking up the call, Truecaller said. The feature will be extended to iOS (iPhone) users in the coming weeks. Spam reports will showcase how many times a Truecaller user has marked a specific number as spam and indicate by percentage if it is increasing or decreasing according to the reports. Call Activity will show the number of calls that particular phone number has made recently, potentially indicating how much of a spammer the number is. Peak calling hours is a time chart that identifies when the spammer is most active, Truecaller said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truecaller-identifies-297-bn-spam-calls-85-bn-spam-sms-for-users-in-india-in-2019-875158.html
19-08-2020||National||CAIT writes to BCCI opposing IPL title sponsor||Traders' body CAIT on Wednesday wrote to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) raising objections over the Indian Premier League's title sponsor reportedly having stakeholders from China. In a letter to BCCI President Saurav Ganguly, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said: "We are deeply pained to note that now Dream 11 has been chosen as sponsor of IPL 2020 which has Chinese company Tencent Global as one of the major stakeholders". "We are of the considered opinion that awarding sponsorship to Dream 11 is nothing but a bye pass route to neglect the sentiments and feelings prevailing among the people of India against China for its regular attempts to invade the interests of India," said CAIT, which is spearheading the campaign to boycott Chinese goods. Fantasy gaming platform Dream11 on Tuesday won the Indian Premier League (IPL) title sponsorship rights with a bid of Rs 222 crore, replacing Chinese mobile phone company Vivo for a four and a half month deal. Dream11 has been one of the IPL sponsors for a couple of years now. Vivo and the BCCI suspended a Rs 440 crore-per-year deal for this season owing to the border stand-off between India and China. The IPL, moved out of India due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, starts on September 19 in the UAE. There are certain questions about Chinese company Tencent's investment in Dream11, but one of the BCCI insiders privy to the development said that it is less than 10 per cent. Dream11 is an Indian company founded by Harsh Jain and Bhavit Sheth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cait-writes-to-bcci-opposing-ipl-title-sponsor-875160.html
19-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: SC order victory of justice, says BJP MP Manoj Tiwari||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order paving the way for a CBI probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, saying it is the victory of justice. The North East Delhi MP had earlier sought an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case. He had also met Rajput's father and other family members at their Patna home in June. The apex court in its order on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The top court delivered its verdict on a plea by Chakraborty who had sought transfer of the FIR lodged against her to Mumbai. "I cannot express how relieved I feel now. Thanks to all those who raised their voice in this case. The (Supreme Court's) order is the victory of justice in the country," said Tiwari, who is also an actor. "In this case, some families had to go through a post-mortem of their relations, release intimate photographs and go through many dilemmas as the state (Maharashtra) tried to hide the truth. The truth will now get justice in Sushant Singh's case," he said. While pronouncing the verdict, the top court said the jurisdiction of the Mumbai Police which is conducting a probe under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which deals with the procedure to be followed in cases of unnatural death and suicide, is limited. It said the Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation. It also held that the ongoing investigation done by the CBI is lawful. The apex court, which had reserved its judgement on the plea on August 11, was told by the Bihar government that "political clout" has not allowed the Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in the case. The Maharashtra government had argued that Bihar completely lacked jurisdiction in the matter. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-sc-order-victory-of-justice-says-bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-875167.html
19-08-2020||National||Centre sets sugarcane FRP at Rs 285 per quintal for 2020-21||The Centre on Wednesday approved a Rs 10 hike in the fair and remunerative price (FRP) of sugarcane, setting the price at Rs 285 per quintal for the upcoming October-September 2020-21 crushing season. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, gave its assent to the proposal in this regard moved by the Food Ministry. Briefing reporters after the meeting, I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar said that the decision will benefit one crore sugarcane growers who will now get Rs Rs 2,850 per tonne of cane. The price has been fixed on the basis of a recovery rate of 10%, while the farmers will get additional money at the rate of Rs 28.50 per quintal, if the recovery rate is 1% higher, at 11%, he said. The recovery rate is the amount of sugar that can be produced from sugarcane. The higher the amount of sugar derived from the cane, the greater the price a farmer gets in the market. Javadekar said the FRP will reduce by Rs 2.85 for every 0.1% decrease in the recovery rate in respect of sugar mills whose recovery is below 10% but above 9.5%. The minister also said that even if the recovery rate is 9.5% or below, sugarcane farmers will get a remunerative price at the rate of Rs 270.75 per quintal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sets-sugarcane-frp-at-rs-285-per-quintal-for-2020-21-875168.html
19-08-2020||National||3-day Monsoon Session of UP Assembly begins on Thursday||Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit has said all members will undergo Covid-19 test in a day and there will also be thermal screening facility outside the House. In the run-up to the session, coronavirus tests were carried out on 600 staff members of the Assembly on Monday. Twenty staffers tested positive for the virus. Ahead of the session, two ministers -- Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- succumbed to Covid-19 infection in a span of two weeks. Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Atul Garg was hospitalised on Tuesday after he said he had tested positive for Covid-19. Sixty-three-year-old Garg, an MLA from Ghaziabad, tweeted on Tuesday, "On August 15, RT-PCR test was done and I had tested negative. Yesterday (Monday), in the rapid test conducted at around 9 pm, I tested positive. People who came in contact with me from August 16 to August 18 should get themselves tested." The Speaker said that Covid-19 testing centres would be established near the residences of the MLAs as they have to be tested in a single day. Elaborating on the seating arrangements in the Assembly, Dixit said, "The MLAs will be seated leaving a seat (vacant) between them." Arrangements have also been made for the legislators to sit in the ''Yes'' and ''No'' lobbies. Each lobby can accommodate 30 legislators, according to Dixit. A visitors' gallery has also been reserved this time for the MLAs to sit, he said, adding that the canteen would not be opened. Dixit hoped that the Opposition members would not move into the well of the House and that they would abide by social distancing norms. "They have assured us," he added. The MLAs will be thermally scanned before they enter the house and they will surely come wearing a mask, the Speaker said. "If they do not come wearing a mask, we will give them one," he said. "I have requested former MLAs that they should not come to the Vidhan Bhawan during the session," the Speaker said. Uttar Pradesh reported its worst single-day spike of 77 fatalities on Tuesday, pushing the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 2,585, a senior official said. The number of Covid-19 cases has reached 1,62,434 with 4,336 fresh cases in 24 hours. The state has 50,242 cases of active infection, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-day-monsoon-session-of-up-assembly-begins-on-thursday-875174.html
19-08-2020||National||Justice triumphs: Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sushant Singh Rajput case verdict||BJP leader and Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday hailed a Supreme Court order upholding a CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case as a triumph of justice.  He also praised the "exemplary courage" shown by the actor's family and the "overpowering desire of the people of India" to see justice in the case and called it a new milestone. "Justice triumphs! The soul of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput will surely now rest in peace with the assurance of a fair investigation by CBI on the FIR filed in Patna by Bihar Police whose request for transfer of the case to CBI has been validated by the Supreme Court," Prasad tweeted.  The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of Rajput, to the CBI. The apex court said that the Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation.  Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-triumphs-union-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-verdict-875179.html
19-08-2020||National||India's Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla meets Bangladeshi counterpart to boost bilateral ties||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Wednesday met his Bangladeshi counterpart Masud Bin Momen here and the two top diplomats discussed ways to boost bilateral ties amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Shringla, who arrived here on Tuesday on his second visit to Bangladesh after he took office as the foreign secretary, held talks with Masud at Hotel Pan Pacific Sonargaon in Dhaka, the Dhaka Tribune reported. Shringla on Tuesday called on Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina here during which they discussed security-related issues of mutual interest and co-operation in containing the coronavirus pandemic and revival of the economy in a post-Covid-19 world. Both Bangladesh foreign office and the Indian high commission preferred to keep the visit as a low-key affair amid reports that this is Shringla’s first overseas tour since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Ahead of his meeting with Shringla, Masud on Tuesday said that he would discuss various bilateral issues particularly regarding Covid-19 situation and prospective cooperation over access to coronavirus vaccine being developed by UK’s Oxford University. "We will talk about trial possibilities of their (India) vaccine (being developed at Oxford University) here as we are continuing our discussion (regarding access to a vaccine) with everyone," he said on Tuesday. Developed in collaboration with British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, Oxford University’s vaccine candidate is leading the race for a vaccine seen as the only viable option to get the world out of the coronavirus pandemic. The vaccine is undergoing final stage trials in different countries. Serum Institute is also set to begin trials of the vaccine in India this week. Masud said Bangladesh has also communicated with Britain’s AstraZeneca via the High Commission in London with the offer for the trial to be held in Bangladesh, which has recorded 282,344 coronavirus cases and 3,740 deaths from the disease. It is also trying different ways to secure a vaccine. "Different vaccine producers in India are dealing with the commercial sides of the vaccine. This is the reason for driving our efforts. We are in discussion with different countries that have developed vaccines, be it the Americans or Oxford,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-meets-bangladeshi-counterpart-to-boost-bilateral-ties-875187.html
19-08-2020||National||Lavasa quits, Chandra likely to succeed Arora next year to lead EC during crucial West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh polls||Sushil Chandra is likely to take over as the Chief Election Commissioner in April 2021, as President Ram Nath Kovind accepted the resignation of Ashok Lavasa, who would have succeeded Sunil Arora as the head of the poll-panel.   If Chandra takes over as the Chief Election Commissioner, he may lead the poll-panel in conducting state assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in April-May 2021 and in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa in February-March in 2022. The elections in West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh are among the most important for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which leads the ruling coalition at the Centre. After winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats from West Bengal in 2019, the party is now preparing to pose a tough challenge to the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state assembly polls in 2021. The 2022 polls in Uttar Pradesh is also going to be important for the BJP, as it will come just two years ahead of the 2024 parliamentary polls.    Lavasa was senior to Chandra and was next-in-line to take over as the Chief Election Commissioner after the term of the incumbent, Sunil Arora, would end in April 2021. He, however, resigned to join the Asian Development Bank as a vice-president. The President accepted his resignation “with effect from August 31, 2020,” read a gazette notification issued by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice on Tuesday. Lavasa had a run-in with Arora and Chandra over enforcing Model Code Conduct during Lok Sabha polls 2019. His disagreement with other two members of the EC on the issue of enforcement of the poll-code during the parliamentary polls last year had come to the public domain. He had written a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner protesting against his dissenting minority views not being recorded in the decisions taken by the EC on notices or orders issued by it in the cases related to the alleged flouting of the poll-code, particularly on giving clean chits to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Amit Shah, who later took over as Union Home Minister. The BJP-led Government last month launched a probe against Lavasa, asking 11 public sector undertakings to verify if he had exercised “undue influence” during his tenure at the Ministry of Power from 2009 to 2013. The Income Tax department had also sent notices to his wife, sister and son. Chandra, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of 1980 batch, was appointed as the Election Commissioner on February 15, 2019, after his superannuation as the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). He was “at the forefront” of the Modi Government’s “fight against black money” and “spearheaded” action against “tax evasion in the wake of November 2016 demonetization”, according to his profile on the official website of the EC. He held “sensitive posts in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi” during his 38-year-long stint in the Indian Revenue Service.    Lavasa is the second Election Commissioner to leave the poll-panel before the end of his term. Nagender Singh had in 1973 resigned as Chief Election Commissioner before completing his term after being appointed as a judge of the International Court of Justice. At the ADB, Lavasa will succeed Diwakar Gupta, who will on August 31 next complete a five-year-term as the vice-president for Private Sector Operations and Public-Private Partnerships. The bank has its headquarters in Manila||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lavasa-quits-chandra-likely-to-succeed-arora-next-year-to-lead-ec-during-crucial-west-bengal-uttar-pradesh-polls-875197.html
19-08-2020||National||Floods in Delhi as South Asia monsoon toll rises to nearly 1,300||Heavy monsoon rains lashed New Delhi Wednesday, inundating roads and piling on the misery for commuters in the chaotic Indian capital, as the death toll from the annual deluge across South Asia rose to nearly 1,300. The monsoon is vital to the densely populated region, revitalising land and waterways amid scorching summers. But it also causes widespread death and destruction. In New Delhi, commuters battled through knee-deep waters and cars and buses were submerged as torrential rains added to traffic woes in the city of 20 million. At a museum in Jaipur in the mostly desert state of Rajasthan, staff told AFP how they were forced to smash open a glass display case containing a 2,300-year-old Egyptian mummy in order to save it from rainwater flooding the ground floor. "The workers broke the glass of the box and took the mummy out" last Friday after water levels started rising, Albert Hall Museum's superintendent Rakesh Cholak said. "The case of the coffin got a little wet but we've put it out to dry too." The torrid conditions in recent days also hit India's northern and eastern states. Across India, 847 people have died this season, the home ministry said. In Kerala, the death toll from a single landslide rose to 61 on Wednesday, with nine people still missing, an official said. In Bihar, eight million people have been hit by the floods, with thousands of displaced people sleeping on embankments and highways amid a shortage of relief camps. This year's rains have also come in the wake of the economic devastation wrought by the coronavirus pandemic, with the loss of crops across flood-affected areas a further blow to farmers and rural communities. In Bangladesh, 226 people have died so far with 40 percent of the country underwater after torrential rain caused rivers to burst their banks and inundate villages. "In terms of duration it was the second-worst floods in the country's history," said Arifuzzaman Bhuyan, the head of Bangladesh's Flood Forecasting and Warning Centre. More than six million people have had their homes damaged by the floods, and tens of thousands of villagers remain in shelters, an official from Bangladesh's disaster management ministry told AFP. Others are sleeping in shanties built on roads on higher ground, unable to return home to their submerged homes. In flood-hit Rupangar village outside the capital Dhaka, Shahanara Begum said she has been living on the road with her family for more than a month. "It seems like bad luck doesn't leave us. Wherever we go, floodwater follows us," the 50-year-old told AFP Wednesday. "It is very insecure to live on the road but we don't have a choice... most of our food stocks and clothes are already ruined," added 70-year-old Maya Saha. In Nepal, 218 people have died and 69 are missing from landslides and floods since mid-June when the monsoon began. In the latest incident early Wednesday, six bodies were recovered and 11 people were missing after a flood swept away a remote settlement in a western district, an official said. Nepal's monsoon toll tops 200 for most years, but experts say this year's landslips have been particularly deadly due to the continuing after-effects of the massive 2015 earthquakes and more road construction in the country's Himalayan foothills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floods-in-delhi-as-south-asia-monsoon-toll-rises-to-nearly-1300-875207.html
19-08-2020||National||6 lakh people evicted from homes since 2017, at least 20,000 during Covid-19 pandemic: Report||Close to six lakh people, including at least 20,000 during the Covid-19 pandemic in a "business as usual" attitude, were thrown out of their own houses since 2017 in eviction drives by authorities across India, a new report has revealed. On average, around 1.90 lakh people are evicted from their homes every year. At least 108 houses are demolished daily, about 519 people lose their homes every day and at least 22 people are evicted every hour, it said. The ‘Forced Evictions in India in 2019: An Unrelenting National Crisis’ shows that last year alone, central and state government authorities demolished at least 22,250 homes, thereby forcefully evicting over 107,600 people across urban and rural India. This takes the total number of houses demolished to 1.17 lakh houses and eviction of people to 5.68 lakh between 2017 and 2019,  as per a conservative estimate, for "range of reasons and under various guises, including slum clearance, city beautification, infrastructure and environment projects, wildlife conservation, disaster management efforts and reasons such as political rallies. In 2017, the report released by an NGO Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) said, 53,791 houses were demolished in which 2.58 lakh people were displaced while the next year saw 41,734 demolitions of houses and eviction of 2.02 lakh. Adding more misery to the affected, more than two-thirds of those evicted in these drives are yet to be rehabilitated and for those who received "some form of resettlement", the sites they have been relocated to are remote and devoid of adequate housing and essential civic and social infrastructure facilities. The HLRN data showed only 26% of the documented cases of eviction in 2019 got some resettlement while it was 29% in 2018. On the 45 eviction drives between March 16 and July 31 this year during the pandemic, the report goes on to say that it was likely that many of these evictions were carried out during the Covid-19 lockdown to "take advantage of the curfew-like conditions when the movement of affected persons was restricted and they did not have access to legal remedies". It has found fault with the Centre for not paying attention to reducing the incidence of homelessness or to improving the quality of housing of the urban and rural poor during the pandemic or in its recovery plans. This has resulted in a ‘business as usual’ attitude, which sadly caused the forced eviction of over 20,000 people between 16 March and 31 July 2020," it said. Such drives were conducted in Karnataka's Hubballi for road widening, Coimbatore for ‘Smart City’ project for the restoration of water bodies and Rewa for the beautification of a pond among others during the pandemic. In Telangana’s Siddipet, authorities demolished 30 homes of Dalit farmers in the middle of the night, without prior notice, for a reservoir project. While acknowledging that many of these evictions are justified by the state as ‘public purpose’ projects, the report said that the term is still misused in the absence of a human rights-based definition and interpretation. It also said the population that benefits from these ostensible ‘public purpose’ projects is always different from the one that pays the price for them, including through the loss of their homes, habitats, livelihoods, health, education, and security. The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights defines forced eviction as “the permanent or temporary removal against the will of individuals, families or communities from their homes or land, which they occupy, without the provision of, and access to, appropriate forms of legal or other protection.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-lakh-people-evicted-from-homes-since-2017-at-least-20000-during-covid-19-pandemic-report-875215.html
19-08-2020||National||Cabinet clears National Recruitment Agency to conduct common test for govt jobs||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the setting up of National Recruitment Agency (NRA) for conducting Common Eligibility Test (CET) for middle and junior level jobs in central government that would bring cheer to millions of aspirants presently appearing in multiple exams for jobs with similar eligibility conditions. Referred to as "transformational reform", it is expected to erase "pain points" like paying repetitive application fees and costs incurred on travelling to reach recruitment centres several times a year as well as provide more opportunity to women and rural folk to try at Group B and C jobs. From now on, the NRA will conduct the preliminary exam (CET) for non-technical jobs, which are presently conducted by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) and the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) and followed by specialised tests.   At present, a candidate will have to go through all the stages separately for all jobs but with the introduction of CET, they will have to appear only for a common preliminary exam. On an average, 2.5 crore to 3 crore candidates appear in each of these examinations. The curriculum for CET would be common as would be the standard. This would ease the burden of candidates who are at present required to prepare for each of the examinations separately as per different curriculum. The NRA, which has been sanctioned Rs 1,517.57 crore for three years, will shortlist the candidates for Group B and C posts and based on the CET score, the final selection will be made through separate specialised Tier 2/3 examinations conducted by respective recruitment agencies. Some departments have already indicated that they will do away with any second level test and go ahead with recruitment on the basis of CET scores, physical tests and Medical examination. As per the plan, separate CET will be conducted for graduate, higher secondary (Class XII) and matriculate (Class X pass) levels. The CET will be conducted in several languages and it is expected that it would give an equal opportunity for people from across the country. Officials calculate that CET will help in reducing the number of candidates appearing in specialised exams by 5 per cent of the total number of candidates. There will be no restriction on the number of attempts by a candidate, subject to upper age limit. CET score of a candidate will be valid for three years and the best available score during the three years will be considered as the current score. Initially, the NRA will conduct CET twice a year and registration, generation of admit cards, display of marks and merit list will be done. Bulk of the candidates will be screened out during CET, which will be conducted through multiple choice objective type questions. Examination centres will be set up in every district of the country and there will be special focus on creating examination infrastructure in the 117 Aspirational Districts "The proposal will not only ease access to rural candidates, it will also motivate the rural candidates residing in the far-flung areas to take the examination and thereby, enhance their representation in Central Government jobs," an official statement said. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar described the decision as historic. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh termed it a revolutionary and landmark reform in the history of the country. Singh said it will lead to ease of selection, ease of job placement and ease of living, especially, for those sections of society that are considered disadvantaged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-clears-national-recruitment-agency-to-conduct-common-test-for-govt-jobs-875221.html
19-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: SC approves CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput case; Pranab Mukherjee's health condition declines||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court approves CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput case; the health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee declines as he develops traits of lung infection and Truecaller says that it identified 29.7 billion spam calls and 8.5 billion spam SMS for its users in India last year.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: August 19, 2020: Mukherjee remains on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee as he has developed features of lung infection. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialist," the Army Hospital statement said. Earlier in the day the former President's son, Abhijit Mukherjee Tweeted that his father was showing signs of improvement.   The Swedish company has also rolled out a new spam activity indicator for Android phone users that will give detailed statistics on the spammer. "Truecaller has become indispensable in the lives of 240 million (monthly) global active users... In 2019 alone, we identified 29.7 billion spam calls and 8.5 billion spam SMS for our users in India," Truecaller said in a statement. Truecaller has over 170 million monthly active users in India. The company, in a previous report, had said India had ranked fifth in 2019 in terms of number of spam calls received by users per month, and eighth position in terms of spam SMS. Talking about the latest feature, Truecaller on Wednesday said it has rolled out the Spam Activity Indicator for Android users to build upon its core proposition of making communication safer and more efficient for everyone.   induism is the fourth largest faith in the US, representing approximately one per cent of the US population in 2016. While the Trump campaign promises that re-electing President Donald Trump will “reduce obstacles to religious freedoms” for Hindus in America, the rival Biden campaign on Tuesday said former vice president Joe Biden has made outreach to the Hindu faith community a priority. For the first time in an American presidential election, the Trump Campaign on August 14 announced the formation of the “Hindu Voices for Trump.” Two days later, prominent Hindu leader Neelima Gonuguntla participated in an interfaith service to kick off the Democratic National Convention, which the Biden campaign said was another sign of the growing political prominence of Hindus in America. The details of the new coalition of the Trump Campaign to woo the Hindu-American community in the US is expected to be announced during the Republican National Convention next week. “Hindus for Trump honours contributions by millions of Americans of Hindu faith,” said the campaign which has taken a lead ahead of the Biden campaign.   A single judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy said, Rajput was a talented actor in the Mumbai film world and died well before his full potential could be realised. His family, friends and admirers are keenly waiting the outcome of the investigation so that all the speculations floating around can be put to rest. In order to "ensure public confidence" in the investigation and to do complete justice, the court used its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to accord approval for the ongoing CBI investigation. It said this would ensure "a measure of justice for the complainant, (Sushant's father K K Singh) who lost his only son" and for actor Rhea Chakraborty, live in partner of the deceased as well. "For her too, it will be the desired justice as she herself called for a CBI investigation," the court pointed out. The dissemination of facts through unbiased investigation would certainly result in justice for the innocents, who might be the target of vilification campaign, the court said, in an allusion to speculation in social media on role of an important functionary in the case. The court held the Bihar government's recommendation to the CBI probe into an FIR lodged with the Patna police by the actor's father on July 25, was "lawful". The court directed the CBI to investigate any new case, if registered, on the death of the actor and the surrounding circumstances.   For the dozing passengers of the bus, it all appeared to be taken straight from a Bollywood action thriller. Three persons stormed into the bus at around eleven in the night, overpowered the driver and informed the passengers that they were taking control of the vehicle. The passengers were assured that no harm would come to them and that they would be sent to their respective destinations. The 'hijackers' did what they had promised. It, however, later turned out that the 'hijackers' were in fact agents of a finance company, which had given loan to the bus owner, and that they had 'seized' the vehicle as the owner had failed to pay the installments. The bus, which began its journey from Gurugram in Haryana to Pnna in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday with 34 passengers, was taken over by the agents of the finance company near Agra around 11 in the night. The bus was taken to Jhansi, where the passengers disembarked and boarded another bus to their destinations, police sources said. As a search was launched, the bus was found in the Balrai area in Etawah district, about 250 kilometres from here, on Wednesday morning, sources said. Sources said that the owner of the bus, a resident of Gwalior town in Madhya Pradesh, had died on Tuesday from Covid-19. The family members denied that they had not paid the installments. Police said that all the passengers had reached their destinations safely. A case was lodged against the finance company and the investigations were on.   A case in March alleged that WhatsApp was bundling its digital payment facility - WhatsApp Pay - within its messaging app for which it already has a large user base. The case alleged WhatsApp was abusing its position by forcing its payments feature on to its existing users. In a 41-page official order made public late on Tuesday, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) said it did not find any contravention of antitrust laws, adding the company's "actual conduct is yet to manifest in the market" as it has not fully launched the service yet.   Listen to the podcast to know more about the conversation. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-approves-cbi-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-case-pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-declines-875225.html
19-08-2020||National||Plea in HC claims Dissolution of Muslim Marriage Act discriminates against women||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court challenging a provision of the Dissolution of Muslim Marriage Act claiming it discriminates against Muslim women as it allegedly permits dissolution of a marriage if the husband renounces Islam or converts to another faith, but not if the wife does so. The petition filed by Delhi residents Tuba Kamil and Hari Mudgil have challenged Section 4 of the Act contending that the wife cannot claim a decree of divorce on the ground of her conversion or renouncing of faith, rather she has to first establish any of the nine grounds given under Section 2 of Act. The plea came up for hearing on Wednesday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan which said prior to going into the merits of the matter it would like to verify the bonafides of the second petitioner, Hari Mudgil, as in another petition by him before the same bench his name was Hari Kishan. The second petitioner, during the hearing of the other petition, had also told the court that he was an armed forces personnel. In the instant petition, the bench posed a number of queries regarding his two names, his army identity card and whether he was on leave presently. During the hearing itself, the man showed the bench his army identity card and said he was on leave from July 27 to August 26. He also said that his official name was Hari Kishan and the mention of Hari Mudgil was a "clerical error". The bench, however, did not accept the oral submissions and asked him to place everything, including a copy of his identity card, on record by way of an affidavit and listed the matter on September 15. The court said it will hear the matter only after his bonafides are verified. While contending that the law on dissolution of marriage for Muslims was discriminatory, the petition said the wife first has to establish any of the nine grounds given under Section 2 of Act. The nine grounds in section 2 of the Act include -- whereabouts of the husband not known for a period of four years, the husband has neglected or has failed to provide for wife''s maintenance for a period of two years, the husband has been sentenced to imprisonment for a period of seven years or upwards and the husband has failed to perform, without reasonable cause, his marital obligations for a period of three years. "But for a husband, there is no such requirement to obtain a decree," the petition has said. It has further stated that the provision to get a decree of divorce, after renouncing Islam, by establishing one of the nine grounds given in section 2 of the Act is not available to a woman who had converted to Islam from another faith and then re-embraces her former religion. This leads to discrimination between women who were born into the religion of Islam and those who converted to it, the petition has contended. The petitioners have sought quashing of section 4 of the Act claiming that it is "unconstitutional".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-hc-claims-dissolution-of-muslim-marriage-act-discriminates-against-women-875226.html
19-08-2020||National||Covid-19 patient tries to escape from hospital in UP's Moradabad, falls to death from third floor||A 28-year-old Covid-19 patient fell to her death from the third floor of a hospital here on Wednesday when she was allegedly trying to escape, police said. The woman, a resident of Gaura village under Bilar police station area here, was undergoing treatment at Teerthankar University Hospital, they said. Circle Officer Ram Sagar said CCTV footage showed the woman trying to escape from the hospital through a window on the third floor. She fell from the window slab around 7:30 AM. He said no complaint has been received from the deceased's family so far. The woman's body was found on the first floor, according to police. Station House Officer, Pakwara, Rajni Dwivedi said the body was not sent for post-mortem as the woman was a COVID-19 patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patient-tries-to-escape-from-hospital-in-ups-moradabad-falls-to-death-from-third-floor-875229.html
19-08-2020||National||Salary cut of MLAs, ministers to have negligible impact for state finances: PRS||Six states, including Karnataka, announced reducing the salary and allowances for MLAs and Ministers with much fanfare to augment funds for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. But an analysis shows that it has "almost negligible impact" on the state’s finances. According to the analysis, Bihar will save Rs 2.1 crore per year while Uttar Pradesh has the maximum saving of Rs 17.4 crore followed by Karnataka Rs 15.9 crore. Gujarat will be saving Rs 5.8 crore, Himachal Pradesh Rs 4.3 crore and Kerala Rs 3.1 crore respectively. The total savings through such reductions in salaries and allowances to the total budgeted expenditure range from 0.0001 to 0.0009%, according to the PRS Legislative Research. Comparing it with the total budgeted expenditure for 2020-21, the savings will be just 0.001% for Bihar while it will be 0.003% each for UP and Gujarat. It will be 0.007% for Karnataka while the impact on Himachal Pradesh's savings will be 0.009% of the total budgeted expenditure. Kerala will be saving 0.002%. "This shows that such measures to decrease MLA salaries and allowances toward increasing the pool of funds for fighting the pandemic are likely to have an almost negligible impact on the state’s finances," the analysis said. Besides Karnataka, the other states which reduced the emoluments of their respective MLAs, MLCs, Ministers, Speaker, and Whips were Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, and Uttar Pradesh. While Bihar reduced the salaries and allowances by 15%, other states pegged it at 30%. All the states except Bihar have promulgated ordinances to cut salary. These amendments to the existing salaries and allowances were made for a period of one year and effective from April 1. It also showed that the basic pay of MLAs across the states before the pay-cuts after the pandemic was less than half of the base salary of a Chief Secretary to a state. While the salaries of MLAs across states range between Rs 2,000 and Rs 78,800, a Governor is getting Rs 3.5 lakh, a state Chief Election Commissioner Rs 2.5 lakh, a High Court Judge, Chief Secretary and Director General of Police are paid Rs 2.25 lakh each. The analysis does not include the salary cut for MPs and Central ministers. The Centre had also suspended funding through MPLAS for the next two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/salary-cut-of-mlas-ministers-to-have-negligible-impact-for-state-finances-prs-875232.html
19-08-2020||National||Cabinet approves proposal for leasing out Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports||The Union cabinet on Wednesday decided to lease out three airports of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram for a period of 50 years. The three airports were part of the first phase of airport privatisation but were facing legal hurdles after being awarded to Adani Enterprises, the highest bidders, in February last year. Besides these three airports, Adani Enterprises had won the bids for operation, management and development of airports at Lucknow, Mangaluru and Ahmedabad. “The Union Cabinet accorded its approval for leasing of three AAI airports namely, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram for Operation, Management and Development to M/s Adani Enterprises Ltd, who is declared as the successful bidder in a Global Competitive Bidding conducted by the Airports Authority of India, for a period of fifty years,” I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters. “These projects will bring efficiency in service delivery, expertise, enterprise and professionalism apart from harnessing the needed investments in the public sector,” he said. Javadekar said AAI is expected to receive more than Rs 1,000 crore as upfront payment from Adani Enterprises and the amount could be used to develop airports in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities and also to upgrade the same to international standards. The Modi government plans to privatise 30-35 airports over the next five years. In the second round of airport auctions, AAI has decided to lease out the airports at Varanasi, Bhubaneshwar, Amritsar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy to private partners. The government had already leased out airports at Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Mumbai to private partners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-proposal-for-leasing-out-jaipur-guwahati-and-thiruvananthapuram-airports-875248.html
19-08-2020||National||Give Rajya Sabha members virtual option for monsoon session, says senior Congress leader P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to give members an option to participate “virtually” in the upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament. Chidambaram said it would be “nearly impossible” to avoid the spread of the virus when 245 members of the Rajya Sabha gather in one place, with nearly 300 officers, staff and security personnel in attendance. “It should be quite easy to employ technology to enable members to participate either physically or virtually in the proceedings of the House,” Chidambaram said, adding that the secretariat may choose an application to enable virtual participation of members in the proceedings.   The former finance minister said, unlike in the case of meetings of the standing committees, the proceedings of the House are open, recorded, reported in the media, and telecast. “All members should be requested to install the app in an electronic device. A link should be provided each day. Members who wish to attend the House physically may do so and members who wish to attend the House virtually will be enabled by the app and the link to do so,” Chidambaram said. The monsoon session of the Parliament is expected to be convened in mid-September with the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha having sittings on alternate days. The Parliament Secretariat has made an elaborate arrangement to ensure physical distancing among members. Sixty Rajya Sabha members will be seated in the Upper House chambers, 51 in the public galleries and the rest 132 in the Lok Sabha chamber.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-rajya-sabha-members-virtual-option-for-monsoon-session-says-senior-congress-leader-p-chidambaram-875265.html
19-08-2020||National||Supreme Court rejects plea to scrap Justice Commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a plea to scrap the Justice B S Chauhan Commission, set up to probe gangster Vikas Dubey encounter, on the ground of bias because his brother, Virender Singh, who was earlier in Samajwadi Party, is now a BJP MLC.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed the application filed by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay, who also alleged former DGP K L Gupta, a member of the Commission, was related to Mohit Agrawal, IG police of Kanpur range, where the incident had happened. The court said allegations of bias made merely on the basis of newspaper reports and nothing more, were liable to be rejected outright. "The allegations... are not sufficient to come to the conclusion that it would lead to bias or conflict of interest since there is no indication whatsoever as to the nature of influence such of those relatives would be able to exert and as to whether they are in a dominant position," the bench said. The court said unnecessary apprehensions and repeated applications were being filed which in fact was hampering the process of inquiry. On July 22, the top court had approved a proposal by Uttar Pradesh government to allow Justice Chauhan to head the inquiry panel to probe into incidents of July 2 leading to killings of eight policemen in Kanpur and subsequent encounter of gangster Dubey, who faced 64 criminal cases, and his henchmen till July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-scrap-justice-commission-875268.html
19-08-2020||National||Doctors who conducted Sushant Singh Rajput's autopsy get threats, abuse||Doctors who signed the autopsy report of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput are now receiving a torrent of abuse, threats and allegations. Screen-shots of the autopsy report which had names and mobile numbers of the five doctors from Cooper Hospital have found their way to social media as conspiracy theories about Rajput's death began to do the rounds. While the doctors were unavailable for comment, president of the Medico-Legal Association of Maharashtra, Dr Shailesh Mohite, said they were receiving abusive phone calls and messages for the last few days. Some media reports said that callers accused the doctors of taking bribe to `suppress' the truth in the report. "The dean of Cooper Hospital Dr Pinakin Gujjar informed me about the harassment of five doctors who signed the PM (post-mortem) examination report," Dr Mohite told PTI. "The hospital's landline numbers were also flooded with similar calls. "I feel that firm legal action should be taken against such trolls, as some of them have gone ahead and found personal details of these doctors and shared screenshots on social media platforms," Dr Mohite said. "It is unfortunate that doctors have to go through such harassment and their families are being targeted," he added. Sushant Singh Rajput allegedly committed suicide at his Bandra residence on June 14. The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld transfer of an FIR registered by Bihar police in the case to the CBI, and said the central agency alone will probe the cases related to the actor's death. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-who-conducted-sushant-singh-rajputs-autopsy-get-threats-abuse-875274.html
19-08-2020||National||1,021 Supreme Court benches took up 15,996 cases in virtual hearing||A total of 1,021 Supreme Court benches took up as many as 15,996 matters and disposed off appropriately 4300 cases during virtual hearings between March 23 and August 19. A fact sheet released by the top court stated that as many as 50,475 advocates appeared before to the virtual courts during "unprecedented challenge with the onset of Covid-19 pandemic". The rapid pace of spreading of the virus triggered national lockdown, institutional quarantines and other aggressive measures, aimed at breaking the chain of the spreading virus. The public institutions, which ran at well-established practices and traditions, were challenged the most during the period. "In such a backdrop, the Supreme Court had to respond with greater speed to keep its functionality unbroken and unaffected even during the national lockdown. The core functionality of open court hearings was immediately crippled by the onset of the pandemic," sources said. During the period, the Supreme Court Registry worked at 30% of its staff strength and could only scale up to the strength of 50% during the unlock phase as public transport continued to remain operational at the minimal scale.  Further, about 125 number of Registry staff and their immediate family members also got infected with the virus but fortunately, there have been no fatalities involved, they said.  "In all of this, the Supreme Court did not stop functioning throughout this entire period though some preferences were accorded to urgent issues. The Registry has not been shut down even for a day from March 16, 2020, till date," they pointed out. Dedicated media rooms were also established, allowing approximately 30 media persons may see the proceedings live in the top court's premises. In comparative analysis with other countries, sources said in the United Kingdom, a total of 18 cases were heard between March 24 and August 17 and 29 cases were decided between March 18 and August 17. In the USA, as many as 74 cases were heard and 44 were decided between March 30 and August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1021-supreme-court-benches-took-up-15996-cases-in-virtual-hearing-875282.html
19-08-2020||National||One in four Indians could have been infected with novel coronavirus, says Thyrocare lab head||At least one in four people in India may have been infected with the coronavirus - a much higher number than official government figures suggest, the head of leading private laboratory says. Dr A Velumani said an analysis of 2,70,000 antibody tests conducted by his company Thyrocare across India showed the presence of antibodies in an average of 26% of the people, indicating they had already been exposed to the coronavirus. "This is a much higher percentage than we had expected. The presence of antibodies is uniform across all age groups, including children," Velumani told Reuters. Thyrocare's findings are in line with government surveys done in Indian cities such as Mumbai, which showed that 57 per cent of the population in its crowded slum areas had been exposed to the coronavirus. The Thyrocare survey covers paid and tested patients, covering 600 cities in India for the last seven weeks, Velumani added. If the current trend continues, the percentage of India's population having antibodies may reach 40% before the end of December. India currently has a total of 2.8 million cases, third only behind Brazil and the United States globally, but active patients are less than a fourth of its total caseload, according to health ministry figures. On Wednesday, the world's second-most populous country reported more than 64,000 new cases of the novel coronavirus in a single day, with more than 1,000 deaths in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-in-four-indians-could-have-been-infected-with-novel-coronavirus-says-thyrocare-lab-head-875295.html
19-08-2020||National||SC to start physical hearings on experimental basis, soon||The Supreme Court is going to start physical hearings of a limited number of cases on an experimental basis within a fortnight or so. "As a pilot scheme, three amongst the bigger courtrooms may be got prepared within a week's time through concerned agencies, strictly adhering to the prescribed distancing and other norms and as per medical advice with regard to the physical infrastructure required in these courtrooms," an official communication stated. The panel headed by Justice N V Ramana decided to resume limited physical courts where a few cases would be taken after taking consent from the parties. It was suggested that a limited number of cases may be listed before such physical hearings after 10 days on an experimental basis. "Only a limited category or number of matters for final hearing may be listed inside such courtrooms and the numbers may be gradually increased if the ground situation so warrants and permits," it added. All other matters would continue to be heard through video conferencing mode, it further said. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on April 6 authorised all the courts to adopt measures required to ensure robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies. The top Court started to take up matters through virtual hearing since March 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-start-physical-hearings-on-experimental-basis-soon-875302.html
19-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 numbers rise again after two-day slump||After staying low for two days, the number of India's fresh Covid-19 cases rose by more than 9,000 to cross the 64,000 mark on Wednesday along with nearly 1,100 Covid-19 deaths. Going by the information shared by the Union Health Ministry (Tuesday's data, uploaded on Wednesday morning), there were 64,531 new cases as against 55,079 cases on Monday and 57,981 cases on Sunday. The last four days also witnessed a slump in the death count before it rose again to cross the 1,000 mark. India also tested more than 8 lakh samples for Covid-19 for the second consecutive day and is on course to reach the target of 10 lakh tests per day. "The sustained level of high testing has played a key role in India's increasing rate of recovery, widening gap between the recovered and active cases, and also progressively declining fatality rate," the ministry said in a statement. With record 60,091 people recuperating from coronavirus infection in a day, the total recoveries on Wednesday crossed 2 million. The recoveries have surged to 20,37,870, while there are 6,76,514 active cases of Covid-19, according to the health ministry. Meanwhile, the USA has delivered 100 more ventilators as per a promise made by the Trump administration even though the Director-General of Foreign Trade had allowed Indian manufacturers to export ventilators due to surplus stock. This is the final tranche 100 ventilators that came two months after the first tranche was delivered on June 14. India currently has more than 53,000 dedicated ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, which may be requiring the ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-numbers-rise-again-after-two-day-slump-875303.html
19-08-2020||National||India refutes as 'untrue' claims of British Sikh man’s torture in Delhi jail||India on Wednesday refuted as “absolutely untrue” allegations that a British Sikh man arrested on charges relating to terrorism is being tortured in Tihar Jail in New Delhi after a group demonstrators staged a protest outside 10 Downing Street in London. The protesters waved placards and made speeches to protest British national Jagtar Singh Johal’s detention in India for 1,020 days. His brother, Gurpreet Singh Johal, handed in a letter for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson seeking his intervention over the alleged “third degree torture and mistreatment” and lack of charges against his younger brother in India. The Indian High Commission in London in a statement said, “Jagtar Singh Johal has been arrested on serious charges relating to terrorism. It is untrue that he is being held without any charges. The prosecuting agency, NIA (National Investigation Agency), has already filed chargesheet in the court of law and he is presently undergoing judicial proceedings as per the law of the land.” “It is absolutely untrue that he has been subjected to torture. He has been granted consular access several times to the UK High Commission in New Delhi. Further, institutional safeguards like the Human Rights Commission exist to investigate any such allegation,” it said. Johal, a 33-year-old Scottish-born Sikh, was in Jalandhar with his family for his wedding in October, 2017 when he was arrested by police in the city. His case has since been going through the judicial process in India and his relatives in Britain launched a campaign, holding several protests over the years seeking his return to the UK. The Indian High Commission said the protest outside Downing Street on Wednesday has been instigated by the same vested elements who “instrumentalise” and “misguide” youth like Johal, based on a fabricated and misinformation campaign directed at the Sikh community in the UK. “The Sikh community is a vibrant element of India’s secular fabric. You all would have witnessed that way government of India celebrated with grace and honour, in an unprecedented scale, the 550th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji all over India and abroad, through the Indian embassies/high commissions last year… in UK, a Sikh Studies Chair has been instituted in the University of Birmingham by the government of India,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-refutes-as-untrue-claims-of-british-sikh-man-s-torture-in-delhi-jail-875304.html
19-08-2020||National||Self-proclaimed godman Nithyananda sets up 'Reserve Bank of Kailasa'||Self-proclaimed godman and absconder Nithyananda, has allegedly established a legitimate Reserve Bank of Kailasa for his Hindu island nation that he founded recently.  In his latest video, he said that the currency of the alleged island nation will be announced on Ganesh Chaturthi (August 22).  "With the grace of Ganpati, we are going to be revealing all the absolute, complete details of the Reserve Bank of Kailasa and the currencies, it's all ready,” he said in the video. The economic policy—a 300-page-document—is ready, with designing, currency, economic strategy and will be revealed on Ganesh Chaturthi, he said.  He also said that an Memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed with a country that has agreed to host the Reserve Bank of Kailasa and that establishment is legal.  Nithyananda ‘established’ his own country, Kailasa, after he faced charges of illegal confinement of children and rape last year. He has been booked under the POCSO Act by police officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/self-proclaimed-godman-nithyananda-sets-up-reserve-bank-of-kailasa-875306.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | BJP, Tharoor in a war of words over Facebook probe||Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology Chairman Shashi Tharoor's decision to summon Facebook officials following a report about the social media giant not taking action against BJP-RSS handles for hate posts triggered trouble with a BJP MP in the panel on Monday accusing him of taking up the cause of Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-bjp-tharoor-in-a-war-of-words-over-facebook-probe-874982.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||Fissures in the Pawar family appear again||Fissures in the Pawar family seemed to appear once again as the Supreme Court gave its verdict in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, with Parth Pawar Tweeting “Satyamev Jayate”. Parth, 29, is the son of Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and grand-nephew of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar. He was the first one to demand a CBI probe and had met home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP. Parth’s demand came even before the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis formally made the demand for a CBI and ED probe into the death of the 34-year-old actor. Pawar Sr had publicly snubbed Parth for demanding a CBI probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and hailing the bhoomi-poojan of Ram mandir in Ayodhya by prime minister Narendra Modi. "We do not give much importance to what he says....he is immature," Pawar had said,  when asked about his grand-nephew's demand for a CBI probe and the Maha Vikas Aghadi's opposition to it. Later reports surfaced that Ajit was unhappy over the way his son was snubbed but senior leaders including state NCP president Jayant Patil, Chhagan Bhujbal and Dhananjay Munde denied it. Parth had separately met Pawar, but, what transpired in the meeting is not known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fissures-in-the-pawar-family-appear-again-875103.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||Truth about unemployment can't be hidden: Rahul Gandhi slams govt||Citing a media report, he said in a tweet in Hindi, "In the last 4 months, around 2 crore people have lost their jobs. The future of 2 crore families is in the dark. The truth about unemployment and destruction of the economy cannot be hidden from the country by peddling fake news and hatred on Facebook." The news report cited by Gandhi claimed that around 1.89 crore jobs were lost due to the coronavirus pandemic from April onwards. A massive political row broke out after a report by the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last week alleged that senior Facebook executives had opposed applying hate speech rules to posts by certain BJP leaders, with the BJP and the Congress engaged in a bitter war of words over the issue. "We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news and hate speech. As exposed by WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians," Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday. Hitting back at the Congress, Union Information Technology Minister and senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said people whose political base has "shrunk like anything" seek to dominate the discourse on these platforms and asserted that everybody regardless of his ideology has the right to air views. He said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi believes that any organisation that does not work to his liking is acting under the pressure of the BJP and the RSS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/truth-about-unemployment-cant-be-hidden-rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-875104.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||BJP demands resignation of Home Minister Anil Deshmukh over Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||The BJP on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in the wake of the Supreme Court transferring the probe from the Mumbai Police to CBI and asked the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government to introspect. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that that the verdict further strengthens the faith in the judicial system. “The Maharashtra government should do an introspection,” he said, adding that justice would prevail. “The Home Minister (Anil Deshmukh) must resign immediately…Mumbai Police Commissioner (Param Bir Singh) did not file an FIR for two months and he owns an explanation,” state BJP vice president Kirit Somaiya said. “#Sushantsinghrajput Thanks Hon SC ! CBI enquiry = #Justice4ssr ! "Hidden hands" misguidinh police investigation will be exposed ! Jail time for "Pub & party gang" who enjoyed illegally, while 15,000+ Mumbaikars died in lockdown ! Note- Justice will be done (sic),” senior BJP leader and former Education Minister Ashish Shelar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-demands-resignation-of-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-over-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-875120.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||BJP, allies welcome Supreme Court verdict in Sushant Singh Rajput case||The BJP and its allies on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order upholding the Bihar government's recommendation for a CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case and slammed the Maharashtra government for its alleged attempts to stall the investigation.  BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain said the CBI probe will lead to justice.  "People are happy with the Supreme Court verdict. We are confident that the truth will now come out. The Maharashtra government had been stalling the investigation...," he said.  Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan, who has been an early votary of a CBI probe in the matter, said the SC's verdict has "respected" sentiments of crores of people.  In a tweet, he expressed confidence that the CBI will not only bring out the truth but also "expose" those who tried to mislead the probe in the case of the alleged suicide.  BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao said, "Supreme Court's welcome verdict on #CBIForSSR has given relief to millions; his family members, relatives, friends, fans, followers and the people who are for justice. Hope investigation will be smooth, swift & fair. Power of people and the power of judiciary are intact." The JD(U) has also welcomed the verdict.  The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to the CBI. The apex court said that the Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation.  Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. His death and the row over it has been in focus in his home state Bihar, where assembly elections are slated to be held in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-allies-welcome-supreme-court-verdict-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-875122.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar hails Supreme Court order in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday hailed the Supreme Court's judgement upholding transfer of an FIR lodged in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case at Patna to the CBI. "Nyay ki jeet hui hain (truth has triumphed)," Kumar said on the apex court's verdict. Director-General of Police Gupteswar Pandey said that the Supreme Courts decision to transfer Rajput's death case to the CBI vindicates Bihar Polices stand that it was doing things in accordance with the law and Constitution. His comments came after the apex court upheld the transfer to the CBI of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor. It said that the Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the central agency for investigation. "I am happy with the apex courts order transferring the case to the CBI as it has further raised the hope for getting justice for Sushant Singh Rajput... The apex court order vindicates the Bihar Polices stand that it was doing things in accordance with the law and Constitution, Pandey told reporters soon after the order was delivered. "With the verdict, the country came to know that the Bihar Police was doing nothing wrong in it. The fact of the matter is that it was carrying out its job with right intention to ensure justice for Sushant Singh Rajput, he said. There were, however, some people who were feeling "uneasy" as they might get exposed, he added. "I can't tell you about the time-frame (on completing the probe). It may take one month, three months or more. This is a high-profile case, which the entire nation is closely watching, and a professional investigation agency is carrying out the probe on the directive of the apex court. I am quite confident that truth will come out finally, Pandey said. Further, he said that it was Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who supported a CBI probe into the actor's death case and this kept the hope alive for justice for Rajput. "Rhea Chakraborty does not have 'aukaat' (stature) to comment on Bihar Chief Minister," he said. Chakraborty had challenged the Bihar governments jurisdiction in the matter and sought transfer of the case from Patna to Mumbai. She had also alleged that the Bihar government's action was inspired by the upcoming state polls. K K Singh, the actor's 74-year-old father, had lodged an FIR with Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna last month, nearly 40 days after his son was found hanging from the ceiling at his Bandra residence on June 14. The Bihar Police had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT), and sent its four police officers to Mumbai for carrying out the investigation. Later, the Bihar government recommended the case for a CBI probe after the deceased's father gave his nod for the same. Bihar's Advocate General Lalit Kishore said that the apex court order vindicated that the steps taken by the state government were as per the law and the constitution. The Bihar governments action was well within the ambit of law, he added. Maharashtra government and Mumbai police tried to create obstacles but justice prevailed, Kishore said. State Water Resources Minister and senior JD(U) leader Sanjay Kumar Jha, to whom Rajput's family had approached in the case and who had taken the matter to the CM, welcomed the order, stating that he is pleased as CBI will now get to the root of the perpetrators of the heinous crime. "Justice is finally delivered! Grateful Hon Supreme Court On behalf of millions of truth seekers across the world who are devastated by suspect death of SushantSinghRajpoot, I express my gratitude to Hon CM Shri @NitishKumar for having recommended a #CBI enquiry," he tweeted. Taking a swipe at the Mumbai police, he said, they did nothing in the name of investigation and only indulged in photo ops in its bid to cover-up the case. On Shiv Sena's allegation of scoring political points in the case in view of coming state polls, Jha, a close associate of Kumar, said the chief minister and the government "only came into the picture" after Rajput's father expressed dissatisfaction over the investigation. "We came into the picture and played our role only after Sushant Singh Rajput's family filed an FIR. We acted in the honour of peoples sentiment that justice should be done in the matter," he told PTI. Rajputs cousin and Bihar BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh 'Bablu' hailed the verdict, saying that the family is very happy that justice will now be done in the case and truth will come out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-hails-supreme-court-order-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-875166.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||How can PM CARES escape scrutiny? asks CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Wednesday questioned how the PM CARES could escape scrutiny when it received contributions from government employees whose pay was cut, from MPLADS funds that were transferred and from the PSUs, which donated their CSR funds. The Supreme Court had on Tuesday refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM CARES Fund for battling the Covid-19 pandemic to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), saying these were entirely different funds with separate object and purpose. "PM CARES escapes scrutiny, even as pay from government employees, MPs was cut to force them to contribute," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. Yechury highlighted that 38 public sector undertakings gave Rs 2,105 crore from corporate social responsibility (CSR) to the Fund. "How is this a Fund that escapes audit, scrutiny and is a black box?," he asked. Yechury said executive orders were issued to transfer the MPLADS funds for two years -- Rs 10 crore of every MP -- to this "private trust fund, overriding objections by many". "How can this be a voluntary contribution as the Honourable Supreme Court concludes?" he asked. Executive orders were issued granting tax exemptions to corporates for contributions to this fund from their CSR commitment. Regulations were amended. But the same was denied to the states, Yechury said. "How can this fund not be transparent, auditable & accountable?" "Now after 140 days the opaqueness of this private trust fund- PM Cares has found legal sanction!," the CPI(M) leader said, demanding transfer of the fund to the states to combat the pandemic more effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-can-pm-cares-escape-scrutiny-asks-cpim-875298.html
19-08-2020||National Politics||India needs Rahul's fearless leadership, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday asserted that India needed the fearless leadership of Rahul Gandhi, as a new book revealed that both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra favoured a non-Gandhi as party president. At a press briefing, Congress spokesman Shaktisinh Gohil also said Rahul had never hankered after power, recalling that the then prime minister Manmohan Singh had even offered to step aside for Rahul but he had declined the top post. “Every person in the country desires to see Rahul Gandhi in the leadership position and this decision vests with the Congress Working Committee and the AICC. They will decide as per their wisdom and what they deem right,” Gohil said. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said millions of Congress workers and leaders have seen that Rahul has led the fight against Modi-Shah dispensation tirelessly, undaunted by the setbacks and vile attacks by the Modi government on a daily basis. “It is this fearlessness & uncompromising courage that INC requires, workers respect & nation needs,” Surjewala said responding to reports about Rahul and Priyanka favouring a non-Gandhi at the helm of affairs of the Congress. Surjewala said the interview of Priyanka, which appeared in a book released this month, was conducted on July 1, 2019 and appeared surprised at the sudden media interest in a year-old remark. “Nehru-Gandhi family has held together & served the Congress unmindful of the trappings of power. In 2004, Sonia Ji set an example by sacrificing power to serve the party. In 2019, Rahul Ji showed the courage of conviction & stepped down as INC President,” Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-needs-rahuls-fearless-leadership-says-congress-875299.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Noida Power Company substation||A major fire broke out at a power station in Greater Noida on Wednesday morning, officials said.   No one was hurt in the fire that broke out in a transformer at the power station of Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL) in Sector 148. The blaze was reported around 8:30 AM, the officials said. Thick smoke billowed from the power station and could be seen in the sky from a distance. It was controlled by 10:30 AM. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, according to police officials. "Around a dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot immediately and fire-fighting lasted for about two hours. The blaze was eventually doused and the situation brought under control," an official from the local Knowledge Park police station said. The incident also led to a brief disruption in power supply to nearby areas, locals told PTI. NPCL, a joint venture between the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group and the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, reaches out to a population of about 7 lakh spread across an area of 335 sq km, according to its website.    (With PTI inouts)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-noida-power-company-substation-875036.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||5-year-old boy crushed to death by tractor in Uttar Pradesh||A five-year-old boy was crushed to death by a tractor when he was playing outside his home in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Atif, a residence of Bantikheda village in the Babri police station area of Shamli. After the accident on Tuesday evening, villagers staged a protest and demanded immediate arrest of the accused, a police officer said. Two young men have been taken into custody in connection with the accident, the police officer said. Police personnel have been deployed in the village to maintain law and order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-year-old-boy-crushed-to-death-by-tractor-in-uttar-pradesh-875073.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi residents wake up to rains||A dark cloud cover and fresh, short spell of rains made the weather pleasant in the national capital on Wednesday morning. However, the rainfall led to waterlogging in some areas and key stretches of major roads in the city. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said more rains are likely during the day. Earlier, it had predicted moderate to heavy rains on Wednesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1 mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-residents-wake-up-to-rains-875085.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Finance company agents 'hijack' bus with passengers in UP, found after 15 hours||For the dozing passengers of the bus, the events appeared to be taken straight from a Bollywood action thriller. Three persons stormed into the bus at around eleven in the night, overpowered the driver and informed the passengers that they were taking control of the vehicle. The passengers were assured that they would not be harmed and would be sent to their respective destinations.  The 'hijackers' kept their promise.  However, it was later revealed that the 'hijackers' were in fact agents of a finance company, which had given a loan to the bus owner, and that they had 'seized' the vehicle as the owner had failed to pay the installments. The bus, which began its journey from Gurugram in Haryana to Pnna in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday with 34 passengers, was taken over by the agents of the finance company near Agra around 11 in the night. The bus was taken to Jhansi, where the passengers disembarked and boarded another bus to their destinations, police sources said. As a search was launched, the bus was found in the Balrai area in Etawah district, about 250 kilometres from here, on Wednesday morning, sources said. According to sources, the owner of the bus, a resident of Gwalior town in Madhya Pradesh, had died on Tuesday from Covid-19. The family members denied that they had not paid the installments. Police said that all the passengers had reached their destinations safely. A case has been lodged against the finance company and the investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/finance-company-agents-hijack-bus-with-passengers-in-up-found-after-15-hours-875114.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Jeweller set on fire by shopkeeper dies in Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad||A jeweller died on Wednesday a day after he was set on fire by a shopkeeper in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad suspecting the victim had an illicit relationship with his wife, leading to her suicide. "Death of Rakesh Verma (40) has been confirmed by S N Medical College, Agra. The body has been sent for post-mortem. The statement of Verma was recorded before his death," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sachindra Patel said on Wednesday. The SSP said that four police teams have been formed to nab the accused shopkeeper, identified as Robin. He will be arrested soon, the SSP said. Rakesh Verma was sitting in his jewellery shop in the Dakshin police station area on Tuesday afternoon when Robin threw an inflammable liquid from a bottle on him after a heated argument and set him on fire, Patel earlier said. Rakesh suffered 80 per cent burns. He was initially taken to the district hospital from where he was referred to the Agra hospital in a serious condition, the SSP said. The SSP said according to preliminary information, it has come to light that Robin's wife Puja had committed suicide on August 12. He suspected that Rakesh had an illicit relationship with her, which led to her suicide, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jeweller-set-on-fire-by-shopkeeper-dies-in-uttar-pradeshs-firozabad-875117.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Prashant Bhushan moves to SC, seeks deferment of hearing on sentence till review plea considered||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court with a plea to defer the hearing on his sentence, scheduled on Thursday, to enable him file review petition against the judgement of August 14, holding him guilty of criminal contempt. In an application, he said he would file the review within the limitation period of 30 days after studying the verdict and seeking legal counsel. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra is set to hear on Thursday arguments on sentence against Bhushan that may extend up to maximum six months jail with or without fine. In the "interests of justice in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding the liberty of a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution," the hearing on sentence be deferred until the proposed review petition is filed and decided, his plea stated. Bhushan, who was convicted of criminal contempt for two tweets, said that in such proceedings, the top Court functions as a trial court and is also the last resort.  "Section 19(1) gives a statutory right of appeal to a person found guilty of contempt by the High Court. The fact that there is no appeal against an order of this court makes it doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prashant-bhushan-moves-to-sc-seeks-deferment-of-hearing-on-sentence-till-review-plea-considered-875203.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||JGU launches Covid-19 tool-kit for higher education institutions||The O P Jindal Global University (JGU) in collaboration with the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) released the Covid-19 response tool kit for India's higher education institutions. The tool kit is a seven-part document that comprises usage guidelines, analysis of the Indian higher education landscape, understanding of the challenges in continuity planning, academic continuity of classrooms, academic continuity of research, non-academic continuity, and a proposed way forward. It has been developed to help build institutional resilience for academic planning and continuity for Indian Higher Education Institutions (HEI) during Covid-19, the JGU statement said. The tool-kit was released by Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Rajya Sabha member and President of the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR). “The vision of this report is to provide a national framework and institutional mechanism to effectively respond to the COVID-19 crisis with a view to providing academic continuity keeping in mind the interests of the students as paramount,” C Raj Kumar, Founding Vice-Chancellor of O.P. Jindal Global University (JGU) said. He said the report has been prepared with the objective of supporting Indian universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) in these difficult times of the global pandemic. “This report was conceptualized and created to provide the Indian HEIs a structured method to approaching the challenges they face during the pandemic, and aims to empower them with the necessary institutional resilience to overcome the barriers of Covid-19 and ensure that they do not miss out on any important parameter for consideration of their academic continuity and planning,” Raj Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jgu-launches-covid-19-tool-kit-for-higher-education-institutions-875204.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh scribe arrested for sharing ‘indecent’ post on Ram temple||The Uttar Pradesh Police has arrested a journalist for allegedly sharing an objectionable social media post on Ram temple, claiming that he did so on instructions of a Hindutva outfit’s chief, an official said on Wednesday. Accused journalist Prashant Kanojia had also been arrested in June last year for allegedly making objectionable remarks against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on social media, but had been granted bail on orders of the Supreme Court. "Journalist Prashant Kanojia was arrested from Delhi yesterday in connection with an indecent post," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Somen Barma said on Wednesday. The FIR against him was registered here at the Hazratganj police station on August 17 for allegedly sharing an “indecent” post on his twitter handle and saying that he did it on orders of Hindu Sena chief Sushil Tiwari, who denied the allegation. The FIR registered on the complaint of Sub-Inspector Dinesh Kumar Shukla said, "On August 17, it was seen that Prashant Kanojia through his twitter handle (@Pjkanojia) had uploaded an indecent post related to Ram temple stating that it was done on orders of Tiwari.” The post was uploaded to “malign Tiwari's image”, said the sub-inspector in his complaint, adding that “such posts can disturb peace". The case against Prashant Kanojia was lodged under various sections of Indian Penal Code, including section 420, and those of Information Technology Act. In a Facebook post on August 17, Sushil Tiwari had denied he had anything to do with the indecent post on the Ram temple. He had asserted that he was with 'Hindutva' and not with 'fake posts'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-scribe-arrested-for-sharing-indecent-post-on-ram-temple-875208.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||AMU employee accuses professor of sexual harassment, her son booked earlier for attacking teacher||A woman employee at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has filed a case of sexual harassment against four men, including a professor who had accused her son of assaulting him inside his office, officials said on Wednesday. The employee was transferred from one department to another in the first week of August. On August 10, the professor had filed an FIR against half a dozen men, including the son of the woman employee, alleging that the men had assaulted him with steel rods inside his office. The woman was also named in the FIR. Circle officer, Civil Lines police station, Anil Samania said the matter is under investigation as a cross-case has been filed. The woman was herself booked on a charge of assaulting a professor at his office on August 10, he said. Samania said, "Four men have been booked on charges of alleged sexual harassment." In her complaint, the woman has accused the four men of taunting her. AMU spokesperson professor Shafay Kidwai said following the assault on the teacher, the woman employee was suspended and an enquiry ordered against her son who allegedly led the attack. He has been barred from entering the campus pending enquiry, Kidwai said. In a statement following the alleged incident of assault of the professor, AMU Proctor professor Mohammad Wasim Ali had said, "We have taken a very serious view of this incident since a professor was assaulted in full public view by goons who were brandishing weapons and threatening to kill the professor for allegedly getting the woman employee transferred." A senior AMU official said there are credible inputs, indicating that the woman employee earlier faced faced charges of dereliction of duty and insubordination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amu-employee-accuses-professor-of-sexual-harassment-her-son-booked-earlier-for-attacking-teacher-875210.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Lashkar commander among 3 militants killed in J&K encounters||A top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander was among the three militants killed in two encounters with the security forces in Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. A militant was killed in an encounter in Shopian, while two ultras -- including LeT commander Naseer-u-din Lone, who was involved in the killing of six CRPF personnel earlier this year -- were killed in a gunfight in Kupwara, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation at Chitragam village of south Kashmir's Shopian district following inputs about the presence of militants. It turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, a police official said. A militant was killed in the gunfight. His identity and group affiliation is yet to be ascertained, the official said. An Army spokesperson said the operation was over and a pistol with six rounds, a UBGL (under barrel grenade launcher) and four Chinese grenades, which were destroyed in-situ, were recovered from the operation site. The other encounter broke out at Ganipora Kralgund area of Handwara in north Kashmir's Kupwara district. Two militants were killed in the operation, the police official said. One of the slain militants is Naseer-u-din Lone, who was involved in the killing of three CRPF personnel at Sopore on April 18 and as many CRPF jawans at Handwara on May 4, Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lashkar-commander-among-3-militants-killed-in-jk-encounters-875218.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||DDMA allows hotels, weekly markets to function in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday gave approval for opening of hotels and weekly markets in the city, the Delhi government sources said. The decision was taken in a meeting of DDMA which was also attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal through video conference. The proposal to open gyms was not approved in the meeting headed by Lt Governor Anil Baijal. The LG said gyms can be allowed to open in the coming days. The weekly markets will be first opened on trial basis to assess the situation on the ground, the sources added. Hotels, weekly markets and gyms were closed in the city with the announcement of the lockdown in March in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-allows-hotels-weekly-markets-to-function-in-delhi-875227.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh man cycles 105 km to ferry son to Class 10 exam centre||In absence of public transport, a 38-year-old man travelled on a bicycle for 105 km carrying his son to ensure he does not miss Class 10 boards supplementary exam here in Madhya Pradesh. Though Shobhram, who paddled the cycle, is himself unlettered, he said he understands the importance of education and did not want his son to waste one year by missing the supplementary paper. Therefore, he decided to undertake the arduous journey, with his son on the cycle's rear seat, from his village Baydipur in Dhar districts Manawar tehsil to reach the exam centre on time. With no public transport available due to the Covid-19 lockdown and hardly any money, Shobhram decided to take his son on a bicycle to Dhar town, some 105 km away, so that he can appear in Class 10th boards supplementary exam conducted under the Madhya Pradesh governments 'Ruk Jana Nahin' scheme. The scheme gives an opportunity to students to clear those subjects which they were unable to pass in the first attempt. "No means of transport, including bus, were available due to the prevailing coronavirus situation. But if I had missed this opportunity, then my sons one year would have gone waste. Therefore, I decided to take him for the examination on a bicycle," Shobhram told PTI on Wednesday. "Besides, we dont have money or even a motorcycle. Nobody helps. But for improving my sons life, I brought him to Dhar for appearing in the examination on bicycle," he added. "We carried food and other eatables with us for sustaining ourselves in Dhar for two-three days. We started on Monday and after spending a few hours of night at Manawar town, we reached Dhar on Tuesday morning just before start of the exam," said Shobhram.  The boy, Ashish, aged around 15, said, "I am studying in Class 10 and I came here on cycle with my father for appearing in the examination." Ashish appeared in the examination held at the Government Bhoj Girls School in Dhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-cycles-105-km-to-ferry-son-to-class-10-exam-centre-875234.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput case: SC judgment comes as an embarrassment for Maharashtra government||The Supreme Court's judgment allowing CBI probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput came as a major embarrassment for the Mumbai police as well as the Maharashtra government. Even after lapse of more than 60 days of June 14 incident, the Mumbai police did not find any material to lodge an FIR and continued with the accidental death report and an inquiry.  Sushant's father K K Singh had to belatedly approach the Patna police on July 25 to get an FIR registered against Rhea and her family members. The Mumbai police, which recorded the statement of 56 witnesses in its inquiry, was accused of by the Bihar police of trying to shield the culprits due to political pressure. The efforts by Maharashtra government and accused Rhea Chakraborty to raise the issue of jurisdiction and political reasons behind lodging of FIR in Patna were nullified by the Bihar government. In a preemptive move, it transferred the probe to the CBI during the pendency of the matter. This finally came to be approved by the top Court.  The act of dithering by Mumbai police, on the other hand, swelled public support in favour of Sushant's family members, who accused his live-in partner Rhea of cheating and misappropriation of his money. This also led to all sorts of speculation about the involvement of some bigwig into the case. Justice Hrishikesh Roy, who delivered the judgment on Wednesday, said that the records of the case do not prima facie suggest any wrongdoing by the Mumbai Police.  "However, their obstruction to the Bihar police team at Mumbai could have been avoided since it gave rise to suspicion on the bonafide of their inquiry," the court said. The legal process must, therefore, be focused upon the revelation of the correct facts through credible and legally acceptable investigation. The court said the CBI should continue the probe as it is not for the accused to choose the investigating agency and secondly political interference against both states has been alleged which has the potential of discrediting the investigation. "When truth meets sunshine, justice will not prevail on the living alone but after Life’s fitful fever, now the departed will also sleep well. Satyameva Jayate," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajput-case-sc-judgment-comes-as-an-embarrassment-for-maharashtra-government-875247.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Center orders withdrawal of 10,000 security force personnel from J&K||After more than a year, Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday ordered the withdrawal of more than 10,000 security forces personnel from Jammu and Kashmir. At least 400 (40,000) additional companies of security forces were deployed by the Center prior to abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories (UT) on 5 August last year. The erstwhile state was put under a strict lockdown on August 4 and a majority of the political leaders were detained before the announcement was made. The MHA in its order sent to the advisor to the administration of J&K UT, commissioner secretary, administration J&K UT and Director General of Police J&K Dilbagh Singh, stated that it is to intimate that the deployed of Central Armed Forces in J&K has been further reviewed by the ministry. “It has been decided to withdraw 100 Companies of CAPFs with immediate effect from J&K  and revert them back to their respective locations,” reads the MHA order. Each security forces’ company comprises 100 to 120 men which means over 10,000 forces personnel are on way out from J&K. Out of 100 companies that are being pulled out of J&K, 40 are from CRPF and 20 each from BSF, SSB and ITBP. Sources revealed that 300 additional forces companies continue to remain stationed in Kashmir and their withdrawal will depend on the second review by the MHA scheduled to be held next month. “The decision to withdraw 10,000 troops was taken after reviewing the security situation in J&K,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/center-orders-withdrawal-of-10000-security-force-personnel-from-jk-875271.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Intense rainfall activity likely across central and east India over next 5 days: IMD||Parts of central and east India are likely to receive heavy rainfall over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday.         According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre and Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD, a well-marked low pressure area lies over north coastal Odisha. A low pressure area is the first stage of any cyclone.  It is very likely to move westwards and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD said.  It said under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with “isolated heavy to very heavy falls” are very likely along with “isolated extremely heavy falls” over Odisha on Wednesday. Heavy rainfall is also expected over Chhattisgarh on August 19-20, east Madhya Pradesh on August 20, west Madhya Pradesh on August 21 and 22, east Rajasthan on August 22 and Gujarat on August 22 and 23.  Detailing the likely impact of the heavy rains over Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, there are chances of localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses mainly in urban areas. It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchments, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-rainfall-activity-likely-across-central-and-east-india-over-next-5-days-imd-875285.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||India-China stand-off: Senior diplomats to hold talks again to end LAC impasse||The senior diplomats of India and China are likely to hold a video conference on Thursday to make yet another attempt to end the stalemate over the mutual withdrawal of the front-line troops from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the Ministry of External Affairs, will lead the delegation of the Government of India in the video conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government will be led by Hong Liang, the Director-General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sources in New Delhi told DH. The video conference will be the 18th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013. Srivastava and Hong earlier had as many as three video conferences within the framework of the WMCC on June 24, July 10 and July 24 to resolve the current military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The video conference between the senior diplomats of the two governments is going to be held more than a fortnight after the commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) met at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on August 2 but failed to end the stalemate over the process of mutually withdrawing front-line troops from the face-off scenes. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops to resolve the more-than-90-day-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. It, however, remained stalled for the past three weeks, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and of course the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. Last week, India reached out to senior political and military leadership of China. Vikram Misri, New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing, on Friday, had a meeting with Major General Ci Guowei, Director of the Office of International Military Cooperation of the Central Military Commission of China and briefed him on the position of the Government of India on its borders with the communist country. He also had a meeting earlier last week with Liu Jianchao, Deputy Director of the Office of the Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Party of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-stand-off-senior-diplomats-to-hold-talks-again-to-end-lac-impasse-875297.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||777 villages in 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh hit by floods||With major rivers in Uttar Pradesh flowing above the danger mark, 777 villages in 16 districts of the state have been hit by floods, UP minister Anil Rajbhar said on Wednesday. Of the affected villages, 520 are marooned, he said.  The Sharda river at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur Kheri, the Saryu, and Ghaghra at Elgin Bridge in Barabanki, Ayodhya and Turtipar in Ballia were flowing above the danger mark, the minister for backward class development said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the district magistrates concerned to keep a vigil on river embankments, he said. The 16 districts affected by floods are Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Barabanki, Basti, Badaun, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur, Shahjahanpur, Deoria, Sant Kabir Nagar and Sitapur, Rajbhar said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Adityanath has directed officials to take care of those living in flood shelters and if required conduct tests on people with fever, cough or headache and ensure their proper treatment. Rajbhar said that as of now all the embankments were safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/777-villages-in-16-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-hit-by-floods-875301.html
19-08-2020||North and Central||Man murders wife, hangs self; suicide note says two teenagers raped woman||A man killed his wife and later hanged himself in a village in Barwala sub-division of Hisar district, leaving a suicide note that said he took the extreme step under the humiliation of rape of his wife by two teenagers of the village, police said on Wednesday. The 28-year-old man first hacked his 26-year-old wife to death with some sharp-edged weapon and later hanged himself, police said. A suicide note was found from the spot, said Hisar Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia, adding it is being investigated if the note was written by the deceased. A police team, led by Barwala DSP Rohtas Sihag and including SHO Kuldeep Singh, visited the scene of the crime and collected evidence from there after inspecting the spot. The bodies of the deceased couple were handed over to their relatives after post mortem, the SP said. A case under various sections of Indian Penal Code, including that for rape, has been registered against the two teenagers on the statement of the deceased woman's brother. In his complaint to the police, the woman’s brother said that after receiving the information about the sister's murder, he and his family members reached the village. He said he suspected that his brother-in-law, a daily wager, killed his sister first and then committed suicide. The woman’s brother also alleged that he had come to know that his sister was raped by the two teenagers on August 15 when her husband was away. For this reason, his brother-in-law felt humiliated and killed his wife before ending his life, he added. The couple's seven-year-old child, who was sleeping in the room, found his parents dead when he woke up. SHO Kuldeep Singh said the two youths who have been accused of raping the woman are minors, aged between 16 to 17 years. The case is being investigated, but no one has been arrested so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-murders-wife-hangs-self-suicide-note-says-two-teenagers-raped-woman-875322.html
19-08-2020||Opinion||NEP: Unaddressed equity concerns in higher education||That the recently unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) is considered visionary and transformational is now common knowledge. While this is largely right, the Policy, however, has a few gaps as far as the equity aspect goes that have remained unresolved for long. This piece tries to delineate those critical unaddressed challenges, which could be grouped under supply-side inequities. The policy has focussed on improving access, equity, and excellence. However, the equity aspect is centered around the demand side, represented by the student community. Higher education providers on the supply-side of education too have equity issues to grapple with which have not been adequately addressed.  The Policy states that “All HEIs [Higher Education Institutes] - public and private - shall be treated on par within this regulatory regime.” However, the constraints faced by the private sector vis-à-vis the public and also within itself is an old issue having far-reaching consequences. The public vs private skew  The Policy is explicit in encouraging philanthropic private parties into higher education. It speaks about “transparent mechanisms for fixing of fees with an upper limit” and ensuring “reasonable recovery of cost while ensuring that HEIs discharge their social obligations.”  A public higher education institution (HEI) does not bother about its financial health, as it is fully bankrolled by the government. This luxury is not available to any private higher education provider. Even with noble intentions, any attempt to fix upper limits to the fee for private institutions would only dilute transparency, which the Policy aims to promote. Providing education costs and providing quality education costs dearly. As higher education is not a complete public good, it is only proper that the one who benefits from it also pays for it, at least in the private segment.  With almost 10.9 lakh Indian students pursuing higher education abroad, affordability is certainly not an issue for a segment of a population. When the Policy is categoric in letting only multi-disciplinary institutions henceforth, providing higher education would cost considerably more. To achieve 50 per cent gross enrolment by 2035, there is a clear need to allow for-profit institutions into the sector, in addition to philanthropic organisations. To profiteer is bad, but to profit is not. Within a short period of time, the sector itself would eliminate profiteering private parties and retain only the performing profiting ones. With public funding severely limited in recent times, it is better to unfetter the private segment fully.  Inequity within the private segment The policy has proposed to declutter the structural complexity in university category by stating that the “present complex nomenclature of HEIs in the country such as ‘deemed to be university’, ‘affiliating university’, ‘affiliating technical university', ‘unitary university’ shall be replaced simply by 'university' on fulfilling the criteria as per norms.” A similar decluttering within the private segment concerning minority and non-minority would have been helpful.  The prime privileges allowed to private minority institutions include non-applicability of the policy of reservation in the admission of students and employment of teachers, which are otherwise applicable to both private non-minority institutions and public institutions. In addition to these, the private minority institutions also enjoy a few other benefits like freedom to fix reasonable fee structure on their own, putting them ahead of even government institutions in terms of autonomy, administrative ease, relaxation from bureaucratic norms and other legal procedures, etc.  De-bureaucratising and extending the same relaxations to the private non-minority institutions would not in any way curtail the protection extended to the minority institutions, but enable the whole private segment to operate better. The number of institutions, both colleges and schools, granted minority status by National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (NCMEI) in the last 15 years is 13,565. A simple search with the keyword “college” on the NCMEI website retrieved nearly 2000 units, which is almost five per cent of the total colleges in the country. Creating an elite group within the private segment skews the segment and makes it unsustainable and unfair. The NEP could have provided a level-playing field for all the private institutions. Domestic vs foreign private segment  The Policy also speaks about facilitating the entry of the top 100 universities in the world into India. This is welcome and needs to be encouraged. In this connection, the Policy also mentions that “such universities will be given special dispensation regarding regulatory, governance, and content norms on par with other autonomous institutions of India.” While this is fair technically, the prevalent constraints on the private segment, including the ones indicated above, make the proposal practically not so fair. The existing barriers need to be eliminated in the first place. Otherwise, only a few autonomous institutions, from both the public and private segment, would be able to compete with the global top 100. The domestic private segment is still not mature in the country and needs assistance to compete with global institutions. Doing away with the barriers of the private segment is essential much before the higher education sector is opened to global competition. The Policy is pathbreaking in its vision and approach. If adopted with adequate zeal, the higher education sector would become globally competitive yet locally rooted. One hopes that the equity issues highlighted above are addressed in some manner. (M Saravanan is a higher education consultant based in New Delhi. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nep-unaddressed-equity-concerns-in-higher-education-875219.html
19-08-2020||South||1,763 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana; tally at 95,700||Telangana continued to witness an upward trend of coronavirus cases with 1,763 fresh additions, pushing the state's tally of positive cases to 95,700. With eight more fatalities the toll rose to 719, a state government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 18. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the Covid-19 hotspot in the state, witnessed 484 infections, cases being reported. The GHMC was followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri-169, Rangareddy-166 and Warangal Urban with 88 cases, it said. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.75 percent, while it was 1.92 percent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far was 73,991, while 20,990 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 77.31 percent in the state, while it was 73.18 percent in the country. The bulletin said 24,542 samples were tested on August 18. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was nearly eight lakhs. The samples tested per million population was 21,480, it added. The bulletin said the state government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and sufficient beds are available in state-run hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1763-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-tally-at-95700-875062.html
19-08-2020||South||Kerala: Girl ends life allegedly due to inferiority complex||A 19-year old girl, who was found hanging in her house in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday evening, is suspected to have ended her life because of issues related to her complexion. S S Aarathi, daughter of Sathish and Sindhu of Nedumangad, about 20 kilometres from the city, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in the house. According to the Nedumangad police, a diary of the girl, recovered from her house, mentions her complexion issue.  It seemed that Aarathi had some inferiority complex regarding her complexion, the police said.  Apart from that, prima facie, there were no other reasons for her to take such an extreme step. However, the investigation is progressing and a case has already been registered, the police said. Aarathi was a second-year degree student of Nedumangad Government College. She even attended the online class on Monday morning. Her parents were not in the house when the incident took place. It was her younger sister who first saw Aarathi hanging, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-ends-life-allegedly-due-to-inferiority-complex-875111.html
19-08-2020||South||Veteran cricketer Gopalaswamy Kasturirangan passes away due to heart attack||Veteran cricketer Gopalaswamy Kasturirangan died due to heart attack at his residence here on Wednesday. "G Kasturirangan passed away today morning. He died of heart attack at his residence in Chamarajapet," Karnataka State Cricket Association Treasurer and Spokesperson, Vinaya Mruthyunjaya told PTI. Kasturirangan, 89, was a former cricketer-administrator and the BCCI curator. He had mostly played his matches for Mysore in Ranji Trophy as the right-arm medium pace bowler from 1948 to 1963, the sources in the cricket fraternity said. Mourning his death, renowned international cricket player Anil Kumble tweeted, "Sad to hear about the passing of G Kasturirangan. He will be fondly remembered for all his contributions to cricket. Heartfelt condolences to his family." In a condolence message, the KSCA said, "President, Secretary and members of the Managing Committee of the Karnataka State Cricket Association, deeply regret the sad and sudden demise of former Ranji Player, Vice President of KSCA and BCCI Curator Sri G Kasturirangan." The Association said Kasturirangan had represented the then "Mysore" team in the Ranji Trophy match in the year 1948-49 to 1962-63 for Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-cricketer-gopalaswamy-kasturirangan-passes-away-due-to-heart-attack-875161.html
19-08-2020||South||236 new cases push Tripura's Covid-19 tally to 7,663||Tripura's Covid-19 caseload rose to 7,663 on Wednesday as 236 people tested positive for the infection, while three more fatalities pushed its coronavirus death toll to 65, a health official said. Three Covid-19 patients, all hailing from West Tripura district, died due to cardiac arrest at the Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) on Tuesday, he said. The fresh infections have pushed the number of active cases in the state to 2,083, while 5,497 people have recovered from the disease so far, and 18 patients have migrated to other states, the official said. Tripura has so far tested 2,28,983 samples for Covid-19, he added. The state government has distributed 185 oxygen concentrators among Covid care centres to provide better care to critical patients, Director of National Health Mission, Tripura, Dr Siddharth Shiv Jaiswal said. The Health Department will distribute 824 oximeters among Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/236-new-cases-push-tripuras-covid-19-tally-to-7663-875181.html
19-08-2020||South||In fear of upcoming NEET examination, Tamil Nadu student dies by suicide||Fear of upcoming NEET examination has allegedly led a student to die by suicide at her residence here, police said on Wednesday.  The 19-year-old resident of East Venkatasamy Road was preparing for NEET, scheduled to be held in September, for the past few months and was found depressed. The girl took the extreme step as she was scared of the approaching the exam, they said. The teenager was found hanging in her room on Tuesday evening by her mother, who immediately lodged a complaint with the police. Further investigations will reveal what led to the suicide, they added. The Supreme Court had on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. Meanwhile, DMK MLA N Karthik visited the victim's house. He said the party Chief M K Stalin expressed deep shock over the incident. The MLA urged the Centre to immediately cancel NEET examination for admission to medical courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-fear-of-upcoming-neet-examination-tamil-nadu-student-dies-by-suicide-875202.html
19-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu heirs of people killed in Kerala landslide will get Rs 3 lakh: CM||Heirs of each of those who died in a landslide in Kerala and living in Tamil Nadu will be provided an assistance of Rs three lakh, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced on Wednesday. Direct successors of every person killed in the landslide and residing in Tamil Nadu would be given Rs three lakh financial aid, Palaniswami said. Those who sustained serious injuries shall get Rs one lakh, he said, adding that the assistance would be provided from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. Palaniswami said the tea estate labourers killed at Munnar in Idukki district of Kerala were natives of Tamil Nadu and were living and working in the neighbouring state for a long time. On his directive, a team of personnel from Theni district joined the rescue efforts in Kerala, he said, adding that 12 workers have been rescued and admitted in a hospital for treatment. He condoled the deaths and prayed for the speedy recovery of those injured. The death toll in the recent landslide stood at 61 on Tuesday with the recovery of three more bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-heirs-of-people-killed-in-kerala-landslide-will-get-rs-3-lakh-cm-875217.html
19-08-2020||South||19-year-old student preparing for NEET dies by suicide in Tamil Nadu||A 19-year-old student from Coimbatore, who was preparing for NEET to pursue a career in medicine, died by suicide on Tuesday, apparently due to fear of writing the exam. Her decision to end her life came a day after the Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking postponement of NEET and JEE scheduled to be held next month. According to police, the girl was found hanging in her room on Tuesday morning. She was preparing for NEET for the past two years, the police added. NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with two students – S Anitha and S Prathiba – ending their lives in 2017 and 2018 respectively after failing to clear the entrance exam. They had scored enough marks in the plus-2 exams to get into medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. NEET is considered discriminatory as students from rural areas are pitted against those coming from the urban areas across the country, who apparently enjoy better educational facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/19-year-old-student-preparing-for-neet-dies-by-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-875222.html
19-08-2020||South||This Kerala library attracts readers with its unique architecture||Why do people go to libraries? The most obvious answer is to read books. But a library in Kerala is attracting readers not just with its humungous collection of over 7,000 books, but also with its design marvel. It is more than a year since the Lal Bahadur Vayanasala and Granthalayam (library), which is over fifty-year-old and located at Karayil near Payyanur in Kannur district, has got its building designed in the form of a bookshelf. But even now people from distant places are visiting the library to see its unique architecture. President of the library Appukuttan Karayil said that the design of the library building is even attracting people from the nearby Kasargod district. It is true indeed, as the reader base of the library has seen an increasing trend over these months. The library was set up in 1967 with the initiative of freedom fighter K C Kunhirama Poduval. The initial building of the library gave way for public development activities later and the library was functioning in a rented building for quite some time. A few years back a fresh initiative was taken to construct a new building. Veteran sculptor KKR Vengara proposed this unique design for the library building. Covers of popular books, mainly Malayalam, were also used for the design. Artisan Sreedharan C V led the construction of the building. The new building was inaugurated in 2019 February. Since then many have been flocking the library to see the building design. At present, the library has a collection of over 7,000 books, mostly Malayalam, said Appukuttan. Recently an upcoming bookshop at Aluva near Kochi had even grabbed the attention of even renowned writer Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho owing to its unique design in the form of a bookshelf. One of the four books modelled was Paulo Coelho's 'The Alchemist'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/this-kerala-library-attracts-readers-with-its-unique-architecture-875223.html
19-08-2020||South||Sterlite Copper functioned without valid licence for 16 years||Tamil Nadu’s pollution watchdog has come under severe criticism from the Madras High Court for allowing Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper to operate its massive copper smelter on the outskirts of Thoothukudi without “valid consent to operate” for over 16 years of its 22 years of existence. In the voluminous 815-page judgement delivered in a bunch of writ petitions filed by Sterlite Copper against Tamil Nadu government’s move of shutting down its plant, the division bench of Justices T S Sivagnanam and V Bhavani Subbaroyan reserved some of the harshest criticism for Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). It is a “shocking reality” that for the substantial period of the time from 1995 to 2018 – 16 years and 92 days – Sterlite Copper was operating without valid consent to operate, the court observed, adding that the industry was operating either on account of orders passed by Courts or the Tribunal, or by stating that application for renewal of consent was pending. Environmentalists who were fighting against Sterlite had time and again accused the Vedanta-owned company of operating without a necessary licence for years together. The court castigated the TNPCB holding that the pollution watchdog was “under-equipped” to deal with industries of the magnitude of Sterlite Copper that carry out multiple processes and have several by-products which require monitoring at different stages, locations, and times. “We have also mentioned in our assessment that the data collected from the petitioner are through the monitors established by the TNPCB, which are not analysed. Had such an exercise been done, periodical notices would have been issued to the petitioner not only when an incident occurs or is reported,” the judges said in their order pronounced on Tuesday. “Thus, it is evidently clear that there was no proper monitoring of the industry presumably on account of the orders of Court/Tribunal, TNPCB did nothing in the matter, though it was well open to the regulator to inspect and ascertain as to whether the petitioner can be permitted to continue to operate the unit,” they added. The judges said the TNPCB failed to discharge its duties and observed that nothing prevented the regulator from approaching the Court by way of an appropriate application appraising the facts and the need to monitor the petitioner. They also noted if the TNPCB had taken up an exercise of verifying the quality of the raw material imported by the petitioner, much of the allegations which have cropped up now would not have arisen. The bench also blamed the regulator for the lack of proper monitoring. Nityanand Jayaram, an environmentalist at the forefront of the anti-Sterlite agitation, said he was happy that the court had reserved “stringent criticism” for the TNPCB, whose system is “extremely broken.” However, he feels harsh observations of the judges are likely to have no impact on the functioning of the pollution watchdog. “Things would have been starkly different in this country if pollution watchdogs had complied with court orders. I do not think the harsh words are sufficient enough to shame the TNPCB to reform. The system in the TNPCB is extremely broken,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-copper-functioned-without-valid-licence-for-16-years-875257.html
19-08-2020||South||37 lawmakers infected with coronavirus in Tamil Nadu||Thirty-three legislators, including five ministers, and four parliamentarians, who were actively involved in meeting people and distributing aid to the needy during Covid-19 lockdown, from Tamil Nadu have so far contracted the novel Coronavirus. In all 37 lawmakers have tested positive for the virus since its outbreak in March – one DMK MLA, J Anbazhagan died of the infection – probably the highest number among elected representatives who have contracted the infection in the country. Of the 33 legislators, 16 each are from the ruling AIADMK and principal opposition DMK, one belongs to the Congress. Among the MPs, two are from Congress – Karti P Chidambaram and H Vasanth Kumar – DMK’s Ramalingam and Selvarasu from the CPI. Besides, two district collectors and nearly 2,000 policemen in Chennai have contracted the virus since mid-March.  All five ministers were actively involved in Covid-19 efforts in Chennai and in their respective districts. Most of the MLAs and MPs infected with Coronavirus were in their constituencies meeting people, distributing aid, and participating in functions, as assembly elections in the state are less than a year away. Almost all of these leaders were cautious while moving among the people and had followed physical distancing. Dr K Kolandasamy, who retired as Director of Public Health in the midst of Tamil Nadu’s efforts against Covid-19 on April 30, told DH that the risk of contracting the virus increases with more interaction irrespective of preventive measures like masking, maintaining physical distance, and washing hands. “The more someone interacts, the more he or she risks the infection of Covid-19. One can take enough precautionary measures but can still get infected with the Coronavirus if he or she interacts with more people. Lawmakers and officials cannot stop meeting people. Such people should be more careful,” he said. Another retired doctor said politicians who are older than 60 years of age should refrain from stepping out of their homes as the risk of them getting infected with the virus is more due to their age. He added that even in hospitals, younger doctors have been placed on the frontline duty while those above the age of 55 are being moved to online consultation as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/37-lawmakers-infected-with-coronavirus-in-tamil-nadu-875259.html
19-08-2020||South||Chennai's 'Visa' temple to perform special pooja on August 22||A special pooja will be performed at the “Visa Temple” here on August 22 on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. This temple attracts hundreds of devotees, mostly visa seekers to study or work abroad, as they strongly believe that the presiding deity will bless them.  An announcement from the temple said abhishekam and aarthi will be held on Saturday. Constructed in 1988, the temple, located in Brindavan Nagar at Nanganallur in Chennai, was originally called the Sri Lakshmi Ganapathi Temple. Now famously known as the “Visa Temple”, the temple attained its new name after a few locals got their visas without much trouble after praying here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennais-visa-temple-to-perform-special-pooja-on-august-22-875260.html
19-08-2020||South||S P Balasubrahmanyam continues to be critical on ventilator, ECMO support||Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5, continues to be critical and is on the ventilator and Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), the hospital where he is receiving treatment said on Wednesday. 74-year-old Balasubrahmanyam, who has sung over 40,000 songs in 16 languages, was moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital here and put on life support on August 13. “Thiru S P Balasubrahmanyam who had been admitted at MGM Healthcare due to Covid-19 continues to be critical and is on the ventilator and Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU),” Dr Anuradha Baskaran, Assistant Director – Medical Services, MGM Healthcare, said in a statement. “The expert medical team treating him is closely monitoring his vital parameters which are satisfactory at this point of time,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-p-balasubrahmanyam-continues-to-be-critical-on-ventilator-ecmo-support-875261.html
19-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to provide Rs 3 lakh solatium to victims of landslides belonging to state||Families of those who died in a landslide in Kerala and living in Tamil Nadu will get a solatium of Rs 3 lakh each, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said here on Wednesday. Majority of the people who died in the landslide near Munnar in Kerala belong to Tamil Nadu. At least 62 people have died so far, and a few others are believed to be trapped under the debris. Since most of them have origins in Tamil Nadu, Palaniswami said, he had directed Theni district officials to assist Kerala Government in the rescue operations. He announced a solatium of Rs 3 lakh each for families of those who died and living in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-provide-rs-3-lakh-solatium-to-victims-of-landslides-belonging-to-state-875262.html
19-08-2020||South||6 lakh may have been infected by Covid-19 in Hyderabad: Study||There may be at least six lakh people in the city who have been infected by coronavirus with a large number of them asymptomatic and need no hospitalisation, a study said on Wednesday. Conducted by CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, the study said individuals infected by SARS-CoV-2 shed virus not only through nasal and oral routes but also through faeces. In a joint effort, CCMB and IICT harvested the sewage samples of different sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city to estimate the number of potentially infected individuals, it said. According to the study, 80 per cent of the STPs revealed nearly two lakh people are shedding viral materials and only 40 per cent of the sewage reach STPs which may indicate that about six lakh people in the city carried or are carrying the virus. "This study, covering about 80 per cent of the STPs in Hyderabad, revealed that there are nearly 2 lakh people who are shedding viral materials. Since only 40 per cent of the sewage reach STPs, this data can be used to extrapolate the overall number of potentially infected people, which turned out to be approximately six lakh, that is, around six per cent of the population, which includes symptomatic, asymptomatic, and also recently recovered individuals in a time window of about 35 days," the CCMB said. The findings are posted on preprint server MedRxiv, which is yet to be peer reviewed, it added. According to a press release from the Telangana government, as on August 18, there are 95,700 positive cases reported in the state. Director, CCMB, Rakesh Mishra said if such studies are carried out in coordination with civic bodies, it would help identify the hotspots and take necessary measures. "Our finding clearly indicates that a large proportion of the affected individuals are asymptomatic and did not need hospitalisation. This is also in agreement with the observation that hospitalisation rush or mortality is way lower than otherwise expected with such a large infection rates at a given time," the CCMB director said. "It explains why our healthcare system has been able to handle reasonably well the situation during the pandemic," he said. All the experiments were conducted at the CSIR-CCMB Covid-19 testing facility and the teams were from CSIR-IICT and CSIR-CCMB, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-lakh-may-have-been-infected-by-covid-19-in-hyderabad-study-875267.html
19-08-2020||South||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crosses 50,000; toll at 182||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crossed the 50,000 mark on Wednesday as 2,333 fresh cases took the tally to 50,231.  The state also saw the highest single-day spike as the number of Covid-19 active patients reached 17,382, while 32,611 patients have recovered so far. With seven more Covid-19 deaths, the total Covid-19 death toll has touched 182. Around 50 persons who died of Covid-19 were not considered as Covid-19 deaths by the Kerala government citing that the cause of death was other ailments like cancer that they were already suffering from. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja and chairman of state government's experts' committee on Covid-19 Dr. B Ekbal had recently said that the state would witness further spike in Covid-19 cases. Around 90% of the cases reported in the past few days have been due to local transmission. Of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala so far, nearly 75% have been due to local spread. It was only around 10% initially. State capital Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of Covid-19 patients at 4,621, followed by Malappuram district with 2,411. Even after initiating steps like effective contact tracing, engaging police for stringent enforcement of lockdown and social distancing norms, Kerala hasn't seen a major decline in the Covid-19 curve. 'Police didn't intend to collect Covid-19 patient's call records' Meanwhile, in response to a petition filed by Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala,.the state government said before the Kerala High Court that the police did not intend to collect call records of Covid-19 patients, but only tower locations to identify the route map for Covid-19 contact tracing purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-tally-crosses-50000-toll-at-182-875275.html
19-08-2020||South||Hyderabad had 2.6 lakh active Covid-19 cases as of August first week, CCMB-IICT study reveals||Hyderabad alone had about 2.6 lakh active Covid-19 cases as of 6 August, a study by two premier central research institutions has revealed. The figure is in stark contrast with the 21,417 cases shown as active in the whole of Telangana on the said date in the Covid-19 bulletin issued by the Chandrasekhar Rao government. The collaborative study of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology also estimated the overall number of potentially infected people in Hyderabad to be about 6.6 lakh, i.e., around 6.6 percent of the city’s population. CCMB-IICT researchers have arrived at the numbers by analyzing the sewage samples collected from various locations in Hyderabad. Since an infected person sheds viral material in faecal samples for up to ~35 days, these studies provide an overall estimate of the situation in a window of one month, the CSIR-IICT researchers assert pointing at the similar active case numbers even now. Individuals infected by SARS-CoV-2 shed virus not only through nasal and oral routes but also through their faeces. However, the SARS-CoV-2 in sewage samples is non-infectious, making it suitable for epidemiological studies. About 40 percent of the 1800 million litres water consumed daily in Hyderabad is processed at different sewage treatment plants. Sewage samples from major STPs were processed for detecting the presence of SARS-CoV-2 viral RNA. The study covering about 80 percent of the STPs in Hyderabad showed that there are over two lakh people who were shedding viral materials as of August first week. “Since only 40 percent of Hyderabad sewage reaches STPs, this data was used to extrapolate the overall number of potentially infected people which turned out to be approximately 6.6 lakhs, i.e., around 6.6 percent of the city’s population. This includes symptomatic, asymptomatic, and also recently recovered individuals in a time window of about 35 days. A conservative estimate of the number of active cases who are shedding the virus maybe around 2.6 lakhs,” the researchers stated.  “As the last faecal sample was collected on 6 August, the 2.6 lakh active case estimate can be said to be of that date,” Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB told DH.   While viral RNA was detectable in the inlet samples, the outlet (after treatment) samples were largely clean (free from viral RNA), indicating efficient treatment practices at STPs. The experiments were conducted at the CSIR-CCMB Covid-19 testing facility and the findings posted on preprint server MedRxiv are yet to be peer-reviewed. “Our findings clearly indicate that a large proportion of the affected individuals are asymptomatic needing no hospitalization. This is also in agreement with observations that hospitalization rush or mortality is way lower than otherwise expected with such a large infection rate at a given time. It also explains why our healthcare system was able to handle the situation reasonably well during this pandemic,” Dr Mishra said. Estimating the virus spread is crucial in identifying the affected areas and controlling the pandemic. “Such studies carried out in coordination with the civic bodies identifying the hotspots and monitoring the dynamics of the infection rate can assist the system in taking appropriate measures,” Dr Mishra says. As of Tuesday 18 August, Telangana has a total 95,700 cases and active cases are 20,990, as shown in the Covid-19 bulletin. The Rao government is accused of not conducting enough tests, which the opposition parties say is not revealing the true extent of the virus prevalence in the state. Telangana has till now conducted about eight lakh tests, with only 21,480 samples tested per a million population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-had-26-lakh-active-covid-19-cases-as-of-august-first-week-ccmb-iict-study-reveals-875280.html
19-08-2020||South||Siddaramaiah seeks judicial probe into Bengaluru violence; accuses govt of interested in gaining mileage||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday alleged the BJP government in Karnataka was only interested in gaining mileage using the recent mob violence here and no relief measures had been taken up in the flood-hit areas. He also sought a judicial inquiry into the violence that broke out over a social media post by the nephew of a Congress MLA, claiming it showed intelligence 'failure'. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress Legislature Party leader, asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to direct his ministers to visit the affected places to carry out relief works. "The whole state is suffering due to floods & its mismanagement. But @BJP4Karnataka is only interested in gaining political mileage using Bengaluru violence," he charged. He also claimed 'failure' to provide relief and rehabilitation for last year's flood victims has added to the misery. Taking a dig at Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka, he tweeted the Home Minister was surveying flood affected areas while the latter continued to 'speculate' on Bengaluru violence, that left four people dead last week. "Is it not the duty of the Revenue minister to assess the damage due to floods?" he asked and urged Yediyurappa to "direct your ministers to carry out their work." On the situation in his assembly constituency Badami, he said people there were under stress due to floods. Later in a letter to Yediyurappa, he demanded a judicial inquiry into the violence at the Devara Jeevanahalli and Kadugondanahalli, claiming it was an outcome of the "failure" of the government and the Intelligence department. "If the government cannot protect an MLA and the police station then how can it be able to protect the people of the state?" Siddaramaiah asked. Reacting to it, Bommai said Siddaramaiah was agitated with the 'squabbling' in Congress. "His condition in the Congress is very critical. Hence, he speaks only about the BJP all the time," he claimed. The violence in DJ Halli and adjoining areas on August 11 night was unleashed by hundreds of people over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/siddaramaiah-seeks-judicial-probe-into-bengaluru-violence-accuses-govt-of-interested-in-gaining-mileage-875292.html
19-08-2020||South||8 still missing in Munnar landslide; toll climbs to 62||Two weeks after the landslide at Pettimudi near Munnar in Kerala, eight persons are still missing, while one more body was recovered on Wednesday taking the death toll to 62. The body of an eight-year-old boy was recovered from a spot about 10 km away from the landslide spot. Radars were also being used to detect human presence beneath the debris. Though there were reports that the body of a woman was also traced, official confirmation was pending. The landslide occurred late on August 6 night and the victims were residents of a settlement of plantation workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-still-missing-in-munnar-landslide-toll-climbs-to-62-875296.html
19-08-2020||State||One killed as house collapses due to rain in Chikkodi||A person was killed after his house collapsed at Sadalga town in Chikkodi taluk on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Kallappa Pargoudar (70). His house collapsed at about 4 am. Rains had made the house fragile, sources said. Chikkodi Tahsildar Subhash Sampgavi visited the spot and carried out inspection with other officials concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-killed-as-house-collapses-due-to-rain-in-chikkodi-875019.html
19-08-2020||State||9 trapped on roof of house in Gokak village||Nine persons have been trapped on the roof of a house at Adibatti village in Gokak taluk that has been marooned in the waters of river Ghataprabha after discharge from Hidkal dam was increased after it reached the maximum level. Sources said, nine persons stayed back in the village to prevent theft despite other residents shifting to relief centres established by Taluk Administration. Gokak Tahsildar Prakash Holeppagol informed DH that they had shifted residents from Adibatti to relief centres after water levels increased, but were not aware why the nine people stayed back. Boats were available with the administration and they will be rescued and shifted to relief centres, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/9-trapped-on-roof-of-house-in-gokak-village-875033.html
19-08-2020||State||Coracle capsizes near Jurana, two bodies traced||Two bodies were traced near the Priyadarshini dam near Jurala on Karnataka-Telangana border on Wednesday at 7:00 am. However, the authorities are yet to confirm if the bodies found were of the people missing after a coracle capsized in River Krisha near Peddakuram on Monday evening. The bodies have been traced a day after the incident. The four missing people could not be traced on Tuesday despite a search by NDRF teams and firefighters through Tuesday. The coracle ferrying about 13 people had capsized in the swollen Krisha river on Monday evening. While four people including a girl had gone missing, the others swam to safety with the help of locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coracle-capsizes-near-jurana-two-bodies-traced-875039.html
19-08-2020||State||Former BJP MLA Guru Swamy dies||Former BJP MLA C Guru Swamy, (68), died of cardiac arrest, at a private hospital in Mysuru, on Wednesday. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5 and was isolated at the hospital. However, it was yet to be confirmed whether he was still positive for coronavirus when he passed away. Guru Swamy was elected on a BJP ticket from Chamarajanagar segment in 1999 and was isolated at JSS Hospital in Mysuru. District Health Officer, Mysuru, Dr R Venkatesh confirmed the news of his death and said that the patient suffered from a cardiac arrest and a Covid-19 test will be conducted. Guru Swamy was an advocate by profession and follower of former union minister Rajshekar Murthy. He started his political career from Janata Dal. He joined the BJP along with his master Rajshekar Murthy and was elected as MLA in 1999 after defeating Vatal Nagaraj from Chamarajanagar assembly segment. Swamy is the first MLA from BJP representing Chamarajanagar. Later, he joined the Congress due in 2004. He also served as Chamarajanagar District Congress president. Swamy rejoined the BJP in 2014. Swamy leaves behind two daughters, including, Nagashree, Zilla Pany former president, also BJP district unit general secretary, wife Sheela. His final rites will be held at Yanaganahalli in Chamarajanagar taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-bjp-mla-guru-swamy-dies-875049.html
19-08-2020||State||Covid-19: DC orders closure of Central Market in Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has ordered for the closure of the Central Market in Mangaluru, in a bid to maintain social distance to check the spread of Covid-19. The DC has ordered for the merchants who were engaged in business activities in Central Market, to continue their business at APMC yard in Baikampady. The DC has warned of initiating legal action against those who fail to adhere to the order. The DC has also urged the officials to implement the order on the closure of business activities in the Central Market effectively. With Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) withdrawing its case in the court, on banning all trade and transactions at Central Market, vendors had returned to Central Market on August 13. The DC said that there are chances of a large number of people visiting the market in the future which in turn will affect maintaining social distance in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19. The roads leading to Central Market are narrow and maintaining the density of traffic and people is difficult to adhere to the safety norms proposed by the government. There is a possibility of the spread of Covid-19 due to the congested place in Central Market, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-dc-orders-closure-of-central-market-in-mangaluru-875070.html
19-08-2020||State||River Krishna nears danger mark as inflow increases||The water level in river Krishna reached near the danger mark with the inflow of water increasing to 2,18,963 cusecs on Wednesday. Water began spreading outside the river banks. Water inflow into the state from Rajapur barrage in Maharashtra at Kallol in Chikkodi increased to 2,18,963 cusecs. It included 1,85,875 cusecs from river Krishna and 33,038 cusecs from its tributary river Doodhganga. Nine bridges in Chikkodi subdivision have submerged in the waters, but villages on both sides have alternate road connectivity. The bridge between Examba in Chikkodi and Danwad in Maharashtra were submerged in river Doodhganga waters late on Tuesday. Residents from villages prone to floods have been asked to move to safer places along the banks of river Krishna. Livestock has been shifted to sheds near relief centres and people too have been asked to shift with their necessary belongings. The receding rains in Kolhapur and Sangli districts in Maharashtra have come as major solace for the people. Many hope that the water levels will remain constant and recede after 48 hours if the same situation continues. Rains also receded in Chikkodi, Nippani, Athani and Raibag taluks along the river Krishna banks and occasional sunshine was witnessed. Water discharge from Koyna dam in Maharashtra into river Krishna on Wednesday was 54,629 cusecs with six of the ten gates being opened.Water level in the Hidkal dam increased to 2,173.03 feet with inflow being 34,308 cusecs and outflow 40,245 cusecs. Villages and Gokak town downstream have been facing a flood-like situation. Water level in Malaprabha dam reached 2,076.90 feet with the inflow being 17,719 cusecs and outflow 17,164 cusecs. Outflow decreasing is expected to help water recede from the villages and towns downstream. Rains receding in the catchments of river Malaprabha in Khanapur taluk have led to the inflow receding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/river-krishna-nears-danger-mark-as-inflow-increases-875084.html
19-08-2020||State||Karnataka govt will now give your Covid-19 test result online||Karnataka has gone live with an online service that allows citizens to check their Covid-19 test result by entering the specimen referral form (SRF) ID. The portal - www.covidwar.karnataka.gov.in/service1 - has been developed by the Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room headed by IAS officer Munish Moudgil. “If you are positive, don't panic. Stay calm and isolate yourself at your home. Government of Karnataka will automatically get in touch with you on your mobile number,” Moudgil said in a note. The SRF ID is required by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing purposes. The ID comprises the personal details of a patient. The SRF ID is given to every patient who gets tested for Covid-19. A similar online service is available in Tamil Nadu. Karnataka has 79,782 active Covid-19 cases. Of the total 2.40 lakh positive cases reported, 1.5 lakh have been discharged, according to data. The government has been claiming bragging rights on the Covid-19 testing front. On Tuesday, the state conducted  59,088 tests. “So far we conducted 21,34,174 tests across 100 labs in the state out of which 15,82,449 tests are RT-PCR and other methods and 5,51,725 are rapid antigen tests,” Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said. According to the War Room analysis, Karnataka is in the sixth position nationally in terms of the number of Covid-19 tests done per million population: Delhi comes first with 79,828, followed by Jammu & Kashmir (64,640), Andhra Pradesh (59,737), Assam (58,385), Tamil Nadu (53,311) and Karnataka (34,912).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-will-now-give-your-covid-19-test-result-online-875140.html
19-08-2020||State||Farmers to display black flags to CM Yediyurapa on August 21||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene president Badagalapura Nagendra said, the farmers will show black flags when Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa visits KRS and Kabini dams to offer bagina on August 21. "The government is yet to disburse the compensation to those who were affected by the flood last year. Hundreds of people are losing lives in the State due to the Covid-19. Amidst this, the Chief Minister has made amendments to the Land Reforms Act that will affect farmers. Offering bagina to the dams is like a celebration in the house which is mourning", he criticised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-to-display-black-flags-to-cm-yediyurapa-on-august-21-875173.html
19-08-2020||State||This engineer came up with a device to prevent social expansion of Covid-19||Mohammed Sehil, an alumnus of P A College of Engineering in Mangaluru has come up with a device to prevent social expansion of Covid-19. Currently working as a research engineer for Geepas International Company in Hong Kong, he is on leave due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown and is back in his native Malappuram in Kerala. The new device— inVIA can be installed at any overcrowded institution, including hospitals, government agencies, malls, supermarkets and restaurants. The device comprises different applications. “The device has a sanitizer facility and is also able to detect warmer temperatures, as well as communicate all Covid-related messages via mobile and enable transparency in complying with government protocols. If the temperature is high, it is possible to apprise the authority through an automated system and, if they test positive for Covid-19, all those who have been in contact there can be notified by contact message. Modern technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning Technology, and IoT (Internet of Things) make it possible to locate contact details and route maps, as well as the timeliness of visitors to offices or centres each day,” Mohammed Sehil told DH. Different devices can be connected so that the route map is as clear as possible. The device also aims to minimise contact exposure by sending messages to those who are most likely to be in need of quarantine. In addition, the protocol can minimise the financial burden on institutions and loss of time for people He said ït takes 22 days to come up with the device. “I already received orders from the supermarket, government offices for the device in Kozhikode,” he said. He said that he has applied for a patent for the Covid-19 expansion device, namely inVIA and the patent application is being processed. He already has four patents to his credit. As a student, he had won several accolades including Global Innovation Award worth Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-engineer-came-up-with-a-device-to-prevent-social-expansion-of-covid-19-875183.html
19-08-2020||State||Ulfex Ltd explores Rs 2,000 crore investment in Karnataka||Packaging materials and solutions company Uflex Ltd has evinced interest to invest Rs 2,000 crore in Karnataka, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Wednesday. Shettar said he held talks with Uflex CMD Ashok Chaturvedi and that this investment, which the company wants to make in two phases, could generate 2,000 jobs in the state. According to a statement, the minister exchanged notes with the company on the investment climate in the state. Chaturvedi told Shettar that the company would require 55 acres of land to set up a unit. With an additional four acres, the company can create housing facilities for workers, he said. Also, the proposed unit will make zero-waste and eco-friendly products that will be supplied all over the country, the statement said. Shettar asked the company to submit a formal investment proposal. He also explained the highlights of the new industrial policy 2020-25 and elaborated on the ease of doing business reforms in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ulfex-ltd-explores-rs-2000-crore-investment-in-karnataka-875288.html
19-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Central Water Commission issues flood warning in Krishna basin in Karnataka||As monsoon rains continue to batter parts of Maharashtra and North West region of Karnataka, the Central Water Commission has issued a flood advisory for Karnataka, mostly in Krishna river basin area. The CWC also said forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Central Maharashtra for next 4 days will rise in water levels in Upper Krishna Basin in the upstream of Almatti Dam. "Most of the dams in Krishna Basin are also having storage between 86% to 98%. Hidkal Dam to 98% of its full capacity and is releasing 28,656 cusec.  Due to the very heavy rainfall forecast in Central Maharashtra, Hidkal and Malaprabha are also getting heavy inflows," the CWC said. " River Krishna at Gokak Falls in Belagavi District of Karnataka is flowing above danger level. River Krishna at Huvinahedgi in Raichur District is rising due to release from Narayanpur Dam. Due to river flows from upstream areas of river Krishna, Almatti Dam and Narayanpur Dam are getting heavy inflows and since these dams are filled around 79% to 89% of the capacity, both the dams are releasing the excess flow continuously," the CWC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-water-commission-issues-flood-warning-in-krishna-basin-in-karnataka-874962.html
19-08-2020||West||Heavy to very heavy rain in Konkan, central Maharashtra, warns IMD||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Konkan and central Maharashtra over the next four to five days, the India Meteorological Department has said. Mumbai and neighbouring Thane are likely to witness maximum rainfall intensity on Friday and Saturday when the Ganesh festival commences, IMD Mumbai centre's deputy director-general K S Hosalikar said. The 10-day Ganesh festival will begin on August 22. "With likely formation of low-pressure over N Bay on 19Aug & getting well marked in nxt 24hrs & moving westwards;Mah,Goa,Guj likely to receive widespread RF nxt 4-5 days with hvy to very hvy RF ovr Konkan, M Mah more: Mumbai Thane too. 21-22 could be Max;Arrival days of Lord Ganesha," Hosalikar tweeted late Tuesday night. The Modak Sagar dam, one of the seven reservoirs which supply water to Mumbai, started overflowing on Tuesday night following incessant rains in its catchment area, a civic official said. With good rainfall this month, the seven dams - Bhatsa, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Tansa, Modak Sagar, Vihar and Tulsi - have 83 percent water stock, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-to-very-heavy-rain-in-konkan-central-maharashtra-warns-imd-875034.html
19-08-2020||West||Maharashtra MSRTC to set up petrol pumps to increase earnings, overcome losses||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to set up petrol pumps in the state to increase its earnings and overcome the losses incurred due to the outbreak of Covid-19. State Transport Minister Anil Parab, who is also the chairman of MSRTC, made this announcement on Tuesday. "The MSRTC will get a sustainable source of income through the petrol pump business," Parab said. The transport corporation recently signed an agreement with the Indian Oil Corporation for the project. As per the agreement, 30 petrol and diesel pumps and five Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) pumps will be set up on vacant plots of the MSRTC. The Indian Oil Corporation will build the fuel pumps and the MSRTC will operate them. In May this year, the MSRTC ventured into the freight services business. The government-run undertaking recently also started operating its tyre remoulding plants across the state on a commercial basis, including for private vehicles. With a fleet of over 18,000 buses and nearly one lakh workforce, MSRTC is one of the biggest state road transport corporations in the county. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, over 65 lakh passengers used to travel daily in MSRTC buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-msrtc-to-set-up-petrol-pumps-to-increase-earnings-overcome-losses-875102.html
19-08-2020||West||Aurangabad Covid-19 cases rises to 19, 258; 106 fresh cases||The number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad rose to 19,258 on Wednesday after 106 more people tested positive for the disease here in Maharashtra, the district administration said. Among the new cases, 42 were reported from Aurangabad city and 64 from rural parts of the district. Seven more deaths were also reported, taking the total number of Covid-19 fatalities here to 602, the district administration said in a release. As of now, there are 4,204 active cases in the district, while 14,452 patients have so far been discharged after recovery. Around 1.9 lakh tests, including 1.5 lakh rapid antigen tests and 40,000 RT-PCR tests, have so far been conducted in the city having a population of nearly 11 lakh, Aurangabad Municipal Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said on Tuesday. He claimed that the number of tests being conducted here per lakh population was far more than any other city in the country. On reports of shortage of rapid antigen test kits, Pandey said, "We placed an order of 50,000 kits worth Rs 2 crore a few days back. We may get the stock in a couple of days and then the rapid antigen tests will continue on entry points of the city and through mobile health teams."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-covid-19-cases-rises-to-19-258-106-fresh-cases-875142.html
19-08-2020||West||Gujarat ATS 'foils' assassination plot of former BJP minister||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Wednesday claimed to have "foiled" an assassination plan aimed at former BJP minister Gordhan Zadaphia plotted by fugitive gangster Chhota Shakeel by arresting an alleged "sharpshooter" in a late-night raid in a hotel here. Officials said that the motive behind killing Zadaphia could be his role in handling the situation post Godhra riots in 2002 when he was junior home minister in the then Chief Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet. The ATS officials said that they arrested Irfan Shaikh, in his mid-20s, from "Hotel Venus" under the Karanj police station area on Tuesday night based on "specific information" received by Deputy Inspector General of Police Himanshu Shukla.  On Tuesday midnight, Shukla along with Superintendent of Police Deepan Bhadran and two Assistant Commissioner of Police, K K Desai and ACP ATS BP Rojiya entered the hotel room where they found Shaikh. "Initially he talked normally but after learning that we were police, Shaikh took out a pistol which he had hidden behind his back and fired pointing at Rojiya. Rojiya pushed him back in the nick of time and the bullet hit a corner of the ceiling and ricocheted to another corner. We overpowered him eventually before he could pull the trigger again," an officer who was on the spot said. "Prima facie, we have gathered information that he was hired by the Chhota Shakeel gang in order to avenge the 2002 riots. We have found video footage of Kamalam (BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar) and images of the BJP leader who was possibly the target," Bhadran told DH.  Meanwhile, later in the day, Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja said in a press conference that “the target was BJP leader Gordhan Zadaphia. ATS had received information of two such suspects, one of whom has been held. The ATS is looking for the other suspect as well. We have requested the Director-General of Police to increase the security of our leader.” Zadaphia was Minister of State for Home in 2002 when the Godhra riots happened. He left the BJP in 2007 and launched his own political party, Mahagujarat Janta Party. Zadaphia later joined former Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel's Gujarat Parivartan Party to challenge Modi. He returned to the BJP fold in 2014 and has been helping the party in strategising election campaigns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ats-foils-assassination-plot-of-former-bjp-minister-875224.html
19-08-2020||West||Malik leaves for Meghalaya, Koshyari takes additional charge as Goa Governor||After the abrupt, but telling exit of outgoing Satya Pal Malik, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari took over additional charge as the Governor of Goa on Wednesday. Koshyari was administered the oath of office by Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court Dipankar Datta in presence of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat and other dignitaries at a function in Raj Bhavan. Hours earlier, Malik left Goa to take charge of his new brief as Governor of Meghalaya, after he was abruptly transferred amid a running feud with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant over the last few weeks, which had embarrassed Sawant’s leadership no end. Interestingly, even as Koshyari was being administered the oath to office, Congress workers staged a protest meeting at the city square in Panaji, condemning the abrupt transfer of Malik to Meghalaya. “It is condemnable that a Governor who stood with the people against poor administration of the BJP-led coalition government and its corrupt practices has been transferred so quickly,” Goa Congress spokesperson Agnelo Fernandes told reporters here. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and the Governor have been at loggerheads ever since July when the latter had accused the Chief Minister of trying to "put words in his mouth" and blame the media for criticism of the BJP-led coalition government's management of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Malik subsequently had also picked holes in the state government's apparatus and strategies to contain the pandemic, causing much embarrassment to the Sawant-led administration.  Earlier this month, Malik had shot down a proposal passed by the state cabinet to construct a new Raj Bhavan premises, saying the state treasury should not incur unnecessary capital expenditure in the wake of the pandemic, which was draining Goa’s financial resources.  Malik was sworn-in as Goa Governor last year, after his high profile stint as Jammu and Kashmir Governor during which he oversaw the abrogation of Article 370 and splitting of the J&K state into two Union Territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malik-leaves-for-meghalaya-koshyari-takes-additional-charge-as-goa-governor-875256.html
19-08-2020||West||Bhagat Singh Koshyari sworn in as Goa Governor||Bhagat Singh Koshyari was sworn in as Goa Governor here on Wednesday, an official said. Chief Justice of Bombay High Court Justice Dipankar Datta administered the oath of office to Koshari, who is Governor of Maharashtra and assumed the additional charge as Goa Governor after Satya Pal Malik was on Tuesday transferred and appointed as the Governor of Meghalaya. Koshyari read out his oath in Konkani. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Leader of Opposition in Assembly Digambar Kamat were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhagat-singh-koshyari-sworn-in-as-goa-governor-875263.html
19-08-2020||West||Will decide on bypolls in Gujarat after assessing situation: ECI||The Election Commission of India (ECI) told the Gujarat High Court on Wednesday that it will assess the coronavirus situation and decide whether bypolls to eight Assembly seats in the state should be deferred. The poll panel was responding to a Public Interest Litigation seeking indefinite postponement of the byelections. The ECI will also frame broad guidelines within three days on holding of general and byelections during the Covid-19 pandemic based on guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health, it had said in a press release issued on Tuesday. The release was submitted to the high court along with an affidavit-in-reply. Petitioner Farsu Goklani sought indefinite postponement of byelections to eight Assembly seats -- which fell vacant after Congress MLAs resigned -- in view of the coronavirus outbreak. "....the ECI is assessing the situation including the pandemic and so far not announced dates for the by-elections in the state of Gujarat as well as those in other states," the poll body said. "The Election Commission will take appropriate decision as to whether to announce elections at an appropriate time or if required to defer holding of elections after following due procedure as prescribed in law," said Joint Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat, Ajay Bhatt. On the basis of the guidelines it is going to form, Chief Electoral Officers of states where elections are due shall prepare a comprehensive plan of COVID-19 related measures during the conduct of elections, the ECI's Tuesday release said. Bhatt also cited two Supreme Court judgments where it was held that the ultimate decision on "whether it is possible and expedient to hold the elections" must rest with the ECI. The seats that became vacant after the resignations of Congress MLAs are Dhari, Abdasa, Limbdi, Gadhda, Dang, Karjan, Morbi and Kaprada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-decide-on-bypolls-in-gujarat-after-assessing-situation-eci-875281.html
19-08-2020||West||SSR case: Maharashtra government assures cooperation, keeps option of parallel probe open||Hours after the Supreme Court order vis-à-vis Sushant Singh Rajput case, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra on Wednesday assured all help to the CBI. “We welcome the judgement of the Supreme Court and we will provide whatever cooperation is needed by the CBI,” Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Lauding the Mumbai Police, he said, “It is a matter of pride for Mumbai Police that the Supreme Court observed there is no fault found in their investigation under 174 of CrPC.” "The state government will think as per paragraph 34 of the Supreme Court order,” he said on the verdict where there is a scope of parallel investigations. Meanwhile, a CBI spokesperson said, “The investigation related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput is continuing. The CBI team will visit Mumbai in due course for further investigation. Other details cannot be shared at this stage.” The CBI is expected to seek a formal exemption of quarantine norms of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “If CBI team comes for 7 days they'll be automatically exempted from quarantine & if they come for more than seven days period then they have to apply for exemption through our email ID and we will exempt them,” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told a TV channel. The question over BMC's quarantine rules arose as they quarantined Bihar’s Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari when he came to investigate the case earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ssr-case-maharashtra-government-assures-cooperation-keeps-option-of-parallel-probe-open-875293.html
