20-08-2020||Comment||Flooding and climate change||In recent years, extreme rainfall events leading to flooding are becoming common, particularly in the Western Ghats and northern districts of Karnataka. This year is no exception, with July and August rainfall events leading to damage to life, crops, infrastructure and property. Large-scale flooding has occurred three years in a row. The first question is, if the excessive rainfall and high intensity (mm of rainfall in 24 hours) events are a result of ongoing climate change. There is enough scientific evidence to show that without the increased CO2 or greenhouse concentrations, the observed extent of extreme rainfall events would not have occurred. World Meteorological Organization, in its report ‘The Global Climate in 2015–2019,’ concluded, “While tropical cyclones are responsible for many of the world’s most destructive floods, there have been many other instances of major flooding since 2015. Some of these floods have been relatively long-lived responses to excessive rainfall in tropical regions during the monsoon season, but others have been shorter-term floods, including flash floods associated with intense rainfall over a few hours. Heavy rains have also contributed to major landslides in some parts of the world”. There are other studies to support that climate change is driving the observed recent trends of extreme rainfall events with high intensity, pounding the Malnad, coastal and northern districts of Karnataka and many parts of India and the world, leading to unprecedented flooding, damage and loss. The damage or loss due to extreme rainfall depends on quantity of rainfall and its intensity, land topography, vegetation cover, particularly in the catchment areas, extent of land conversion or use for buildings, roads, industries, etc. There is a general understanding that land degradation, forest degradation and increased settlement and infrastructure development have all exacerbated the effect of extreme rainfall leading to damage and loss of life, property and infrastructure. In the context of droughts and floods, floods are always more damaging. Droughts lead to decline in crop yields or water shortage. While according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre, for example, the 2019 floods led to crop damage in 10 lakh hectares with a crop loss of Rs 15,000 crores, 2.47 lakh homes damaged and 28,000 km road damaged in Karnataka. In addition, damages include landslides, soil erosion, silting of reservoirs and spread of water-borne diseases. Till recently, in Karnataka, all the focus used to be on drought and government seeking drought relief from central government, loan waivers to farmers, promise of investment in irrigation and crop insurance. Damage due to flood events received much less attention than droughts. The second question facing the people and policymakers is what will be the impact of climate change on rainfall pattern, extreme rainfall events and flooding in the coming years and decades. Recent report of Ministry of Earth Sciences concluded, “With continued global warming, climate models project an increase in the annual and summer monsoon mean rainfall, as well as the frequency of heavy rain occurrences over most parts of India during the 21st century. The interannual variability of summer monsoon rainfall is also projected to increase through the 21st century”. Multiple CORDEX (Regional climate modelling program) models based assessment made by Indian Institute of Science has shown, for example, in the taluks of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu, June to September rainfall is projected to increase in the range of 13% to 25% (under moderate and most likely scenarios of climate change, respectively) compared to long-term average rainfall by 2030s. Further, the number of high-intensity rainfall events are projected to increase in the range of 1 to 2 additional events annually of 50 to 100 mm per day and more than 100 mm per day rainfall intensity. The increase in June to September total rainfall and the occurrence of high rainfall events is projected for the majority of taluks and districts of the Western Ghats and Northern Karnataka, even by 2030s. Climate models show that in the coming years and decades, the June to September total rainfall and number of high-intensity rainfall events will rise in most districts. Such model-based studies provide opportunity to prepare in advance, for early warning systems, to build resilience to flood risks, to incorporate climate change projections in planning infrastructure and development programmes and to build capacity in the administration. However, in India and in Karnataka, the reality with respect to disasters such as droughts and floods, which can reasonably be predicted in advance, is largely on post-disaster response than advance preparedness. This is because of a number of reasons; the Deputy Commissioners at district level who are responsible for preparing and implementing the District Disaster Management Plans are over burdened with routine administrative and law and order responsibilities, have limited technical capacity and staff at the district level, with very limited or no funding for advance disaster mitigation and resilience measures. The National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP) of 2019, prepared by NDMA is based on outdated climate change science and model projections. NDMP does not give any guidelines on how to consider or incorporate the latest climate modelling science and projections in to District Disaster Management Plans. However, there are obvious win-win strategies for adaptation to flood disasters in the coming years and decades, especially driven by climate change; preventing forest degradation and loss, revegetation of catchment areas, improved access to early warning systems, incorporating climate change impact and resilience component in all infrastructure programs, avoiding settlement or infrastructure expansion in flood-prone locations, construction of flood protection barriers, etc. There is no shortage of policies and measures required for building resilience to climate risks. Unfortunately, advance preparation will remain a dream, and vulnerable communities would be lucky if they at least get some relief and rehabilitation assistance, post-flood. During 2020 floods, due to Covid-19 crisis, there is little chance of getting any relief from the government. (The writer is a former Professor, Indian Institute of Science)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/flooding-and-climate-change-875446.html
20-08-2020||First Edit||Naga accord seems to be unravelling||The framework agreement signed between the Indian government and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) five years ago seems to be under threat. The agreement, which was to be finalised with further negotiations between the government, the NSCN(I-M) and other civil society groups and parties, was expected to put an end to Naga insurgency. There is a ceasefire in Nagaland for the last 23 years, but new developments and statements have caused some uncertainty. The NSCN (I-M) has made public the framework agreement which had been kept confidential till now, and has demanded the removal of Nagaland Governor N Ravi as the interlocutor for the talks, charging him with manipulation and duplicity in dealings. Other Naga groups represented by the Naga National Political Groups (NNPG) were participants in the talks but the NSCN (I-M) has been the main proponent of the Naga cause. The public spat started with a recent letter written by N Ravi to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, alleging the collapse of law and order in the state and a reign of armed gangs “who question the sovereignty and integrity of the nation” and are engaging in “blatant extortion”. But differences and tensions were building up for some time, though claims had been made that most of the issues of the dispute had been settled. It now turns out that the NSCN(I-M) has not given up the demand for a separate flag and constitution and a wider territorial jurisdiction for the new state, called Nagalim, which would include areas presently in Assam and Manipur. It has rejected any resolution without an agreement on these issues, though other groups may not insist on them. According to the NSCN(I-M), the government had in the 2015 document agreed to “sharing the sovereign power.”It says that Ravi later manipulated the document to suggest that any solution would be within the limits of the Indian Constitution. Given the present situation, it is difficult to imagine that there would be any progress in the negotiations in the near future. Even if the talks resume, N Ravi may not be able to continue as the interlocutor, though continuity demands that. The NSCN(I-M) may also be hardening its position to extract maximum concessions from the government. In fact, the government may not now be able to offer as much as it did in 2015, after the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. There cannot also be an agreement with the Nagas at the cost of the territorial integrity of neighbouring states. While not losing sight of an agreement, the government should ensure that the law and order situation in the state does not deteriorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/naga-accord-seems-to-be-unravelling-875441.html
20-08-2020||In Perspective||Reducing Covid-19 risks equitably||A recent headline presented an alarming fact—25 people died every hour due to Covid-19 in India in July. By comparison, there are about 50 deaths per hour due to Tuberculosis; 82 death per hour of infants below the age of 1; and about 300 people die every hour, every day due to hunger. It is estimated by the Brookings Institution that between 100,000 to 200,000 children have missed their immunizations during the pandemic in India. Stop TB Partnership estimates that there could be 6-20% increase in TB mortality as a result of interruptions in treatment due to lockdowns and other disruptions to routine health services. Without a doubt, the spectre of hunger looms large on countless people as a result of the lockdown and loss of livelihood. We can only imagine how many more deaths these causes might ensue. The reasons for this hourly carnage have been analysed elsewhere. For example, weak primary health care delivery, including poor health infrastructure and uneven access to maternal health care, have been shown to put the lives of infants at risk. Two-thirds of infant deaths are associated with malnutrition and health vulnerabilities that come with poor sanitation and lack of immunization. Similarly, with TB, overcrowding, poorly-built living environments, indoor air pollution, malnutrition and poor access to services have all been contributors to the high mortality rates. In short, these are conditions that largely affect the poor. This, perhaps, brings us to the crux of the issue, and the key difference between ‘diseases of the poor’ and Covid-19. This virus does not apparently respect any of the usual marks of privilege. Superstars, Chief Ministers, captains of industry, international travellers and IT professionals are finding themselves uncomfortably occupying the same boat as poor migrants, vegetable sellers, security guards and household help. The ongoing media coverage, intense scrutiny of epidemiological data and trends, as well as the successive lockdowns highlight the sense of urgency and perception of risk felt by all sections of society. While the poor have been most vulnerable to hardship due to loss of livelihood and displacement, nobody has been spared the income insecurity, loss of freedoms and dread of infection that have come in the wake of the virus. This is not a new phenomenon. For centuries, TB was a disease that afflicted people irrespective of their race, gender or socio-economic class. In the 19th century, it was a common condition among English troops stationed in India, and later spread to the natives as well. Open-air sanatoria where patients could be isolated and quarantined were available to the lucky few who could afford it. By the middle of the 20th century, a range of medications as well as a vaccine became available for the prevention and treatment of TB. As a result, there has been an overall decline in TB prevalence, but it persists stubbornly among one particular group—the poor. WHO has identified poverty, and its attendant poor living conditions, malnutrition and stress, as critical social determinants of TB. This is despite a well-established treatment protocol, supported by the government through the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program since 1993. With the possibility of a vaccine for Covid-19 coming closer, it is important to plan for equitable and just access. Experience with earlier vaccination programs indicates that this cannot be taken for granted—according to the UNICEF, only about 65% of children in India receive full vaccine coverage in the first year of their life. There are significant differences by geography—the large central states have the poorest coverage; girls are less likely to be vaccinated than boys, and the rural poor have the lowest coverage. And this is for a program that has been in place for decades — the Universal Immunization Program was launched in 1985. The Pulse Polio Program, intended to eradicate polio, was launched in 1995. It achieved its objective only sixteen years later, in 2011. Some of the reasons why it took so long included persisting open defecation, poor quality of water, weakness caused by malnutrition and repeated bouts of illness, all of which made children vulnerable to increased exposure to the poliovirus. Again, conditions that apply largely to the poor. We have learned to live with the daily deaths caused by old, well-established diseases, and barely account for the social and economic devastation they cause. But India now has the opportunity to learn from experience, change the narrative and carefully plan the response. This will require investment in its public health network, ensuring the lability of all necessary resources —vaccines, cold chains, human resources, outreach networks —and thereby making testing, tracing, medical care as well as the vaccine, if and when it becomes available, equally accessible to everyone. Unless such investment is made urgently, there is a danger that Covid-19 might join the ranks of the other diseases that, over time, became relegated to being ‘diseases of the poor’. (The writer is, Professor, Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/reducing-covid-19-risks-equitably-875447.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nanjangud THO dies due to suicide, pressure from higher officials alleged||Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer (THO) died due to suicide at his residence in the city on Thursday. The family members alleged that the officer took the extreme step owing to pressure from higher officials. Dr S R Nagendra killed self at his residence in Alanahalli, here. The health department officials, including doctors and his family members, staged a flash protest in Nanjangud and near District Health Office in Nazarbad, Mysuru. The family members and the staff alleged that Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra is responsible for the suicide of the officer. Medical education minister Dr K Sudhakara condoled the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nanjangud-tho-dies-due-to-suicide-pressure-from-higher-officials-alleged-875598.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru cleanest among medium-sized cities||Mysuru emerged as India's 'cleanest medium city’ in the Centre's annual cleanliness survey, the results of which were announced on Thursday. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, in which 129 awards were given in different categories. Mysuru bagged the honour among cities with a population of between 3 lakh and 10 lakh. The city scored high in four categories — on-sight evaluation, innovations, citizen feedback and solid waste management. Mysuru was adjudged the cleanest city in 2015 and 2016 but slipped to the fifth place in the overall ranking in 2017. In 2018, it was the cleanest medium city and the third clean city in 2019. Swachh Survekshan 2020 is the world’s largest cleanliness survey which ranked a total of 4,242 cities, 62 Cantonment Boards and 92 Ganga Towns and saw the participation of 1.87 crore citizens across the country. In order to ensure continuous assessment and sustainability of on-ground performance of cities, the government had introduced Swachh Survekshan League, a quarterly cleanliness assessment of cities and towns conducted across three quarters, with 25% weightage integrated into the final Swachh Survekshan results for this year. Union Minister Puri congratulated pourakarmikas for their efforts in maintaining the city’s beauty. He interacted with pourakarmikas Nanjundaswamy and Manjula via video conference. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) organised the event on Mysuru Palace premises. The minister lauded the efforts of Nanjundaswamy who had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 12 and recovered. "I am working again from August 1 after completing the quarantine period," he told the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-cleanest-among-medium-sized-cities-875600.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Veerappan's aide Bilavendran dies of health issues||M Bilavendran (61), an associate of forest brigand Veerappan, died in a hospital on Wednesday. He was serving a jail term since last 27 years. Bilavendran of Martalli village near Male Mahadeshwara Hill in Chamarajanagar district, was awarded lifetime imprisonment for his role in several crimes, including a landmine blast, in which 23 personnel were killed, in 1993. Bilavendran was admitted to KR Hospital six days back, as he fell unconscious at the jail. Bilavendran, along with A Simon, Gnanaprakasam and Mesekara Madiah, was arrested on May 23, 1993, for their involvement in several cases. A total of 23 police, forest and Special Task Force personnel were killed in the blast in the landmine blast alone. He was also involved in killing then STF chief T Harikrishna, sub-inspector Shakeel Ahmed and four others. On September 29, 2001, Mysuru TADA Court convicted all the four and sentenced to lifetime imprisonment. The convicted appealed before the Supreme Court. But, the apex court awarded them death sentence in 2004. However, the convicted filed mercy petition before the President of India and the application was pending for eight years. The application was quashed in 2013. Later, the Supreme Court converted its earlier order to lifetime imprisonment in 2014. While Simon died in 2019, Gnanaprakasam and Mesekara Madiah are still in prison. The other cases in which Bilavendran and others were involved are: attack on Ramapura Police station, in which five police personnel were killed; murder of five policemen; and attack on police force, in which IPS officer Gopal Hosur and others sustained injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/veerappans-aide-bilavendran-dies-of-health-issues-875747.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||BSY to offer bagina at KRS dam for record 5th time||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa offers bagina to Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, across River Cauvery, for a record fifth time. He is the second CM from Mandya district, besides S M Krishna. Even though Krishna completed a full five-year term, he could not offer bagina during three years, due to drought. Yediyurappa will offer puja to the idol of Goddess Cauvery and offer bagina to KRS dam at 12.05 pm on Friday in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district. Later, he will offer bagina to Kabini dam across Kapila river at 1.15 pm in HD Kote taluk of Mysuru district. At both places, farmers and other activists have announced of holding black flag protests, against the policies of the state government. The practice of offering bagina to KRS dam was started by the late chief minister D Devaraja Urs, in 1979. The others, who have offered bagina in KRS dam as chief ministers, are: R Gundu Rao, S Bangarappa and H D Kumaraswamy, thrice; Ramakrishna Hegde, M Veerappa Moily, S M Krishna, N Dharam Singh and Siddaramaiah, twice; Veerendra Patil, H D Deve Gowda, J H Patel and D V Sadananda Gowda, once. P Venkatasubbaiah also offered bagina at KRS Dam once, in 1988, as Governor. Earlier, Yediyurappa had offered bagina to KRS dam in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2019. This year, the dam reached its brim on August 16. It was a practise to offer bagina on the same day or the next day, when the dam reaches its full capacity. Since 2019, a delay is seen. In a diversion from the norm, in 2014, then CM Siddaramaiah offered bagina, a day before the dam reached its full capacity, on August 6, when the water was 124 feet, against the maximum level of 124.80 feet. Since the past three years, due to copious rain during monsoon, in Kodagu and Hassan districts, both Cauvery and Hemavathi rivers are flowing in full glory, filling the dam to the brim by July or August. The water level, which was 105.95 feet, against the maximum level of 124.80 feet, filled to the brim on August 16, in just a fortnight. Since 2008, the dam has reached its full capacity eight times — in 2008 (August 15), 2009 (July 24), 2013 (August 1), 2014 (August 7), 2018 (July 20 and October 7), 2019 (August 15) and 2020 (August 16). The year 2016 was the worst, with the maximum level reached was 99.65 feet on July 28. Besides, in the years 2010 and 2011, the dam crossed the 124 feet level, but did not touch the 124.80 feet mark. On Thursday, as on 9 am, water level in the KRS dam was 123.90 feet. As the inflow into the dam reduced to 14,862 cusec, the outflow was reduced to 5,260 cusec, to reach full capacity by the time the bagina is offered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsy-to-offer-bagina-at-krs-dam-for-record-5th-time-875750.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: Pvt hospitals hesitate to admit Covid patients||The district continues to report a spike in Covid cases and the number of active cases has reached 1,500-mark. The district and taluk hospitals and the Covid Care Centres are filled with Covid patients. But, the private hospitals here have not made any preparations to admit the Covid cases. As per the government's directive, all private hospitals and nursing homes should reserve 50% of the beds for the Covid patients. The patients referred by the district hospitals should be admitted and treated at the private hospitals, at the rate fixed by the government. As the cases are increasing, the people are fearing to get tested and admitted to the district hospital, out of fear of contracting the disease. They are ready to pay the rate fixed by the government to the private hospital. But, no private hospital or nursing home in the city is conducting the tests, violating the norms. Instead, they suggest the caller to go to the district hospital. Except Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences, no other private hospital is conducting swab tests on the suspected patients. As directed by the district administration the Sanjo Hospital in the city has agreed to reserve the beds, but has not admitted a single patient so far. Shivakumar, a resident of Vidyanagar said, "People fear to go to the district hospital for getting tested, with the fear of contracting the disease. Though the people are ready to get the tests done at the private hospitals, they are not ready. The hospitals behave as though they are not concerned over this." Except holding a couple of meetings with the private medical establishments on reserving beds for Covid patients, the district administration has not issued any strict orders, it is alleged. A doctor said, "The private hospitals fear that the people suffering from other health problems may not come if they admit Covid patients. Hence, they are hesitating to oblige." District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda said, "Sanjo Hospital is making all preparations to get the patients admitted if the number of cases surge further. The private hospitals have been already instructed about this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-pvt-hospitals-hesitate-to-admit-covid-patients-875754.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru riots: Karnataka Cabinet indecisive on banning SDPI, PFI||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday did not arrive at any decision on banning the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Popular Front of India (PFI) for their suspected role in the Bengaluru riots. “We discussed this, but no decision was taken,” Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.   According to the minister, the government was exploring all legal options. "At the moment, we still do not have concrete evidence or a police report in the case before us. We will take suitable action once we get the report," he said.    As for recovering damages to public property from rioters, the Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Public Property Act, 1981, recommends that an authority be created to estimate loss and compensation. "The government will constitute the authority soon. We will ensure compensation to all the innocents who suffered damages to their property in the riots," Madhuswamy said. If required, the law would be amended to ensure action against the culprits, he added. The demand to ban SDPI and PFI has been renewed ever since riots broke out in KG Halli, DJ Halli and Kaval Byrasandra. The ruling BJP has accused the Congress of being hand-in-glove with the SDPI, which is seen as the political arm of the “extremist” Islamic group PFI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-riots-karnataka-cabinet-indecisive-on-banning-sdpi-pfi-875599.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka monsoon legislature session to begin from September 21||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to conduct the monsoon session of the legislature from September 21 to 30 in Bengaluru. But there is no clarity on where and how it will be held in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per procedure, the state government was required to convene the legislature session before September 23, which is six months since the last day of the previous session held on March 23. While there was speculation that the government would conduct the session at an alternative venue to ensure social distancing and to facilitate other precautionary measures amid the pandemic, Madhuswamy said the details were yet to be worked out. “However, the session would be held in Bengaluru itself,” he specified."The Cabinet can only decide the date. The modalities of how it will be conducted will have to be worked out with the Legislative Assembly Speaker and the Legislative Council Chairman. We will announce it soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-monsoon-legislature-session-to-begin-from-september-21-875601.html
20-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Don’t become BJP’s agent, DK Shivakumar warns Bengaluru police chief Kamal Pant||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Thursday warned Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant and asked him not to be biased in the inquiry into the Pulakeshinagar riots. “You are getting influenced by BJP ministers. They’re influencing you to go in a certain direction and fix the Congress. Mr Police Commissioner, we won’t allow this,” Shivakumar said without naming Pant at the party’s ‘Janadhwani’ event to mark the birth of former PM Rajiv Gandhi and former CM D Devaraj Urs. Warning Pant that he will have to face protests, Shivakumar asserted that no Congressman was responsible for the riots. “It was your failure. You didn’t handle it well. Don’t try to become an agent of the BJP,” Shivakumar charged. He also demanded a judicial inquiry under a sitting High Court judge into the riots. “We have no faith in your magisterial inquiry into the riots.” An aide of former Mayor R Sampath Raj of the Congress has been arrested based on his call records in connection with the riots. “Just because some calls were made, what does that even mean? Can somebody make calls to 5,000 people?” Shivakumar said. The police have arrested several innocent persons, Shivakumar rued. “Those who’ve wronged must be punished. But just because you want to show numbers, you’ve arrested innocents,” he said. The Congress leader asked why no action was taken against BJP MLAs and MPs who made inflammatory statements in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/don-t-become-bjp-s-agent-dk-shivakumar-warns-bengaluru-police-chief-kamal-pant-875620.html
20-08-2020||Mysuru||Veerappan's aide passes away at K R Hospital in Mysuru||Bilavendran, an aide of forest brigand Veerappan, passed away in a hospital in Mysuru on Wednesday. A resident of Martalli village near Male Mahadeshwara Hill, he was serving his jail term from the last 25 years. He was admitted to K R Hospital as he developed health issues ten days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/veerappans-aide-passes-away-at-k-r-hospital-in-mysuru-875453.html
20-08-2020||National||Facebook row: Privilege Motion moved against Rahul Gandhi, Shashi Tharoor||Congress BJP MP Nishikant Dubey has sought breach of privilege proceedings against Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who is the chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, over his remarks on social media to summon a panel meeting to discuss the alleged "misconduct" of Facebook. Earlier, Tharoor also moved a breach of privilege petition before Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, accusing Dubey of making disparaging remarks on the issue. He also took strong objection to Dubey's remarks on Twitter that "the Chairman of Standing Committee does not have the authority to do anything without discussion of the agenda with its members". In his application, Dubey stuck to his stand that Tharoor has no powers to summon any entity or organisation before the panel without consulting its members and accused himof using the committee's platform for politics and to "satisfy the ego" of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had alleged that BJP and RSS are controlling the social media platform. He said the agenda of any sitting of the Parliamentary Committee is decided after consultation with all the members of the parliamentary committee. But, Tharoor never consulted the agenda of summoning Facebook and/or WhatsApp in any of the meetings of the parliamentary committee, the BJP MP, who is a member of the panel, said. "It is, therefore, a clear case, of breach of privilege by Dr. Shashi Tharoor in the capacity of Chairperson of the Departmentally Related Standing Committee on Information Technology," he said. He alleged that Tharoor has committed a serious breach of privilege to use the parliamentary committee platform not only to serve his political agenda but also to tarnish BJP and “sensationalise a small incident by misusing his official powers”. “Tharoor has surpassed all limits of decency, ethics and basic tenets of Parliamentary procedure and practice vis-a-vis smooth functioning of parliamentary committee by way of committing a grave breach of privilege, not only in the capacity of an individual honourable Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha but also remaining in the exalted position of Chairperson of the departmentally related Standing Committees, viz, Information Technology,” Dubey said. Dubey also named Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying that he has also breached privilege by levelling “unsubstantiated allegations against all the members of Parliament belonging to the BJP”. Rahul Gandhi by tweeting that BJP and RSS control Facebook and spread fake news to influence the electorate has levied false and unsubstantiated allegations against all MPs belonging to BJP, Dubey said, adding that the Congress leader has also lowered the dignity of all BJP MPs and infringed upon their parliamentary privileges. The political slugfest started between the two leaders after Tharoor said that the standing committee would like to hear from Facebook officials about its hate speech rules in wake of a report in the Wall Street Journal which claimed that the social media giant refused to apply such rules to certain ruling party politicians in India. Meanwhile, tagging a tweet on a media report about the rules and functioning of committees, Dubey on Wednesday tweeted, "In the last 11 years as an MP, I have neither violated any rules nor would I let anyone violate or abuse their power for their parties personal vendetta with agenda."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-row-privilege-motion-moved-against-rahul-gandhi-shashi-tharoor-875344.html
20-08-2020||National||India revives old caravan route to Sub-Sector North||India has revived an old caravan route as an alternative approach to reach the strategic Sub-Sector North in Ladakh comprising Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO), Depsang plains and Karakoram pass because of the potential Chinese threat to the 255-km long main axis connecting Leh with DBO — the world’s highest airfield. The road passes through Sasoma, north of Leh, and climbs to Saser La at an altitude of nearly 17,800 ft before reaching Murgo where it connects the Durbuk-Shyok-DBO road that offers an all-weather connectivity between Leh and DBO. Usable only in the summer, the alternative road starts at Sasoma near Thoise — the base camp for Siachen — and travels east to reach Saser La before coming down to Gapsam near Murgo where it connects the DSDBO road. It is largely a mud track on which jeeps can move. The beginning and the final portion of the alignment can be accessed by jeeps, but there is a 27-km stretch between Saser La and Saser Brangsa (an ancient camping site) where trekking is the only option. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working to improve that stretch. However, the task is an arduous one because neither the terrain nor the weather is conducive. Work is possible only during the six months of summer as the temperature drops to minus 50 degrees Celsius in winter. For this stretch, the BRO got its first earth cutter only in 2016. Since the DSDBO road runs almost parallel to the Line of Actual Control — the disputed boundary between India and China — at many places, it is vulnerable to threats from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops. The back-up alignment is not a new one. It was a mule and camel track that was being used in the ancient times when goods carrying caravans used to move from Leh to Kashgar (now in Xinjiang province). The government agencies were working on this stretch of road for the last five years, but it assumed renewed significance in the wake of the five-month long Sino-Indian stand-off in eastern Ladakh during which PLA troops came into the Indian territory crossing the Line of Actual Control and blocked the Indian Army’s patrolling routes in the Depsang plains and on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso. When the Leh-based 14 Corps was given the task of finding out a back-up to the DSDBO link, it sent one unit to check the condition of the road. The troops travelled from Sasoma to Saser La in vehicles and trekked subsequently. On route, they also found bones of camels that were earlier used in the caravan to ferry cargo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-revives-old-caravan-route-to-sub-sector-north-875354.html
20-08-2020||National||India makes Covid-19 vaccine promise in attempt to prevent Bangladesh's drift towards China||India has promised to give priority to Bangladesh when it would start producing and sharing with its other nations the Covid-19 vaccines – a move, which is apparently aimed at stopping one of its friendliest neighbours from drifting towards China. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla wrapped up his two-day visit to Dhaka on Wednesday, promising that New Delhi would ensure access for “all its friends, partners and neighbours” to the Covid-19 vaccine doses when the antidote to the virus would be developed and its mass production would start in India. He also told journalists in Dhaka that Bangladesh had always been a priority for India, indicating that New Delhi would ensure preferential supply of the vaccines to its eastern neighbour. The Serum Institute of India (SII) already inked a deal with AstraZeneca for production of the ADZ-1222, which has been developed by the Oxford University in collaboration with the British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant. The ADZ-1222 is one of the front-runners in the race to be acknowledged as an effective vaccine against the Covid-19 pandemic. The SII is likely to conduct the Phase II and Phase III trials on the vaccine in India soon. India also has two indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates – the Covaxin by the Bharat Biotech International Limited and the ZyCOV-D by the Zydus Cadila. The Phase II trials are continuing on both the vaccines. Shringla had a meeting with Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen on Wednesday. Momen later told journalists that he had discussed with Shringla the possibility of conducting trials in Bangladesh on the vaccine candidates being developed in India.  New Delhi’s promise to Dhaka came almost a month after Bangladesh Medical Research Council (BMRC) granted “ethical permission” for conducting trials in the country on a potential Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Sinovac Biotech Limited of China. India took note of China’s move to tie-up with the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR-B) for the trial of the Covid-19 vaccine. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government in Dhaka however later stated that it had not yet taken a final decision on the trial of the Covid-19 vaccine and would do so only after assessing the efficacy of the various antidotes being developed around the world. The Covid-19 already infected over 282,000 people in Bangladesh and killed over 3700 of them so far. Shringla flew to Dhaka on Tuesday amid growing concerns in New Delhi over China’s bid to spread its tentacles over Bangladesh – not only through trial of Covid-19 vaccines and by promising access to the antidotes developed by the Sinovac Biotech Limited in future, but also by granting trade concessions and by promising soft loans for infrastructure projects as well as for helping the tiny nation recover its the economy from the crisis caused by the pandemic. He called on Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen, apart from holding a meeting with his counterpart Masud Bin Momen just before returning to New Delhi on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-makes-covid-19-vaccine-promise-in-attempt-to-prevent-bangladeshs-drift-towards-china-875378.html
20-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 20||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 27 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 29,01,409 as of August 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 54,903   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-20-875388.html
20-08-2020||National||Lawyers condemn efforts to browbeat judiciary||More than 700 lawyers across the country shot off a letter to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, expressing their concern with the "trend that has emerged in recent times to browbeat and intimidate the judiciary". "India has witnessed a series of attacks by institutional disruptors against judges who are unwilling to agree with them and toe the line drawn by them. It is unfortunate that when political ends of lawyers are not served by a decision of the court, they vilify the court by making scandalising remarks," they said. They urged the CJI to uphold the edifice of the judicial system and protect the third pillar of democracy from those who peddled falsehood to destroy the institution. "We sincerely hope that the Supreme Court of India ensures that such persons are dealt with in an exemplary manner, even if such actions are taken years later or else such trends will only accelerate and strike a blow to the guardian of the rule of law," they said. In a separate letter to the CJI, the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, representing 1.75 lakh lawyers, passed a unanimous resolution to "condemn the efforts to pressurise the judiciary". In a signed letter, as many as 772 advocates said the Supreme Court, as well as the judges, are subject to both scurrilous language, malicious attacks and scandalising remarks. "Legitimate criticism of both judgements and the functioning of the institution has always existed however when the criticism is calculated and actuated by malice, it is the authority of the court which is undermined," they said. Without naming advocate Prashant Bhushan, whose conviction of Suo Motu criminal contempt, has triggered strong reactions from former judges, senior advocates and others, these set of advocates said, "The actions of these institutional disruptors through name calling and usage of certain phrases such as ‘Supreme Court has destroyed democracy’; ‘the Supreme Court is killing the Constitution’ have the tendency to destroy the faith of the public in the judiciary." The Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa "unanimously" said the efforts of pressurising judges by making reckless statements are in total derogation of the Constitution". "The trend to malign Supreme Court is dangerous and must be dealt with iron hand," they said. The top court, which convicted Bhushan of Suo Motu criminal contempt for his tweets, is scheduled to take up the matter on Thursday for hearing quantum of sentence against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-condemn-efforts-to-browbeat-judiciary-875403.html
20-08-2020||National||DH Deciphers | What the SC ruling means for Hindu women's inheritance rights||On August 11, the Supreme Court ruled that daughters' coparcenary rights in ancestral property in a Hindu Undivided Family would apply with retrospective effect. It was the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005, which gave daughters coparcenary rights in a joint Hindu family property. There were, however, doubts about whether this would hold true if the ancestor had died before the amendment came into force on September 9, 2005. The apex court has now ruled bringing daughters on a par with sons in the devolution of ancestral property. The judgement has been described as a game-changer. Let's find out if it indeed is:        What's a Hindu Undivided Family and what's a coparcener?       A Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) is a family which consists of all persons lineally descended from a common ancestor and includes their wives and unmarried daughters. In an HUF, all the legal heirs jointly hold the property. A coparcener is a person who gets an equal legal right in parental property by birth. What's the law of inheritance for Hindu families? Before the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, women did not have any share in coparcenary or ancestral properties. On the death of a coparcener, his share devolved on (transferred to) the surviving coparceners. The Act changed this, stipulating that upon the death of a coparcener, his share would not devolve on other surviving coparceners and that the share of the deceased coparcener was to be determined through the notional partition as on the date of death. To that extent, women did not become coparceners but could still inherit the property. (Under the notional partition, the deceased is considered having that share of coparcenary property which he would have got had the partition taken place on the date of his death. In this case, the property is divided by mutual consent or by decree of court.)   What is a coparcenary property? A coparcenary property is inherited by a Hindu from his father, grandfather or great grandfather. A coparcener cannot claim any precise share as it keeps fluctuating: it increases and decreases by death and birth in the family. Why was the 2005 amendment made? Before the amendment, a daughter was entitled to limited share in the coparcenary interest of her father and got no share as a coparcener. Daughters were unable to inherit the ancestral property like sons or other male heirs. But when the amendment came into force, daughters became coparceners by birth, in their own right with the same liability in the coparcenary property as sons. What was the matter before the Supreme Court? It was about the interpretation of Section 6 of the Act, which deals with the devolution of interest in the coparcenary property of a joint Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara school of law. (Mitakshara is a legal treatise on Hindu inheritance, written by the 12th-century scholar Vijnaneshwara. It governs the devolution of property to the male members of a joint family and is extended to sons, grandsons and great-grandsons). A reference was made to a three-judge bench following contradictory explanation of Section 6. What is the court ruling? Giving a liberal interpretation of the amendment, the court held that in view of the principle of coparcenary, a person is conferred the rights by birth. Similarly, the daughter has been recognised and treated as a coparcener, with the same rights and liabilities as those of a son. It is not at all necessary that the father of the daughter should be alive when the amendment came into force. The daughter would become a coparcener on the basis of birth alone before or after the law was enacted||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-what-the-sc-ruling-means-for-hindu-womens-inheritance-rights-875407.html
20-08-2020||National||'Will kill India's spirit of federalism': Cong leader on MP govt job decision||Congress MP Vivek Tankha on Wednesday hit out at Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for announcing that government jobs would only be given to the youth of Madhya Pradesh, saying it would "kill" India's spirit of federalism if all states followed this dictum. Chouhan had on Tuesday said necessary legal provisions would be made to ensure that only local people get jobs in the state government. He had also said resources of the state were meant for residents of the state. "Populist madness at its worst: not implementable in the face of SC 5 judge bench judgments," Tankha tweeted. "If all states follow this dictum will kill India's spirit of Federalism." He also wrote a letter to Chouhan, saying the declaration of the 100-per-cent job reservation was without understanding the interests of the state and contrary to the judgments of the court. Such a declaration is not in the public interest and misleads the people, Tankha said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-kill-indias-spirit-of-federalism-cong-leader-on-mp-govt-job-decision-875408.html
20-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 caseload crosses 28-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 28 lakh with a record single-day spike of 69,652 infections, while the recoveries increased to 20,96,664 on Thursday pushing the recovery rate to 73.91 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total cases of coronavirus infections mounted to 28,36,925, while the death toll climbed to 53,866 with 977 new fatalities being reported in a day, the data updated at 8:00 am showed. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.90 per cent. There are 6,86,395 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.20 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,26,61,252 samples have been tested up to August 19 with 9,18,470 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-caseload-crosses-28-lakh-mark-875477.html
20-08-2020||National||29% in Delhi have developed antibodies, sero-survey shows||Interacting with reporters, he said, 15,000 representative samples were taken in the August 1-7 survey from 11 districts here, and the next exercise will begin from September 1. Out of a total number of samples, 25 per cent were taken from the age group of fewer than 18 years, another 50 per cent from 18-49 years age bracket and remaining 25 per cent from those in the age group of 50 years or more, the Delhi health minister said. The sero-prevalence found in North East district was 29 per cent, South district 27 per cent, South East 33 per cent and New Delhi 24 per cent, Jain said. There has been an increase of 6 per cent to 50 per cent in the prevalence of antibodies among people in various districts compared to the prevalence found in different districts in the previous survey, he said. Also, the average rise in prevalence was of 25 per cent compared to the last survey. In the August survey, the lowest rise was found in North East district, from 27.7 per cent (last survey) to 29 per cent (August survey), thus an increase of 6.7 per cent, Jain said. Also, in South-East district, the rise in prevalence is from 22 per cent in the previous exercise to 33 per cent in the current one, an increase of 50 per cent, he said. "Sero-prevalence of antibodies found in the age group of less than 18 was 34.7 per cent, in 18-50 years 28.5 per cent, and 31.2 per cent in 50 years and above," Jain said. The minister said, he had suggested taking a larger sample than used in the previous exercise, but scientists and experts at the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) which led the team had decided to keep 15,000 as the representative sample size based on their assessment. "The findings also mean that 71 per cent still have chances of getting an infection. Also, experts say, herd immunity is said to have been built in the community if 40-50 per cent or more develop antibodies, so we have to be still very watchful," he added. Delhi recorded 1398 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.56 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 4235. A sero-prevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection.  Asked if the opening of shops and malls in the city could lead to increase in cases, he said, this exercise has shown that the rise has been of 25 per cent compared to the last time, so it could be 50 per cent increase next due to opening of businesses. On the longevity of antibodies developed in response to Covid-19, he said, according to experts these antibodies can last for several months, say 5-8 months, but the body also produces T-cells in response to the infection. These T-cells also called memory cells to help fight any possible infection again, and so, it is "very rare" that a person who has recovered from Covid-19 will be diagnosed with it again.  The total number of tests done in Delhi till August 19 to diagnose Covid-19 stands at 13,58,189. The number of tests done per million, as on Wednesday was 71,483, according to the latest health bulletin of the Delhi health department. On Wednesday, the number of containment zones stood at 560. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-in-delhi-have-developed-antibodies-sero-survey-shows-875497.html
20-08-2020||National||Normal life affected in Bengal due to bi-weekly lockdown||Normal life was affected across West Bengal due to the imposition of a bi-weekly lockdown on Thursday to stem the rise in Covid-19 cases. The twice-a-week lockdown will also remain in force on Friday. All government and private establishments, shops, markets and banks remained closed due to the restrictions. Medical shops, milk booths and petrol pumps, however, were kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Kolkata and other districts wore a deserted look as people remained indoors and public transport and other vehicles, barring those engaged in essential services, were off the roads. Police personnel kept a strict vigil on major intersections in Kolkata and other districts and put up guard rails to prevent people from venturing out without any valid reason. Flight services out of the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport here remained suspended, while long- distance trains were rescheduled at Howrah and Sealdah termini. Ferry services through inland waterways also remained suspended. West Bengal has registered 1,25,922 Covid-19 cases, including 2,581 fatalities, till Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/normal-life-affected-in-bengal-due-to-bi-weekly-lockdown-875499.html
20-08-2020||National||Sushant case politicised to 'malign' Mumbai Police: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday claimed the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death was politicised to "malign" the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government. If the FIR registered in Patna was right, then if other "characters" in the case who hail from other states file an FIR in West Bengal, will the Kolkata Police get power to investigate it? the Shiv Sena asked. The Mumbai Police's probe in the case was in the final stages when it was stopped and handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the recommendation of the Bihar government, the ruling party in Maharashtra said. It is surprising that even though the court found nothing wrong in the Mumbai Police's probe, the case has been handed over to the CBI, the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "Several criminal cases in Bihar were investigated by the CBI. How many real culprits did the CBI arrest so far? Sushant's case was politicised only to malign the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government," it said. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14, and since then the Mumbai Police were probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of the FIR, lodged in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide, to the CBI. The apex court said the Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation. The Shiv Sena said the Mumbai Police were investigating "to unveil the mystery of why Rajput committed suicide". "It is an illusion that only the CBI or Bihar Police can unearth the truth. There is no harm in the CBI taking over any case from any state. But this would be an encroachment on the state's rights," it said. "Today, the Indian Constitution will be shedding tears if it is observed that quarantining a Bihar Police official in Mumbai gives rise to suspicion due to which the case is handed over to the CBI," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-case-politicised-to-malign-mumbai-police-shiv-sena-875502.html
20-08-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses Prashant Bhushan's plea to defer hearing on contempt case||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to consider a plea by advocate Prashant Bhushan to defer hearing on sentence in a contempt proceeding until his review petition against conviction is filed and heard by another top court bench. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said that the judgement would be complete only after the pronouncement of sentence. "In the event, we impose any punishment, we assure you that it will not be activated until the review is decided," the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Bhushan.  "We will be fair to you, whether or not you are fair to us," Justice Mishra told Dave, who said heavens are not going to fall if the court deferred the hearing till the review is decided.  It is not necessary that this very bench should consider the sentence, he added. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said that there should not be an impression that there is an effort to avoid the bench. "Why the bench should give the impression that this bench wants to decide everything before Justice Arun Misra retires," Dave retorted. He said the matter of punishment should be considered by a different bench. On this, the bench said that this request cannot be accepted. "It is never done like that. It is not appropriate. It is against the established procedure and norms. Suppose if I am not emitting office, can it be ever thought of," Justice Mishra said. The bench again assured the counsel the court would not do anything to defeat Bhushan's right of review. "We are not proposing to defer the sentence hearing," the bench said. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted that a similar request made in the contempt case of Vijay Kurle was rejected. The top court had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of Suo Motu criminal contempt for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-prashant-bhushans-plea-to-defer-hearing-on-contempt-case-875503.html
20-08-2020||National||Kanpur massacre: 2 men surrender before special court||Two men wanted for their alleged roles in the killing of eight policemen, including a deputy SP, during an ambush last month surrendered before a special court in Kanpur Dehat, officials said on Thursday. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Brajesh Srivastava told PTI that the two accused of Kanpur ambush -- Vishnu Pal Singh Yadav alias Jiledar, a village head, and Shivam Dubey -- surrendered on Wednesday. The men, who carried a cash reward of Rs 50,000, were taken into judicial custody for a period of 14 days and sent to jail, the official said. Srivastava said that they have decided to seek their police remand for proper questioning in order to ascertain their roles in the massacre. The UP Special Task Force (STF) had arrested Shivam's father, Bal Govind, from Parikrama turn under Karvi police station area in Chitrakoot around 10 days back, an official said. Since Bal Govind's arrest, STF and Kanpur Police were on the lookout for Shivam and Vishnu Pal, the official added. The special court (UP dacoity-affected area) on Wednesday also cancelled the bail application of jailed the then station house officer (Chaubepur) Vinay Tiwari, said DGC (Crime) Raju Porwal. Tiwari's advocate had moved a bail application and the case was listed for hearing but the lawyer didn't appear before the court, Porwal said, adding that as a result the bail application was cancelled. Earlier, aides of Vikas Dubey, including Daya Shankar Agnihotri, Shyamu Bajpai, Jahan Yadav, Shashikant, JCB driver Monu and Shivam Dubey were arrested either by the UP STF or the Kanpur Police, while Gopal Saini's brother Govind Saini surrendered before the court. Umakant alias Guddan, a criminal, had made a dramatic surrender before police at Chaubepur police station. Those who are still at large are Chotu Shukla, Shiv Tewari, Ramu Bajpai, and Hiru Dubey. As many as six prime accused -- Vikas Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Amar Dubey, Bauan Dubey, Prem Kumar Pandey and Atul Dubey -- were gunned down in separate encounters since July||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-massacre-2-men-surrender-before-special-court-875504.html
20-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's health shows slight improvement: Hospital||There has been a slight improvement in the health of former President Pranab Mukherjee, according to the latest statement by the Army Hospital in Delhi on Thursday. However, he continues to remain on ventilatory support. "The respiratory parameters of Former President Pranab Mukherjee have shown slight improvement though he continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital & clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists," the hospital statement said. The 84-year-old former president was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot and has been on ventilator support since. He also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-health-shows-slight-improvement-hospital-875509.html
20-08-2020||National||Indore gets cleanest city tag for fourth time in a row; Varanasi 'best Ganga town'||Madhya Pradesh's Indore has emerged as the cleanest city in the country for the fourth consecutive time. As per the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the annual cleanliness survey announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday,  Surat in Gujarat and Navi Mumbai have bagged the second and third rank respectively. The survey covered 4,342 cities with a total population of 43 crores, including 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns.  Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has secured the 37th place in cities with more than 10 lakh population category in the survey. Bengaluru has got Best Self Sustained Mega-City tag among cities having more than 40 lakh population. Mysuru has won the Cleanest Medium City Award in medium cities category (3 to 10 lakh population) and Tumakuru secured the 48th place. Mysuru has also got the second rank in cities in urban local bodies having a population of 1 to 10 lakh. Punjab's Jalandhar cantonment has been declared India's cleanest cantonment board while Varanasi bagged Best Ganga Town award. New Delhi’s New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) has received the cleanest capital city award. In the category of a population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Karad has bagged the first position, followed by the state’s Saswad and Lonavala. Chhattisgarh has won the award for the second time in overall performance in cleanliness among states with 100 urban local bodies category. Jharkhand has got the award among states with less than 100 urban local bodies. Swachh Survekshan was launched by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry to encourage healthy competition among cities in maintaining cleanliness. The first survey was conducted in 2016, and it ranked 73 major cities. While Mysuru won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years subsequently (2017,2018 and 2019). Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Swachh Bharat Mission in 2014 with the aim to make India clean and free of open defecation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-gets-cleanest-city-tag-for-fourth-time-in-a-row-varanasi-best-ganga-town-875517.html
20-08-2020||National||Rahul pays tributes to his father Rajiv Gandhi on birth anniversary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday visited former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi's memorial, Veer Bhumi, and paid homage on his birth anniversary. He described his father as a compassionate and loving human being, and a man with tremendous vision, far ahead of his times. "Rajiv Gandhi was a man with a tremendous vision, far ahead of his times. But above all else, he was a compassionate and loving human being. I am incredibly lucky and proud to have him as my father. We miss him today and everyday," Gandhi tweeted. Amid the rainfall, Gandhi reached Veer Bhumi to pay respects to his father. Party leaders and Indian Youth Congress activists present there raised slogans hailing the former prime minister. The birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi on August 20 is observed as Sadbhavna Divas (harmony day) by the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-pays-tributes-to-his-father-rajiv-gandhi-on-birth-anniversary-875521.html
20-08-2020||National||At least 27% students do not have access to smartphones, laptops for online classes: NCERT||Approximately 27% of students cited the non-availability of smartphones and laptops, while 28% of the stakeholders complained about intermittent or lack of electricity as a hindrance in online learning, according to an NCERT survey. More than 80% of students and teachers are using mobile phones for learning and teaching since schools moved online during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, revealed the survey. Poor internet connectivity, difficulty in sharing or using content for online classes using mobile phones and lack of knowledge of using devices for effective educational purposes were the key hindrances in e-learning. The survey also found that an average of nearly one-third of the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Navodaya School and CBSE found online classes either difficult or burdensome. Nearly one-third of the parents who participated in the survey also concurred with the students. An average of 30.73% of students across the three categories of schools found the online classes joyful while the rest found experience satisfactory. As many as 18,188 students, 3,543 school teachers, 253 school principals and 12,614 parents covering the three categories of schools participated in the survey. “The maximum number of stakeholders has opted for mobile phones as a medium for teaching-learning during the Covid-19 period,” the survey said referring to the students, teachers, principals and parents who participated in the survey. In Kendriya Vidyalayas (KV), 84% of students and 88% of teachers used mobile phones, while the number for Navodaya Vidyalayas (NV) was 87.7% students and 73.4% teachers. In CBSE schools, 82% of students and 81% of teachers used mobile phones for learning and teaching activities. Maths appeared to be the most difficult subject to understand for students in the online classes. In KV schools, 39.5% of students faced problems in learning math, 25% faced difficulty in studying science and 14.5% had trouble learning languages. In CBSE school, the 45.20% students faced problems studying maths, languages (30.60%) and science (20%), while the numbers for NV were 33.6% (maths), 17.5% (language) and 31.8% (science). “Since, mathematics contains a number of concepts which require interaction, continuous support, monitoring from the teacher and these aspects were lacking in the online mode of teaching,” the NCERT said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-27-students-do-not-have-access-to-smartphones-laptops-for-online-classes-ncert-875531.html
20-08-2020||National||DGCA starts special safety audit of all Indian airlines||The DGCA has started a special safety audit of all Indian airlines, around two weeks after the plane crash in Kerala's Kozhikode in which 18 people were killed, a senior official of the aviation regulator said on Thursday. "It will be a complete FOQA (Flight Operations Quality Assurance) audit," he said. The FOQA is the process of obtaining and analysing all kinds of data from flights to improve the safety and efficiency of future flight operations. "All Indian airlines will undergo the special safety audit that has begun. In the first phase, we are auditing SpiceJet and Air India," the DGCA official said. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has already initiated the special safety audit of all airports in India that receive heavy rain during the monsoon season, another official said. The announcement regarding the safety audit of such airports was done by the DGCA four days after the Kozhikode plane crash. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) manages more than 100 airports in the country, including the one in Kozhikode. However, major airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies. On August 7, a B737NG aircraft of Air India Express with 190 people on board overshot the runway and crashed at the Kozhikode airport amid heavy rain, killing 18 people, including the pilots. Air India Express is a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India. The two leading pilot unions of Air India on August 13 had sought a meeting with Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to discuss matters related to working conditions and flight safety. The two unions said they were writing on behalf of pilots of Air India and its subsidiaries Air India Express and Alliance Air. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) said on August 13 that it has formed a five-member panel headed by Captain S S Chahar, a former DGCA-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, to inquire into the circumstances of Kozhikode plane crash. In a statement, the board had said, "The investigator-in-charge will complete its inquiry and submit the report to AAIB, India, preferably within five months from the date of the issue of this order."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-starts-special-safety-audit-of-all-indian-airlines-875532.html
20-08-2020||National||India likely to be one of the few bright spots in world economy: Bharat Hari Singhania||Amidst coronavirus-related disruptions, advanced countries are set to experience prolonged pains, while India is expected to be one of the few bright spots in the world economy, according to JK Paper Chairman Bharat Hari Singhania. The pandemic has arrived at a time when the Indian economy was already experiencing a growth slowdown, as reflected in lower discretionary spending over the last 12 months, Singhania said in his address to shareholders in the company's annual report for 2019-20. He said in almost 170 countries, people are likely to face a decline in average income over the previous year as well. "The complete lockdown in India is one of the most stringent, for (around) 70 days, where almost two-thirds of all economic activity came to a grinding halt. While the advanced countries are set to experience prolonged pains, India is expected to be one of the few bright spots in the world economy, sustaining positive growth at 4.2 per cent for 2019-20," Singhania said. At a time when uncertainty prevails over the containment of Covid-19 and thereby the global economic recovery. "To ensure that the economic engine starts moving, governments across the world are providing fiscal stimulus of varying magnitude," he said. This, Singhania said, "is important as the end consumers should be provided an adequate safety net to revive demand. That would determine whether the projected V-shaped recovery, where India's GDP growth is expected to recover, will happen or not." Referring to the company's performance in FY20, he said at a time when the manufacturing sector in India is faced with significant spare capacity, with overall capacity utilisation falling to around 68 per cent in the December quarter, both JKPM (JK Paper Mills) and CPM (Central Pulp Mills) have been running at full capacity. "This augurs well for our planned expansion, where we are targeting to reach 8 lakh tonnes per annum (TPA) by March 2021," Singhania added. He further said, "the impetus will mainly be in the packaging board segment, while maintaining the focus on other segments too, particularly where we enjoy a leadership position in the market." JK Paper Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Harsh Pati Singhania said despite the setback from the COVID-19 triggered lockdown, the company's planned capacity expansions are progressing as per schedule, "although support from banks and financial institutions would be critical for us to adhere to timelines". "To take advantage of the growth momentum witnessed in the country's paper sector, JK Paper is working towards increasing its production capacity from 4.5 lakh TPA to 8 lakh TPA (including the capacity of The Sirpur Paper Mills Limited) by next year," he added. This capacity augmentation is aimed at significantly expanding the company's packaging board capacity to take up growth opportunities on offer, with the proliferation of e-commerce, digital initiatives and growth upsurge in the pharmaceuticals sector, Harsh Pati Singhania said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-be-one-of-the-few-bright-spots-in-world-economy-bharat-hari-singhania-875534.html
20-08-2020||National||Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tests positive for Covid-19||Shekhawat (52) announced on Twitter that he had got Covid-19 test done after he developed symptoms. अस्वस्थता के कुछ लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने कोरोना टेस्ट करवाया और मेरी रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर अस्पताल में भर्ती हो रहा हूँ। मेरा अनुरोध है कि गत दिनों में मेरे संपर्क में जो लोग आये हैं वह स्वयं को आइसोलेट कर अपनी जाँच करवाएं। आप सभी स्वस्थ रहें और अपना ध्यान रखें। "The reports have returned positive. I am getting admitted to hospital on the advice of the doctors. I request all those who have come in contact with me in the last few days, isolate yourselves and get examined. May all of you be healthy and take care of yourself," he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was the first among Modi's team to test positive for Covid-19 on August 2. He tested negative for the virus infection on August 14 and discharged but he was hospitalised again on August 18 after he complained about fatigue and body ache. Doctors said he is fine. Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Ministers of State Shripad Yesso Naik, Arjun Meghwal and Kailash Chaudhary also tested positive this month. Meghwal had hit the headlines before he tested positive for the virus infection for promoting a 'papad' that he claimed would help in fighting Covid-19. A string of VIPs too tested positive for Covid-19, including former President Pranab Mukherjee, who is presently admitted to Army Research and Referral Hospital after a surgery to remove a clot from his brain. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Ministers B S Yediyurappa (Karnataka) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh), Health Ministers B Sriramulu (Karnataka) and Satyender Jain (Delhi), Karnataka Tourism Minister C T Ravi and Karnataka Forest Minister Anand Singh have also tested positive for Covid-19. Two UP Ministers Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan died this month due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19-875542.html
20-08-2020||National||Samajwadi Party stages protest over law & order, govt's handling of Covid-19||Just before the start of the brief Monsoon Session of Uttar Pradesh Legislature, the Samajwadi Party on Thursday staged a protest in the Vidhan Bhawan against the law and order situation and the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Party members of both houses of the legislature staged a protest in front of the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, holding banners against the state government. Speaking on the occasion, Member of the Legislative Council Naresh Uttam alleged that there was jungle raj in the state . Incidents like murder, loot, rape and kidnapping were taking place on a daily basis and it appeared that criminals had no fear of law, he said. The Yogi government has totally failed to check Covid-19 pandemic. The height is that in the name of this disease funds are being misused, Uttam alleged. Another member of Legislative Council, Anand Bhadoria, alleged that bad law and order has added to the woes of people facing problems due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-party-stages-protest-over-law-order-govts-handling-of-covid-19-875543.html
20-08-2020||National||PM Modi pens letter to MS Dhoni, hails him as illustration of spirit of New India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has praised Mahehdra Singh Dhoni, who announced his retirement from international cricket last week, hailing him as a “phenomenon” and “one of the greatest captains” of the game. In a heartfelt letter to Dhoni, the prime minister described the cricketer as the embodiment of a new India where the family name does not make one’s destiny, but they make their own names and their own destinies. Dhoni shared the letter, dated August 19, on his Twitter page on Thursday, thanking the prime minister for his appreciation and good wishes. "An Artist,Soldier and Sportsperson what they crave for is appreciation, that their hard work and sacrifice is getting noticed and appreciated by everyone.thanks PM @narendramodi for your appreciation and good wishes," Dhoni wrote. “Where we come from does not matter as long as we know where we are headed – this is the spirit that you have exuded and inspired many youngsters with,” the prime minister said. Calling Dhoni one of the greatest captains and one of the best wicketkeepers the game has seen, Modi said, “Your dependability in tough situations and your style of finishing matches, particularly the 2011 World Cup final will forever be etched in the public memory for generations.” “The correct way to assess your impact is as a phenomenon.” “Rising from humble beginnings in a small town, you burst onto the national scene, made a name for yourself and most importantly, made India proud,” Modi wrote. He said Dhoni’s rise and conduct “gives strength and inspiration to crores of youngsters who like you haven't been to cushy schools or colleges, neither do they belong to illustrious families but they have the talent to distinguish themselves at the highest level.” “No matter what hairstyle you sported, your calm head remained the same in victory or defeat, which is very important for every youth,” he said referring to different haircuts that Dhoni made famous after sporting an eye-catching long mane at the beginning of his career||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pens-letter-to-ms-dhoni-hails-him-as-illustration-of-spirit-of-new-india-875547.html
20-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Health Ministry encourages teleconsultations ||To minimise the spread of Covid-19 in eye care facilities, the Health Ministry has issued guidelines that encourage teleconsultations and following an appointment system for those needing investigations and procedures. The Ministry also said that eye care facilities in containment zones shall remain closed.   Noting the examination and procedures related to ophthalmology involves close interactions with the patient, the ministry said the guidelines are aimed at minimising the spread of Covid-19 infection among ophthalmologists, ophthalmic assistants/technicians, nurses, support staff, patients and their attendants.  According to the 'Guidelines on Safe Ophthalmology Practices in Covid-19 Scenario', eye drops should be put in the patient's eye by a nursing or paramedical staff with a no-touch technique. The patient should be asked to pull down his or her lower lid or it should be pulled down with a swab stick.   Pre-surgical Covid-19 test on patients is not mandatory, but a thorough history taking and examination must be done to ensure that patient has a minimal probability of having the infection. According to guidelines no routine procedure/surgery should be done on a Covid-19 suspect or a confirmed case.  "Tele-counselling and teleconsultation should be encouraged to lessen patient visits and/or appointment system can be followed to call patients needing examination/eye investigations/procedures," the guidelines said. Eye-care facilities should encourage app-based mobile phone check-in and payment along with a digital prescription of glasses and medicines to prevent long queues, they said.   Screening of patients for cataract and other eye diseases in outreach areas may be undertaken only after duly following social distancing, hand hygiene and personal protective measures. The identified patients may be called to the base hospital by appointment for cataract surgery, so that backlog of cataract cases does not build up. "No eye-ball retrieval from homes to be undertaken, only Hospital Cornea Retrieval Program can be continued in non-Covid-19 cadavers, for utilisation of corneas for therapeutic purposes only," the document underscored. Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in eye care facilities, while the entrance should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions and staff manning these entry points should ensure appropriate personal protection. Patients should be queried about Covid-19 like symptoms and contact history.    For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which emphasise that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 deg C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70 per cent, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations/areas, the document stated.  The protocols for OPD services calls for promoting digital or app-based registration system, maintaining social distancing, disinfecting OPD premises with 1 pc hypochlorite frequently. Triaging by an ophthalmologist/ trained ophthalmic personnel may be done either through telephonic conversation to determine the emergency/non-emergency nature of the eye problem and Covid-19 status of the patient and an appointment given accordingly to avoid a rush of patients. According to the document, chinrest, headrest, tabletop etc. of equipment must also be disinfected after each patient is seen, equipment like slit lamp should have a Plexiglas/breath shield to avoid contact with droplets from patient's breath and that sheet should also be disinfected after seeing any patient.  While performing any contact procedure like Tonometry, Gonioscopy, and Keratometry among other instruments should be cleaned with 70 per cent alcohol swab, before and after every new case. "Eye drops should be put in the patient's eye by a nursing/paramedical staff with a no-touch technique (ask the patient to pull down his/her lower lid or pull it down with a swab stick)," the guidelines underlined.   Patients and attendants should be screened before entering the wards, only one attendant per patient can be allowed and adequate distancing, regular sanitization of ward and instrument sterilization, it said. In case a Covid-19 patient with eye condition is to be admitted, a separate room or an isolation ward should be used, the document stated.     Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years should be encouraged to stay at home unless they are patients themselves.  All eye care facilities may advise all visitors/staff/patients accordingly, the guidelines stated. The basic preventive measures include physical distancing of at least six feet to be followed as far as feasible by all patients, staff and visitors, use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory, following hand hygiene and respiratory etiquettes among others.  As for protocols for operation theatre services, no routine procedure/surgery should be done in a Covid-19 suspect or a confirmed case. Appropriate PPE should be worn by the staff and OT tables, floor and equipment should be properly disinfected after each use, the guidelines read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-health-ministry-encourages-teleconsultations-875549.html
20-08-2020||National||Chidambaram accuses BJP govt of shielding PM CARES Fund from scrutiny||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of shielding the PM CARES Fund from any kind of scrutiny. Chidambaram raised several questions on the setting up of the fund. "It is abundantly clear that the BJP government is making desperate efforts to shield PM-CARES Fund from any kind of scrutiny," he claimed. His comments come after the Supreme court refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM CARES Fund for battling the COVID-19 pandemic to the National Disaster Response Fund. "Was the Fund set up by the central government as concluded by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs? If not, who set up the Fund and in what capacity?" he asked in a series of tweets. "If the Fund was not set up by the central government, why are the PM and three Ministers serving as Trustees? Who appointed them as Trustees?" the senior Congress leader asked. "If the Fund is a private established fund, why are donations to the Fund counted against CSR? Will donations to other privately-established funds are also counted against CSR," he tweeted. The former union minister asked who authorised the Ministry of Corporate Affairs to make a retrospective amendment to the Schedule to the Companies Act inserting the name of PM-CARES Fund in the Schedule. Chidambaram also asked if the Ministry of Corporate Affairs would insert the names of other privately-established funds in the said Schedule to the Companies Act. "The retrospective amendment in favour of a privately established fund is obviously an act of favouritism and discriminatory. It will be challenged," he added. After the apex court's decision on the PM CARES Fund, BJP leader and Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said on Tuesday that "transparency is writ large in the PM CARES, Fund". Reacting to the judgement, BJP president J P Nadda said it was a "resounding blow to the nefarious designs" of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his "band of rent a cause" activists. "The country very well knows that the orchestrated smear campaign against PM CARES is an attempt by the Congress to wash its sins," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-accuses-bjp-govt-of-shielding-pm-cares-fund-from-scrutiny-875550.html
20-08-2020||National||We have to use technology to recharge health system: Piyush Goyal||The healthcare and medical devices industry needs to leverage the tools of technology to recharge the domestic health system, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. The minister added that India will ensure availability of good quality healthcare equipment and facilities to all Indians. "In fact this is the time, I believe where we have to leverage the tools of technology to recharge our health system with the power of three 'A' - access, awareness and availability," he said at CII's MedTech Global Summit 2020. Goyal said that using data and its processing can help further improvise healthcare delivery systems and ensure seamless flow of relevant patient information to doctors. It will also assist doctors and medical institutions in the accurate diagnostic and curative care of patients, he added. Further, the minister said the goal of self reliance is impossible to achieve if "we cannot provide the safety of health and lives of our own citizens". He expressed hope that the domestic pharma and medical devices industry will be at the forefront in bringing cutting-edge technology to India and ensuring the country's "rightful" place in the global trade. Goyal added this would also help India become a "hospital for the world".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-to-use-technology-to-recharge-health-system-piyush-goyal-875555.html
20-08-2020||National||India won't fix benchmark for selecting potential Covid-19 vaccine: Report||The novel coronavirus has killed more than 53,000 people, while the total infections in the country mounted past 28 lakh.  The news report quotes Central government officials saying that the government was considering benchmarks like cost, ease of administration and efficiency to determine the vaccine candidate. “Of course, if it has an efficacy rate of 10%, we will not accept it, and maybe 90% (efficacy) will be difficult (to achieve)," Dr V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), and the chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration told LiveMint. The vaccine administration group is responsible for setting up the logistics and financial infrastructure to roll out the vaccination drive when a vaccine candidate gets approval for mass administration. India's process of selecting a vaccine differs from the United States or the United Kingdom. Right now, in the country, there are 4 domestic vaccine manufacturers - Serum Institute of India, Pune; Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad; Zydus Cadila, Ahmedabad; Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Pune; and Biological E, Hyderabad. India's Covid-19 caseload went past 28 lakh with a record single-day spike of 69,652 infections, while the recoveries increased to 20,96,664 on Thursday pushing the recovery rate to 73.91 per cent. There are 6,86,395 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.20 per cent of the total caseload||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wont-fix-benchmark-for-selecting-potential-covid-19-vaccine-report-875565.html
20-08-2020||National||SC gives Bhushan time to rethink statement in contempt case||Days after holding him guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked Prashant Bhushan to rethink over his statement. It gave him an offer to tender an unconditional apology, reminding him of the Lakshman Rekha and a fine balance between freedom of speech and dignity of the Institution. The court gave him time till August 24 to offer the apology. It concluded hearing on sentence in the contempt case. The sentence may go up to the maximum six months jail with or without fine. The activist-advocate, for his part, maintained that his tweets were bona fide attempt to discharge his duty as a citizen and he would not seek an apology and would rather cheerfully submit to any penalty. Hearing the matter on the quantum of sentence arising out of August 14 judgement, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari told the counsel, "If you do not balance (between freedom of speech and expression and dignity of the judiciary) your comments, you will destroy the institution." "We do not punish for contempt so easily. Balancing has to be there, a restraint has to be there. There is a Lakshman Rekha for everything. Why should you cross the Rekha," the bench told the counsel. Maintaining that his statement was "well-considered and well thought of", Bhushan said he would welcome the court's offer but it was very unlikely that he would change his statement. Bhushan, who was present during the virtual court hearing, said, "I would have been failing in my duty if I did not speak up at this juncture of history. It would be contemptuous on my part to offer an apology". The judgement, which held him guilty of criminal contempt for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made in June, attracted strong reactions from former judges, senior advocates and others.  Arguing for Bhushan, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan asked the court to look at the person of Bhushan, who fought pro bona cases like coal and 2G scam, FCRA, mining scams. "Doing 100 good things does not give a person licence to commit 10 crimes," Justice Mishra said, adding, he has not taken contempt against a single person in his judicial career but balancing and restraint were issues. During the hearing, Attorney General K K Venugopal asked the court not to punish Bhushan. He said five sitting judges have said the democracy has filed and several former judges have spoken about corruption in the judiciary.  "We will have to consider if Bhushan's statement is defence or aggravation," the bench said. The court also said it could not consider the A-G's proposal unless Bhushan did rethink on his statement. It fixed August 25 as the date of the hearing if Bhushan offered the apology, otherwise, it would pronounce the sentence. The court refused to consider Bhushan's plea to defer hearing on sentence till his review petition against conviction is filed and decided. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave said heavens would not fall if the court deferred its hearing.  The court said judgement is complete only after the sentence. There should not an impression that there was an effort to avoid this bench, the court said. In his statement, Bhushan paraphrased Mahatma Gandhi, "I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-bhushan-time-to-rethink-statement-in-contempt-case-875582.html
20-08-2020||National||Govt to sell part of stake in IRCTC, invites bids from merchant bankers||The government is planning to sell part of its stake in Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corp (IRCTC) in the current fiscal, and has invited bids from merchant bankers for managing the sale process.  "The GoI intends to disinvest a part of the paid-up equity capital of IRCTC out of its shareholding through 'Offer for Sale (OFS) method of shares by promoters through the stock exchanges' as per Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) Rules and Regulations," DIPAM said while inviting Request for Proposal (RFP). The merchant bankers will have to submit their bids by September 10. The government currently holds 87.40 per cent stake in IRCTC. To meet Sebi's public holding norm, the government has to lower its stake in the company to 75 per cent. Shares of IRCTC closed at Rs 1,346.65 apiece on the BSE, down 1.20 per cent over its previous close. IRCTC, the only entity authorised by Indian Railways to provide catering services to railways, online railway tickets and packaged drinking water at railway stations and trains in India, was on the stock exchanges in October 2019. The company had raised Rs 645 crore through the IPO. IRCTC OFS will help the government inch forward in meeting the Rs 2.10 lakh crore disinvestment target. Of this, Rs 1.20 lakh crore will come from disinvestment of public sector undertakings and another Rs 90,000 crore from stake sale in financial institutions. So far in the current fiscal, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) has not been able to sell stake in any CPSE as the coronavirus outbreak has impacted equity markets. However, through Bharat Bond ETF-II, the government has garnered subscription worth Rs 11,000 crore for 'AAA' rated bonds of CPSEs. DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey had last month said restrictions on international travel due to COVID-19 pandemic have put brakes on strategic disinvestment of CPSEs, like Air India and BPCL, but completing the transactions remains a priority of the government. DIPAM, which manages the CPSE stake sale process, has also set into motion the process of listing of the country's largest insurer Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and appointed pre-IPO transaction advisor. The government is looking at listing the insurer on domestic bourses in the January-March quarter of the current fiscal. The government is also looking at launching initial public offering (IPO) of Indian Railway Finance Corp Ltd (IRFC) and had in January filed draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India for IPO of over 140 crore equity shares. The Union Cabinet had in April 2017 approved listing of five railway companies. While four of them -- IRCON International Ltd, RITES Ltd, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd and IRTC -- have already been listed, IRFC is likely to be put on the block this fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-sell-part-of-stake-in-irctc-invites-bids-from-merchant-bankers-875608.html
20-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate nears 74%, only 0.28% of active cases on ventilator support: MoHFW||Recoveries among Covid-19 patients in the country surged to 20,96,664 on Thursday, pushing India's recovery rate to 73.91 per cent, while only 0.28 per cent people of 6,86,395 active cases are on ventilator support, the Union health ministry said. Of the active cases of coronavirus infection, 1.92 per cent are in ICU and 2.62 per cent on oxygen support. The country's case fatality rate has further declined to 1.90 per cent, it said. Recovery of 20,96,664 patients has been made possible because of effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently, the ministry said in a statement. "Focus on standard of care protocol including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the ICUs and hospitals, and improved ambulance services have culminated in yielding the desired results," it said. With 58,794 recoveries in a span of 24 hours, India's recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients has reached nearly 74 per cent (73.91 per cent) reflecting that the number of patients recovering is on a steady rise over the past several months, it added. India has posted 14,10,269 more recoveries than active cases. There are 6,86,395 active cases of coronavirus infection which are under active medical care. The record high recoveries have ensured that the active cases, the "actual caseload" of the country, currently comprise only 24.19 per cent of the total cases. Early identification through testing, surveillance and contact tracing along with focus on timely and appropriate clinical treatment of Covid-19 patients have ensured that not only is the case fatality rate lower than the global average and progressively declining but also a small proportion of the active cases are on ventilator support, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 caseload increased to 28,36,925 with a record single-day spike of 69,652 infections, while the death toll climbed to 53,866 with 977 fresh fatalities being reported in a day, official data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-nears-74-only-028-of-active-cases-on-ventilator-support-mohfw-875616.html
20-08-2020||National||Record 9.18 lakh Covid-19 tests done in a day, cumulative tests reach 3.26 crore: MoHFW||With a record 9,18,470 tests been being done in a day, the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in India have reached 3.26 crore even as the national positivity rate has fallen below 8 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said. With constantly increasing testing numbers, there has been a commensurate fall in the positivity rate, the ministry said. "Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially, but as the experience from several states and UTs has amply depicted, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, effective tracking and timely clinical management," it stated. India for the first time conducted a record number of more than 9 lakh Covid-19 tests in a span of 24-hours on Wednesday and it is poised to see an exponential increase towards its resolve of testing 10 lakh samples daily. The cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of coronavirus infection in the country has increased to 3,26,61,252. Expanded diagnostic lab network across the country and effective measures to facilitate easy testing have given a substantial boost to the present numbers. "As a result of these focussed actions, the Tests Per Million (TPM) have seen a sharp increase to 23,668. The TPM continues to maintain a constant upward trend," the ministry said. "As the national average falls below 8 per cent, there are 26 states and UTs that are reporting lower rates than the national average," the ministry said in a statement. There has been a steady rise in the national network of diagnostic labs too. With 977 labs in the government sector and 517 private labs, the lab infrastructure has been enhanced to 1,494 labs today. India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 28,36,925 with a record single day spike of 69,652 infections, while the death-toll climbed to 53,866 with 977 new fatalities being reported in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-918-lakh-covid-19-tests-done-in-a-day-cumulative-tests-reach-326-crore-mohfw-875619.html
20-08-2020||National||Government to charge passengers higher aviation security fee from September 1||The Civil Aviation Ministry has decided to charge higher aviation security fee (ASF) from domestic as well as international passengers from September 1, senior government officials said on Thursday. Making the air travel slightly costlier, the officials said the ASF for domestic flyers will be increased to Rs 160 from Rs 150 starting next month, and international passengers will pay $5.2 instead of $4.85 as the ASF from September 1. Airlines collect the ASF from passengers when they book their tickets and then give it to the government. The ASF is used to fund the security arrangement at airports across the country. The ministry had increased the ASF last year too. On June 7, 2019, the ministry said domestic passengers would be charged Rs 150 instead of Rs 130 as the ASF and international passengers would be charged $4.85 instead of $3.25 as the ASF from July 1, 2019. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. After a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, the average occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating with the approval of aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-charge-passengers-higher-aviation-security-fee-from-september-1-875628.html
20-08-2020||National||Cabinet secretary-led panel to select candidate for RBI deputy governor on Friday||A search panel headed by the cabinet secretary is scheduled to interview shortlisted candidates on Friday for the post of RBI deputy governor, sources said. The panel had a preliminary meeting on August 7 with regard to the selection of successor for senior-most Deputy Governor N S Vishwanathan, who demitted office three months ahead of his extended tenure on March 31 on health grounds after serving the monetary authority for 39 years. The Financial Sector Regulatory Appointment Search Committee (FSRASC) has a list of eight names who would be interviewed via video conference on August 21, the sources said. The selected name from the interview will be sent to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for final approval, they added. Besides the cabinet secretary, other members of FSRASC include the RBI governor, financial services secretary and two independent members. This vacancy of the RBI deputy governor has been reserved for the central bank's internal candidate, who would look after the key supervisory and regulatory functions at the Mint Road. According to the RBI Act, 1934, the central bank should have four deputy governors -- two from within the ranks, one commercial banker and another an economist to head the monetary policy department. Currently, the RBI has three deputy governors -- B P Kanungo, M K Jain and Michael Debabrata Patra. Earlier this year, the government extended Kanungo's tenure by a year with effect from April 3, 2020. Kanungo, whose term was to end on April 2, had taken charge as a deputy governor in April 2017. The deputy governor appointments are made for an initial period of three years and the person is eligible for reappointment. The deputy governor gets a fixed salary of Rs 2.25 lakh per month plus allowances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secretary-led-panel-to-select-candidate-for-rbi-deputy-governor-on-friday-875645.html
20-08-2020||National||Anand Mahindra's work-from-home style involves a lungi ||The chairman of the Mahindra Group, Anand Mahindra has adopted a unique sartorial sense during the pandemic  Working from home during the pandemic has been an unusual experience for many. While many have paired sweatpants with formal shirts for video-conferences, Anand Mahindra took comfort up a notch.  “On some Video Calls from home, I DID wear a lungi under my shirt,” wrote the businessman on Twitter.   “Was someone spying on me..?,” he wrote whilst sharing an hoarding advertising ‘work-from-home’ lungis.  He also joked that his colleagues may now make him stand up during their next video conference.  “Didn’t have to stand up at any point during the meetings, but I suspect my colleagues may ask me to do so after this tweet,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindras-work-from-home-style-involves-a-lungi-875654.html
20-08-2020||National||Indian Railways says 30,000 died due to ‘trespassing, untoward incidents’ in 3 years||After the Niti Aayog raised questions over Indian Railways' zero fatality claim in the last fiscal, the top official of the national transporter on Thursday said that nearly 30,000 people have lost their lives due to trespassing and untoward incidents around railway tracks in the last three years. The Railways keeps a record of all the deaths that occur on its premises under three separate heads— consequential accidents, trespassing and untoward incidents. In the last three years, around 29,000 to 30,000 people have lost their lives due to either trespassing or untoward incidents, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. It is true that consequential accidents were indeed zero in 2019-2020 and so far this year as well, he said. His comments came after the Niti Aayog raised concerns over the national transporter’s claim of zero deaths around railway tracks in the last fiscal. Niti Aayog Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant in his letter to the Railways pointed out that over 2,000 people lose their lives in the Mumbai suburban network every year and many of these deaths are caused by people falling overboard or from the platform on to the tracks. Kant also suggested that these deaths, ideally, should be officially recorded. In fact, after the 2018 tragedy in Amritsar wherein 59 people were killed and over 100 injured after being run over by two passenger trains while they were watching Dussehra celebrations, the Railways said that it was a case of trespassing. For the past few years, the Railways has been taking a number of steps to reduce the number of deaths due to accidents, including modernising the signaling system and the elimination of unmanned level crossings over broad gauge network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-says-30000-died-due-to-trespassing-untoward-incidents-in-3-years-875658.html
20-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slams Narendra Modi government||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for a fourth straight year; Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slams the Narendra Modi government; The Supreme Court gives advocate Prashant Bhushan two-three days time to think over his statement and Harley-Davidson motorcycle may not be produced in India anymore.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: August 20, 2020: Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for a fourth straight year while Surat and Navi Mumbai grabbed the second and third positions respectively, as the Centre announced the results of its latest annual cleanliness survey on Thursday. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, was adjudged the 'Best Ganga Town' in the country, followed by Kanpur, Munger, Prayagraj and Haridwar. Chhattisgarh was given the 'Cleanest State' award in the category of states having more than 100 urban local bodies, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 -- the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country -- were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony where 129 awards were given in different categories. The survey brochure describes the New Delhi Municipal Council as “India's Cleanest National Capital (National or State Capitals/UT)”. The NDMC comprises large part of Rajpath and the VIP zone of Lutyens’ Delhi. A total of 4,242 cities, 62 Cantonment Boards and 97 Ganga towns were surveyed, and 1.87 crore citizens participated in the exercise, according to the government. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi government of decimating the unorganised economy, comprising farmers, labourers and small businesses, in the last six years of its rule, and said that the country will not be able to generate jobs in the coming period as a result of that. Addressing via video conferencing the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the party's offices to be built in 22 districts headquarters of Chhattisgarh, he said that although the unorganised economy generates 90 per cent of the country's employment, the Modi government destroyed it through various moves like demonetisation and implementation of "wrong GST". Gandhi stressed the need to restore the balance between the organised and unorganised economies for the welfare of the country. The event was organised on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. "India has two kinds of economies. One is an organised economy, wherein there are big companies, while the other one is unorganised economy, in which there are farmers, labourers, small shop owners and millions of poor people," he said. The Supreme Court on Thursday gave advocate Prashant Bhushan two-three days time to think over his statement, even as he maintained that he stood by his tweets which were bona fide opinion expressed in discharge of his duty as a citizen. Taking up the hearing on quantum of sentence for criminal contempt, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari told the counsel, "If you do not balance (between freedom of speech and expression and dignity of the judiciary) your comments, you will destroy the institution." "We do not punish for contempt so easily. Balancing has to be there, a restraint has to be there. There is a Lakshman rekha for everything. Why should you cross the rekha," the bench told the counsel. The court asked Bhushan if he would like to think over his statement. "We would like to give you time. Later on there should not be a complaint that no time was given," the bench said. To this, Bhushan, who was present during the virtual court hearing, said, "My tweets were out of a bona fide attempt to discharge my duty as a citizen. I would have been failing in my duty if I did not speak up at this juncture of history. I submit to any penalty which the court may inflict. It would be contemptuous on my part to offer an apology". Maintaining that his statement were "well considered and well thought of", Bhushan said he would welcome the court's offer but it was very unlikely that he would change his statement. "We will give you two-three days time. Think over it. We should not give verdict right now," the bench, as it allowed senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan to complete his arguments on quantum of sentence. During the hearing, Attorney General K K Venugopal asked the court not to punish Bhushan. He said five sitting judges have said the democracy has filed and several former judges have spoken about corruption in judiciary.  With the advent of Apple iPhones and Android phones, popular mobile brand BlackBerry almost went out of business in the early 2010s. It made a comeback, a few years ago with Android-powered phones made by a China-based licensee TCL. But, it couldn't make any inroads in global markets. Now, for the second time, BlackBerry has confirmed to take another shot at smartphone business in 2021, but this time with two new partners--OnwardMobility and FIH Mobile Limited, a subsidiary of Foxconn. The latter has famous clients including Apple and Xiaomi. The joint-venture project envisions to bring the BlackBerry-branded 5G phone next year. “Enterprise professionals are eager for secure 5G devices that enable productivity, without sacrificing the user experience,” said Peter Franklin, CEO of OnwardMobility. “BlackBerry smartphones are known for protecting communications, privacy, and data. This is an incredible opportunity for OnwardMobility to bring next-generation 5G devices to market with the backing of BlackBerry and FIH Mobile.” OnwardMobility says it will be conducting product planning and market development for BlackBerry smartphones in North America, while FIH Mobile will take care of the design and manufacturing of the BlackBerry devices under strict guidelines to ensure component, device and supply chain integrity. The iconic American Harley-Davidson motorcycle may not be produced in India anymore, going by indications of their sales performance and announcements from the global management.  The company, which began operations in India in 2009, has a plant in Bawal (Haryana).  Before the Covid-19 pandemic, the industry was already going through a prolonged slowdown. The pandemic has only made things worse, particularly for the premium segments in the country that is the largest two-wheeler market.  Responding to a query about the reports, Harley-Davidson India said: "Harley-Davidson does not comment on speculation and rumours." In a recent announcement about plans to 'rewire the company', Harley-Davidson had said: "Harley-Davidson plans to concentrate on approximately 50 markets primarily in North America, Europe and parts of Asia Pacific that represent the vast majority of the company's volume and growth potential. The company is evaluating plans to exit international markets where volumes and profitability do not support continued investment in line with the future strategy." There were also reports that Sajeev Rajasekharan, Managing Director, Asia Emerging Markets and India, would be transferred to Singapore and their sales and marketing operations in India would be reduced. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-slams-narendra-modi-government-875665.html
20-08-2020||National||Space sector reforms not aimed at privatising ISRO: Chairman K Sivan||The recently announced space sector reforms are not aimed at privatisation of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), its Chairman and Secretary in the Department of Space, K Sivan asserted on Thursday. The space agency also stated that the draft on the proposed space activity bill is almost final and it will soon be placed before the Union Cabinet for approval. "When space sector reforms were announced by the government there were many misconceptions like it would lead to privatisation of ISRO. It is not. Again and again, I'm repeating it is not the privatisation of ISRO," Sivan said. Addressing a webinar on "Unlocking of India's Potential in Space Sector," he said the whole aim of reforms is enabling the private players to carry out the space activities which is otherwise being done by ISRO. "In fact, the activities of ISRO are going to increase and ISRO will be able to better utilise its resources in taking up developmental as well as capacity building activities of the government, rather than the routine production activity," he added. The Union Cabinet on June 24 approved participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including planetary exploration missions. It had said, the newly-created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) will provide a level playing field for private companies to use Indian space infrastructure, by hand-holding industries in space activities through encouraging policies and a friendly regulatory environment. Also, the New Space India Limited (NSIL), a PSU under the Department of Space, will endeavour to re-orient space activities from a "supply driven" model to a "demand driven" model, thereby ensuring optimum utilisation of our space assets, it had said. Noting that the space sector reform introduced by the government is going to be a "real game changer", Sivan said private sector participation in the space sector has been increasing worldwide and it is a healthy trend, as it increases diversity. In India too space sector startups are taking developmental activities in both launch vehicles as well as in satellites, he said. However, there was no mechanism available in the country to extend technology and infrastructure support to them. Also there was no regulatory mechanism to control the private sector activities, so an institutional mechanism has been created as part of reform. The webinar was attended by Principal Scientific Advisor to the government of India K Vijay Raghavan, Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra, Bharti Enterprises Chairman Sunil B Mittal among others. Further observing that with the opening of the space sector, ISRO can focus on technology development and capacity building Sivan said in addition to that it will also facilitate private sector participation in major national missions through the announcement of opportunity. However, the private sector will have to do their own research and development activities, business viability studies, funding as well as finding customers for their services, he said. Pointing out that import of communication satellites is now in the embargo list under 'Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan', the ISRO Chief said there will be a need for large number of communication satellites to be launched in the immediate future and this could be a huge opportunity for ISRO and also for the private sector. Launching a small satellite is another area where there is a huge projected demand and some startups are interacting with ISRO at an advanced stage and may launch very soon. According to ISRO officials, more than 500 industries are currently involved in activities such as the production of components and more than 80 per cent of the launch vehicle and 60 per cent of the spacecraft budget is spent on the industry. Scientific Secretary to ISRO, R Uma Maheshwaran said participation of the private sector in end-end space activities is definitely a strategy to expand the space economy. Noting that the private sector is much eager now, he said a lot of people are coming forward to make launch vehicles, and satellites and providing space based services. Uma Maheshwaran also said a mechanism is required regarding the indulgence of the private sector and for this, enactment of the space activity bill is a primary requisite. "It (bill) is almost in its final shape now, we have presented it to the Ministry (PMO) for inter-ministerial consultation and we feel that very soon it will be approved by the Cabinet and presented to the Parliament for making it an act. This is mandatory as India is signatory to the outer space treaty," he added. Vijay Raghavan, noting a lack of risk capital for industry to sufficiently invest in R&D, said risk needs to be mitigated and for this the combination of talent and material resources, partnering with industry is needed. The opening of the space sector in India will have its impact globally, and also all sectors in India, he said adding that ".. this is an opportunity to increase volume and quality in extraordinary ways." Suggesting that space may well become the new "gold rush", Anand Mahindra said though India has an established and credible space programme, its share of the market is minuscule and he was sure that beginning now it will change with the entry of the private sector. "... it is our opportunity to level the playing field, by leveraging our competitive advantages and we have to seize it now," he said, while admitting that industry and public sector are often "uneasy bedfellows", but we have to make these reforms work as it is the best way forward". Sunil Mittal stressed on the need for the policy on participation of private sector in space programme to be "light-touch" but said it should be very strong on security, foreign policy aspects and some of the guidelines need to be very clear so that industry participants know how to operate within the policy framework.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-sector-reforms-not-aimed-at-privatising-isro-chairman-k-sivan-875674.html
20-08-2020||National||India, China agree to expeditiously resolve outstanding issues on the LAC: MEA||India and China have agreed to expeditiously resolve the “outstanding issues” for completing the mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday, after the senior diplomats of the two nations had another video conference to end the stand-off. They “acknowledged the need to maintain close communication through both the diplomatic and military channels” in order to ensure complete “disengagement” of troops at the face-off points on the LAC, Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, told journalists in New Delhi. He said that the diplomats of the two nations had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views on the existing situation in the India-China border areas”. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the MEA, led the delegation of the Government of India in the video conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government was led by Hong Liang, the Director-General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the communist country. The video conference was the 18th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013. Srivastava and Hong had earlier held three video conferences within the framework of the WMCC after the current military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations started in early May. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops to resolve the military stand-off along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. It, however, remained stalled for more than four weeks now, particularly because the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas on India’s side of the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). Srivastava and Hong had agreed on “early and complete disengagement” of troops from the LAC when they had held the last video conference on July 24. The senior military commanders – Lt Gen Harinder Singh of the Indian Army and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA – also had held a meeting at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on August 2. The engagements between the diplomats and military commanders, however, could not end the stalemate over the withdrawal of troops. The virtual meeting between the senior Indian and Chinese diplomats on Thursday was held to make yet another attempt to end the impasse and restart the “disengagement” process. They “agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols”, said the MEA spokesperson, adding: “The two sides were in agreement that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.” They agreed to continue to “sincerely” work towards “complete disengagement of the troops” along the LAC accordance with the consensus reached during talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on June 17 – just two days after the June 15 violent face-off between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley. Wang and India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval – the Special Representatives of the two governments for boundary negotiations – also spoke to each other over the phone on July 5. A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government said that the two sides agreed to “properly handle remaining issues on the ground and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-to-expeditiously-resolve-outstanding-issues-on-the-lac-mea-875695.html
20-08-2020||National||CBSE introduces virtual inspection of schools for 'upgradation of affiliation'||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has introduced a facility for virtual inspection of schools for "upgradation of affiliation" in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Thursday. These schools are "already affiliated with the board and due to natural growth of students in higher classes, the schools are facing hardship due to non-conduct of inspection", CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi said. The virtual inspection will be done for "upgradation to secondary and senior secondary level for cases registered up to session 2021-22" and for this, fresh inspection committees will be formed, the official said. It has been observed that "the physical inspection of schools, which have applied for upgradation of affiliation, has been held up due to the current COVID-19 situation, in which schools are not fully functional," Tripathi said. "The inspection committees constituted to conduct the virtual inspection will be required to complete the inspection within 10 days positively," he said. The board is setting up a facilitation centre to address queries, and problems of schools and inspection committees related to the virtual inspection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-introduces-virtual-inspection-of-schools-for-upgradation-of-affiliation-875697.html
20-08-2020||National||Parliamentary panel on IT summons Facebook on September 2||Facebook India officials have been summoned by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on September 2, amid a raging row between panel chairman Shashi Tharoor and BJP MPs. The Facebook officials have been asked to present their views on the issue of safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms. On the same day, the panel will also hear officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on the same subject. The summoning of the social media giant's officials comes as Tharoor is locked in a bitter battle with BJP MPs in the panel about summoning Facebook. The Lok Sabha Secretariat on Thursday issued a notice about the meetings of the panel on September 1 and 2. On September 1, the panel will hear from officials of Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Communications and Bihar and Delhi governments on the suspension of telecom services, internet and its impact. It will also hear the representatives Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, News Broadcasters Association and Press Council of India and Prasar Bharti on 'Ethical Standards in Media Coverage' After the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report said that the social media giant's India office did not act against the hate posts of a BJP and three other Hindutva supporters after its policy head Ankhi Das took a stand that any action against them would have a detrimental impact on its business here, both Congress and BJP have been attacking each other. Tharoor's announcement on Twitter that Facebook India officials would be summoned attracted opposition from BJP MPs Nishikant Dubey and Rajyavardhan Rathore, who said the senior Congress MP unilaterally decided on this and without consulting the panel. Dubey accused Tharoor of taking up Rahul Gandhi's agenda following which the Congress MP alleged that his BJP counterpart has brought disrepute to the committee. Both also filed privilege notices against each other while Dubey shot off a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking the removal of Tharoor as panel chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-on-it-summons-facebook-on-september-2-875713.html
20-08-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan launches video game to spread awareness about Covid-19||To spread awareness about the coronavirus pandemic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched a first-of-its-kind, interactive video game and two new promotional videos urging people to adhere to key Covid-19-appropriate behaviours. Expressing his happiness at the launch of the uniquely designed game -- 'The Corona Fighters', Vardhan said it "presents a new and extremely creative way to teach people the right tools and behaviours to fight the Covid-19 pandemic." According to an official statement, the minister stated that the game, available on www.thecoronafighters.in, was designed to "influence the players' actions in the real world, reminding them to take the right precautions and escape infection." "This, along with two promotional videos, is a simply designed and enjoyable medium to get a serious message across to the wider public," the statement quoted the minister as saying. Vardhan also recalled his experience with the Polio Abhiyaan which, he said, was transformed into a social movement through people's participation and the support and contribution of many film industry professionals. "The Pulse Polio programme, through its targeted and engaging IEC (information, education and communication) and outreach campaigns, encouraged the last mile mothers to get their children immunized. The same effort can contain Covid by publicising Covid-appropriate behaviour through caller tunes and other mediums throughout the lockdown and thereafter during the phases of unlocking," he said. "Till we get a vaccine for fighting Covid-19, the Covid-appropriate behaviours will serve as a potent social vaccine and keep us protected and safe," the minister stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-launches-video-game-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19-875735.html
20-08-2020||National||Delhi wants Indian lawyer to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav at death sentence review petition in Pakistan||The Indian government is keen on sending a lawyer from India to represent former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav during the hearing at the Islamabad High Court on his petition for review of the death sentence awarded to him by a military tribunal in Pakistan. Islamabad, however, has not yet accepted New Delhi’s demand and insisted that India should instead appoint a lawyer who has licence to practice in Pakistan. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi on Thursday that India was in touch with Pakistan through diplomatic channels on the issue of appointing a lawyer for Jadhav who has been incarcerated in the neighbouring country since March 2016.   New Delhi conveyed to Islamabad that Jadhav should be represented by a lawyer from India “for a free and fair trial” in Pakistan and “in keeping with the letter and spirit of the judgement of the International Court of Justice”,  said Srivastava. He, however, underlined that Pakistan should first address the “core issues” by giving copies of the documents related to the case to the officials of the High Commission of India in the capital of the neighbouring country as well as by providing “unimpeded consular access” to Jadhav. The Pakistani government on July 22 moved the Islamabad High Court seeking appointment of a lawyer to represent Jadhav, stating that New Delhi and the incarcerated former Indian Navy officer had failed to arrange for one. The High Court on August 3 asked the Pakistani government to approach New Delhi again and to give the Government of India another opportunity to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav. Jadhav is accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. A military tribunal awarded him a death sentence in April 2017. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Islamabad had violated the Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963, and the death sentence awarded to Jadhav would remain suspended till the review of the conviction. To implement the ICJ judgement, Pakistan on May 20 last promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”, which mandated that a petition for review and reconsideration of conviction by a military tribunal could be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days from the day it was brought into force. New Delhi last month alleged that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad not only failed to provide the High Commission of India  “unimpeded” consular access to Jadhav, but also declined to hand over the copies of the documents related with the case to a lawyer in the neighbouring country after he was appointed by the Government of India to seek review of conviction and sentencing of Jadhav in the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-wants-indian-lawyer-to-represent-kulbhushan-jadhav-at-death-sentence-review-petition-in-pakistan-875740.html
20-08-2020||National||Railway’s largest current infrastructure project to be delayed by 6 months due to Covid-19||The Railways’ ambitious infrastructure project -- the Dedicated Freight Corridor-- has been delayed by six months, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said Thursday, attributing the delay to the coronavirus crisis that led to workers returning to their hometowns. The Rs 81,000 crore Dedicated Freight Corridor, the Railways' single-largest developmental project currently underway, was scheduled to be completed by December 2021. It consists of the Eastern DFC, a 1,839-km freight line from Ludhiana in Punjab to Dankuni near Kolkata, West Bengal, and the 1483-km WDFC or western corridor connecting India's capital Delhi and its economic hub Mumbai. “We suffered a setback due to the coronavirus pandemic which led to issues with labour mobilisation. The new deadline is June 2022,” Yadav said. According to the latest data from the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation Limited (DFCCIL), the agency has completed 56 per cent of its contractual work on WDFC and 60 per cent on EDFC. The agency said 99 percent of the required land has been acquired. The completion of the project is set to decongest the Railway network by moving around 70 percent of goods trains to these corridors. Yadav also said the Railways has three more DFCs in the pipeline, the surveys for which will be completed by 2021. The Railways will build nearly 4,000-km dedicated freight corridor connecting industrial areas in the eastern and western parts of the country to southern India through major ports in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, a document on the planned corridors says. The proposed DFCs are part of the next big ticket infrastructure projects of the Railways. These DFCs are -- 1,115-km East Coast corridor from Kharagpur (West Bengal) to Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh); the East-West corridor which comprises 1,673 km connecting Bhusaval-Nagpur-Kharagpur-Dankuni (near Kolkata) route, and 195-km Rajkharswan-Kalipahari-Andal (West Bengal) route. The third is the 975-km North South sub-corridor Vijayawada-Nagpur-Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh) route. These corridors are slated to be completed by 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-s-largest-current-infrastructure-project-to-be-delayed-by-6-months-due-to-covid-19-875741.html
20-08-2020||National||Parliamentary committees key for legislative oversight: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday said India’s strong Parliamentary Committee system works to ensure public participation in legislative oversight work. Birla’s remarks at the Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament come at a time when Congress and BJP lawmakers are engaged in a slugfest over discussing issues related to environment and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms. He said that in this era of the information technology revolution, Parliaments need to ensure public participation in parliamentary oversight and improving governance. Addressing the Conference, Birla said through the direct telecast of proceedings of Parliament on the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha television channels, dedicated websites and social media platforms, it has been ensured that Parliament reaches every house of the country. He said that the Parliament of India was ensuring proactive engagement with the people of India through a five ‘I’ process – Interact, Inform, Involve, Imbibe, and Improve. He also said the Indian Parliament was fully engaged with the people and always reinforced transparency and good governance. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament has maintained 24X7 connect between the parliamentarians and the people to ensure that the needy and the underprivileged were provided necessary relief and assistance without delay, Birla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-committees-key-for-legislative-oversight-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-875783.html
20-08-2020||National||After hotels and monuments, banquet halls to be opened soon at half capacity: Tourism Minister||After hotels and monuments, banquet halls will soon be opened at half capacity, Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel said on Thursday, assuring the hospitality industry of his support to deal with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the minister said the tourism sector has faced severe challenges due to the pandemic. However, this pandemic has also opened new opportunities for development and getting all stakeholders together to fight against this situation, Patel said. “We have been able to give some help to the industry in the best way possible. We have been able to open all the monuments, hotels and soon we will be able to open the banquet halls in half capacity. We have been able to revive air travel to a certain extent and we will continue to increase it,” he said. “The tourism industry is a pivotal sector for the development of the economy. We have immense opportunities to increase wellness tourism in the country. We need to hand-hold and collaborate so that the tourism industry bounces back more smoothly,” Patel said. The PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry had also organised the 4th edition of the National Talent Competition in Tourism and Hospitality Sector with the theme “Re-packaging Tourism and Hospitality for ‘New Normal’”. It was held from August 19-20 and 18 teams consisting of students from 12 tourism and hospitality management institutes took part in the competition and highlighted strategies towards the recovery of this sector while encouraging new business models, embracing digitalisation, and meeting the safety demands of guests. Encouraging students, the minister said that this crisis will bring about a change for the better and young leaders will be making their careers in a much stronger, robust and an enterprising ecosystem. Deliberating on the challenges being faced by the tourism sector due to the pandemic, Suman Billa, Director for Technical Cooperation and Silk Road Development, UNWTO, said that globally, there will be fewer travellers this year due to which there will be a reduction in tourism revenue. “This will have an adverse effect on the job markets as well. We can estimate that it will take 2-3 years for the global economy to bounce back. “The tourism sector needs to have strong and robust safety and hygiene protocols in place to ensure that tourists can travel with minimum risks. It's important to kill the anxiety in the mind of tourists and gain their confidence,” Billa said. He said that globally, there will be one billion less travellers this year and an estimated 100-120 million job losses in the sector. Talking about the role of technology, Billa mentioned that “we need to assimilate technology in the hospitality sector” and at the same time, ensure that the hospitality experience is still in place. For India, the tourism and hospitality sector will see three phases which are the survival phase; the revival phase and the thrive phase, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-hotels-and-monuments-banquet-halls-to-be-opened-soon-at-half-capacity-tourism-minister-875800.html
20-08-2020||National||Om Birla rebuts Pakistan's attempt to raise J&K issue at global Speakers' meet||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday rejected certain references to Jammu and Kashmir made by Sadiq Sanjrani, Chairman of Pakistan’s Senate during the fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament. “Jammu and Kashmir has been and will remain an integral part of India. We call upon Pakistan to end cross-border terrorism. Our overtures should not be taken as a sign for weakness,” Birla said during the Conference using India’s right to reply to a statement made by Pakistan. Birla reminded the World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, organised by the International Parliamentary Union, that it was Pakistan whose Prime Minister had glorified dreaded terrorist Osama bin Laden as a martyr. Birla said the UN Analytical Support Sanctions Monitoring Team has mentioned Pakistan as the leading exporter of terror with more than 6,000 nationals currently engaged in terrorism. “The international community should isolate Pakistan to increase the cost of engaging in terror activities,” the Lok Sabha Speaker said. He noted that Pakistan's prime minister had admitted to nearly 40,000 militants on its soil. “Pakistan's aggressions against J&K in 1965, 1971, 1999 (Kargil), attack on Mumbai and Parliament, Uri, Pulwama etc. show Pakistan's state-sponsored policy of terrorism as evident in the inaction against likes of Hafiz Saeed, Masood Azhar and Ehsanullah Ehsan,” Birla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/om-birla-rebuts-pakistans-attempt-to-raise-jk-issue-at-global-speakers-meet-875801.html
20-08-2020||National||Nations' actions during a crisis determines how the world really perceives them: Jaishankar||The actions of the nations during crisis determines how the world really perceives them, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, taking a not-so-subtle dig at China, which moved to expand its territorial claim along the Line of Control amid the Covid-19 crisis. Jaishankar said that the actions of certain nations had brought up many of the risks inherent in the current global economy. “Consequently, concerns about supply chains are sought to be mitigated at the very least through greater emphasis on their diversification and resilience,” said, speaking at a roundtable meeting of ASEAN-Indian Network of Think-Tanks. “As we come out of this pandemic, let us be clear on one fact. The world will never be the same again,” said Jaishankar. “That means new thinking, fresh ideas, more imagination and greater openness. We need to go beyond orthodoxies, whether of trade, politics or security.” The External Affairs Minister did not directly refer to China, which continued its expansionist moves, not only along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh but also in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and Taiwan Strait, even when the Covid-19 virus spread from the communist country causing a pandemic around the world and a global economic crisis. He, however, tacitly referred to the lack of adequate response by the Chinese Government to the outbreak of the virus in Wuhan in December 2019, just as the communist country’s all-weather ally Pakistan has since long been living in denial about the menace of terrorism.   “In fact,” he said, “what the pandemic has brought out is the indivisible aspect of human existence that underpins globalization.” “Whether it is climate change, terrorism or indeed pandemics, these are not challenges where those affected have a choice. The limitations of purely national responses or sometimes living in denial have become evident,” Jaishankar said, adding: “It, therefore, underlines the need for the international community to work together much more sincerely in search of collective solutions.”  He, however, also noted that that just when multilateralism had been most in demand, it had not risen to the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nations-actions-during-a-crisis-determines-how-the-world-really-perceives-them-jaishankar-875806.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | 19 million salaried people lost jobs during Covid-19 lockdown||A total of 18.9 million (1.89 crore) salaried people have lost their jobs in India since April, a little after the Covid-19 lockdown began. In July alone, five million salaried people have been rendered jobless, according to data released by Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-19-million-salaried-people-lost-jobs-during-covid-19-lockdown-875386.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: What is the anti-defection law? Explained||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Chakshu Roy, who heads the legislative and civic engagement initiatives at PRS Legislative Research, informs us about the anti-defection law. Amid political happenings in various regions of India in recent months, it is important that we take a refresher course and learn more about the anti-defection law.  Ahmed Shariff:  Welcome to DH Radio, Chakshu. Chakshu Roy: Hi, Ahmed. Thank you for having me on this show. Ahmed: Let's begin it right away. My first question is qhat is this Anti-Defection Law? Can you chart us its history and the motivation behind it? Chakshu: Ahmed, the Anti-Defection Law is a Schedule in the Constitution. It's the Schedule X of the Constitution. It was added in the constitution in 1985. The way it happened was that there were a series of defections in the late 60s and 70s that lead to the destabilisation of multiple governments — some at the state and at the Centre. In 1985, the government of prime minister Rajiv Gandhi came in and one of the first things that happened was that the president Giani Zail Singh at the first Session of the 8th Lok Sabha, which was Mr Rajiv Gandhi's government's first Session; the president announced that the government will be piloting an anti-defection bill. And the idea of this bill was to curb the menace of defections. Defections were defined as one legislator who fought an election on a particular political party's ticket, moving away from that particular political party and joining another political party. So the idea was that if a legislator fought the election on one party's ticket that legislator has to stick with that party because he subscribes to the mandate of that party or to the thinking of that party. In 1985, when this law was made, it did two or three broad things. The first thing it did was, it defined what defection was; for the first time, it actually taled about political parties — till 1985, the word 'political party' was not in the constitution— then it set down a few criteria which would constitute defection and then also it set down a few criteria as to what would be the exception to defection... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-what-is-the-anti-defection-law-explained-875387.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tributes to Rajiv Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary.  Gandhi, who was prime minister between 1984-89, was born on this day in 1944 and assassinated by the LTTE during an election campaign in 1991. "On his birth anniversary, tributes to former prime minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-rajiv-gandhi-875440.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Rajiv Gandhi's contributions to IT sector will always be remembered: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday remembered former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary, saying his contributions to the IT sector will always be remembered. Born on this day in 1944, Gandhi served as the prime minister between 1984 and 1989. "Remembering former Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary today. His contributions to IT sector will always be remembered," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajiv-gandhis-contributions-to-it-sector-will-always-be-remembered-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-875505.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Multilateralism did not rise to occasion when it was most in demand: External Affairs Minister Jaishankar||Multilateralism did not rise to the occasion when it was most in demand, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday while referring to the "unprecedented" challenge thrown up by the coronavirus pandemic in diverse areas globally. In an address at a roundtable of ASEAN-India Network of Think Tanks, Jaishankar said the world will never be the same again and that the impact of the pandemic has been beyond "our collective imagination". "Current estimates put the cumulative loss in the range of $5.8-8.8 trillion or approximately 6.5-9.7 percent of the global GDP. The contraction of the world economy being predicted will surely be the largest since the Great Depression," the external affairs minister said at the virtual event. At the same time, he added that the true extent of the pandemic's destruction in terms of loss of lives and livelihood remains "unclear". Analysing the evolving world scenario, Jaishankar said the pandemic has brought the indivisible aspect of human existence that underpins globalisation, adding the new challenges have brought out the need for the international community to work together much more sincerely in search of collective solutions. "The limitations of purely national responses or sometimes living in denial have become evident. It, therefore, underlines the need for the international community to work together much more sincerely in search of collective solutions," he said. "The irony, however, is that just when multilateralism was most in demand, it did not rise to the occasion. If we saw little leadership, it was not just due to the admittedly anachronistic nature of key international organisations," the external affairs minister added. In India, around 2.8 million coronavirus cases have been reported, while the number of deaths due to it is around 53,800. In his address, Jaishankar said the current situation also reflected the intensely competitive nature of current international politics. "Indeed, if one goes beyond organisations and structures, this was even more evident in the individual behaviour of many states. Therefore, the big issue that confronts the thinking world is not simply the state of the economy, the damage to societies or the challenges to governance," Jaishankar observed. "It is actually a debate on the future directions of global affairs and what kind of world order – or disorder – we are going to live in," he said. As a result of the current situation, Jaishankar said "trust" was the most valued commodity in international relations today. "We had already seen in many quarters national security being redefined to include economic security. More recently, this then led to questions and concerns about technology security," he said. "The pandemic has now added to that the importance of health security. In fact, the concept of strategic autonomy that was once fashionable in a unipolar world has now assumed relevance once again in terms of global supply chains," he added. The external affairs minister also spoke about India's ties with the 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), considered one of the most influential groupings in the region. India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners. The ASEAN region along with India together comprises a combined population of 1.85 billion people, which is one-fourth of the global population and their combined GDP has been estimated at over $5 trillion. "We are not only proximate to each other but together help shape Asia and the world. It is important that at this juncture, we put our heads together. There are conceptual issues to debate including Indo-Pacific. The Indo-Pacific Oceans initiative that we have tabled needs elaboration," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/multilateralism-did-not-rise-to-occasion-when-it-was-most-in-demand-external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-875579.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Modi govt destroyed unorganised economy in last 6 years, claims Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi government of decimating the unorganised economy, comprising farmers, labourers and small businesses, in the last six years of its rule, and said that the country will not be able to generate jobs in the coming period as a result of that. Addressing via video conferencing the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the party's offices to be built in 22 districts headquarters of Chhattisgarh, he said that although the unorganised economy generates 90 per cent of the country's employment, the Modi government destroyed it through various moves like demonetisation and implementation of "wrong GST". Gandhi stressed the need to restore the balance between the organised and unorganised economies for the welfare of the country. The event was organised on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. "India has two kinds of economies. One is an organised economy, wherein there are big companies, while the other one is unorganised economy, in which there are farmers, labourers, small shop owners and millions of poor people," he said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been attacking the unorganised economy for the last six years. He did this because this sector has money and Modi ji wanted to transfer it to big businessmen," Gandhi alleged. "Wherever there is a Congress government (in the states), we work to balance the unorganised and organised economies. The unorganised economy acts as a shock absorber in adverse situations. "If the country's unorganised economy is secured and strong, it can absorb any kind of shock and cope with difficult situations. Our mother and sister keep money at their home, because it works as a shock absorber," he added. "Farmers, labourers, small and medium business have been decimated as a result of demonetisation and extremely complex GST decisions by the Centre," the Congress leader alleged. "The first attack on the unorganised economy was the decision of demonetisation by PM Modi. He made people deposit their hard-earned money in the banks and then with that money he waived loans of 10-15 businessmen friends and crony capitalists. Then he imposed the wrong GST that led to collapse of small and medium businesses and farmers," he said. Slamming the Centre over the handling of the coronavirus situation, Gandhi said, "Modi ji suddenly implemented lockdown without any prior notice. Why did he suddenly do this? There was a thinking behind it which was to target our unorganised sector." "Ninety per cent of employment is generated by the unorganised economy in the country. Modi ji destroyed this system...One by one companies will fall and small and medium businesses will collapse, which has already been started. "This country will not be able to provide employment to youth in the coming days. It will be for the first time in Indian history that our country won't be able to give jobs to its youth because the small and medium business sector will be destroyed," he said. Gandhi called for the need to restore the balance between organised and unorganised economies, which had been "distorted" by the Modi government. Accusing the BJP and the RSS of making people fight with each other and spreading hatred, he asked the leaders and workers of his party to work for uniting the people. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, AICC in-charge for Chhattisgarh P L Punia, state Congress chief Mohan Markam and state cabinet ministers and other senior party leaders also attended the function virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-destroyed-unorganised-economy-in-last-6-years-claims-rahul-gandhi-875604.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Cannot be a Ram Bharose govt, says Congress, questioning govt's economic policies||The Congress on Thursday demanded answers from the government on whether it has plans to tackle vital issues concerning the common man and raised concerns over decline in GDP growth and rise in unemployment. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said this government cannot be clueless about important issues affecting people and questioned why the prime minister did not talk about these issues in his speeches at the Red Fort or on television. "This government cannot be a 'Ram bharose' government, because even Ram helps only those who help themselves. "I want to ask our prime minister, who is such a great orator, on why he does not talk about employment and the issue of economic decline which is crucial," he said at a virtual press conference. Singhvi took a swipe at the Madhya Pradesh government over its assertion that it will reserve government jobs for people of the state and accused it of indulging in "jumlebaazi" (sloganeering) as it has no jobs to offer. "The time has gone for 'jumlebaazi' and it is time to speak clearly. The government is playing a clear joke on all of us as it is insensitive towards a crumbling economy. There is a collapse of ideas in the government," he alleged. Claiming that as per government data, total job losses as of April was 1.77 crore and that figure is just under 2 crore (1.9 crore) in July, the Congress leader alleged that the figure has consistently been on a secular increase for the last six months and the government has not done anything. He said from a GDP of 7 per cent in 2017-18 which slided to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19 and to 4.2 in 2019-20 before COVID-19, it is expected that it may fall to zero percent going by the World Bank warnings on contraction of economy post the pandemic. "Are you clueless and do you have an idea of the contraction," he asked the government. Singhvi also claimed that two out of five migrants are not getting ration as per a latest report and said it is pitiable that almost 50 per cent people do not get proper nourishment when our warehouses are overflowing with foodgrains. "There is one clear fundamental mismatch in your governance structure," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cannot-be-a-ram-bharose-govt-says-congress-questioning-govts-economic-policies-875661.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Facebook row: BJP MP requests Lok Sabha speaker to replace Shashi Tharoor as head of Parliament panel on IT||The confrontation over the issue of summoning Facebook India officials intensified on Thursday with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey approaching Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to remove senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor as the Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology. In his latest letter to the Speaker, Dubey alleged that Tharoor has been running the affairs of the committee in a "thoroughly unprofessional manner and to serve his political agenda of spreading rumours and defaming my party". He said speaking in 'Spenserian English with a foreign accent' does not give freedom to an individual to disregard Parliamentary institutions to 'meet his own political ambitions'. This comes a day after both Tharoor and Dubey submitted privilege motions against each other over the issue. Another BJP MP Rajyavardhan Rathore also jumped in with a letter to Birla seeking action against Tharoor for speaking in public about summoning Facebook officials without discussing the matter first in the committee. Tharoor had said that Facebook India officials will be summoned following a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report that said that the social media giant's India office did not act against the hate posts of a BJP and three other Hindutva supporters after its policy head Ankhi Das took a stand that any action against them would have a detrimental impact on its business here. Congress and opposition parties like the CPI(M) have demanded a probe by the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) while the BJP attacked Tharoor and Congress saying they were following its former president Rahul Gandhi's agenda. The Opposition alleged that Facebook India has been collaborating with the BJP to sideline Opposition voices. While Dubey questioned his authority to summon Facebook India and accused him of furthering Rahul's agenda, Tharoor had hit back saying that he has brought the committee's work into disrepute while Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra said it was amazing how BJP jumps up and down at anything to do with FB’s interests. In the letter, the BJP MP cited the criticism of Tharoor on sending Personal Data Protection Bill to a joint committee instead of the panel on Information Technology, ban on 59 Chinese Apps, 4G coverage in Jammu and Kashmir and cancellation of committee meeting during Covid-19 among others. Dubey claimed that all these showed that Tharoor has failed in his duties and it is now an impossibility to regulate the affairs of the committee till the time the Congress leader heads it. Separately, Rathore told reporters that he has written to the Speaker against Tharoor speaking in public about the matters related to the committee. "Issuing statements as to who would be summoned and what would be the agenda of the meeting is absolutely uncalled for and is violative of the procedures of the Lok Sabha. The proclivity of the IT committee chairman to speak to the media first undermines the functioning of the committee members and the committee itself," he said. He said MPs have no issue on "summoning whosoever the committee feels needs to be summoned for the protection of the rights of citizens of our country" but added that the matter should be discussed in the panel first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/facebook-row-bjp-mp-requests-lok-sabha-speaker-to-replace-shashi-tharoor-as-head-of-parliament-panel-on-it-875678.html
20-08-2020||National Politics||Left parties oppose 'privatisation' of three airports to Adani Group||The Left parties on Thursday hit out at the government over the decision to lease out three airports to the Adani Group, alleging that the move was a "loot of national assets" and would lead to an escalation of ticket prices. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal for leasing out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP). "Privatisation of airports is loot of national assets to fatten profits of cronies. Then issue Electoral Bonds to raise party funds. "Kerala CM's letter makes it clear that this is happening by betraying assurances of PM Modi on the state government's proposal," said CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a tweet. In a press release, the CPI claimed that granting the airports to a single business entity and group would lead to monopoly. It also alleged that the group will squeeze the extra revenues from passengers and airlines. "Besides there were income leakage and loss of revenue for the Airports Authority of India (AAI) through the past experiences that had happened at Mumbai and Delhi airports. Hence, this privatisation of airports should be immediately stopped as it would squarely escalate the cost of the airline travellers and airlines as well," the party said. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- through PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. These six airports are owned by the AAI. Adani Enterprises had signed the concessionaire agreement with the AAI for three airports - Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow - on February 14 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/left-parties-oppose-privatisation-of-three-airports-to-adani-group-875737.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Kamal Nath formally declared Leader of Opposition in MP||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief and MLA from Chhindwara Kamal Nath was formally declared as the leader of opposition in the state Assembly on Wednesday. Pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma declared Nath, 73, as the Leader of the Opposition. "The Vidhan Sabha secretariat has received a letter in this regard from the Congress on Wednesday. Taking cognisance of the letter immediately, Kamal Nath has been declared the leader of opposition in the state Assembly," Sharma told PTI. Home Minister Narottam Mishra congratulated Nath and said, "I hope that the opposition will play a responsible and positive role in the development of the state." Nath resigned as chief minister on March 20 after his government was reduced to a minority following resignations of 22 Congress MLAs who later joined the BJP under the leadership of former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-formally-declared-leader-of-opposition-in-mp-875338.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Ram Temple will stand for 1,000 years: Trust official||Only stones will be used for building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and it will stand for over 1,000 years, said Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust, on Wednesday. Rai, who is also a senior functionary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), said the country's best minds from IIT-Chennai and the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) are involved in the construction process of the temple. While Larsen & Toubro is broadly looking after the construction of temple, IIT-Chennai has been consulted for testing soil strength and CBRI services are being used to make sure the building is earthquake-resistant, he told reporters here. Around 10,000 copper rods are required for building the temple. Since people want to be a part of the construction process, they can do so by donating copper, Rai said. Using only stones, it will be built in such a manner that decay due to air, sun and water will not happen and temple will last for at least 1,000 years, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-will-stand-for-1000-years-trust-official-875346.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Four arrested for hoisting 'Khalistani’ flag in Sirsa||The Haryana Police has arrested four miscreants for allegedly hoisting a flag with 'Khalistan Zindabad' written on it at a village chaupal under Kalanwali area of Sirsa district. The incident had taken place on August 15, a Haryana Police spokesperson said on Wednesday. The four miscreants were arrested on charges of trying to disrupt peace, brotherhood and communal harmony, he said. The arrested accused were identified as Rupinder Singh alias Rim, Yudhvir Singh alias Jony and Gurjeet, all residents of village Singhpura in Haryana and Aman Sharma of Talwandi Sabo in Punjab. Two accused carried out the incident while the two others shot a video on their mobile phones and posted it on social media, the police spokesperson said. During interrogation, accused Rupinder confessed to being involved in the act. A case under relevant provisions of the law has been registered at Kalanwali police station and a probe is underway, the spokesperson said. Notably, in another incident on August 14, two miscreants had managed to hoist a Khalistan flag atop Moga administrative building in Punjab after removing the tricolour||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-arrested-for-hoisting-khalistani-flag-in-sirsa-875361.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||One-day assembly session: Opposition playing politics amid coronavirus crisis, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the Opposition for the criticism of his government for holding a one-day assembly session, saying they are indulging in politics at a time when the state is facing the coronavirus crisis. On Tuesday, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party had lashed out at the government for the truncated assembly session on August 28, claiming that it was “running away” from discussion on major issues. Responding to the criticism, the CM in a statement accused the Opposition of indulging in “dirty politics” and lambasted SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for his “pathetic” attendance record when he was an MLA. He said Badal’s attendance record showed how “little importance” he gave to the House and its sessions. From March 2017 to May 2019, Sukhbir attended the House for only 16 of 40 days, he said. Singh described the reaction of the SAD chief and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema as “ludicrous” and “manifestation of the total lack of sensitivity and concern” on the part of the two Opposition parties. Both parties seemed “bent on playing with sentiments of people", whose only concern at present is to protect themselves from coronavirus, the CM said. He said the government called the session as it was a constitutional obligation. Several ministers, MLAs and officials were currently either Covid positive or in quarantine, the CM said, adding either Sukhbir was ignorant of the ground situation or simply did not care. With 34,400 people in the state testing positive so far, the situation is grim, he said. The CM said if the SAD chief is concerned about people, he should help them during the pandemic instead of issuing provocative statements to promote his “vested petty political interests”. Responding to the CM's attack, Sukhbir Badal in a statement described Amarinder Singh's reaction as “utterly amusing and absurd”. SAD president said by admitting that even the one-day session was convened by the government only because it was a constitutional requirement, the CM has actually confirmed his allegation. “That is precisely what I had said that if the CM had a choice, he would not have called the session even for a single day and that he had done so merely because it was constitutionally obligatory for him to do so,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-day-assembly-session-opposition-playing-politics-amid-coronavirus-crisis-says-punjab-cm-875367.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath approves Rs 9.90 lakh for student's heart surgery||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday extended a helping hand to a BEd student, suffering from a serious cardiac ailment, by approving Rs 9.90 lakh for her surgery, an official said. In a letter to father of Madhulika Misra, a resident of Machligaon at Campierganj in Gorakhpur district, the chief minister referred to her problem in heart valves that required surgery, the spokesperson said. In the letter addressed to her father, Adityanath said as per the estimates of the Medanta Hospital, Rs 9.90 lakh was being approved from the chief minister's discretionary fund for operation, according to the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-approves-rs-990-lakh-for-students-heart-surgery-875389.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks officials to redress grievances regarding power bills||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed officials for quick redressal of people's complaints regarding their power bills, according to a release. He also asked them to ensure uninterrupted power supply in cities and villages without tripping. Chairing a review meeting of the Power Department, the Chief Minister said complaints of consumers pertaining to their power bills should be redressed as soon as possible, according to the release. Many consumers in the state have complained about inflated power bills. He said engineers should take complaints seriously. Gehlot asked the officials to prepare an action plan to remove power lines passing over houses and other buildings. Power Minister BD Kalla, Principal Secretary (Energy) Ajitabh Sharma and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-asks-officials-to-redress-grievances-regarding-power-bills-875391.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Man shot dead following argument in east Delhi; 2 arrested||Two men were arrested on Wednesday after they allegedly shot dead a person and injured another following an argument in east Delhi's Jagatpuri area, police said. Police received information about the firing incident at Rashid Market in Jagatpuri around 9:30 pm on Tuesday. The two victims were rushed to a hospital, where Mohammad Israr was declared brought dead. The other, Salman, was undergoing treatment, police said, adding Salman was later referred to the AIIMS. "During the investigation, police analysed the CCTV footage and apprehended Sumit and Mukseh Taank," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said. Sumit has alleged that the victims had attacked his father, following which an argument broke out and they fired at Israr and Salman, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shot-dead-following-argument-in-east-delhi-2-arrested-875392.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Continuous rains submerge swathes of Delhi-NCR; IMD issues alert for heavy showers||Many parts of the national capital and key road stretches remained flooded as rains continued to drench the city on Thursday, triggering traffic snarls during morning rush hours. The India Meteorological Department has warned of heavy rains in the city on Thursday as well. The downpour may lead to "major traffic disruption" due to heavy water logging and there is an "increased chance" of road accidents, it warned. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 46 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Wednesday and 8:30 am on Thursday.  On an average, the city gauges 11.3 mm rainfall from 8:30 am on August 19 to 8:30 am on August 20 every year. The Palam weather station gauged 70.9 mm precipitation during the period, more than six times the normal rainfall.  The Delhi Traffic Police remained busy clearing traffic on Narela-Bawana road, Raja Garden flyover, Kasturba Underpass, MB Rad, Jhandewalan Mandir, Jhilmil underpass,, Azadpur vegetable market, Sarai Pipal Thala, Jahangirpuri, Madanpur Khadar among other places Similar scenes played out on Wednesday, as incessant rains pummelled the national capital region, submerging roads, underpasses and parks in waist-deep water and bringing traffic on key stretches to a virtual halt. The flooding was particularly severe in Gurugram, where roads turned into small rivers and parks resembled swimming pools. Just a few hours of rains flooded swathes of Delhi, spelling trouble for commuters who remained stuck for hours on water-logged roads.  Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media. The rains also crippled electricity supply in many areas. Civic bodies reported incidents of uprooting of trees in a few areas due to the rains. A boundary wall of a school in Saket collapsed, damaging several vehicles parked alongside it.  Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said climate change had led to a change rain pattern.  Earlier, we used to witness continuous light rains over two-three days. Nowadays, the same quantum of rainfall occurs in just 2-3 hours. These extreme events have been taking place across the tropical region since last 10 years," he said. Experts said the flooding was a result of bad urban planning. "Flooding in Indian cities is largely a product of bad urban planning. In Delhi, the Yamuna floodplains have been encroached upon obstructing the natural water flow. Other issues include deforestation, poor drainage system and lack of integrated urban planning," Anjal Prakash, research director, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, said.   Srivastava said the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Therefore, more rains are likely. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. The downpour also reduced the rain deficiency in the capital -- from 13 percent on Monday to 11 percent on Wednesday. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 147.4 mm rainfall against the normal of 165.2 mm in August so far.  Overall, it has recorded 466 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 441.3 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/continuous-rains-submerge-swathes-of-delhi-ncr-imd-issues-alert-for-heavy-showers-875458.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||3 of family rescued from smoke-engulfed east Delhi flat||Three members of a family, including a 12-year-old boy, were rescued by the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) from their east Delhi flat which was engulfed with smoke caused by a fire on Thursday morning, an official said. According to DFS Director Atul Garg, they received a call at 5.24 am about a blaze in Murti Gali Krishan Ganj in Laxmi Nagar. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the 325 square yard apartment building which had 17 flats, he said, adding the fire had started in meter boards and spread to 11 vehicles, including seven scooters and four bikes.  Aadil (52), his wife Ishrat Aadil (45) and Ali Aadil (12) were rescued from their flat where they were trapped due to smoke, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-of-family-rescued-from-smoke-engulfed-east-delhi-flat-875485.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in Kupwara encounter identified as Pakistani: Police||A militant who was killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district along with a top Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) commander was identified as a Pakistani ultra, police on Thursday said. They said the Pakistani terrorist named Danish was killed in the encounter on Wednesday. Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said the killing of the two militants was a big achievement for the security forces. Kumar on Wednesday had said that one of the slain militants was LeT commander Naseer-u-din Lone, who was involved in killing of three CRPF jawans at Sopore on April 18 and another three CRPF jawans at Handwara on May 4 this year. He said an AK-47 rifle, which was snatched from a CRPF jawan after the attack at Vangam Handwara on May 4, was recovered from Lone. This proved his involvement in the killing of the three CRPF jawans, he said on Thursday. Killing of Lone and Danish is a big achievement for the forces, the IGP Kashmir said. The Kashmir Zone Police on its official Twitter page uploaded a CCTV grab purportedly showing Lone firing on CRPF jawans at Aahad Baba Chowk in Sopore on April 18. The police wrote "justice done" on August 19 in the tweet. The encounter at Ganipora Kralgund area of Handwara in north Kashmir's Kupwara district started after security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation. The encounter was the second such operation on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, security forces killed two militants in Shopian district in south Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-kupwara-encounter-identified-as-pakistani-police-875494.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Multiple landslides block Jammu-Srinagar National Highway||Multiple landslides triggered by heavy rains blocked the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district on Thursday, leaving over 200 vehicles stranded, officials said. The 270-km highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country, was blocked by landslides at Trishul Morh, Battery Cheshma and Pantiyal areas, officials said. As a result, over 200 vehicles are stranded at different points of the highway, they said. Men and machinery have been deployed to clear the area. The highway was closed for two days last week due to a massive landslide triggered by heavy rains in Ramban district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multiple-landslides-block-jammu-srinagar-national-highway-875537.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||After heavy rains in Delhi, traffic thrown out of gear due to waterlogging, potholes||As rains lashed parts of the national capital, several areas in Delhi reported waterlogging that led to traffic across the city, officials said. The Delhi Traffic Police posted alerts on Twitter to inform commuters about waterlogged roads. "M B Road traffic movement closed from Mathura Road, due to waterlogging under Pul Pehlad Pur. "Obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Satyam towards Kasturba Underpass, Maharaja Surajmal Marg due to waterlogging at Jhilmil," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. Traffic on Ring Road-Bhairon Road was affected due to potholes and traffic going from Ring Road towards Bhairon Road was affected due to the bottle-neck route, it said. Many residents shared videos and pictures of vehicles plying through waterlogged roads on social media. Traffic was also affected as trees fell down in many places in the city. "Traffic movement has been closed on Rajpur Road from both side due to a tree fallen near PS Civil Line. "A tree has fallen near the railway gate on Narela-Bawana road due to which traffic is affected," it tweeted. The waterlogging issue was reported at Jhandewalan Mandir on Rani Jhansi Road, MB Road at Lal Kuan (both carriageway), Ma Anandmayee Marg near DD Motors (both carriageway), GT Road at Azadpur Subzi Mandi out gate (both carriageway), Sarai Pipal Thala (both carriageway), Mahindra Park Signal on GT Road (both carriageway), Jahangirpuri on GT Road (both carriageway) and GTK Depot on GT Road, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-heavy-rains-in-delhi-traffic-thrown-out-of-gear-due-to-waterlogging-potholes-875553.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||IIT Roorkee inks MoU with Bureau of Indian Standards||Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee has signed an MoU with the Bureau of Indian Standards for collaboration in the areas of standardisation and conformity assessment based on equality and reciprocity, an official said on Thursday. As per the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), both entities will collaborate in a number of fields including civil, electrical, mechanical, chemical, earthquake engineering, development and management of water resources and renewable energy projects, an IIT press release here said.           Other fields of collaboration will be infrastructure development, medical biotechnology and nanotechnology and biomaterials, it said.         “We are happy to collaborate with the BIS and contribute to the country's endeavour to ensure adequate standardisation and conformity assessment,"  Director, IIT Roorkee Ajit K Chaturvedi said after signing of the MoU on Wednesday.         Both institutes will participate in standardisation activity through technical committees of the bureau at the national and international level, undertake R&D projects related to standardisation and conformity assessment to achieve the objectives of the MoU.         “IIT, Roorkee's expertise in technology and research is well-known.  As the National Standards Body, we are excited to partner in their journey to move a step ahead so as to benefit national standardisation," BIS Director-General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-roorkee-inks-mou-with-bureau-of-indian-standards-875564.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Medical officer held for killing female doctor in Uttar Pradesh||A medical officer was arrested from Uttar Pradesh's Jalaun district for allegedly killing a 26-year-old female doctor of the S N Medical College in Agra, officials said on Thursday. Yogita Gautam's body was found with injury marks along an isolated road stretch in Agra's Dauki area on Wednesday morning and her identity ascertained in the evening, the officials said. Accused Vivek Tiwari, who was a senior of Gautam at their medical school in Moradabad, had been harassing her and allegedly pressuring her into marrying him, according to officials. "Dr Yogita Gautam, pursuing MD at the S N Medical College here, went missing on Tuesday and her mobile phone was not reachable after which her family approached the local police station and an FIR was lodged,” Senior Superintendent of Police, Agra, Babloo Kumar said. “The family alleged in the complaint that Dr Vivek Tiwari, currently a medical officer at Jalaun Medical College, would often call her, harass and threaten her,” Kumar said. He said the Agra Police tied up with their counterparts in Jalaun district, leading to the arrest of the accused doctor. Kumar said there were visible injury marks on Gautam's head and neck and other “struggle marks” which have been recorded. The body has been sent for post mortem, he said, adding the accused was being interrogated and all facts of the case would be unveiled soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medical-officer-held-for-killing-female-doctor-in-uttar-pradesh-875575.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||UP bus hijack: Mastermind held after encounter with police||A man who allegedly masterminded hijacking of a bus with 34 passengers on board was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police following an encounter in Firozabad district on Thursday, officials said. The gunfight broke out around 5 am near a village in Fatehabad area between the accused and police teams, including Agra and Firozabad units, and a special operations group, the officials said. "Key accused Pradeep Gupta and his associate Yatendra Yadav were on a motorcycle but seeing the police check, they opened fire and tried to flee. Gupta got injured in retaliatory firing, while Yadav managed to escape through the farmlands," Agra Senior Superintendent of Police Babloo Kumar said. He said police teams are on the search for others accused in the case and will arrest them soon. Around a dozen people were involved in planning and executing the bus hijacking from Agra late on Tuesday night allegedly over a monetary dispute between Gupta and vehicle owner Ashok Arora, a resident of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, according to the officials. The bus was recovered from a dhaba in Etawah on Wednesday afternoon, after more than 12 hours of going amiss, with officials saying all 34 passengers on board it were safe and on their way to their destinations in other vehicles. Gupta, a native of Jaipur but a resident of Agra, is the mastermind of the bus hijacking episode. He worked as an agent and middleman at the Road Transport Office in Etawah, according to the officials. Five police teams were formed later for arresting Gupta and those linked in the case. The teams, including a special operations group (SOG), were scrambled around Agra, Firozabad, Etawah, Mainpuri and nearby areas for the job, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bus-hijack-mastermind-held-after-encounter-with-police-875581.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||26 top militant commanders killed this year: J&K police||With the killing of over 150 militants, including 26 top commanders this year, security forces have been able to break the backbone of the militancy in Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said they have succeeded in breaking the leadership structure of militants in the Valley. “26 topmost commanders have been killed this year in various encounters across Kashmir valley,” he said while addressing a presser in north Kashmir’s Handwara district. He was speaking to the reporters in the backdrop of the killing of two militants, including a top Lashkar-e-Toiba commander, Nasir-u-din Lone, in a gunfight in Kralgund, Handwara, on Wednesday evening. “Nasir was involved in the killing of six CRPF personnel besides other killings, including a cop. He was likely to carry out a big strike in north Kashmir after the killing of Sajad alias Hyder,” the police chief said while terming Naseer-ud-Din a sharpshooter. He also claimed that the infiltration of militants from across the Line of Control (LoC) has reduced to almost 50% this year because of the tight vigil and proper border management. “The recruitment of local youth into militant ranks has also come down to a significant level. Security forces saved 16 local youth from joining militancy this year and returned them to their families,” Singh added. Regarding the probe into the alleged fake encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian, the police chief said that the investigation was going in the right direction and police was also carrying out a separate investigation in the matter. The alleged fake encounter controversy erupted after family members of three labourers from Rajouri in Jammu, who went missing from Shopian district on July 17 alleged, on the basis of photographs, that the three unidentified militants the army said it killed in a gunfight there on July 18, were, in fact, their innocent relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/26-top-militant-commanders-killed-this-year-jk-police-875588.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Pleas in High Court against election of Arvind Kejriwal and Vijender Gupta||Two pleas have been moved in the Delhi High Court challenging the elections of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and BJP leader Vijender Gupta to the Delhi assembly on the ground that they allegedly furnished false information regarding their poll expenses. The petitions were listed before Justice C Hari Shankar who on Thursday renotified them for hearing on November 25 after the petitioner did not appear for arguments even after the matters were taken up twice for hearing via video conferencing. The petitioner -- Ramesh Khatri -- in his pleas sought barring both political leaders from contesting elections for next six years on the ground that they allegedly concealed information about their poll expenses and engaged in corrupt practices. He has sought that the elections of Kejriwal and Gupta, who is referred to as Vijender Kumar in the petition, be declared as null and void for alleged violation of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and the Conduct Of Election Rules, 1961. In the petition against Kejriwal, the petitioner said he had contested against the AAP chief in the assembly elections held this year. The plea against Gupta has been filed by Khatri as a voter of the constituency -- Rohini Assembly Constituency 13 -- from where the BJP leader contested and won. In both his pleas, the petitioner has claimed that neither of the political leaders disclosed accurate day-to-day expenses of their poll campaign in the expenditure register. He has also alleged that both of them spent money way beyond the prescribed limit under the law and the excess expenditure was not disclosed to the returning officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pleas-in-high-court-against-election-of-arvind-kejriwal-and-vijender-gupta-875591.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Lady doctor hacked to death by spurned lover in Uttar Pradesh||A lady doctor has been hacked to death by a spurned lover in Uttar Pradesh after she refused to marry him. She had earned praise in the medical fraternity for performing complicated deliveries at a government medical college in coronavirus affected Agra. The culprit, identified as Vivek Tewari, has been arrested. He is also a doctor and a medical officer at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Jaluan district. According to the police sources, Vivek and the doctor were having an affair for the past seven years. She was pursuing her post-graduation from Agra Medical College and had stopped seeing Vivek lately as their relationship deteriorated. On Tuesday Vivek asked her to meet him the last time as he wanted to discuss certain issues. During the meeting, he once again proposed her but she refused. An infuriated Vivek allegedly strangled and later stabbed her several times with a knife to make sure that she was dead. He then dumped the body at a secluded place a few kilometres away from Agra. The body was recovered on Wednesday. On a complaint by the victim's parents, the police interrogated Vivek. ''He confessed to killing the lady doctor.....we have also recovered the knife used in the killing,'' said a senior police official in Agra. The medical fraternity demanded that the kin of the slain doctor be given financial compensation and other facilities as she was a ''corona warrior''. ''The government should declare compensation for her....she was a Corona warrior,'' said Jitendra Kumar Saroj, a surgeon at a private medical college in Varanasi. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said that the killing reflected ''complete breakdown of law and order'' in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lady-doctor-hacked-to-death-by-spurned-lover-in-uttar-pradesh-875610.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||17-year-old girl gang-raped, body burnt with acid in Uttar Pradesh||In a gruesome incident, a 17-year-old girl was first gang-raped, and then her body was burnt with acid and dumped in a river. The incident took place in Uttar Pradesh's Bhadohi district, about 250 kilometres from Lucknow. The body was recovered from Varuna river near Tulsi Chak village on Wednesday, according to the police sources. Eyewitnesses said that her face and some other parts the body were burnt with acid apparently to hide the victim's identity. District police chief Ram Badan Singh earlier said that the minor appeared to have been 'murdered', but later made a U-turn and claimed that she had died from drowning. However, he has also said that a panel of five doctors had been formed to conduct the postmortem examination to ascertain the cause of death and confirm if she was raped. The girl's parents said that she had taken the cattle for grazing in the fields on Monday, but never returned home. ''We had lodged a complaint with the police but the latter did not make any effort to trace her,'' the distraught father said. An irate mob blocked the road in protest and demanded adequate compensation to the family. Uttar Pradesh has been a sudden spurt in the rape cases in the past few days. A minor 'Dalit' girl was allegedly gang-raped before being burnt with cigarette butts in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's home district Gorakhpur a few days back. In another incident, a minor was allegedly gang-raped by three youths in UP's Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from here. The opposition leaders have accused the UP government of failing to ensure the safety of the women in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-girl-gang-raped-body-burnt-with-acid-in-uttar-pradesh-875617.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Gehlot launches Indira Rasoi scheme for affordable food to needy||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday launched the Indira Rasoi scheme that will provide poor and needy people with nutritious and quality food at Rs 8 per plate in urban areas. The chief minister inaugurated the scheme virtually on former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi's birth anniversary and also took feedback from beneficiaries through video conferencing. Though each plate will be priced at Rs 20, the state government will grant subsidy of Rs 12 per plate with an estimated expenditure of Rs 100 crore every year. As part of the scheme, 100 grams of pulses, 100 grams of vegetables, 250 grams of chapati and pickles per plate will be provided to people in 358 Indira Rasois (kitchens) which have been set up in 213 urban local bodies across the state. The scheme targets to serve food to 1.34 lakh people per day in the state. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said that the scheme is another step towards his resolve to ensure no one goes hungry in the state. Urban Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal, PCC president and Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra and senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-launches-indira-rasoi-scheme-for-affordable-food-to-needy-875623.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi government instructs excise department to issue permits to hotels, restaurants to serve liquor||A day after the DDMA gave its approval for opening of hotels and restaurants in the city, the Delhi government on Thursday instructed its Excise department to issue necessary permits to them to serve liquor. The hotels and restaurants in the city were closed due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown since March. In a note to the excise commissioner of the Delhi government, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia directed the department to issue necessary permission to serve liquor in the restaurants and clubs by licensees at the table and in hotel rooms. In his note, the deputy chief minister said 'Bars' will remain closed under the provisions of 'Unlock' guidelines of the Union Home ministry. "Considering the revenue implications, Excise department to issue necessary permission for service of liquor in the restaurants and clubs by licensees at the table and in the hotel rooms," said the note. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday gave approval for the opening of hotels and weekly markets, a move that is expected to help revive the city's economy which was hit by the coronavirus pandemic and months of lockdown. The sale of liquor from retail shops in the city was allowed in May.  Several state governments, including Assam, Punjab, Rajasthan and others have permitted service of liquor by licence holders under the excise rules at the table in the restaurants and clubs and in hotel rooms, the note said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-instructs-excise-department-to-issue-permits-to-hotels-restaurants-to-serve-liquor-875632.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||29% of Delhiites have Covid antibodies: Serosurvey||Close to one-third of Delhiites were exposed to coronavirus as Covid-19-specific antibodies were found in their blood, results of Delhi’s second serological survey revealed on Thursday. Carried out on more than 15,000 people, the survey confirmed the presence of such antibodies in the blood of 29% of people, even though there may not be any sign of disease in most of them. This is a 6% jump from the previous serosurvey in Delhi, which may be an indication of a silent spread of the virus without causing the disease. Carried out in each of the 11 districts, the survey looked for Covid-19 antibodies in the blood of an individual. The presence of such antibodies is possible when the person has been infected by the virus, but as the two serosurveys have shown, Covid-19 infection does not necessarily translate into the disease. Public health specialists admit that it is a positive sign, but cautioned against early celebration. “It is nearly half-way mark of reaching an empirical goal (60%) of reaching population immunity, after which the susceptibles can no longer sustain the disease transmission. It might be best to treat this as good progress. The external manifestations of reaching population immunity are when we get to see test positivity of around 5%, and cases progressively decrease,” Giridhar R Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH.  Results of the first serosurvey in Delhi, as well as those conducted in Mumbai and Pune, showed similar trends. The first Delhi survey demonstrated the presence of the Covid-19 antibody in 23.48% of 21,000 people who participated in the survey. In comparison, the second survey threw up a figure of 29% (males: 28.3%; females: 32.2%). Since Delhi has a population of 1.9 crores, this means lakhs and lakhs of people were infected. The existing detection system, however, could capture 1.56 lakh positive cases in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/29-of-delhiites-have-covid-antibodies-serosurvey-875634.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||With surge in Covid-19 cases, Punjab imposes daily night curfew from August 21||Amid rising coronavirus cases, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown, with daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all 167 cities and towns in the state from August 21. Besides, the CM also ordered a total ban on all gatherings except weddings and funerals across the state till August 31. The government and private offices will work at 50 per cent capacity till the end of this month, as per the directives issued by the CM during a video conference meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and death toll for the last several days. On Wednesday, the state had reported 36,083 coronavirus cases with 920 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-surge-in-covid-19-cases-punjab-imposes-daily-night-curfew-from-august-21-875650.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Villagers thrashed by naxals in Dantewada; 10 injured||Ten persons, including five women and a minor girl, were injured after allegedly being beaten up by Naxals for supporting development activities in their village in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday night in Chikpal village under Katekalyan police station area, where a group of 25 to 30 armed cadres thrashed over 20 villagers with sticks and butt of their guns, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. The SP said the district collector had visited the village last month and assured to take up development works there. On the collector's direction, women in villages of Dantewada formed groups and nominal funds were given to them to carry out various activities in their villages, he said. A group of 10 women in Chikpal was managing meals given to children at the local Anganwadi centre among other works, Pallava said. Residents of Chikpal also took part in Independence Day celebrations on August 15 at Marjum village, located in a naxal-stronghold, where the national flag was hoisted after 30 years, he said. On learning about these activities, naxals attacked more than 20 villagers, of whom 10 were injured and admitted at a local health centre, the official said. A case has been registered in this regard and a search operation to trace the ultras was underway, he said. On July 19, 25 persons were injured in a similar attack by Maoists in Parcheli village of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-villagers-thrashed-by-naxals-in-dantewada-10-injured-875656.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Congress leaders prevented from proceeding to slain Dalit leader’s village||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and other leaders of his party were on Thursday prevented from visiting the family members of slain Dalit head Satyamev Jayate of Basgaon village of Azamgarh district. With a heavy deployment of policemen, Lallu along with Rajya Sabha MP P L Punia and others were prevented from emerging from the Azamgarh Circuit House to proceed to the Basgaon village and were detained there itself, said Congress leaders. UPCC chief Lallu alleged that the gates of the Circuit House were locked and policemen were deployed in large numbers to stop the Congress leaders from visiting the Dalit leader’s village. He launched a scathing attack on the government saying it has adopted an autocratic attitude by preventing people's representatives from visiting the bereaved family. “The government is out to stop us from visiting the village. Had the number of policemen deployed here were used against criminals, the state would have been free of crime,” said Lallu. He added that he would visit the bereaved family irrespective of the consequences. Rajya Sabha member Punia too lashed at the government saying that it was wrong to stop people representative from meeting the people. “I will raise this matter in the Parliament,” Punia said. Interestingly many Congress leaders, seeking to visit the slain Dalit leader’s village, wore blue scarves, a colour representing the Bahujan Samaj Party. Though Congressmen remained tight-lipped over the choice of the colour of their scarves, UPCC media convenor Lalan Kumar asserted that “no party has the copyright over any colour”. "No party has copyright over any colour. Lalluji wore green mask. Has anyone any objection to it?” he asked “If Mayawati has any objection, let her issue a statement. She has not even visited the Dalit leader’s family so far. She is merely acting as a BJP spokesperson and assisting the saffron in the oppression of Dalits. In fact, it has always been the Congress which had been fighting for Dalits," said Lallan Kumar. On Friday , 42-year-old Dalit leader Satyamev Jayate alias Pappu, the village head of Basgaon in Tarwan area of Azamgarh district, was shot dead by some miscreants, triggering violence in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leaders-prevented-from-proceeding-to-slain-dalit-leader-s-village-875675.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Antibodies found in 27.7% of people in Punjab's containment zones||Antibodies against the COVID-19 infection have been found in 27.7 per cent of people in Punjab's containment zones, according to the findings of a sero-survey. This was Punjab's first exclusive survey and was conducted in five containment zones from August 1 to 17 among a systematically selected random sample population of 1,250 people. There were earlier surveys, but they were more generalised and conducted by the state government in coordination with the Indian Council of Medical Research, according to a government statement issued here. The latest survey’s findings were submitted to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at a COVID review meeting on Thursday. "A total of 27.7 per cent of the people in Punjab's containment zones are found to be positive for COVID antibodies, indicating that they have already been infected and have recovered from the coronavirus,” as per the sero-survey’s findings. The findings showed that the SARS-CoV2 (COVID-19) antibodies’ prevalence in the containment zones to be the highest at 40 per cent in Amritsar district, followed by 35.6 per cent in Ludhiana, 33.2 per cent in SAS Nagar, 19.2 per cent in Patiala and 10.8 per cent in Jalandhar district. The survey report came on a day when Delhi released its second sero-survey findings, which showed that antibodies against the COVID-19 infection have been found in 29.1 per cent of people in the national capital. For the latest Punjab sero-survey, one containment zone each was selected in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar districts. These zones had reported a high number of coronavirus cases. The sample size was 250 people from each zone, and from each of the selected households, one person above the age of 18 was randomly chosen for the survey. Overall, the sero- prevalence of SARS CoV-2 antibodies was found to be 27.7 per cent in the containment zones where the highest number of COVID-19 cases had been reported. However, in the remaining parts of the cities, prevalence of SARS CoV-2 would be lower, and in the rural areas, the prevalence would be much lower than the urban areas, as per the report of the survey. The survey was aimed at finding out the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies (IgM/IgG) using Rapid Antibody testing kits. Giving details, the head of the state government's Health Advisory Expert Group K K Talwar said a team of trained field assistants and laboratory technicians collected the data under the supervision of a medical officer. Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nurse Midwifes facilitated the survey by identifying the households in the zones. After explaining the purpose of the survey, written informed consent was obtained, following which a laboratory technician collected a venous blood sample under aseptic conditions. The blood samples were taken to the district public health laboratory where rapid antibody tests were performed, said the government statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-antibodies-found-in-277-of-people-in-punjabs-containment-zones-875687.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||More than 8 lakh net subscribers added during first quarter of FY 21: EPFO payroll data||Close to 8.5 lakh new net subscribers were added to the Employees Provident Fund during the first quarter of 2020-21, the Ministry of Labour and Employment said on Thursday. While 6.55 lakh net subscribers were added in June, 20,000 were added in April and another 1.72 lakh in May despite the Covid-19 lockdown. According to the provisional payroll data published by EPFO, the Ministry said 8.47 lakh members were added during April-June period. It said the Covid-19 pandemic had adversely affected the enrolments in the month of April and May 2020. The subscriber base growth is on account of the increased number of new subscribers, lower exits and higher rejoining by exited members. The new subscriber joining has increased roughly by 64% in June compared to May. In addition, the exits from EPFO subscriber base declined by nearly 33% from 4.45 lakh in May to 2.96 lakh in June 2020, a statement said. The number of members who exited and then rejoined indicates switching of jobs by subscribers within the establishments covered by EPFO. This has also increased by approximately 44% for the month of June over May with more subscribers choosing to retain membership by transferring funds rather than opting for final settlement. When it comes to women enrolment, the data showed that the figures have improved. While 37085 women joined the EPFO in April, it rose to 1,06,059 in June in absolute terms, even though the overall female participation in the workforce remains low. The category-wise analysis showed that “expert services” had a share of approximately 46% and 45% during 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively. In the first quarter of 2020-21, it stands at 52.7% which is reflecting that many industries are yet to recover but expert services have made good progress. The absolute figure for net enrolment in Expert Services category during June is 3.45 lakh, which is more than the monthly average of three lakh during 2019-20. Expert services predominantly consist of manpower agencies, private security agencies and small contractors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-8-lakh-net-subscribers-added-during-first-quarter-of-fy-21-epfo-payroll-data-875702.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||New Delhi Municipal Council bags ‘cleanest capital city’ award in Swachh Survekshan 2020||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has bagged the first rank in the "cleanest capital" city category in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 announced on Thursday. The NDMC area comprises Lutyen’s Delhi which is regarded as the seat of central authority in India. It also houses important buildings such as the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the Parliament House, the Supreme Court, and the North and South Blocks. "The NDMC has already achieved ODF++ status and 3 stars Garbage Free City ranking in the Nationwide Swachhta Award Categories. The NDMC is a bin free city with volume sensor underground bins which are monitored at command and control centre," a senior civic body official said. "We are carrying out 100 pc door-to-door collection and processes all its waste on daily basis. No garbage goes to landfill site and entire waste is incinerated to produce power," he added. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 -- the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country -- were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony where 129 awards were given in different categories. Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for a fourth straight year while Surat and Navi Mumbai grabbed the second and third positions respectively. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, was adjudged the 'Best Ganga Town' in the country, followed by Kanpur, Munger, Prayagraj and Haridwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-delhi-municipal-council-bags-cleanest-capital-city-award-in-swachh-survekshan-2020-875708.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||AAP to contest Uttarakhand assembly polls in 2022||The Aam Aadmi Party will contest the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly election, party's state in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya said on Thursday. As part of its election campaign, the AAP will raise development issues as it did ahead of the Delhi assembly polls held earlier this year, he said. "We will contest the election (in Uttarakhand). We will reach out to people with solutions to the problems faced by the state," Mohaniya said. He said the AAP will tell the people of Uttarakhand how it plans to resolve issues of migration, education and employment, he said. Citing a third party survey, Mohaniya said 62 per cent people in Uttarakhand want the AAP to contest the state assembly election. "There is a need to bring a change in the state and we have found that even people want that," he said. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said the AAP will try to solve the problems faced by the people of Uttarakhand. "This time the people of Uttarakhand will fight for their rights and new expectations in collaboration with the Aam Aadmi Party," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The Uttarakhand assembly polls will be held in February 2022. The House has 70 seats. Currently, the BJP rules the state, while the Congress is in the opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-contest-uttarakhand-assembly-polls-in-2022-875718.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to offer govt jobs on basis of NRA test score: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh will offer government jobs to youths on the basis of their score in the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) test, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Thursday. He said Madhya Pradesh has become the first state in the country to take such a decision. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct an online Common Eligibility Test (CET) for selecting candidates for majority of central government jobs. The decision will allow job-seekers take one common test and save costs and time spent on writing multiple exams, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had said. We have taken a unique and revolutionary decision. Now the youths of the state will not have to appear in any separate examination. "They will get government jobs on the basis of their score in NRA (eligibility test), Chouhan said in a tweet in Hindi. The youths of the state will have the right on Madhya Pradesh government jobs and this we have already decided. Now you (job-seekers) will also get rid of multiple exams and unnecessary expenditures on travelling. "It is my priority to make your lives better and happy, Chouhan said. Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country to take this unprecedented decision of giving government jobs to youths of the state on the basis of their NRA score. "Other states can also emulate it to give relief to their sons and daughters, he added. The NRA will set up examination centres in every district of the country, said a statement issued by the Union Personnel Ministry in New Delhi on Wedneday. The NRA will conduct a separate CET each for the three levels of graduate, higher secondary (12th pass) and the matriculate (10 th pass) candidates for those non-technical posts to which recruitment is currently carried out by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-offer-govt-jobs-on-basis-of-nra-test-score-chouhan-875720.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||In first meeting since last August, NC skips discussion on Article 370||Regional National Conference (NC) leaders who met at the residence of the party president Farooq Abdullah on Thursday, skipped any discussion on the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 for the first time since last August, sources told DH. They said Article 370 didn’t come up during the discussions in the meeting which apart from Abdullah, was attended by NC’s two MPs Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi, party general secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar, provincial president of Kashmir Nasir Aslam Wani, former finance minister Abdul Rahim Rather, and senior leader Muhammad Shafi Uri. However, a senior NC leader wishing anonymity said that the party is likely to call a meeting of the working committee in coming days, where the issue of abrogation of the special status may be discussed. The NC had on Wednesday decided to convene Thursday’s meeting of its senior leaders after the administration informed the Jammu and Kashmir High Court that none of the 16 leaders, that the party claimed were in illegal confinement, were detained and that they were free to move around. Abdullah said the meeting of five more party leaders will be called tomorrow (Friday). “The meetings with the party leaders will continue in the coming days,” he told reporters without divulging the agenda of the meetings. Asked whether political issues were discussed during the meeting, flamboyant Abdullah evaded a direct answer. “Various issues were discussed,” he said without elaborating. “Meeting with party leadership will continue. This way we can also check whether we are free now as claimed by the government. I called separate meetings due to Covid-19 precautions," he was quoted by a local news agency KNS. However, he ruled out calling today’s meeting as the start of political activities by the party. Earlier, Abdullah, who is a three-time former chief minister of J&K, had called an all-party meeting on the first anniversary of the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state, which the administration did not allow. Abdullah and his son Omar were among hundreds of politicians the government had detained in Kashmir in the wake of the abrogation of the special status of J&K and downgrading of the erstwhile state into two UTs through J&K Reorganization Act passed in Parliament on August 5-6 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-first-meeting-since-last-august-nc-skips-discussion-on-article-370-875723.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Digital health, One Nation One Ration cards launched in Chandigarh||The One Nation One Ration Card and the digital health card schemes have been launched in the Union Territory of Chandigarh, officials said on Thursday. Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Union Territory administrator V P Singh Badnore received the first digital health card at the launch, according to an official release. The scheme is supposed to revolutionize the health administration in the country by providing digital health cards to each citizen. Badnore received the card from UT adviser Manoj Parida at the Raj Bhawan here, the release said. Parida said he proposed to cover the entire UT population within one month. He said on the first day itself, 4,000 people have got their digital health cards online. The digital data will contain details of doctors, their qualifications and medical infrastructure available for the citizens in the city.  In future, it will be linked to e-pharmacy and tele-medicine too. Digital health cards will enable doctors to look at the medical history of each person at the click of a button. Necessary care will be taken to ensure the privacy of the data and the medical information of card holders, the release said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will store the individual's medical records. In his Independence Day address, the prime minister said the Mission will help reduce problems in getting treatment in various health facilities in the country and herald a new revolution in the sector. Parida also launched One Nation and One Ration Card scheme in the city. The scheme will enable the beneficiaries to get ration, even when they move out to other states or UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digital-health-one-nation-one-ration-cards-launched-in-chandigarh-875771.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||'Videos of SDM beating up youths go viral in Ballia, officer suspended'||A senior official of Ballia district administration was on Thursday caught on camera beating up youths and misbehaving with them on the pretext of enforcing a drive for the people to wear face masks. Two videos of the Bilthara Road SDM Ashok Chaudhary beating up youths went viral on the social media following which the victim youths lodged a complaint with the police. Taking serious note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suspended Chaudhary and attached him with the Revenue Board, officials said in Lucknow. Commissioner Vijay Vishwas Pant also asked the Ballia district magistrate to probe the matter. In one of the videos, Chaudhary is seen beating the locals including a person going on a bike with a woman at the main gate of the tehsil while in the other, he is seen entering a shop at the Chowkia traffic intersection and beating up two youths and dragging them on the road. Along with the SDM, his security personnel are also seen beating up the youths. The youths later lodged a complaint with police against the SDM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/videos-of-sdm-beating-up-youths-go-viral-in-ballia-officer-suspended-875786.html
20-08-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal's 'Delhi model' improved Covid-19 situation: City govt||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's 'Delhi model' of tackling Covid-19 has led to significant improvement in the situation and the national capital's case doubling rate has gone up to 101.5 days as against 28.8 days for the rest of India, an official statement said on Thursday. The case fatality rate in Delhi for the month of August has also come down substantially to 1.4 per cent, as against 1.92 for rest of the country, it said, adding that the recovery rate in Delhi is 90.2 per cent as compared to 72.5 for rest of the country. A large drop has also been witnessed in positivity rate between June 18 and August 16, the statement said. The positivity rate of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests both have seen a "sharp decrease", claimed the statement. "The efforts made by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to deal with the Covid-19 situation in Delhi are showing successful results. Delhi's position is much better than the rest of the country, the statement said.  At present, the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi has gone up to 101.5 days as compared to the rest of the country which stands at 28.8 days, it said. Moreover, the mortality rate in Delhi has also considerably decreased due to the multiple efforts being made by the chief minister to bring the death figures to zero, it said.  In a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) held on Wednesday, the Health department of the Delhi government presented fresh data regarding the coronavirus situation in Delhi.  "The figures are not only strengthening the case for Delhi Model's success in defeating coronavirus but also bringing relief to the residents of Delhi," it said.  "The chief minister is closely monitoring the evolving situation of the Covid pandemic in Delhi," it added. In the month of June,  there was "panic" in Delhi over Covid but the situation is showing a lot of improvement now, the statement claimed.  "On July 1, the doubling rate of Corona cases in Delhi was the same as with the rest of India at 20 days. Since then, the doubling rate of Delhi has been steadily rising. It was 58 days on July 17, around 90 days on August 1, and has currently increased to 101.5 days. In comparison, for the rest of India, the doubling rate has remained between 20 and 27 days since July 1," the statement claimed . While reiterating that the situation of coronavirus is improving in Delhi,  Arvind Kejriwal has maintained that the main aim of the authorities and the Delhi government is to save as many lives as possible.  "For this, many improvements have been made inside the hospitals such as ramping up the infrastructure, increasing ICU beds and wards, and supplying oxygen concentrators to patients recovering in hospitals as well as home isolation," it said.  "The recovery rate of Delhi on June 20, was same as the rest of India at 55.2 per cent. Since then, the recovery rate of Delhi has been consistently higher than the rest of India.  "Currently, the recovery rate in Delhi is 90.2 per cent as compared to 72.5 per cent recovery rate for the rest of India. Out of a total of 1,57,354 cases in Delhi, 1,41,826 cases have recovered, which shows a significant improvement in the Corona situation in the city," it said.   The "success of Delhi Model" is also seen in the sharp decrease in test positivity rate over last two months. On 18 June, the test positivity rate in Delhi was 24.59 per cent, which reduced substantially to 5.25 per cent on  August 16, the statement said.  "More importantly, the positivity rate has dropped for both RT-PCR tests and Rapid Antigen Tests," it claimed. "On June 18 , a total of 9,088 RT-PCR tests were conducted of which 2,804 were positive - a positivity rate of 30.85 per cent. However, on August 16,  out of total 4,106 RT-PCR tests  conducted, 434 were positive - a positivity rate of 10.57 per cent, it claimed.  It added that similarly on June 18, 3,316 Rapid tests were conducted in Delhi of which 247 emerged positive - a positivity rate of 7.42 per cent. The positivity rate improved to 3.24 per cent, on August 16, as out of total 10,882 Rapid tests  353 were positive, claimed the government statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwals-delhi-model-improved-covid-19-situation-city-govt-875798.html
20-08-2020||Opinion||NEP’s foundational learning focus can be a game changer||The 60-page National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 unveiled by the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development is one of the most important, clear-eyed and succinct policy documents in recent times. Correct diagnosis of an ailment is fundamental to the course of its treatment. While the framing of rules, on-ground execution and ability to fund the proposed ideas will determine NEP’s success, its diagnosis seems spot on. The golden thread that runs through the NEP is the emphasis on measurable outcomes rather than mere access to education. There is also a welcome thrust towards experiential learning, engaging pedagogy and holistic development of learners. The NEP gets to the heart of India’s education crisis at the very outset. It accords the highest priority to achieve universal foundational literacy and numeracy in primary school and beyond by 2025. Poor foundational learning at the primary-school level, especially between ages three to eight, wreaks almost irreversible damage on students and the entire education system. The severity of our crisis is such that an overwhelming majority of the 12 crore children in primary schools cannot read and comprehend simple texts or carry out basic addition and subtraction. If unaddressed, India risks driving another 10 crore children, or an entire generation, into the spiral of illiteracy. No amount of remediation at the middle-school level can wipe off the accumulated foundational learning deficit of the primary school years. “The rest of this Policy will be largely irrelevant for such a large portion of our students if this most basic learning requirement (ie, reading, writing, and arithmetic at the foundational level) is not first achieved,” the NEP states perceptively. Advantage local language The debate currently raging on about NEP’s recommendation on using mother tongue and local languages as the medium of instruction in primary schools, too, is inextricably linked to foundational learning. It would be amiss to see this through the lens of language politics or frame it in terms of aspirational English-medium education versus local-language instruction.  The foundational learning crisis gets exacerbated when children just entering the system suddenly find themselves in an environment where learning happens in a language that has no similarity with what they use at home. There is now enormous evidence that instruction in a familiar language works much better in the early years of education than an unfamiliar language, especially English. Several global and Indian foundational learning interventions offer ample evidence of significant improvements in learning outcomes. For instance, with Language and Learning Foundation’s ongoing project work in the field of foundational literacy in tandem with the Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad (HSSPP), we have seen that when children’s local languages are used, they speak more, ask questions without reservations, are more actively engaged in the teaching-learning process and can be engaged in higher-order thinking and reasoning tasks. Typically, in a rote learning classroom environment, the conversation ratio between teacher and students could be as unhealthy as 95:5. In schools where we can make foundational learning interventions, the ratio is almost 50:50. As the saying goes, up to Grade 4, you learn to read, and after that, you read to learn. Putting foundational learning at the front and centre and making outcomes the cornerstone, the NEP opens the doors for genuine private philanthropic participation in a big way. “The focus will be to have less emphasis on input and greater emphasis on output potential concerning desired learning outcomes. Regulations on inputs will be limited to ensuring the safety of children (both physical and psychological), access and inclusion, the nonprofit nature of schools, and minimum standards for learning outcomes,” the NEP says. The focus on outcomes opens the door for results-based financing of learning improvement initiatives through philanthropic capital or corporate social responsibility (CSR) spends. This could be the catalyst for a large chunk of the $2.5 billion annual CSR spending in India finding its way into early education initiatives. The cooperation between governments, civil society organisations, and the private sector through CSR funds can achieve the NEP’s ambitious target of universal foundational literacy and numeracy by 2025. The NEP could be a watershed moment in transforming India’s education. In failing to seize the moment, we might end up failing our children. (Dhir Jhingran is Founder and Executive Director, Language Learning Foundation and a former director of the MoHRD; Shantanu Ghosh is CEO, Social Finance India) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nep-s-foundational-learning-focus-can-be-a-game-changer-875538.html
20-08-2020||Panorama||The demand for environmental professionals is rising||As the business sectors take on practices of sustainability and environmental conservation, the demand for skilled environmental professionals across sectors is increasing by the day. This has called for an emphasis on environmental studies as an imperative and professionally viable market stream that would also enable generations to come to combat the looming challenges of climate change and inter-generational equity. The current public health crisis and the ensuing lockdown has restricted the general populace to their homes while the economy and businesses have since struggled to find the pre-lockdown momentum. However, the resilience of the citizenry is evident from the sudden influx of webinars that have been available for everyone on topics of their choice.  The field of environment, climate change and energy, governance and policy has benefitted from such webinars where discussions have panned across continents with experts from various environmental fields sharing the same platform, webspace and discussion panels. While discussions in such environmental space range from science-based extrapolations to class action lawsuits, a single thread that runs through most of these discussions is the importance of environmental education and awareness. A common denominator that distinctly emerges from all such discussions is that of equipping the youth with proper tools of environmental studies and insights to take reasoned decisions towards a sustainable future. This addresses the twin purposes of improving behaviour across generations to reduce our carbon footprint while alerting the community on the benefits of sustainable development. The importance of environmental education in legitimising such day-to-day decisions cannot be overstated. From knowing that to manufacture a pair of everyday jeans requires approximately 10,000 litres of water to understanding the transboundary displacement of communities due to climate change--all require a basic understanding of the environment. Thus, in order to combat the looming dangers of climate change, conserving natural resources and appreciating the fiscal intangibility and fragile nature of flora and fauna around us, environmental studies need to form the basis of curricula. Following are some of the points that help establish why basic environmental education is imperative for the youth and the generations to come: Scope of environment: Environment encompasses everything around us --the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink. The conservation of the Sundarbans delta is as important for the sustenance of life for a denizen of Delhi as is the conservation of her local aquifer. In the Indian context, according to the Environment Protection Act, 1986, “environment” includes water, air and land and the inter-relationship which exists among and between water, air and land, and human beings, other living creatures, plants, microorganisms and property. This definition shows the vast scope of the environment as a subject matter. To be educated in environmental studies is to be educated in life. Ancestral property, inheritance and inter-generational equity: A significant percentage of civil litigation relates to inheritance, with successors fighting for a legitimate share in the properties of their parents and ancestors. As a society, we have grown to agitate and strive for our rightful share in property we are to inherit. Similarly, inter-generational equity envisages that we are merely custodians or borrowers of the present environment from our future generations. Thus, the current environment is the ancestral property of future generations and there lies a rightful claim on the preserved state of the environment by these generations. To agitate and strive for a share of the pristine environment, the youth and future generations need to be educated and informed.  To help make informed choices: It takes around 12000 litres of water to make a single smartphone. For us to truly conserve the environment, we need to make educated and informed decisions--all of which bear on various facets of environment. Climate change: The harmful effects of climate change are all around us. The disruption of seasonal cycles, severity of droughts and floods,  global warming,  climate change migration--both human and non-human species centric, water security, stringent environmental diplomacy are all direct and indirect effects of governing and managing the current climate crisis. It is thus imperative that this generation and the future generations are educated in environmental studies, to understand the world around them and to establish the link between each individual’s choices and his/her impact on climate. Exhausting fossil fuels: The only way earth will be able to sustain life is by switching over to renewable energy at scale. Fossil fuel-based sources are limited and their environmental impact in terms of air and water pollution is tremendous. Renewable energy is clearly the way forward. Self-sustaining solar panels, grid connectivity, net/back metering are all pieces of a puzzle that needs to be solved at the earliest. Cleaner energy also takes from bio-mimicry which is fast becoming one of the most efficient branches of engineering. These considerations form the crux of our response to the environmental challenges that await us--and require experts who specialise in these specific subjects. The generation that stands at the precipice of choosing a career path for their future is, in fact, both the subject and the judge of the environmental challenges that we are to face in times to come. This means that the demand for environmental professionals will continue to grow exponentially. From environmental risk management to international environmental relations, the public and private sectors alike are opening up new opportunities for such specialised fields. We need to meet this demand with a supply of dedicated environmental-studies career professionals to deal with the challenges in science, governance, psychology, management, philosophy, engineering, law, policy and public health within the paradigm of environment, energy and climate change. The next few generations are the subject matter of the climate crisis. They are the ones who will be affected by it the most, and it is their actions that will affect the sustenance of life on Earth. The impact of studying the environment is thus not just informative but existential. Each of us in the time to come needs to be better informed, rational and equipped to take on this challenge. The professional opportunities and the scale of the market would thus follow. (Armin Rosencranz and Eeshan Chaturvedi are the Dean and Assistant Dean, respectively, Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-demand-for-environmental-professionals-is-rising-875455.html
20-08-2020||Panorama||Integrating naturopathy with healthcare||If the pandemic has made one thing certain, it is that conventional medicine alone is not enough to guarantee universal healthcare to India’s burgeoning population. We need to adopt a precautionary and prevention-oriented approach to combat the epidemic of non-communicable diseases, which are currently responsible for over 61% of deaths in the country. Naturopathy is one such system that works on the principle that the body has the ability to heal itself. The naturopath takes into account physical, environmental, psychological and social factors while devising a treatment plan for the patient. The unique patient-centric approach is a direction even conventional medicine has been moving towards. Over time, this translates to lower medical expenses, fewer hospital visits, and a better quality of life.  Traditional pharmaceutical interventions are designed to control symptoms by altering the biochemistry of the body. Some examples include blood pressure medications to control hypertension, statins to control high cholesterol, painkillers for menstrual cramps and headaches, and sleeping pills to control insomnia. These medications can provide symptomatic relief and serve an important role in our current healthcare delivery system. However, this approach does not promote true health as it fails to address the underlying problem in its entirety. You can mask the symptoms with medication, but the underlying problem will continue to cause more problems in the future.  Clinicians spend more of their time on treating symptoms with drug interventions. Naturopaths, on the other hand, specialize in treating the root cause of the diseases and use non-invasive therapies like clinical nutrition, lifestyle counselling, botanical medicine, and a variety of detoxifying regimens. Customized supplements and herbal medications can help in addressing the underlying functional and pathological imbalances. Naturopaths are also well-trained in pharmacology.  On 25th March, the Medical Council of India issued detailed telemedicine practice guidelines, making it possible for registered practitioners to provide virtual consultations. The IRDAI provided additional relief to patients by directing insurers to include telemedicine claims in policy settlements. The statutory support comes in the wake of a consensus – as we adjust to a new normal, we have to get used to the fact that telemedicine is going to become an integral component of our healthcare system. It also presents a great opportunity to increase the interface between conventional and alternative systems of medicine like naturopathy.  At present, India has a three-tier structure to provide healthcare services to people. The primary tier comprises of sub-centres, primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs). The second tier comprises of district hospitals and sub-divisional hospitals that provide healthcare services in urban areas of every state. The tertiary tier comprises of super speciality hospitals and medical colleges that provide tertiary care services to people. The quantum of government medical colleges, district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, CHCs and PHCs is large and their spread is vast.   The government should institute a central committee with naturopathic experts, who can work under the aegis of the AYUSH ministry, to solve regulatory issues, standardize the practice of naturopathic medicine, and ease the process of integrating it with modern medicine. Clinical research on naturopathy must be encouraged. Although the government established a central council for research in naturopathy and yoga, the area remains grossly underexplored. Centrally funded trials will help establish the effectiveness of naturopathic treatments and promote its practice. Allocating funds to integrate complementary and alternative systems of medicine into the primary care setting by deploying the latest technology will help broaden their reach, cement their efficacy, and promote a system that will be more effective in a post-Covid-19 world.  (The writer is Senior Chairman, Jindal Naturecure Institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/integrating-naturopathy-with-healthcare-875464.html
20-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Mankind at crossroads||On a clear day, you can see forever! Bereft of the haze of man-made pollution, what a clear view the Himalayas present before us in their pristine glory! Suddenly flamingos are thronging by the thousands in Navi Mumbai and peacocks are prancing on deserted roads and bridges instead of being run over by cars. An elephant ambles unchallenged through the empty lanes of a city. Man, his nemesis, has locked himself down, not to escape a marauding pachyderm but to dodge an ‘inconsequential’ virus! Nature, provoked beyond tolerance by man’s rampant destruction, has swept upstart homo sapiens in a silent upheaval of their lifestyle and Sensex economy! With a single nod, ‘mother’ earth has frozen us in our tracks. Life cannot be the monopoly of an individual or a generation or a species, Nature tells us; it has to be a level playing field.  Time was when, inspired by Henry David Thoreau, I could escape into the wilderness without running away from civilisation or carrying it in my pocket. It seems like a fairy tale now; but I have spent many a pleasant day in a small hilly place with dense forests. I turn green with envy for the past whenever I think of the panorama of green canopy spread over the hillside wherever my eyes roamed. Now, the only tall trees I have access to are framed within a digital cage! The melody of enchanting bird songs too is embedded in my ‘mental chip’. I switch on my ‘inward’ audio whenever I am in a vacant mood and wish to connect with the music of the forest. How can I forget the grand crescendo of raindrops splashing on huge leaves and rushing away into rivulets while tickling my naked feet? The rhapsody that a monsoon downpour offers is simply overwhelming—beyond the realm of any orchestra! Wintry mornings, by contrast, were invigorating. Because of the bitter cold, there would be pin-drop silence till the mellow sun made a lazy effort to rise late and shake off the blanket of thick fog. Wildflowers would shed heavy dew on their petals and get down to business by welcoming colourful butterflies. As I stepped down the forest path on my morning constitutional, my lungs would fill with the crisp air and my heart would overflow with unsullied joy! Is that past beauty totally lost to us? No! Provided we stop destroying nature. We need to do it to save the human race from facing nature’s ‘death sentence’—extinction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mankind-at-crossroads-875449.html
20-08-2020||Second Edit||Israel-UAE deal: Arabs forsake Palestine||A US-brokered agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates is poised to alter West Asian geopolitics. Under the deal, the UAE will establish formal diplomatic relations with Israel. The two countries have had clandestine ties that go back to the 1990s. That secret relationship has come out of the closet now and cooperation is poised to deepen. The UAE is the third Arab country, after Egypt and Jordan, and the first Gulf Arab country to have official relations with Israel. A shared hostility towards Iran is a big factor in the UAE-Israel decision to formalise ties. It will prompt other Gulf Arab nations to join the UAE in establishing relations with Israel. For Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is facing trial on corruption charges, the deal is a foreign policy victory that enables him to deflect Israeli public attention away from domestic woes. US President Donald Trump, whose other diplomatic gambles in North Korea, Afghanistan and Iran have proved to be either disastrous or inconclusive, will seek to project the Israel-UAE agreement as a foreign policy achievement of his administration. It could help him draw the Jewish-American and conservative Christian vote in the upcoming presidential elections. Under the agreement, Israel has agreed to “suspend declaring sovereignty" over areas of the occupied West Bank. This would have been a positive achievement had Israel committed to something more than just a mere suspension. As it stands, it has simply put on hold its plans to annex parts of the occupied West Bank. Already, Netanyahu has clarified that he only agreed to “delay” the annexation, and that he would “never give up” on Israel’s “rights” to the land. Netanyahu heads a fragile coalition government and his decision to agree to suspend the annexation plan is just a tactical move aimed at tiding over a political crisis. Hence, it is only a matter of time before he pulls back on the flimsy commitment he has made on the West Bank under the deal. The agreement is a deadly blow to the Palestinian cause. The Arab League had reached a consensus back in 2002 to normalise relations with Israel only after an independent Palestinian State had been established in all of West Bank and the Gaza Strip. By according Israel recognition, the UAE has broken ranks with that consensus. With other Arab countries likely to follow in UAE’s footsteps, the Palestinians will be left with few supporters in the Arab world. Israel and anti-Iran countries in West Asia have emerged stronger from the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/israel-uae-deal-arabs-forsake-palestine-875443.html
20-08-2020||South||Difficult to cooperate with decision to hand over Trivandrum airport to Adani group: Vijayan||The Kerala government urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to intervene and reconsider the handing over of the management and operation of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the Adani group, saying it would be "difficult" for the state to cooperate in implementing the decision. The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal for leasing out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. "In view of the unilateral decision taken by the Government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the State government, it will be difficult for us to offer co-operation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the State," Vijayan said in a letter to Modi. "I request your good self to intervene at this stage so that the decision taken now is reconsidered,"Vijayan said. He pointed out that the decision was taken "ignoring the repeated requests" of the state government to entrust the management of the airport with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) "in which state government is the major stakeholder". The chief minister said the Civil Aviation Ministry had in 2003 gave an assurance that as and when the induction of a private player was considered, the Centre would factor in the state government's contribution to the development of the airport. The Kerala government had earlier transferred 23.57 acres to the Airports Authority of India free of cost for construction of the international terminal, "subject to the condition that the value of the land would be reflected as Government of Kerala's share capital in an SPV which would be set up", Vijayan said in the letter. He said in a meeting of the empowered group of secretaries, convened by the NITI Aayog in 2018, the state government had explained the details of public funds spent for acquiring the land. "The pertinent point raised by the state government is that it has proven experience in successful management and operation of airports in Kochi and Kannur, which the private bidder lacks. "We had requested delinking the Trivandrum Intrenational Airport from the proposal to operate in PPP mode or allow the SPV of the State government to have the right to first refusal in order to match the quote of the highest bidder. None of these has been considered," Vijayan said. Earlier in the day, the ruling Left and the opposition Congress had lashed out at the Centre over its decision to lease out three airports to the Adani group, accusing it of privatising all PSUs while the country was battling Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/difficult-to-cooperate-with-decision-to-hand-over-trivandrum-airport-to-adani-group-vijayan-875351.html
20-08-2020||South||Onam to be limited inside homes over Covid-19: Vijayan||People should celebrate the coming Onam festival within their homes and use locally available flowers for the traditional floral carpet in view of the Covid-19 situation, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Participating in a video conference with the district collectors,police chiefs and medical officers, he said police should ensure people maintained social distancing when they go shopping for Onam, the harvest festival of the state, which falls on August 31 this year. "The Onam celebrations this time should be limited inside the homes. The floral carpet should be made with locally available flowers as we cannot risk the spread of Covid-19 from flowers brought from other regions," Vijayan said. He said the focus should be to stop the spread of the virus and reducethe death rate. "There are some people who trivialise the current Covid- 19 situation. We must not stand helplessly in front of them. The aim is to contain the number of cases and reduce the death rate. Precautionary measures should be location-specific. As of now, we are able to control the deaths but that may not be the situation if the cases increase," he said. In the meeting, also attended by Health Minister K K Shailaja, Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan, A C Moideen, Vijayan asked the district authorities to create awareness in the society and to engage all the government staff to fight the pandemic. He also gave directions to the police to strictly implement the quarantine protocol and the contact tracing of the patients to contain the spread of the virus. "Police should ensure that social distancing is maintained by the people who go out for Onam shopping. No public celebrations should be allowed," Vijayan said. The festival commemorates the return of mythical demon king Mahabali to see his beloved subjects at the beginning of 'Chingam', the first month of the Malayalam calendar. The mythical ruler is traditionally welcomed with a carpet of flowers, popularly known as pookalam, in front of houses, and 'Onam Sadyas' (feasts) and the festival is celebrated with great joy and enthusiasm by people across communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/onam-to-be-limited-inside-homes-over-covid-19-vijayan-875364.html
20-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,724 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||The death toll rose to 729 with 10 more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 19. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 395 fresh infections, followed by Rangareddy (169), Medchal-Malkajgiri (105) and Karimnagar (101) districts. Except for Jayashankar Bhupalpally (7), Kumram Bheem Asifabad (7), and Narayanpet (9), all other districts reported cases in double digits. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.74 percent, while it was 1.91 percent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far was 75,186, while 21,509 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 77.17 percent in the state, while it was 73.64 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home/ institutional isolation was 15,076. The bulletin said 23,841 samples were tested on August 19. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 8,21,311. The samples tested per million population was 22,122, it said. Giving age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.10 percent were male, while 34.90 percent were female. The highest percentage of positive cases among various age groups continues to be in the 31-40 group which was 24.6 percent (male - 17.2 and female - 7.4). The 31-40 years age group was followed by the 21-30 group with 22.9 percent (male - 14.8 and female - 8.1). On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant regular, oxygen and ICU beds (under government) was 11,539 and 4,814 and 1,596 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in the government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 1,076 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The bulletin provided a list of laboratories, rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, list of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1724-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-875518.html
20-08-2020||South||Puducherry's Covid-19 tally crosses 9,000-mark; records single-day high of 554 cases||Puducherry on Thursday reported a record single-day spike of 554 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally in the union territory past the 9,000-mark, a top Health Department official said. The 554 new infections took the cumulative number to 9,292, Director of Health and Family Welfare, S Mohan Kumar, said in a release. This is the first time, over 500 new cases were reported on a single day. The new cases were detected after examination of 1,388 samples during the last 24 hours ending 10 am Thursday. He also said nine patients including three women succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, pushing the toll to 137. Most of the nine patients who died had comorbidities and they were in the age group ranging between 54 and 84 years. As many as 322 patients were discharged during the last 24 four hours, he added. Of the 9,292 cumulative infections, 3,521 were active cases while 5,634 patients have recovered and have been discharged. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has tested 59,757 samples so far and found 48,902 of them to be negative. Results of examination of remaining specimens were awaited, Mohan Kumar said. The fatality rate in Puducherry is presently 1.47 per cent while the recovery rate is 60.63 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherrys-covid-19-tally-crosses-9000-mark-records-single-day-high-of-554-cases-875520.html
20-08-2020||South||When district collector saluted a Covid-19 warrior police inspector||The happiness of Allirani, an Inspector of Police, knew no bounds on India’s 74th Independence Day when the District Collector broke the protocol to salute her. K S Kandasamy, Tiruvannamalai district collector, surprised everyone at the Independence Day parade by asking Allirani to climb the podium from where he was standing and presenting awards to police personnel and other government officials. As Allirani received an award from him for her noble act and gave him the customary salute, Kandasamy made her climb the podium and he got down. For the next few seconds, the District Collector stood straight, giving a salute to the Covid warrior, amid thunderous applause from those present at the event. “I never thought the District Collector would give me a salute. I was shocked and thrilled at the same time when he (collector) asked me to get onto the podium and gave me a salute. I was actually trying to fight back tears of joy. I controlled my tears as it would not have been proper to cry while in uniform,” Allirani told DH. Kandasamy said his gesture was "spontaneous". “What the police inspector did was an extraordinary act. Such police personnel inspire many and their stories need to be told to the world. Her act is another example that the majority of police personnel are sincere, and they walk the extra mile to serve people. Only negative incidents involving policemen get attention,” he told DH.   In May, Allirani, Inspector of Police of Thellar town, had physically removed the body of 35-year-old Ammavasai, who had died due to electric shock in an agriculture field, with the help of an auto driver and transported it to the hospital for post-mortem. Villagers, including the mother and sister of Ammavasai, did not come forward to remove the body as he was suspected to have been infected with the novel coronavirus. However, swab samples of the deceased came out negative.   “My requests to the villagers, including family members of the deceased, to help in removing the body fell on deaf ears. Then I decided to do it all by myself. I removed the body from the fields and took it to an auto-rickshaw with the help of the driver. And we handed over the body to the hospital authorities,” Allirani recalled the incident for which she received the award. Only after the test results came negative, the family agreed to accept the body. “It is only after a lot of convincing that the deceased’s mother and sister accepted the body. The body was then cremated by the family members,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-district-collector-saluted-a-covid-19-warrior-police-inspector-875554.html
20-08-2020||South||26 volunteers, who helped victims of crashed Air-India Express flight in Kerala, test Covid-19 positive||As many as 26 volunteers who reached the Air-India Express plane crash site in Kozhikode, 48 km from here, and evacuated the injured passengers on August 7, have tested positive for Covid-19. "As far as my information from the airport sources goes, as many as 26 local people, involved in the rescue operations, have tested positive for the virus so far and are now under medical care," the Malappuram District Medical Officer Dr K Sakeena told PTI. District Collector K Gopalakrishnan, Superintendent of Police U Abdul Kareem and 21 officials, including police and fire force personnel, also involved in the rescue operations, had also tested positive. Nineteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot, were killed and several injured when the flight with 190 people on board overshot the table-top runway and fell into a valley and broke into pieces. The youngsters, who all stay around the airport area, had rushed to the accident site braving the heavy rains and Covid-19 fears and taken the injured to the various hospitals, drawing praise from various quarters, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The volunteers had been asked by the Health Minister K K Shailaja to go on quarantine after one of the deceased passengers tested positive for the pathogen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/26-volunteers-who-helped-victims-of-crashed-air-india-express-flight-in-kerala-test-covid-19-positive-875590.html
20-08-2020||South||DMK veteran, former Minister Rahman Khan passes away||Veteran DMK orator and former Minister A Rahman Khan, who recently recovered from Covid-19, died here on Thursday. He was 77 and died of heart attack, his family said. "He was treated at a hospital for a week (recently). He was discharged after he recovered from Covid. This morning he suffered a heart attack and passed away," Khan's son, Dr Subair Khan told PTI. A DMK headquarters release said for three days party flags would fly at half-mast and no party programmes shall be held as a mark of respect for the departed leader, a member of the party's high-level working committee. Condoling Khan's death and paying rich tributes, party chief M K Stalin, hailed him for his oratory and relentless party work. He said he was grieved by the loss of the "elder brother" who was among the foundation pillars of the organisation. When late AIADMK founder leader M G Ramachandran helmed the state as Chief Minister between 1977 and 1987 Khan, along with DMK's Duraimurugan and K Subbu were noted for resolutely taking up their party's stand on many matters in the Assembly. His performance in the House earned him the sobriquet of "Sattamandra Porval" (Assembly sword) from DMK men. Also, Khan, along with his two other colleagues were hailed as "Idi, Minnal and Mazhai" (Thunderstorm, lightning and rain) by partymen for their oratory, targeting arch rival AIADMK. He was first elected from Chepauk Assembly constituency in 1977 and won twice more from the same segment in 1980 and 1984. He emerged victorious from Park Town and Ramanathapuram seats in 1989 and 1996. Thereafter he lost in 2001 (Ramanathapuram) and 2006 (Park Town) Assembly elections and did not fight polls after that. A native of Theni district, he was an advocate by profession and a columnist in DMK organ 'Murasoli.' Between 1996-2001, as state Minister he held the portfolios of Labour Welfare and Waqf Board, and for sometime Revenue and Law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-veteran-former-minister-rahman-khan-passes-away-875595.html
20-08-2020||South||Bengaluru violence: HC to take up plea for appointment of Claim Commissioner on Aug 25||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday ordered that the state government's petition for recovery of losses from those who damaged public property during the recent Bengaluru violence be tagged with another related pending plea. It also said the petition would be listed for hearing on August 25. The state government had on Wednesday moved the High Court seeking the appointment of a judicial officer as Claim Commissioner to recover losses from those who damaged public property during the riots that broke out in the city on the night of August 11 over an inflammatory social media post. When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, the first bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi noted that there was another matter with similar prayers which also has to be heard and passed orders accordingly. It said the court would take up the matter on August 25. The bench sought to know whether there was any specific recommendation for the judicial officer. In response, the government pleader said there was no such recommendation. The court then said it would appoint a judicial officer. Three people were killed in police firing, while the fourth one succumbed to injuries in the hospital, to contain violence targeting Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy over a social media post put up by the legislator's relative. The rioters had also torched two police stations and some vehicles. Around 300 people have been arrested so far in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-violence-hc-to-take-up-plea-for-appointment-of-claim-commissioner-on-aug-25-875603.html
20-08-2020||South||M Venkaiah Naidu bats for adequate representation of women in legislature||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday pitched for adequate reservation for women in Parliament and state legislatures and urged all political parties to arrive at an early consensus on the issue. He said the country's progress will be hampered if women are not empowered politically. Naidu also expressed concern over reports of neglect and abuse of the elderly, saying the "completely unacceptable trend" must be checked and noted that it is the sacred duty of the children to take care of the aged members of their families. "We must also ensure adequate reservation for women in Parliament and all state legislatures and I urge all political parties to arrive at a consensus at the earliest on this important issue. An official statement said the vice president observed that it was "unfortunate" that the proposal was pending for a long time. He made these remarks while releasing reports on 'Status of Sex Ratio at Birth in India', and 'Elderly Population in India: Status and Support Systems', brought out by the Indian Association of Parliamentarians for Population and Development. A bill to provide for reservation to women in Lok Sabha and state assemblies was passed by Rajya Sabha but lapsed after the dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha in 2014. Addressing the virtual event, Naidu said districts with larger imbalances in sex ratios should receive greater attention from elected representatives. The vice president called for strict implementation of laws banning female foeticide and dowry, while ensuring free and compulsory education for all girl children. He said that women must be given an equal share in the property so that they are economically empowered. The vice president stressed the need for greater attention from public representatives, policy planners, political parties and other important stakeholders on eradicating poverty, illiteracy and social evils such as gender discrimination. He also wanted all the state governments to pay greater attention to these issues. Naidu also called for moral education in schools so that children grow up to be responsible and sensitive citizens who view gender discrimination as immoral, the statement said. He also batted for equipping the elderly population with "new age" skills so they can lead fuller professional lives and keep contributing to nation building.  Naidu said it must be remembered that if young are the 'demographic dividend', seniors are 'demographic bonus' for the nation. The vice president underscored the need to reorient the health system to address the specific needs of the elderly by providing medical benefits and ensuring insurance coverage. Calling for the revival of India's age-old joint family system, he said that our family system must serve as a model for other countries to emulate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-venkaiah-naidu-bats-for-adequate-representation-of-women-in-legislature-875625.html
20-08-2020||South||Kerala's shrimp production hit by Covid-19, farmers incur loss of Rs 308 crore: CIBA||Hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala's shrimp farmers have suffered losses to the tune of Rs 308 cr, the Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) said. A survey by CIBA to study the impact of Covid-19 induced lockdown on shrimp aquaculture, found that the unprecedented circumstances following the pandemic led to significant reduction of shrimp production in the state up to 500 tonnes, leaving thousands jobless. The study also revealed that the shrimp aquaculture was hit mainly due to reduction in farming activities and cut in days of culture during the lockdown period, CIBA said in a release here on Thursday. Difficulty in availing seeds, feeds and labours, for which Kerala depends on other states, was the major reason which disrupted the farming. In addition, price hike in farming inputs and market uncertainty worsened the situation. "About 50 per cent of farmers gave up the practice, even after they prepared ponds prior to the farming, as they faced difficulty in accessing quality seed and uncertainty over the culture and market. In addition to constraints in sourcing seeds due to logistic issues, increased feed cost and difficulty in accessing other farming requirements caused a substantial reduction in farming area to the tune of 30 per cent," it said. The Chennai headquartered research institute noted that the sector was badly hit as the lockdown restrictions affected transportation of shrimp feeds from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh which caused a price hike in feed. Fearing larger financial losses over disease outbreak, farmers who had a standing stock resorted to 'panic harvesting' of small-sized shrimps and sold at lower prices. Farmers were forced to do panic harvesting as diseases were reported in about 10 per cent of farming areas and aqua- laboratories and professional services remained unavailable to the farmers due to the lockdown, badly affecting the pond and health management of animals. According to the study, only 10 per cent of farming ventures completed 80 days of culture, while around 25 per cent of panic-stricken farmers harvested their crop within 30 days and another 15 per cent of farmers did the harvest within 80 days. Shrimp healthcare products including nutritional supplements, probiotics and pond management inputs are crucial for successful shrimp farming. Throwing light on the huge rise of unemployment in Kerala's shrimp farming sector, CIBA said around 12,000 people engaged in shrimp farming, processing and distribution became jobless for one season (6 months), making a loss of around Rs 108 cr. Shrimp supply chain heavily depends upon labour and offers a wide range of job opportunities in farms, hatcheries, processing units, manufacturing and marketing sectors and wholesale and retail businesses etc. Director of CIBA, Dr K K Vijayan said it was estimated a probable loss of 40 per cent in Indian shrimp sector due to Covid-19 lockdown and the total loss in value terms was estimated to be 1.60 billion USD. "However, both the Central and State government stepped in to take proactive measures such as notifying aquaculture as an essential activity, easing the restrictions for the movement of farming inputs and people and ensuring minimum procurement price for the farmed shrimp, he said, adding that additional efforts are required to implement the plans at the ground-level and follow-up the initiatives using government mechanism. "In Kerala, shrimp farming is practised in about 3144 ha with an average production of 1500 tonnes per annum. The state is dependent on the east especially Anadhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu for accessing seed, feed and other supplements. Hence, inter-state movement of seed, feed and farmed produce for processing and export are of utmost importance for sustaining shrimp aquaculture in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-shrimp-production-hit-by-covid-19-farmers-incur-loss-of-rs-308-crore-ciba-875637.html
20-08-2020||South||Dalit panchayat president hoists tricolour five days after she was prevented by villagers||Seventy-fourth Independence Day arrived five days late for V Amurtham, the panchayat president of a nondescript village on the outskirts of Chennai, as she unfurled the national tricolour on Thursday. Amurtham, president of Aathupaakam village in Tiruvallur district, was not allowed to hoist the flag on Saturday when whole of India celebrated the Independence Day. Why? Because she belongs to Scheduled Caste (SC) and a few villagers prevented her from doing the honours citing her caste. After the incident came to light, the Tiruvallur district administration swung into action and arranged an event on Thursday after suspending the panchayat secretary who colluded with a few villagers to prevent Amurtham from hoisting the flag on August 15. The husband of the vice-president of the village and the panchayat secretary have now been arrested. On Thursday, Amurtham hoisted the national flag on a specially-erected poll inside the panchayat office complex, flanked by District Collector Mageswari Ravikumar, Superintendent of Police (SP) P Aravindan and other officials from the district administration.      She was elected as President on January this year. “I breathed freedom for the first time today. I was duly elected as president by the people, but I was prevented from hoisting the national flag. Today, I feel proud, happy, and relieved. I am thankful to the district collector and other officials from the district administration for the special ceremony,” Amurtham told DH over the phone. Also, for the first time after getting elected as President of the village, Amurtham got to sit on the chair meant for the panchayat president without any casteist taunt from villagers. The flag hoisting ceremony was arranged after the district collector met Amurtham on Wednesday evening and assured her of necessary steps to allow her to carry with her responsibilities. The panchayat president was not allowed by “some people from the upper caste” in the village to function as the head of the village. “The panchayat secretary and the husband of the vice-president would insult me every time I went to the office. They would never share any details regarding tender to me. All that I was subjected to was casteist slurs,” Amurtham added. “I am confident that I can continue with my responsibilities from now without any problem now that the district collector has intervened,” she said. District Collector Mageshwari Ravikumar said she has instructed the district administration to check whether presidents belonging to SC community are being discriminated against and assured of necessary action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-panchayat-president-hoists-tricolour-five-days-after-she-was-prevented-by-villagers-875644.html
20-08-2020||South||Ganesh Chaturthi: BJP backs Hindu Munnani, targets AIADMK govt||The BJP on Thursday attacked the State government for disallowing celebration of Vinayaka Chaturthi in public places and asked when liquor shops can be opened why Ganesha idols should not be put up. Backing Hindu Munnani, which, about four decades ago, set in motion the now prevalent practice of public celebration of Vinayaka Chaturthi, Saffron party's Tamil Nadu president L Murugan asked: "In Tamil Nadu, the government which gave permission for opening TASMAC shops, did not allow putting up Vinayaka statues. Why? Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation, a government entity, runs retail liquor outlets in the State. Vinayaka Chaturthi will be celebrated on August 22 in the state. The BJP's stand aligns with that of Hindu Munnani on this issue, BJP Tamil Nadu unit said on its official twitter handle and attributed the posts to Murugan. On the stand of Munnani, State president Kadeswara C Subramaniam said, "we have a right to worship by following guidelines like social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus...we are holding talks with authorities." A prominent Sangh Parivar outfit in Tamil Nadu, Munnani's chief told PTI: "We are seeking permission to put up Ganesha idols only in such public places that would be completely suitable to follow Covid-19 norms and offer worship. We don't insist on any location which authorities considered as not acceptable taking into account the pandemic." Already, the organisation has decided against public processions of Ganesha idols and made up its mind to confine the public celebration for only one day and stick to norms to reduce the threat of infection, he said. Also, "the Munnani is for comparatively smaller idols like say five or three feet this year. The authorities should also ponder about the idols that have been made and the plight of artisans who made it." Asked on his outfit reportedly saying that "government ban on public Ganesha worship will be defied," he denied he or anyone else making such a statement. "We did not say that we will violate or defy government orders. We are for following the norms to prevent the spread of the virus." The state government, meanwhile, citing Centre's guidelines against public worship in view of the pandemic said the Madras High Court too had directed compliance with its directives. The government has already issued an order banning "putting up Ganesha idols in public places, public worship and taking idols in a procession for immersion in water bodies." The move is considering public good and to help prevent the spread of the virus, the government said and appealed to all to cooperate with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ganesh-chaturthi-bjp-backs-hindu-munnani-targets-aiadmk-govt-875647.html
20-08-2020||South||With 1,968 fresh cases, Kerala's coronavirus tally crosses 52,000 mark||Kerala logged 1,968 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 48 health workers, and nine related deaths, taking the infection count in the state to 52,199 so far. As many as 1,737 were infected through contact and the source of infection of 100 people was not yet known, Health Minister K K Shailaja said. Forty eight health workers were among those infected. Thiruvananthapuram, which reported 429 cases on Thursday, continued to be the district with the highest number of cases followed by Malappuram 356. Five districts with over 100 cases are Alappuzha 198, Ernakulam 150, Kozhikode 130, Kottayam 124 and Pathnamthitta119. The state recorded nine more deaths due to Covid-19 today, taking the toll in the state to 191. Of the positive cases, 71 had come from abroad, while 109 had come from other states, the minister said in a press release. So far 33,828 people have tested negative for the infection, including 1,217 who were discharged today. At present 18,123 people are under treatment. As many as 1.73 lakh people are under observation of whom 1.58 lakh are in home or institutional quarantine and 14,646 in various hospitals, including 2198 admitted today, the minister said. In the last 24 hours, 37,010 samples have been tested and so far 12.12 lakh have been sent for testing. The total hotspots have touched 585 as of today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-1968-fresh-cases-keralas-coronavirus-tally-crosses-52000-mark-875664.html
20-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu firm on not allowing installation of Lord Ganesha idols||Despite pressure from its ally BJP, the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu on Thursday remained firm on not allowing installation of Lord Ganesha idols on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi citing the coronavirus spread. In a statement on Thursday, the government reiterated the ban on installation of idols in public places and asked people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi in their homes. The statement also cited the Centre’s circular dated July 29, 2020, which said the ban on religious congregation and festivals would continue to remain till the end of August. The government also said the ban was to prevent further spread of Coronavirus. Perturbed by the AIADMK government’s stand, BJP leader H Raja, known for his penchant for controversies, making sexist remarks saying the administration lacked “masculinity.” Another leader, C T R Nirmal Kumar, went a step further to dub AIADMK men as having hidden “behind a saree” (read Jayalalithaa) for 30 years. What followed was an exchange of “masculinity” barbs between leaders of the two alliance partners. IT wing secretaries of AIADMK, Singai G Ramachandran, Raj Sathiyan, and Kovai Sathyan took to Twitter asking where his “masculinity” was when he apologized before the Madras High Court for his derogatory remarks against the judiciary. Government’s de-facto spokesperson and fisheries minister D Jayakumar also took a dig at Raja and asked him not to needle the AIADMK. However, the BJP remained adamant seeking to know why the government was banning peaceful assembly of devotees when it had opened TASMAC across the state. "In Tamil Nadu, the government which gave permission for opening TASMAC shops did not allow putting up Vinayaka statues. Why?” Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan asked.    A Division Bench of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the plea of BJP leader Ramasamy to quash the government order prohibiting public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-firm-on-not-allowing-installation-of-lord-ganesha-idols-875694.html
20-08-2020||South||Kerala sees Covid-19 surge due to testing delays, violation of norms||Kerala, which received much attention for effectively containing the spread of Covid-19 during the initial stages of the pandemic, is now facing embarrassment due to a spurt in cases across the state. While the government often blames people for not adhering to social distancing norms, experts maintain that flaws in testing strategy, ineffective enforcement of social distancing norms and insufficient social support systems are the major factors triggering spurt in cases. Though the state managed to keep the local transmission of Covid-19 below 10% till June end, it started witnessing a steep rise in local transmission thereafter, crossing 72% on Wednesday. The total tally crossed the 50,000-mark, while the active cases remained at around 17,500. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja also announced that the daily cases would go up to 10,000 to 20,000. It was only after receiving strong criticism that the government has increased daily testing from around 5,000 to around 35,000. There still are serious concerns over the delay in getting the test results. At present, testing facilities are available at around 115 labs in the state. IMA Kerala chapter secretary Dr P Gopikumar pointed out that Dharavi model initiatives like home-to-home testing and isolating the infected were the need of the hour. Social distancing norms were being rampantly flouted in the state, especially after the lockdown norms were eased. The situation is likely to aggravate further with festival season, said a senior government doctor involved in the Covid-19 fight. Dr Gopikumar said that since community spread in Kerala is now a reality, mere contact tracing is not enough and the focus should be on enforcing social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-covid-19-surge-due-to-testing-delays-violation-of-norms-875706.html
20-08-2020||South||200-year-old banyan tree brought back to life in Goa||A much-loved banyan tree was uprooted by heavy rainfall in Arambol, Goa. it had been around for over 200 years and was a part of the local ecosystem for those who lived around it.  For the locals, the tree was not just part of the local fauna, it was a cornerstone of their everyday lives.  The tree grew on land owned by Sebastina Fernandes, who was heartbroken after the tree was uprooted.  “I would take tender coconuts and sit under the tree with a chair, selling it to tourists. In the evening, they would dance. All the speakers and lights were plugged to my house, so at 10 pm sharp every night, I would switch it off and ask them to go home. I kept an entry fee for all this but always made sure they respected the tree,” she told IE. The shade of the tree was where many locals and tourists would do “ecstatic dancing”, according to Russian dance conductor Anna Marsy “We were always dancing here, and every time ended with a gratitude ceremony for the tree. Across the Internet, it’s called The Source. Last season, it reached its highest point — with highest emotional level in togetherness. We decided to use the same spirit to revive her as she is not just a tree. People who have found happiness under her, from across the world, felt connected to her. Everyone reached out, from Berlin to London. We started researching and someone told us they had saved a banyan tree in Chennai. Word for help went out,” Marsy told the source. Plugging in speakers and lights to a house nearby, tourists would dance the night away under the tree.  A campaign was raised to revive the tree. From residents who live nearby, to locals who sold coconuts under the tree, to tourists who marvelled over it during their stay in Goa, everyone joined hands to revive it.  It was social media that spread the word about the tree.  Soon, a two-week campaign was kickstarted with a google sheet. It expanded once it  was estimated exactly how much equipment lifting and replanting the heavy tree would require.  Over Rs 2 lakh was collected from locals who had once danced under the tree.  Soon, Marc Francis of Living Heritage Foundation, an organisation involved with bio-conservation, joined in .  On August 16, people came together to revive the tree. They studied the roots, dug a deeper pit and put it into it, after which the roots were stretched out so that they could grow again.  Rescuers had to remove 40 tonnes of canopy to be able to lift it. They did not have cranes to do so and had to deploy four machines instead.  Locals will soon put up a board, urging passersby to be careful of the tree's situation.  It would read - the tree had a bad accident and is now recovering. Please respect her space and co-operate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/200-year-old-banyan-tree-brought-back-to-life-in-goa-875716.html
20-08-2020||South||Prospects versus politics over Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation||Enhancing connectivity, better amenities and improving the logistics infrastructure are likely to be the major prospects of privatisation of the 85-year-old Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The ruling CPM in Kerala and opposition party Congress are strongly against the decision of the BJP government at the centre to hand over the airport to the Adani group. Their major concern is over the airport ownership, especially since the 630-acre airport land was given by the state, even as the fact was that the airport's ownership would continue to be with the centre and only operations, management and development are being leased out for 50 years. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging that the decision to hand over the airport to a private party should be reviewed and the state's demand for handing over airport to an SPV with state government equity participation should be reconsidered. He also said that the state government would not cooperate with the implementation of the decision to handover airport to a private party. Congress and CPM decided at an all-party meeting to pass a resolution in the state Assembly to raise the demand at the Centre. Apart from leaders of the trade and commerce sector, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor also welcomed the privatisation move. He said on the social media that a private entity running the operations competitively was the only way the airport could flourish. The airport, situated almost in the heart of the city, lacked sufficient domestic and international connectivity. At present direct international connectivity was available mainly to Gulf countries, Singapore, Maldives and Colombo, while there had been long-pending demand for direct connectivity to European and American countries, especially to cater to the frequent travel needs of the IT companies at Technopark, which is hardly ten kilometres from the airport. A private operator could offer better deals to attract international operators than AAI, which has been running the airport. With a 3,400 metre runway, the airport could handle almost all type of aircraft. Another major prospect is that the upcoming Vizhinjam international seaport, around 15 kilometres away from the airport, is also being developed by Adani group and there is a high potential for enhancing the logistic infrastructure of the region through proper coordination between the airport and seaport. The airport that was set up under the initiative of the erstwhile Travancore royal family had even won award for best airport of AAI several times over these years. However, a private player would try to make the airport more attractive to woo passengers by enhancing the amenities. While the Congress and the CPM are now making a hue and cry over airport privatisation, the AAI's demand for at least 18 acres to develop an integrated terminal building was remaining pending for at least a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prospects-versus-politics-over-thiruvananthapuram-airport-privatisation-875719.html
20-08-2020||South||Pinarayi Vijayan's oppn to Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation shows double standards: V Muraleedharan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's opposition to Thiruvananthapuram airport's privatisation has exposed his double standards as 'private airports' already exist in Kannur and Calicut districts of the state, Union minister V Muraleedharan said on Thursday. Vijayan has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the Union Cabinet's approval on Wednesday to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises through public private partnership (PPP) for a period of 50 years. On Twitter, Muraleedharan also criticised the Congress' opposition to the airport's privatisation. "Kerala Congress' competitive opposition to development in Kerala is shocking. They support UPA's PPP based development of Delhi & Mumbai airports, but oppose the same now? Aren't you part of Congress?" asked the minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs. Mullappally Ramachandran, President of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, said the move to privatise the Thiruvananthapuram airport was "deplorable". The airports in Delhi and Mumbai were privatised using the PPP model during the first term of the United Progressive Alliance in 2006. The Centre-run Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the one in Kerala's capital city. Muraleedharan said on Twitter, "Pinarayi Vijayan's opposition to privatization of Thiruvananthapuram airport exposed the double standards of Kerala CM." "He is ok to have private airports at Calicut and Kannur with a mere 32.5 per cent and 30.16 per cent stakes for the state, but oppose the Centre's move with a better share for GoI (Government of India)," the Union minister added. In his letter, the Kerala chief minister has asked Modi to reconsider the decision as it would be "difficult" for the state to cooperate. Kerala's repeated requests to entrust the airport management with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) in which the state government is the major stakeholder was also ignored, Vijayan stated. "In view of the unilateral decision taken by the government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the state government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the state," Vijayan said in the letter. On Twitter, Muraleedharan said, "Why deprive people of Thiruvananthapuram their right to better services at the airport?" Development of the airport on the PPP model will be a game-changer, he said. "It will bring efficiency in service delivery, expertise, enterprise and professionalism,which will lead to the overall development of the city," he stated. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports, including these three - the other three being Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Mangalore - through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out Ahmedabad, Mangalore and Lucknow airports to Adani Enterprises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayans-oppn-to-thiruvananthapuram-airport-privatisation-shows-double-standards-v-muraleedharan-875722.html
20-08-2020||South||Government doctor on Covid-19 duty ends life in Karnataka due to alleged work pressure||A 43-year old government doctor on coronavirus duty died of suicide in Mysuru district in Karnataka with some of his colleagues alleging he was under work pressure. The state government said an inquiry has been ordered into the death of the doctor and advised those battling the virus not to succumb to any pressure. According to police, Taluk Health Officer Dr S R Nagendra was found hanging at his quarters in Alanahalli where he had been staying alone. Nagendra's family was residing in another area in Mysuru district and he chose to stay alone out of fear of contracting the virus and spreading it, they said. Some of his colleagues alleged there was intense work pressure on him as he had been on Covid-19 duty. Mourning his death, state Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar in a series of tweets also advised the corona warriors not to succumb to any pressure and share their problems with their superiors. The Minister said being a doctor himself, he understood the pressure under which the medical professionals work. State Health Minister B Sriramulu too mourned the death and said he is getting every detail of the incident. I have ordered an inquiry into the case. Anyone found guilty will not be spared. There is no need for people to panic, Sriramulu tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/government-doctor-on-covid-19-duty-ends-life-in-karnataka-due-to-alleged-work-pressure-875728.html
20-08-2020||South||14 hospitalised Ammonia gas leak in Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor dairy factory||At least 14 workers have been hospitalised after a gas leak was reported at a private dairy unit in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh on Thursday night. The incident occurred in the dairy unit located at M Bandapalli village in Putalapattu Mandal during some welding work. The affected employees -- all women -- were rushed to the Chittoor government general hospital where they are undergoing treatment. “All of them are stable and on oxygen supply but three women would be shifted to either the SVIMS or Ruia Hospital in Tirupati for better care,” Chittoor Collector Dr Bharath Gupta said. Gupta and district Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar visited the incident site and enquired about the mishap. “The incident occurred during welding work. But too early, as of now, to say who is responsible. A thorough probe would be conducted by the district industries and fire officials from tomorrow,” the collector said. “There is no effect on the surrounding area, houses; no threat to anyone outside the unit,” the official told reporters. The styrene gas leak from the LG Polymers unit at Gopalapatnam near Visakhapatnam on 7 May had killed 12 locals of the surrounding villages. Panchayati Raj and Rural Development Minister and MLA from Chittoor district Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy spoke to officials and asked them to ensure proper treatment for the affected workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-hospitalised-ammonia-gas-leak-in-andhra-pradeshs-chittoor-dairy-factory-875782.html
20-08-2020||State||Digital counselling, document verification for professional courses||Ahead of the results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET), the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) is gearing up to hold virtual counselling, in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The K-CET results will be delayed by a day and will now be announced on Friday.  Even though the KEA was holding counselling online all these years, document verification process was held offline to prevent submission of any fake or false documents. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities have decided to conduct the document verification process also on the virtual platform this year. To facilitate this, the KEA has tied up with various departments and district administrations such as revenue department, education department and social welfare department. "Documents like income certificate will be verified by the revenue department officials digitally. Other documents uploaded by students will be sent to the department concerned for scrutiny and to ascertain the genuineness of the documents," a senior KEA official told DH. Other documents include SSLC marks card, PUC marks card, minority certificate and disability certificate.   The K-CET results that were scheduled to be announced on Thursday will now be announced at 12.30 pm on Friday. Citing technical glitches, Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said that the results will be announced on Friday on the website http://karresults.nic.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/digital-counselling-document-verification-for-professional-courses-875350.html
20-08-2020||State||Govt lays out safety protocols for factories in Karnataka||Factories in the state will now have to ensure that there are adequate Covid-19 preventive measures in the workplace for the safety of their employees.  In an elaborate set of standard operating procedures (SOPs), the government has now made it mandatory for all factories to establish a Covid task force, which will include safety officers and medical staff, apart from members representing the factory.   According to an order issued by the department of Factories, Boilers, Industrial Safety & Health under the Factories Act, factories have to compulsorily establish hand-washing stations, provide face masks and train staff about their proper use and disposal.  They will have to ensure that employees do not work barefoot on the production floor, that there is complete disinfection of the office premises before workers enter the work space, apart from ensuring PPE kits to in-house medical staff.  Factories will also need to have a separate containment room to relocate workers suspected to have contracted the infection, in addition to alerting the government officials as and when cases are detected.  As for materials for the factory, employers will have to ensure disinfection of containers before loading and establish adequate safety procedures for receipt of raw material and packing material.  Further, when it comes to ferrying employees to work, the organisations must ensure that the number of passengers is limited to 50% of the seating capacity, while ensuring social distancing, the government orderstated. The government norms have also prescribed for PPE kits to be provided to drivers and for the factories to maintain a detailed log of daily trips and passengers. Speaking to DH, Karnataka Employers Association president B C Prabhakar said the government’s order follows a similar set of guidelines issued by the Centre.  “This is a welcome move. This puts more obligation on the factories to follow all the prescribed norms. Under the current circumstances, this is inevitable,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-lays-out-safety-protocols-for-factories-in-karnataka-875352.html
20-08-2020||State||Karnataka starts training for state-level Covid-19 serological survey||After Delhi and Pune, Karnataka will be conducting a serological survey across all districts to estimate the prevalence of Covid-19 across the state and the proportion of people who have developed immunity. The survey, which will involve adults over the age of 18, will cover 38 units, including all districts of Karnataka and eight zones of the BBMP. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey started the training programme here on Thursday for District Surveillance Officers, District Tuberculosis Officers, Epidemiologists, and Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres under National Aids Control Organisation. The survey data is expected to guide state interventions for Covid-19 management.   Resource persons for the training included Dr Ravi V, Regional Director, ICMR, NIMHANS;  Dr Anitha Desai, Virologist NIMHANS; Dr Giridhar Babu, Professor, Head – Life course Epidemiology, PHFI, and member of the government's Technical Advisory Committee;  Dr Mohammed Shariff, Deputy Director, State Surveillance Unit and Dr Vasantha Kumar, State Epidemiologist, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. The survey will include samples from populations at three risk levels. Low-risk populations include pregnant women at Antenatal Checkup clinics and persons attending the outpatient department in hospitals or attendees of children or patients. Moderate to high-risk populations will include bus conductors, vegetable vendors, healthcare workers, individuals in containment zones and individuals in meeting areas such as markets, malls, bus stops, and railway stations. High-risk populations will include the elderly and persons with co-morbid conditions.  At the training programme held on Thursday, the facilitators spoke about the equipment requirements to conduct the survey and sample collection, the responsibilities of district surveillance officers, administrative medical officers at health institutes, district epidemiologists and district program coordinators, lab technicians and counselling staff, and the protocol for collection of samples and sample transportation. Data for the survey will be collected using an app to register patients, update sample collection status and lab results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-starts-training-for-state-level-covid-19-serological-survey-875739.html
20-08-2020||State||Karnataka redefines containment zones; stamping of Covid-19 patients not required anymore||A notification released here on Thursday by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) redefined a containment zone as a 'well-defined area around the home of a Covid-19 positive person'. ."In an apartment complex, this would be the floor which has the residence of the Covid-positive person. For an independent house or villa -- it would just be the individual house or villa. In a slum, it would be the street that has the residence of the Covid-positive person. For rural areas, it would be the complete habitation of the Covid-positive person or a small contiguous area as appropriate," the notification reads. Earlier, the entire street where an individual house is located was a containment zone and both ends of the streets were to be barricaded. And the floor in which the patient resides along with the floors above and below were considered containment zones. It also directs authorities to paste a notice outside the house or residence of a Covid-positive individual and inform the neighbours and, where applicable, the Resident Welfare Association or an Apartment Owners' Association. However, it cautions against setting up barricades, or hard barriers. This comes after criticism of metal barricades set up outside homes with Covid-positive patients, trapping them inside. Barricading of roads will be allowed if there are clusters of cases in the same locality and the patients' homes are located close to each other. The Deputy Commissioners of Districts or the Commissioners of urban local bodies are responsible to implement this. Stamping of a Covid-19 positive person's hand, or their contacts, is also not necessary, the notification said. It further defined buffer zones as an area of 200 metres around the perimeter of containment areas in both rural and urban districts. There will be active surveillance of both containment and buffer zones, the government said, noting that house-to-house surveillance would occur daily in containment zones and twice a week in buffer zones. An area defined as a containment zone would return to normal only if no new Covid cases were reported for at least 14 days after the last case, and all contacts of the last detected case were followed upon for the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-redefines-containment-zones-stamping-of-covid-19-patients-not-required-anymore-875791.html
20-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Department trains officials to battle Covid-19 stigma||An online orientation and training programme was started here on Thursday by the Karnataka Health Department on Covid-19 stigma and appropriate behaviour to combat the growing number of incidents of stigma and discrimination against Covid-19 patients, their families, frontline health staff and healthcare providers. The program was attended by representatives of the Department of Police, Education, Women and Child Development, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR). Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, said, “There is an urgent need for empathy and moral support for Covid-19 positive persons and frontline workers. We need to keep in mind that corona warriors also include patients who have recovered from Covid-19, who can be potential donors for plasma therapy. We should work towards eradicating the stigma attached. This orientation will strengthen the effort to build confidence not only in patients but also in all those involved in fighting the disease.” The training programme on stigma, discrimination and appropriate behaviours towards Covid-19 patients will be conducted at the district level as well. The Commissioner also released two handbooks on guidelines for appropriate behaviour and Covid-19 stigma. These handbooks were developed along with Karnataka Health Promotion Trust (KHPT) in collaboration with the state government. The KHPT, in collaboration with RDPR, will print over one lakh copies and distribute these guidelines to health staff in 198 wards of the BBMP and in over 6,000 Gram Panchayats in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-department-trains-officials-to-battle-covid-19-stigma-875567.html
20-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7,385 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 102 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 7,385 new cases of Covid-19 and 102 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 2,56,975 and the death toll to 4,429, the health department said. The day also saw 6,231 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 7,385 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 2,912 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of August 20 evening, cumulatively 2,56,975 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 4,429 deaths and 1,70,381 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 82,149 active cases, 81,444 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 705 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 25 out of 102 deaths reported today are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Ballari (8), Hassan and Koppal (7), Dakshina Kannada (6), Davangere (5); Belagavi, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Vijayapura and Yadgir (4), Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru and Uttara Kannada (3), Chamrajanagara, Kodagu, Raichur and Udupi (2), and Gadag, Kolar and Tumakuru (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,912, Ballari 483, Belagavi 358, Udupi 351, Mysuru 253, Davangere 245, Kalaburagi 210, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 99,822 infections, followed by Ballari 16,200 and Mysuru 12,304. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 64,022 discharges, followed by Ballari 10,072 and Kalaburagi 7,554. According to the bulletin, a total of 22,56,862 samples have been tested so far, out of which 59,602 were tested on Thursday alone. Among the samples tested today 25,989 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7385-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-102-deaths-875758.html
20-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KPSC Mains: Karnataka govt reduces ratio to 1:15||The state government has reduced the ratio of candidates to be selected to Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) Mains (exams) through a Cabinet decision on Thursday. According to the decision, the government has decided to cut down the ratio of candidates selected to the main examination from preliminary examination from 1:20 to 1:15. This decision has been taken as per the recommendation of the Hota Committee, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said. This apart, the government has also decided to upgrade the post of KPSC chairman to the grade of Chief Information Commissioner. Until now, the KPSC chief's post was at a lower scale and the government has decided to rectify it, the minister said. However, even though the Hota committee recommends a search committee for appointment of KPSC members, the government has not approved the same, retaining its power in the selection of members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpsc-mains-karnataka-govt-reduces-ratio-to-115-875789.html
20-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||River Krishna flowing at danger level in Belagavi||The continued increase in the inflow of water from Maharashtra has resulted in River Krishna flowing at the danger level in Chikkodi, Raibag, Athani and Kagwad taluks in the district on Thursday. Rains receding in the catchments of rivers Ghataprabha and Malaprabha have led to the receding of water inflow and outflow. This has come as a respite for the villages and towns downstream. Rains have receded in Kolhapur and Sangli districts of Maharashtra and in the catchments of river Krishna and its tributaries in the district for the past couple of days. Despite that, water levels in the river continued to increase and reached the danger mark. Water inflow into River Krishna increased to 2,29,542 cusecs that included 1,95,750 cusecs from Rajapur barrage in Maharashtra and 33,792 cusecs from its tributary river Doodhganga.  Waters of river Krishna were flowing beyond its banks and a further increase in the inflow will flood the villages and towns along the banks. People have begun to shift to safer places and relief centres. The water level in Hidkal Dam reached 2172.80 feet with inflow being 31,627 cusecs and outflow being 35,888 cusecs. The water level in Malaprabha Dam reached 2076.80 feet with inflow being 5,644 cusecs and outflow being 3,964 cusecs. The discharge of water from both Hidkal and Malaprabha dams receded on Thursday. The huge difference in an outflow from Malaprabha Dam has come as a solace for the villages and towns downstream in Ramdurg and Savadatti taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/river-krishna-flowing-at-danger-level-in-belagavi-875508.html
20-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI team will have to apply to BMC for Covid-19 quarantine exemption||A visiting CBI team will have to apply for exemption from home quarantine if it wants to stay in the city for more than a week for the probe of Sushant Singh Rajput death case, a top official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. The Supreme Court earlier in the day approved the Bihar government's decision to transfer an FIR registered in the Rajput case in Patna to the Central agency. Earlier, when Bihar IPS official Vinay Tiwari visited Mumbai in connection with the probe, he was put under home quarantine by civic authorities under the coronavirus-related isolation rules. The BMC official, who did not wish to be named, said that as per the Maharashtra government's norms, visiting government officials on important duties and doctors on Covid-19 duty are exempted from the home quarantine rule for upto seven days' stay. But if officials from outside the state want to stay here for more than seven days, they will have to apply to the BMC for exemption, he said. In the wake of the controversy over Tiwari's quarantining, the official said the BMC has already informed the CBI about the procedure. While Tiwari was later allowed to leave the city, the BMC had issued a directive to its staff deputed at Mumbai airport that no passenger should be granted exemption from 14 -day home quarantine unless the person has a written permission from the civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-team-will-have-to-apply-to-bmc-for-covid-19-quarantine-exemption-875366.html
20-08-2020||West||'BJP committed to welfare of all sections of society'||New Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil on Wednesday said the ruling party is committed to the upliftment of people from all castes and sections of the society. Paatil, who is on a four-day tour of Saurashtra to strengthen the organisation in the region, asked BJP workers to apprise people about the good work done by the state government. He started his tour after offering prayers at the famous Somnath Temple in Gir-somnath district. The BJP is committed to upliftment and prosperity of all castes and sections of the society, Paatil told a gathering of BJP workers from different castes who had come to welcome him in Gir-Somnath district. Party workers should highlight the good work being done by the BJP government under chief minister Vijay Rupani. The BJP government has taken many decisions to ease the life of people during these difficult times, he said, referring to the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. We have to turn this coronavirus pandemic into an opportunity for India and have to become Aatmanirbhar in every way, he said, referring to the Modi government's push for self-reliance. Paatil had taken out a car rally from Sinh Sadan in Sasan of Junagadh district to Somnath in Gir-Somnath district. He later visited the towns of Keshod and Vanthli in Junagadh district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-committed-to-welfare-of-all-sections-of-society-875371.html
20-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's CBI probe shouldn't go like Dabholkar case: Sharad Pawar||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Thursday said that the Sushant Singh Rajput case should not go like the Narendra Dabholkar murder case that remains unsolved by the CBI. Pawar said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government led by Uddhav Thackeray will cooperate with the investigations. "I am sure the Maharashtra Government will respect the judgement of the Supreme Court to handover Sushant Singh Rajput’s case to the CBI and fully cooperate in the investigation process," he said. He, however, went on to add, "I hope the investigation will not be carried on, as was done with Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s murder case also under investigation by the CBI which commenced in 2014 and remains unresolved." Dr Dabholkar, a rationalist and founder of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), was murdered on August 20, 2013, in Pune. After initial investigations by the Maharashtra police, the probe was handed over to CBI. Today marks his seventh death anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-cbi-probe-shouldnt-go-like-dabholkar-case-sharad-pawar-875427.html
20-08-2020||West||Mumbai doctor who lost husband to Covid-19 forms support group||Dr Rajini Jagtap has floated 'Staying Alive' with a motto - "you don't need to fight your grief alone, even though the virus expects you to maintain distance" and it is "for people who have lost a loved one to Covid-19". The initiative will hold its first Zoom meeting this Sunday. Dr Rajini (53) lost her husband Dr Shridhar Jagtap (60) to Covid-19 on July 7. They have two sons - one based in Singapore and another in Thane that neighbours Mumbai. A civic doctor, Dr Rajini was involved in setting up the Covid Care Centre in Mulund, while Dr Shridhar had taken up private practice.  When Dr Shridhar passed away, she too tested positive for Covid-19 and had gone through emotional trauma. "I lost my husband, soulmate and best friend to Covid-19 on July 7. With my children and relatives far away, an ailing mother, as well as my own Covid-19 positive status, I had to deal with immense grief, sense of loss, hopelessness and guilt," she said. Dr Jagtap adds, "Dealing with this alone was difficult to say the least and in the days that followed, I cried, prayed, meditated, and tried my best to find focus and reason for myself to continue living, not just existing!" She said that 'Staying Alive' is a venture born out of immense personal grief and the knowledge that she is not alone. There are thousands that have lost their loved ones... and have lost hope.  "I sought the help of my lovely friend and psychologist Divya Andar in forming this group along with Ramya Ramesh and I do hope that my grief can be channelized into making somebody feel that, where there's life, there's hope!!" I have also invited my friend Unmesh Masurkar, Art of Living Trainer to join in. My bestie, Dr Bina, who is a qualified anesthesiologist, but has found her calling as a nutrition and fitness expert is part of the team," she said. The aim is to help out people deal with the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-doctor-who-lost-husband-to-covid-19-forms-support-group-875492.html
20-08-2020||West||MSRTC resumes inter-district bus service after five months||Inter-district bus services of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) resumed on Thursday morning after a gap of almost five months, officials said. On Thursday, the first bus from Mumbai Central depot, where the MSRTC headquarters is located, left around 8.30 am for Chiplun in Ratnagiri district with six passengers boarding at the starting point, a transport corporation official said. More passengers were expected at Dadar and other stops, he said. Bus services from various depots in Mumbai and other parts of the state are planned later in the day on some selected medium and long-distance routes, sources in the MSRTC said. While allowing the inter-district MSRTC bus services to resume, the state government did away with the condition of e-pass, which was earlier compulsory for passengers in view of the lockdown. The MSRTC said it will be mandatory for passengers to maintain Covid-19 prevention protocols, like wearing masks and adhering to the social distancing guidelines. Earlier, the transport corporation resumed intradistrict services from May 22 and also ran special buses to ferry migrants to the state borders. It was also operating special services for passengers in the Konkan belt ahead of the Ganesh festival, which will begin on Saturday. With a fleet of over 18,000 buses and nearly one lakh workforce, MSRTC is one of the biggest state road transport corporations in the county.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/msrtc-resumes-inter-district-bus-service-after-five-months-875513.html
20-08-2020||West||Man held for selling used medical gloves in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai police have arrested a man for allegedly cleaning and selling used medical gloves collected from hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, the police on Monday evening conducted a raid in Pawne MIDC, where they found that used gloves collected from hospitals were being washed, dried and packaged to be sold in the market, the official said. Liquid soaps and washing machines were used to clean used gloves, he said, adding that 4 lakh pairs of such disposable gloves worth Rs 6.10 lakh were seized from the premises. The police have arrested Prashant Surve, a resident of CBD Belapur, under sections 420 (cheating), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infectious disease), among the other relevant sections of the IPC, the official said. Further probe is underway to find the source of these gloves and where they were being sold, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-selling-used-medical-gloves-in-navi-mumbai-875560.html
20-08-2020||West||Man caught by Gujarat ATS tests Covid-19 positive||The 23-year-old man, who was caught by the Gujarat ATS following a tip-off that he was sent by gangster Chhota Shakeel to kill BJP leaders, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, an official said. He has been shifted to a city-based hospital for treatment and will be formally arrested only after he recovers and is given discharge, a senior official of the Anti- Terrorist Squad (ATS) said. "We will follow the central government's guidelines for testing and isolation of our team members who nabbed Irfan Shaikh," he said, when asked if the ATS officers who caught him would be tested or home quarantined. Shaikh, a 'sharp shooter', was allegedly sent to Gujarat by Chhota Shakeel to kill BJP leaders, mainly former Minister of State for Home Gordhan Zadafia, the official said. Based on a tip-off, an ATS team raided a hotel here late Tuesday night and nabbed Shaikh, a resident of Mumbai. The ATS found Zadafia's information and a video of the state BJP headquarters 'Kamalam' in Shaikh's mobile phone, the official said, adding that search was on for his accomplice, who was not present at the spot when the police raided the place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-caught-by-gujarat-ats-tests-covid-19-positive-875580.html
20-08-2020||West||Mumbai police draws flak for tweet about movement of vehicles||The Mumbai police have recently issued a tweet warning action against non-essential vehicular movement, leaving several netizens with the question of whether the coronavirus-induced lockdown was still in force or the unlock phase was on. On their official Twitter handle, the city police on Tuesday night had warned that strict legal action would be taken against people who step out for non-essential purposes. "Strict legal action will be taken and vehicles will be seized if any non-permitted & non-essential vehicular movement is noticed. This is not just against the rules, but also not in favour of your own safety, at this crucial moment in Mumbai's fight against #COVID19," the tweet read. The message was criticised by many on social media, with some Twitter users asking the police to classify what is essential and non-essential movement. People also asked the police if the coronavirus- induced lockdown was still in force or the unlock phase was on. "Both the government and cops are confused about what to follow and ignore. It's a complete failure of communication and expected considering the level of mismanagement which happens," a Twitter user said. While another tweet said, "Why so confused about everything @MumbaiPolice or is it the social media team/agency goofed up on copy paste of content or is it the fact that you seriously need help achieving targets with fines!" This is second time since the lockdown that the Mumbai police have faced criticism over their instructions about vehicular movement. Earlier, the city police drew flak for their directive under 'Mission Begin Again', restricting the movement of people within 2 km radius from their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-draws-flak-for-tweet-about-movement-of-vehicles-875607.html
20-08-2020||West||RPF solves major railway material theft in record time||The Central Railway RPF Intelligence Wing and Kurla RPF personnel working in tandem have unravelled a theft case and apprehended 17 persons with OHE material weighing 34 metric tonnes and worth Rs.25.6 lakh. On the basis of the information received from intelligence wing, RPF Kurla conducted a raid in the area and recovered the material from the perpetrators along with one truck, one scooty, 15 oxygen cylinders, 5 commercial gas cylinders and 9 gas cutters.  It was also revealed that one truck material was already out. Teams were formed to trace out the truck and the same was recovered within 12 hours as it was intercepted and arrested the main accused. The OHE material was procured for installation of OHE at Kurla and was stacked near Diesel Shed, Kurla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rpf-solves-major-railway-material-theft-in-record-time-875624.html
20-08-2020||West||After 16 days, Dharavi records double digit Covid-19 count||The tally of COVID-19 cases in the slum-dominated Dharavi area of Mumbai increased to 2,697 on Thursday after 17 more people tested positive for the infection, a senior BMC official said. It is after a gap of more than a fortnight that Dharavi has recorded double digit COVID-19 case count in a day. On August 3, a total of 12 positive cases were recorded in Dharavi and since then the daily count has been in single digits. The BMC official said 2,342 COVID-19 patients in the slum sprawl have already recovered and discharged from hospitals. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), currently Dharavi has only 95 active COVID-19 cases. The civic body, however, has stopped sharing COVID-19 deaths, if any, from Dharavi, which is spread across 2.5 square kilometres and has a population of 6.5 lakh. The COVID-19 cases in the G-north ward, that includes Dadar and Mahim areas along with Dharavi, have crossed the 7,000-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-16-days-dharavi-records-double-digit-covid-19-count-875690.html
20-08-2020||West||Drug case accused hangs self in jail's quarantine centre||A 43-year-old jail inmate, arrested in a narcotics case, allegedly committed suicide on Thursday in Taloja prisons quarantine centre in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, an official said. The inmate was identified as Mohammed Suleman, a resident of Dariyaganj in New Delhi. Suleman was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Delhi Unit, in a narcotics case and lodged at Navi Mumbais Taloja Central Jail under magisterial custody, the official said. He was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Due to the spread of Covid-19 in the prison, some of the inmates have been shifted to the jail's quarantine centre set up in a nearby school in Kharghar, he said. Suleman was one of these inmates, but he was not infected with Covid-19, the official said. On Thursday around 1 am, Suleman went to the quarantine facility's toilet and hanged himself using a towel, the official said. He was spotted hanging in the toilet by some jail staff following which police were informed about the incident, he said. The exact reason behind the alleged suicide was not yet known, the official said. As the accused died while in judicial custody, a judicial magistrate visited the spot along with other officials to gather details about the incident, he said. The body was sent for post-mortem at state-run J J Hospital, he said. An accidental death report has been registered at the Kharghar Police Station and further probe was underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drug-case-accused-hangs-self-in-jails-quarantine-centre-875693.html
20-08-2020||West||Maharashtra got maximum 'Swachh' awards for 3rd year in row: Eknath Shinde||Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde on Thursday said that the state has performed a hattrick by bagging the maximum number of awards in the Centre's Swachh Survekshan 2020 for urban areas. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020- the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country- were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, in which 129 awards were given in different categories. Talking to reporters, Shinde said that Navi Mumbai ranked third in the Cleanest City category (having more than one lakh population). In the category of cities with population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra's Karad bagged the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala, he said. In the Western region, in the list of cities with less than 25,000 population, Panhala bagged an award, while Jejuri got an award in the category of sustainable clean city. Akole city got an award for taking innovative steps for cleanliness, the Urban Development Minister said, adding that Shirdi bagged an award in the category of population of 25,000 to 50,000, he said. The other cities in Maharashtra that bagged awards in different categories are Vita, Indapur, Warora, Ballarpur, Hingoli, Shegaon, Ratnagiri, Dehu Road Cantontment, Shinde said, and thanked the civic officials and elected representatives of these cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-got-maximum-swachh-awards-for-3rd-year-in-row-eknath-shinde-875700.html
20-08-2020||West||Inspector dies of Covid-19, toll in Mumbai Police force now 62||A 54-year-old inspector in Mumbai died due to coronavirus on Thursday, a day after his colleague, a constable, succumbed to the infection, an official said. Both the personnel were attached to the Mulund Police Station, the official said. "With the death of the inspector, the Covid-19 toll in the Mumbai Police force has reached 62," he said. The inspector and the constable had tested positive a few days back. "They were shifted to a hospital, where the constable died on Wednesday, while the inspector succumbed to the infection on Thursday," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/inspector-dies-of-covid-19-toll-in-mumbai-police-force-now-62-875714.html
20-08-2020||West||WHO lauds Gujarat's efforts to contain coronavirus||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has lauded various steps taken by authorities in Gujarat to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, said a top government official on Thursday. The WHO organised a webinar on Thursday to know more about Gujarat's Covid-19 response and best practices put in place to contain the virus, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. Around 20 WHO experts from India and Geneva office of the world body took part in the online session where Gujarat government officials gave a detailed presentation about various measure taken to fight the pandemic, Ravi told reporters in Gandhinagar. "The WHO appreciated the efforts we all put in to contain the spread of the virus in the state. WHO experts lauded the role played by people, political leadership, officials and private as well as public health practitioners," said Ravi. She added that WHO experts also suggested to replicate some of Gujarat's "unique and best practices" in other states of India or countries. In the presentation given to the WHO team, the state government particularly highlighted how surveillance was scaled up with the help of over 5,000 teams and introduction of 'Dhanvantari Raths' (mobile vans) for testing and basic health check-up. "We also highlighted how we have beefed up testing. Just yesterday (August 19), we conducted over 63,000 tests in a day. Our recovery rate now stands at almost 79 per cent. Over 51,000 beds are available at present across Gujarat for coronavirus patients," Ravi added. Gujarat has so far recorded 83,262 Covid-19 cases and 2,855 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-lauds-gujarats-efforts-to-contain-coronavirus-875744.html
