21-08-2020||Comment||Secrecy comes to bite govt||“You reap what you sow” is a wise granny’s saying. The Modi government and its Official Interlocutor for peace talks with the Naga factions, N Ravi, are now reaping the bitter harvest of the secrecy they tenaciously built around the Framework Agreement (FA) since 2015. In August 2015, photographs of the signing ceremony for the FA were splashed across the media hailing it as a major achievement of the Modi government. Unlike the publicly accessible contents of the Assam, Bodo and Mizo peace accords signed by previous governments, the Naga FA remained a closely guarded “State secret”.  After the recent churn caused by Ravi, who is also Nagaland’s Governor, through his communication to the elected state government, pointing at the rampant extortion and other illegal activities carried out by local militant groups, one of the Naga factions – the NSCN (IM) – has flashed two versions of the FA before the media. One is claimed to be a facsimile of the original which two factional leaders and Ravi signed in the presence of the Prime Minister. The other document is allegedly a re-typed version of this FA, minus the signatures and a three-letter word over which the negotiation process is swivelling. These allegations of multiple avatars of the Naga FA have put a question mark over the credibility of the peace-making process. At the time of writing, the government has neither confirmed nor denied the authenticity of either document.    In 2017, the Central Information Commission (CIC) had rejected this author’s two-year-old RTI plea to make the Naga FA publicly accessible. Initially, the Home Ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office both claimed that they did not have a copy of the FA in their custody! The entire file along with the FA was placed before the CIC only when a ‘show cause’ notice was issued. Eventually, the CIC aligned with the Interlocutor’s “national security will be in peril” argument, disregarding multiple public interest grounds argued in support of disclosure. One such argument was the necessity of countering interpretations of the FA that the Naga factions were sharing with the media from time to time. Three years later, the “I told you so” moment has arrived. Few readers will recall the Nagas’ troubled relationship with the rest of India before and after Independence. Under the British Raj, theirs was an “Excluded Area” for all outsiders. A day before India attained freedom from colonial rule, the then Naga National Council (NNC) declared independence for the Nagas, hoisting their own flag. According to the July 2018 Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, tribes, sub-tribes and clans identifying themselves as Nagas are spread across the states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, apart from being concentrated in Nagaland itself. In a 1951 referendum organised by the NNC, the Nagas are said to have voted overwhelmingly in favour of independence. In 1952, they boycotted the very first general election to Parliament. Later, the Nagas formed a parallel government and set up their own army. The NNC was outlawed under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in 1972 and the central government launched counter-insurgency operations in the region. Eventually, the Shillong Accord, which is also publicly accessible, was signed in 1975. However, opposition to this accord led to the formation of the NSCN in 1980. In 1988, the NSCN splintered into multiple factions. The two initial factions, NSCN (IM) and NSCN-Khaplang, continued to push for their vision of Nagalim or Greater Nagaland, comprising of all neighbouring areas where people of Naga identity live, including adjoining parts of Myanmar, according to the Parliamentary Committee. After years of violence, the government signed a ceasefire agreement with the two NSCN factions in 1997 and 2001, respectively. According to the parliamentary committee, while NSCN (IM) continues to hold talks with the government, the Khaplang faction was declared an unlawful association for unilaterally violating the agreement in 2015. Interestingly, while deposing before this committee on the progress made in the peace talks, Ravi had stated that the NSCN (IM) had dropped its demand of sovereignty characterised by a separate constitution and flag for Nagaland. While releasing two versions of what it claimed to be the Naga FA, the NSCN (IM) has accused Ravi of not only misleading the parliamentary committee on their long-held position vis-à-vis Naga sovereignty but also of doctoring the contents of the FA to reflect this mischievous interpretation. According to NSCN (IM), a crucial segment of the FA they signed in 2015 reads as follows: “It is a matter of great satisfaction that dialogue between the Government of India and the NSCN has successfully concluded and we are confident, it will provide for an enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence between the two entities.” It has alleged that the word “new” has been omitted from Ravi’s re-typed version of the FA which was circulated among tribal leaders and other local groups. In other words, the NSCN (IM) has clarified that it has not given up on its demand of “shared sovereignty,” insisting on a relationship “with” India but not “within” India despite the special administrative arrangements worked out under Article 371A of the Constitution shortly before Nagaland achieved statehood in 1963. Now, rather than clear the air by opting for greater transparency, the government has done just the opposite. The negotiator’s mantle has been passed on to unnamed officers in the Intelligence Bureau (IB). The IB is not subject to parliamentary oversight. Nor is it amenable to citizens’ scrutiny under the RTI Act, except in matters relating to allegations of human rights violation and corruption. It is so opaque, it does not even have an official website. The government must become more transparent in order to enhance people’s confidence in its ability to conduct such difficult negotiations. Undue secrecy, on the other hand, creates suspicion about its intentions, as the latest episode in the Naga story demonstrates. Justice Louis Brandeis’ advice: “Electric light is the most efficient policeman” rings true even after more than a hundred years. (The writer is with the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/secrecy-comes-to-bite-govt-875868.html
21-08-2020||First Edit||Facebook actions, biases must be probed||There have been persistent and credible charges about social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp being used to spread fake news, create social strife, influence and manipulate politics. A Wall Street Journal report has again confirmed such charges by showing that Facebook in India has ignored hate speech and incendiary posts on commercial and other considerations, and it could be considered complicit in such offences. Though the company’s employees brought to the attention of the top leadership some BJP leaders' repeated violation of the company’s norms on fair and acceptable speech, no action was taken because that would antagonise the government and the ruling party. Specific cases of incitement of violence and attempts to promote enmity between communities by BJP leaders Ananthkumar Hegde, Kapil Mishra and Telangana MLA Raja Singh were cited, but the company took no action. An incendiary video of Kapil Mishra circulated on WhatsApp, a Facebook company, during communal riots in Delhi in February. It was tolerated because the application of hate speech norms would “damage the company’s business prospects’’ and would have a “political fallout.” India is Facebook’s largest market. The revenue gains from the country and the need to be on the right political side obviously persuaded the company to overlook its professional, social and ethical responsibilities. Facebook has faced investigations for improper and illegal actions like meddling in elections, violation of privacy and failure to protect data. It has been punished, too. Other big digital media companies have also faced such charges. Multinationals were once considered to be strong enough to undermine national economies. The present-day media multinationals are in a position to do greater harm by dividing societies, influencing political choices, defaming or lionising individuals and organisations and undermining national security. The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, led by Shashi Tharoor, has rightly decided to take up the issue and seek an explanation from Facebook. There is enough evidence to conclude that it is not a neutral platform. It has responsibilities and obligations and so should be held accountable for what transpires on its platform and its consequences. If it fails in its vigil for whatever reason, it should be penalised. The government's response is disappointing, as it has attacked the Opposition instead of addressing the concerns. There is the need for a bipartisan investigation which should lead to fixing of responsibility and institution of regulatory measures and safeguards against abuse of social media. The country should not allow foreign entities to meddle in our affairs and pose a danger to our society and systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/facebook-actions-biases-must-be-probed-875866.html
21-08-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Body of newborn wrapped in plastic bag found in Unkal lake||According to police officials, the highly decomposed body of the female child was found in a plastic bag by the locals. They suspect that the miscreants might have thrown the newborn into the lake some three-four days ago. Police officials are yet to trace the parents of the child and the culprits who might have dumped the body in the lake. The body was found floating amidst garbage in the lake, which is not being used for domestic purpose.  “It has been raining continuously for the last three-four days. Entry to the lake has been banned. However, someone might have sneaked in during this period and dumped the child here,” said a police source.  The body has been shifted to mortuary of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. A case related to this has been registered at Vidyanagara Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/body-of-newborn-wrapped-in-plastic-bag-found-in-unkal-lake-876273.html
21-08-2020||In Perspective||Gandhi, King and their legacies||A United States Congressional Committee has recently cleared the Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Initiative Bill to promote the legacies of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. Its aim is to establish an exchange initiative between India and the United States to study the work and legacies of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. The Bill had been sponsored by the late Congressman John Lewis, a champion of civil rights, equality, justice and democracy, and co-sponsored by Ami Bera, the longest-serving Indian-American member of the US Congress. What is the Gandhi-King Bill all about? The Bill seeks to authorize the US Administration, in cooperation with the Indian government, to establish the following: Annual Education Forum: It will include scholars from both countries to focus on the legacies of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. Professional Development Training Initiative on Conflict Resolution based on the principles of non-violence. United States-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation: It will oversee grants to private non-governmental entities to address health priorities in India such as Tuberculosis (TB), Pollution, Water, Sanitation and Health (WASH). Gandhi-King Global Academy: A training initiative for representatives from governments and non-governmental organizations in countries with ongoing political, social or ethnic conflict, on the efficacy of non-violent movements. The lives and works of Gandhi and King have much to teach us about non-violent resistance to oppression. A comparative analysis of their legacies demonstrates how powerful peace and love can be, in the face of oppression, aggression and violence. No two individuals had a greater impact on the 20th century’s monumental struggles for freedom, justice and peace. Gandhi showed the world that steadfast and non-violent adherence to the truth gave the world a practical alternative to the insanity of war and violence. King used non-violence to realize his dream of a nation “where people are judged not by the colour of their skin but by the content of their character”. The two men came from widely divergent cultural, religious, economic, and political backgrounds, yet they both wielded non-violent weapons effectively. This comparison not only demonstrates the broad applicability of non-violent principles in contemporary times but also highlights the importance of merging high ideals with a practical program that produces positive results. Upon his death, Gandhi was hailed by the London Times as “the most influential figure India has produced for generations”. Gandhi had protested against racism in South Africa and colonial rule in India using non-violent resistance. Gandhi’s approach directly influenced Martin Luther King Jr., who argued that the Gandhian philosophy was “the only morally and practically sound method open to oppressed people in their struggle for freedom”. King first employed strategies of non-violent direct action in the 1955-1956 Montgomery bus boycott. In 1959, King travelled to India with his wife, Coretta Scott King, and Lawrence D. Reddick on a visit co-sponsored by the American Friends Service Committee and Gandhi Smarak Nidhi. King met with the Gandhi family, as well as with Indian activists and officials, including Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, during the five-week trip. Back home, King emphasized, among other things, on the significance of Gandhi’s Salt Satyagraha and his fast to end discrimination against India’s untouchables. King ultimately believed that the Gandhian approach of non-violent resistance would “bring about a solution to the race problem in America”.  If it was a train ride that ‘created’ Gandhi, it was a bus journey that ‘made’ Martin Luther King. Once, as a child, King was travelling long distance on a bus with his teacher, when the driver ordered them to get up for white passengers. “I decided not to move at all,” King recalled,” but my teacher pointed out that we must obey the law. So we got up and stood in the aisle the whole 90 miles to Atlanta. It was a night I’ll never forget....” And he didn’t. Deeply influenced by the life and work of Gandhi while studying at the Crozer Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania, King made the struggle for civil liberty for African-Americans in the USA, his sole motto. His weapons were faith in God and non-violence. He later said, “From my background, I gained my regulating Christian ideals. From Gandhi, I learned my operational technique”. In December 1964, King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Aged 35, he became the youngest man to have received the award. Delivering his Nobel Lecture, King said, “Non-violence is a weapon unique in history, which cuts without wounding and ennobles the man who wields it.” Tragically, four years later, this apostle of peace was shot dead while addressing a gathering in Tennessee. Today, the race issue in the United States conjures up images of chokeholds, police shootings, violence, and the re-emergence of the racial divide. The Gandhi-King talisman of non-violence and its potential in advancing race relations is largely missing. This is surprising given that King, the Father of Racial Justice in the US, believed fervently in non-violence and used it forcefully to advance racial equality. According to the King Center, “During the less than 13 years of Dr Martin Luther King Jr.’s leadership of the modern American Civil Rights Movement, from December 1955 until April 1968, African Americans achieved more genuine progress toward racial equality in America than the previous 350 years had produced”. As the world’s oldest and largest democracies, the United States and India have long traditions of upholding the shared values of peace, justice and non-violent resistance, championed by figures like Gandhi, King and Congressman Lewis. But they are increasingly under threat in both countries. The passage of the Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Initiative Bill by the US Congress will, hopefully, help ensure the endurance of those values, and remind us, that by holding true to the legacies of Gandhi and King, we embody and live up to the best of our two nations. (The writer taught Political Science at Bangalore University. He is currently Hon. Professor at Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/gandhi-king-and-their-legacies-875867.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 duty stress: Mysuru taluk health officer ends life||Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer Dr Nagendra S R (43), a Covid Warrior, died by suicide at his residence on Thursday. His family alleged he was under work pressure. They said the Zilla Panchayat CEO was exerting pressure on the officer to achieve the target in connection with rapid antigen tests for Covid-19. Following the incident, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar urged healthcare workers on Covid duty to inform their bosses if they were stressed. "Our government has noticed that you are suffering from overwork and stress. I promise to doctors from all over the state, we will take appropriate action," he tweeted. He also convened a meeting with the doctors' association in Nanjangud. Health Minister B Sriramulu mourned the death. "I have ordered an inquiry into the case. Anyone found guilty will not be spared," he tweeted. The state government has agreed to provide a compensation of Rs 30 lakh to the family of Dr Nagendra. Health department officials, doctors and Nagendra's family members staged a flash protest in Nanjangud. The family alleged that despite shortage of staff, the Zilla Panchayat CEO had directed to conduct 300 antigen tests per day.  According to his family, Nagendra was staying alone in his Girinagar house as a precautionary measure due to Covid. His wife Anitha and seven-year-old daughter were at Anitha’s parents’ house in Hebbal. Dr Rajani MH, Deputy Director, Mental Health, Department of Health and Family Welfare, told DH, "So far, 2,823 doctors of the state health department and 10,399 other healthcare workers have been counselled. Usually, many of them are stressed as they are away from families. They fear contracting the virus on the job." Health Department Director Dr Omprakash Patil said this was the first case of a department staffer ending his life owing to Covid duty pressure. In a statement issued by the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), doctors urged the government "to create a conducive environment for medical professionals".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-duty-stress-mysuru-taluk-health-officer-ends-life-875838.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown helped CET toppers to prepare||For the CET toppers from Dakshina Kannada district, the coronavirus lockdown was an added advantage as the delay in exam helped them to prepare well. According to the elated toppers, their teachers had been supporting and helping them throughout during the lockdown. Speaking to DH, Shashank P of Expert PU College, who secured the fourth rank in engineering said that understanding the basics and concentrating in the classrooms helped him to excel. "During the lockdown, the college had conducted a series of mock tests and online tests, which helped me to get through in the subjects," he said. “I am also waiting for JEE Advanced and want to pursue my studies in Computer Science. Teachers in the college helped me a lot in preparing for the Board exam as well as for CET,” he added, before revealing, "I like cycling and video editing." Gaureesha Kajampady of Vivekananda College in Puttur has secured the ninth rank in engineering and 10th in B.Pharma and said he is excited over the results. “I am interested in physics and wish to take up BSc. I am yet to take a final call. I used to read for three to five hours while preparing for my Board exam and CET, during my classes. I used to prepare for seven hours during the holidays. The hard work and dedication have helped to excel.” He said he has learnt Carnatic music which also helped him to concentrate on his studies. Varun Gowda A B of Expert PU College has secured the first rank in BSc Agriculture,  seventh in Bachelor of Veterinary Science, and the eighth rank in B.Pharma said that he wishes to go for medicine and prepare for NEET.   Elated H C Gourish of Expert PU college who secured the ninth rank in BSc Agriculture said, “I am over-excited and did not expect to be on top ten. I had prepared well. Even after the lockdown, I had returned to my native in Shivamogga and teachers used to clarify all our doubts via WhatsApp and phone call, which also helped me a lot.” "Listening to music also helped me to relax and overcome pressure and tension," he added. Arnav Aiyappa P P of Alva’s PU College in Moodbidri has secured the fourth rank in BSc (Agri), fifth rank in BVSc, 7th rank in BPharma and 81st rank in engineering and first rank in BNYS. He said that he is preparing for the NEET to pursue his studies in medicine. As a preparation, he had tried CET and fared well in it. Tejas Bhat K of Sharada PU college has secured 10th rank in BVSc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-helped-cet-toppers-to-prepare-876049.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Dasara not a new phenomenon||Simple Dasara or cancellation of Dasara is not a new phenomenon, since its adoption by the Wadiyar kings of Yadu Dynasty, in 1610. Mysuru Dasara celebrations, a continuation of tradition, was started by Raja Wadiyar in Srirangapatna, the then capital of the erstwhile Mysuru state, in 1610. Only he celebrated the maiden Dasara despite the death of his only surviving son Narasaraja Wadiyar, on the eve of Navaratri. It is believed that Dasara celebrations were allowed as a low-key affair when Hyder Ali (1761-1782) was a dictator. However, during Tipu Sultan's term (1782-1799), it is learnt that there were no such festivities. In 1816, when Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar was the ruler, Mysore State experienced severe famine. So there was no celebration. Even during the World War II, when Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Jayachamaraja Wadiyar were the rulers, there were no celebrations, as there used to be ‘blackouts’. After Independence, Dasara festivities were skipped due to various reasons. With the withdrawal of privy purse to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar in 1970, his public celebration of Dasara was stopped. Thus, in 1970, a group of like-minded citizens like D Jayadevaraja Urs, industrialist F K Irani of Ideal Jawa, Na Nagalingaswamy and B C Lingaiah continued the celebrations, on their own. In 1971, a delegation of citizens apprised then chief minister D Devaraja Urs about the significance of the festival and got government support. Immediately, in 1972, the procession was not held, due to drought. It was a drought in 1973 also. In 1974 Jayachamaraja Wadiyar died on September 23. However, his supporters took out simple processions in 1973 and 1974. The State government-sponsored the Dasara celebrations, limited to Jamboo Savari, for the first time in 1975. Again in 1977, there was no Dasara celebration, due to a students’ agitation. Similarly, in 1983, 1992 and 1997 there was an austere celebration, due to famine. In 1997, MLA S A Ramadass organised a people's Dasara, by mobilising funds from people and also voluntary participation of artistes. In 2000, kidnap of actor Dr Rajkumar by forest brigand Veerappan affected Dasara. Dasara was a simple affair in 2001 and 2002 due to earthquake in Gujarat and drought in Karnataka respectively. In 2011 and 2012 also, it was celebrated in a simple manner, due to drought. Again in 2015 and 2016, the celebrations were scaled-down, in view of drought and a spate of farmers’ suicide. After a long gap, in 2017, Dasara celebrations became normal. Covid-19 has cast a shadow again, in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-not-a-new-phenomenon-876106.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Dasara: Hopes of revival of economy||Finally some good news for Mysuru, which is largely dependent on tourism and tourists, for its economy, but battered due to the Covid-19 crisis. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced in Bengaluru, on Friday morning, that the Government has decided to celebrate Dasara festival in a simple way, in the wake of Covid crisis. Simple or grand, Dasara celebration is a synonym to Mysuru. Thus, it is expected to bring cheers among those related to both the tourism and hospitality sectors. Hoteliers not upbeat However, president of Mysuru Hotel Owners Association C Narayana Gowda said, he has no great expectations about a revival of the economy, with the celebration of Dasara. “The tourism and hospitality sectors have already lost a long season of summer, amounting to a cumulative loss of over Rs 1,000 crore. We were eager to open hotels and restaurants, soon after lockdown. We also pressurised the government to facilitate their opening. However, most of the restaurants closed soon after, on their own will, due to poor business, which is actually the bigger loss,” he said. Narayana Gowda said, Dasara is the peak tourist season, even though it is not a long one like summer. “For any given day, the largest density of tourists in Mysuru is on Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami. This year, even if the government celebrates Dasara, people are not in a mood to take a risk. Of late, traffic looks normal on Mysuru streets, as if normal life has resumed. But, people do not venture into hotels. People are on the streets, only for basic needs, not for luxuries or entertainment. We can expect around 20% of the crowd, compared to normal Dasara seasons,” he said. Adding to the woes of the stakeholders of the tourism and hospitality sectors, Dasara is delayed by a month. The beginning of Navaratri is on October 17 and Vijayadashami on October 26. Astrologer Muguru Madhu Dixit said, Ashwija month should start after Mahalaya Amavasya (September 17), but in view of calendar correction, an Adhika (additional) Ashwija Masa (month) is added, up to October 16. “This correction is done once in three years. This time, it is the turn of Ashwija Masa,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-hopes-of-revival-of-economy-876133.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four held for possessing wildlife articles in Karnataka||Four people have been arrested in Chamarajanagar district for allegedly possessing a huge cache of prohibited wildlife items including pelts, bones and claws. Acting on tip-off that some people were trying to sell wildlife products, forest officials carried out an operation on Thursday night and arrested four of them, the department said in a statement on Friday. All of them in their twenties are from villages in Hanuru taluk in Chamarajanagar, the officials said. Four tiger claws, tiger bones, two leopard claws, pelts of barking deer, spotted deer, flying squirrels, wild dog and Sambar deer were seized from them. The accused have been booked under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-held-for-possessing-wildlife-articles-in-karnataka-876192.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two students top CET||K Sanjana of BASE PU College has bagged top ranks in three streams. She has secured second rank in Naturopathy and Yoga Science, Agriculture and Lokesh B Jogi of Ramakrishna Vidyashala has secured third rank in Agriculture of Common Entrance Test (CET). The results were announced on Friday. Sanjana also secured third rank in veterinary sciences, fifth rank in B Pharma and D Pharma streams of CET. Sanjana wants to pursue medicine and thus, preparing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, she said. “I had expected to be one of the toppers among the ten. I am happy for getting second rank,” she said. Sanjana has scored 98.3% in PUC Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Biology, said the college principal Sangeetha Srinidhi. Jogi, who hails from Belagavi, is preparing for NEET and Joint Entrance Examination. Jogi wants to involve in research in Aerospace. Jogi did not take special coaching for CET but, Covid-19 vacation helped him to secure good ranking. As many as 12 students of BASE PU College have secured ranks below 1,000. Satwik H Arawalli has secured 92nd rank in CET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-students-top-cet-876224.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four poachers held; tiger pelt, claws seized||The Forest department officials arrested four youths, for poaching tigers, leopards and other animals in the forests under Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary and BRT Tiger Reserve. The accused are Mahadev, 28, and Kumar, 20, of Nellikatri village, Mahadev, 22, and Rangaswamy, 23, of Gombegallu village, Hanur taluk. Their three accomplices are at large. The officials also seized bones, claws, tiger pelts and deerskin from them, when they were trying to sell them. Four tiger claws, bones of a tiger, claws of a leopard, two deer skins, skins of two wild goats, two jumping squirrel skin and others were seized. Two motorbikes used for the crime have also been seized. All four are said to be Soliga tribal people. This is said to be the biggest poaching haul in Chamarajanagar district in recent years. Six people were arrested in connection with the theft of tusks in 2012, at Kaudalli range. In 2016, one was held for poaching a leopard, using a snare, and its pelt was recovered. Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary Deputy Conservator of Forests V Yedukondalu said, “The accused had been collecting bones and parts of wild animals since a few years and were caught, while trying to sell them.” “The operation was conducted jointly by the officials and staff of MM Wildlife Sanctuary, BRT Tiger Reserve and Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. The other three accused will be arrested soon,” Yedukondalu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-poachers-held-tiger-pelt-claws-seized-876225.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man paraded naked on donkey for stealing bulls||A man was stripped naked and paraded on a donkey for stealing bulls at Saraswathihatti in Hiriyur taluk of the district. Eshwar (35), resident of Badagollarahatti in Tumakuru district, was identified as the victim.  The video of the incident has gone viral on social media networking sites.  According to the villagers, bulls belonging to a certain Balanna at Saraswathihatti were reportedly stolen on August 19 night. Shepherds of the village saw them at Bukkapatna in Sira taluk of Tumakuru district and later brought the bulls along with Eshwar from the neighbouring village. They tied him to a pillar at a school nearby and assaulted him after which he was paraded on the donkey in the village. Police rushed to the village and interrogated the villagers. Eshwar is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hiriyur town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-paraded-naked-on-donkey-for-stealing-bulls-876271.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka legislature session to start from September 21||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to conduct the monsoon session of the legislature from September 21 to 30 in Bengaluru. But there is no clarity on where and how it will be held in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per procedure, the state government was required to convene the legislature session before September 23, which is six months since the last day of the previous session held on March 23. While there was speculation that the government would conduct the session at an alternative venue to ensure social distancing and to facilitate other precautionary measures, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said the details were yet to be worked out. “However, the session would be held in Bengaluru itself,” he specified. "The Cabinet can only decide the date. The modalities of how it will be conducted will have to be worked out with the Legislative Assembly Speaker and the Legislative Council Chairman. We will announce it soon," he said. The ruling BJP is expected to come under heavy fire from the Opposition Congress and JD(S) during the session over the pandemic and various ordinances promulgated to amend key laws governing agriculture, labour and land reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-legislature-session-to-start-from-september-21-875836.html
21-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||I think my phone is being tapped: KPCC President D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Friday said he suspected that his phone had been tapped, which Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai denied.  Shivakumar went on to file a complaint with Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, a day after accusing the officer of being “biased” in the ongoing investigation into the Pulakeshinagar riots.  “Yesterday and the day before, my phone was alright. But now, I’m not able to receive calls properly. I think my phone is being tapped,” Shivakumar told reporters.  In his complaint, Shivakumar wrote: “From the past 2-3 days, I have noticed some differences in the incoming and outgoing calls on my phone numbers (9845556622, 9845556633). The voice isn’t clear, there's an unexpected rise and drop and an unnecessary sound is heard.” In a statement, Bommai said Shivakumar should check with his telecoms service provider. “It’s wrong to call it phone tapping. Ours is a responsible government that will not stoop down to that level and we don’t have to also. The government isn’t concerned with Shivakumar’s activities. The CBI is already probing the phone tapping that was done by the government that Shivakumar was a part of,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-think-my-phone-is-being-tapped-kpcc-president-d-k-shivakumar-876119.html
21-08-2020||Mysuru||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa orders probe into on-duty Covid-19 doctor's death case||The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into a case where Nanjangud Taluk Officer (in charge) Dr S R Nagendra allegedly died by suicide.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has ordered Mysuru Regional Commissioner to conduct a probe and directed to submit a report within seven days. It has to be noted that the officer died by suicide by hanging self at his residence in Alanahalli on Thursday. The family member and his colleagues had alleged work pressure and harassment from higher-ups. The chief minister has also directed to issue Rs 50 lakh immediately and sanction all the benefits to the family members of the doctor. In addition, a compensatory job is assured for Nagendra's wife Anitha. The chief minister has also urged the Covid warriors and the doctors not to take any extreme step and requested them to resolve the issue through higher-ups. The government is with the doctors and will extend full support, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-orders-probe-into-on-duty-covid-19-doctors-death-case-875946.html
21-08-2020||National||Conclusion of US-India trade talks to be phase 1 of bilateral trade deal: Ambassador Sandhu||Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Thursday made a strong case for conclusion of the ongoing trade negotiations which would become the first phase of a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement between the two nations. Bilateral trade between India and the US, which touched USD 150 billion last year, has dropped 25 per cent in the first half of this year, he said at webinar organised by industry body Ficci. Sandhu observed that India's bilateral trade has been growing at the rate of 10 per cent on a year-to-year basis, reaching USD 150 billion in 2019. "Our bilateral trade has not been immune to Covid-19 as total trade between the two countries has reduced by nearly 25 per cent in the first half of 2020 as compared to 2019," he said. The US is today India's biggest trading partner, but the real potential of the trade relationship is yet to be reached, he added. The Indian Ambassador to the US said the "first step in realising this potential is to conclude the ongoing trade negotiations which would become the phase 1 of a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement." Such an agreement would reflect the full potential of bilateral and commercial relations, increasing bilateral investments and job creation in both the countries, he emphasised. India and the US are negotiating a limited trade deal with a view to iron out differences on trade issues to boost economic ties. India is demanding exemption from high duties imposed by the US on some steel and aluminium products, resumption of export benefits to certain domestic items under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), and greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile, automobile components and engineering. On the other hand, the US wants greater market access for its farm and manufacturing products, dairy items and medical devices, apart from cut in import duties on some information and communication technology products. The US has also raised concerns over high trade deficit with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conclusion-of-us-india-trade-talks-to-be-phase-1-of-bilateral-trade-deal-ambassador-sandhu-875824.html
21-08-2020||National||Swachh survey: Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai residents lauded||Residents of Indore, Surat and Navi Mumbai and their elected representatives came in for praise after the urban centres were adjudged as India's top three cities in terms of cleanliness in a national survey. Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for a fourth straight year, while Surat and Navi Mumbai grabbed the second and third positions, respectively, as the Centre announced the results of its latest annual cleanliness survey on Thursday. The 10 top-ranked cities, having a population of more than 10 lakh, are: Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Vijaywada, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhopal, Chandigarh, GVMS Visakhapatnam and Vadodara. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 -- the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country -- were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony where 129 awards were given in different categories. Expressing happiness over Indore's top ranking for the fourth straight year, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the city has now become a role model for the world in cleanliness. He said "cleanliness is now the nature of Indore", and lauded its citizens who made this achievement possible. "Four times in a row the cleanest city in the country! We will progress together to fulfil the dream of a Prosperous MP with Swachh MP, Chouhan tweeted soon after results of the Swachh Sarvekshan 2020 were announced. "Cleanliness is now the nature of Indore. The city has now become a role model for the world in cleanliness. My heartiest congratulations to the people of Indore, public representatives and municipal corporation for the dedication, he said in a series of tweets. He said it was a moment of pride for Madhya Pradesh that Indore has been adjudged as the cleanest city in the country while racing against 4,242 cities. "This achievement was not possible without the people of Indore. I congratulate my brothers and sisters for their support assuring that we will progress together and will fulfil the dreams of a prosperous Madhya Pradesh," Chouhan said. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed happiness over four major cities of the state finding place in the list of top 10 cleanest cities of India. Rupani gave credit to people, elected representatives and officials of these cities for accepting the appeal of Mahatma Gandhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi about cleanliness, which helped in getting the rankings. "It is a matter of great happiness and pride that four Gujarat cities have made it to the top 10 list of Swachh Survekshan 2020. "I congratulate people, elected representatives and mayors of these four cities for achieving this feat," said Rupani. "Its a matter of pride for all Gujaratis because we are walking on the path shown by Mahatma Gandhi about maintaining cleanliness. "Our PM, too, had initiated a major social movement to make people understand the importance of cleanliness," said Rupani. Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde said that the state has performed a hat-trick by bagging the maximum number of awards in the Centre's Swachh Survekshan 2020 for urban areas. Talking to reporters in Mumbai Shinde said in the category of cities with population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra's Karad bagged the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala. In the Western region, in the list of cities with less than 25,000 population, Panhala bagged an award, while Jejuri got an award in the category of sustainable clean city, Shinde said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swachh-survey-indore-surat-navi-mumbai-residents-lauded-875830.html
21-08-2020||National||Will support govt panel to facilitate Indian firms interested in Covid-19 vaccine candidates: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said with its inputs and support, the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 will help Indian firms interested in any candidate vaccines, and facilitate the process of ensuring that relevant testing data is made available to India's regulatory agencies. Asked about the nature of collaboration India is considering with Russian vaccine maker RDIF and is India confident that all protocols have been followed by the firm, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government has set up an national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19. The purpose of the group is to keep India in the forefront of any ongoing effort worldwide to innovate, prepare, produce and launch candidate vaccines to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, for India and for the world, he said at an online media briefing. "Through the inputs and support of MEA, this expert group will help to connect Indian companies that are interested in any candidate vaccines, and facilitate the process of ensuring that the relevant testing data is made available to our regulatory agencies," Srivastava said. The regulator can then decide on the nature of trials that may be needed before a decision can be taken on the use of any candidate vaccine in India, he said. Meanwhile, Kirill Dmitriev, the CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), said on Thursday that Russia is looking for a partnership with India for producing Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. To a separate question on possible dates for holding India-Japan annual summit, Srivastava said the two sides are in touch with each other through diplomatic channels and whenever a date is finalized, it will be announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-support-govt-panel-to-facilitate-indian-firms-interested-in-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-mea-875847.html
21-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 21||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 29 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 29,69,975 as of August 21 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 55,856   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-21-875875.html
21-08-2020||National||Criminal law review panel asks if sexual minorities can demand search by non-male police officers||Can sexual minorities demand a search by a non-male police officer? Should the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) be amended to regulate the use of handcuffs? Should complainants be provided with an opportunity to be heard in bail proceedings? Can undertrials who are in jail for offences up to seven years be released upon completion of one-third of the period of the maximum sentence instead of the existing half period? These are among the 109 questions raised by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)-appointed Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws while seeking an opinion of experts on the changes needed in CrPC. Fifty-two questions form part of the first round of online consultation on procedural law that ends on August 28 and the rest 59 are part of the second round of consultation, which will start on August 29 and end on September 15. The MHA had set up the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws in May this year to undertake a review of criminal laws. The committee has already concluded two rounds of consultations on substantive law, during which it sought opinion on a variety of provisions in the Indian Penal Code, including whether there is a need to omit or amend the sedition clause and whether there is a need to lower the minimum age for criminal responsibility from 18 years. The consultation on the Law of Evidence will start on August 29. On the CrPC, the panel has asked whether life imprisonment without the possibility of remission was at odds with the penological justification of rehabilitation. Another question is about the possibility of giving victims a greater role in the prosecution of offences. It is also seeking advice on inclusion of the provision for collecting voice samples alpha-numeric/Face ID/Touch ID passwords to electronic devices and other biometric identifiers and the safeguards to be put in place for protecting the right to privacy. The panel headed by National Law University-Delhi Vice-Chancellor Dr Ranbir Singh wants to know whether there is a need to amend the provisions for an obligation on the arresting officer to inform the arrestee of their rights at the time of the arrest such as the right to free legal aid, right against self-incrimination and medical examination. It also wants an opinion on whether there is a need to modify Section 41(D) of the CrPC to allow an arrestee to take legal prior to his interrogation and presence of a lawyer throughout the interrogation. “In what manner should the provisions pertaining to arrest, search and seizure be modified in order to account for the needs of gender and sexual minorities (e.g., gender minorities being provided the right to demand search by a non-male police officer)?” another question read. "When it comes to bail hearings, the panel wants to know whether complainants and victims should get an opportunity to be heard in court. In addition to the existing monetary bail system, should alternatives such as conditional release be introduced?" the panel has asked. Setting a time-frame for deciding on bail applications, filing the final report after completion of the probe, submitting supplementary chargesheets, completing trials and pronouncing judgement after reserving it is also being considered. Amid civil rights activists complaining about police imposing Section 144 (prohibitory orders) indiscriminately, the panel has asked what could be done in a manner that adequately balances individual rights and national security. The panel is tasked with recommending reforms in a "principled, effective, and efficient manner which ensures the safety and security of the individual, the community and the nation and which prioritises the constitutional values of justice, dignity and the inherent worth of the individual". Earlier, a group of former judges and bureaucrats, lawyers and academicians have demanded reconstitution of a government-appointed committee looking into criminal law reforms, saying it has no representation of women, Dalits and minorities in the panel tasked with recommending wide-ranging changes in the statutes. The group, which included former Supreme Court judges Gopal Gowda and Kurien Joseph among others, also wanted the committee to suspend its functioning at a time the country is in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/criminal-law-review-panel-asks-if-sexual-minorities-can-demand-search-by-non-male-police-officers-875863.html
21-08-2020||National||27% students don't have access to laptops for online classes: NCERT||Approximately 27% of students cited the non-availability of smartphones and laptops, while 28% of the stakeholders complained about intermittent or lack of electricity as a hindrance in online learning, according to an NCERT survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/27-students-dont-have-access-to-laptops-for-online-classes-ncert-875880.html
21-08-2020||National||The Lead: Film criticism and Indian cinema||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, national award-winning film critic Baradwaj Rangan talks about many aspects of film criticism and changes in Indian cinema today.  Here are some excerpts: Vivek M V: Hello sir, welcome to the show Baradwaj Rangan: Thank you Vivek, thank you so much. Vivek: I want to start off with a quote. Steven Speilberg once said that "whenever I go to a movie, it's magic! No matter what the movie is about". So for someone who is experienced in the field of writing on movies, what does cinema mean to you? Rangan: It basically means transport; it means something that takes you from where you are into another world. That would be the physical definition of the world you know, something strange that you don't know. For me. it's going and spending two- two-and-a-half hours with some other people, in some other place, in some other homes. That's what it means to me. Vivek: Alright. Nice. Given the situation that we are in now. A lot of media outlets have been explored and even discovered a lot of OTT platforms, so content is coming through them. Another thing is that the way we look at content is also changed, maybe because we want to compensate for the films that are not releasing in theatres. Also, we have the luxury of sitting at home and thinking about a lot of ideas. Do you think, too much is too bad or is it the best phase of film journalism? Rangan: See, as far as one of the things this has given me is job security. In a strange way, there is so much to write about. But as far as viewing goes, I think we are heading towards or maybe we are already in that phase, where we are terribly fragmented. That happened in the music market sometime back and now it's happening in the film market. We are all gonna be watching very good films. It's not going to be one monolithic film that releases in the theatres that we all rush to watch and enjoy. We all are going to be watching different things that appeal to us. It could be a movie, it could be 3 hours of Tik-Tok or whatever app that catches people's fancy at that point in time because I already know a lot of people who have been saying things like that they can watch 5-10 minutes of YouTube videos, beyond that they don't have the attention span. People's brains are being rewired as we speak. I do think that it's the golden age in terms of... yes, there are a lot of different kinds of content available. You don't need to have that one size fits all type of movie anymore, you can completely make a movie that you want without worrying about whether somebody sitting in some small town is going to identify with this that you have created or not... Listen to the podcast to know more about the conversation. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-film-criticism-and-indian-cinema-875886.html
21-08-2020||National||UP govt comes up with comparative data of crime in state in 9 years||With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly in session and opposition parties planning to corner the government on the law-and-order front, the BJP-led dispensation came out with a comparative data of crime of the last nine years on Thursday and claimed that it was due to its zero-tolerance policy that incidents of crime had come down considerably under the current regime. Compared to the data of crimes committed in the last nine years, there has been a significant drop in criminal cases during the present government, a spokesperson of the home department claimed. He said there was a 74.50-per cent fall in cases of dacoity in 2020 as compared to 2016. When it comes to rape cases, there has been a 25.94-per cent fall compared to 2013, a 38.74-per cent fall compared to the figures of 2016 and a 28.13-per cent fall compared to 2019, the spokesperson said. As regards cases lodged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, from January 2019 to June 2020, the conviction has been achieved in 922 cases, five convicts have been sentenced to death and 193 to life imprisonment, he added. Similarly, there was a dip in the number of cases of loot, murder and crime for ransom, the spokesperson said, adding that effective action was taken in connection with cases registered under the Goonda Act, Gangster Act and National Security Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-comes-up-with-comparative-data-of-crime-in-state-in-9-years-875893.html
21-08-2020||National||4 lakh unemployed ESIC workers to get 50% of 3 months' wages||The Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) on Thursday relaxed norms to pay 50 per cent of average wages of three months as unemployment benefit to cope with job loss between March 24 and December 31 this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ESIC board's decision in a meeting held on Thursday is expected to benefit about 40 lakh industrial workers. The ESIC has approved relaxation in eligibility criteria and enhancement in the payment of unemployment benefit under its Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, it said in a statement. It is implementing the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyna Yojna under which unemployment benefit is paid to the workers covered under ESI scheme. According to the statement, the ESIC has decided to extend the scheme for one more year up to June 30, 2021. It has been decided to relax the existing conditions and the amount of relief for workers who have lost employment during the COVID-19 pandemic period, it added. The enhanced relief under the relaxed conditions will be payable during the period of March 24, 2020 to December 31, 2020. Thereafter the scheme will be available with original eligibility condition during the period January 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021. The review of these (relaxed) conditions will be done after December 31 this year depending upon the need and demand for such relaxed condition, it said. The eligibility criteria for availing the relief has also been relaxed under the scheme. It said the payment of relief has been enhanced to 50 per cent  of average of wages from earlier 25 per cent of average wages payable up to maximum 90 days of unemployment. Instead of the relief becoming payable 90 days after unemployment, it shall become due for payment after 30 days, it added. The Insured Person (IP) can submit the claim directly to the ESIC branch office instead of the claim being forwarded by the last employer and the payment shall be made directly in the bank account of IP. The IP should have insurable employment for a minimum period of 2 years before his/her employment and should have contributed for not less than 78 days in the contribution period immediately preceding to unemployment and minimum 78 days in one of the remaining 3 contribution periods in two years prior to unemployment, the statement said. The ESIC, during its 182nd meeting held on Thursday under the chairmanship of Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, also took some other decisions towards improvement in its service delivery mechanism and providing relief to workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The decisions include establishment of ICU/HDU (Intensive care unit) services at 10 per cent of total beds in ESIC Hospitals. With a view to strengthen ICU/HDU services in ESIC hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided to establish ICU/HDU (High Dependency Unit) services up to 10 per cent of total commissioned beds in all ESIC Hospitals. ESIC covers about 3.49 crore of family units of workers and providing matchless cash benefits and reasonable medical care to its 13.56 crore beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-lakh-unemployed-esic-workers-to-get-50-of-3-months-wages-875931.html
21-08-2020||National||Dilip Kumar's younger brother, Aslam Khan, dies of Covid-19||Aslam Khan, the younger brother of thespian Dilip Kumar passed away on Friday. He was diagnosed with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-kumars-younger-brother-aslam-khan-dies-of-covid-19-875943.html
21-08-2020||National||Centre eyes 50 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine in initial procurement; mulls prioritisation: Report||Currently, India has three potential Covid-19 vaccine candidates. Telangana-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 Vaccine are the only vaccine candidates to have got a nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct human trials.  Prioritisation of the vaccines, once they get all the regulatory approvals, is being discussed by government bodies, along with planning supply chains and distribution. Recently, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General, Balram Bhargava told reporters that the Covid-19 vaccine candidates coordinated by Bharat Biotech and Cadila are nearing completion of phase-two trails. “The one being handled by the Serum Institute of India and developed by Oxford University will enter Phase-2 (b) trials this weekend, for which 1,700 patients have been identified at 17 centres across the country. “Normally the final trial takes about six to nine months but if the government decides, an emergency authorisation could be considered,” Bhargava had said. Local vaccine manufacturers, asking the government for estimates of were assured of a large demand, the report said.   During a meeting, the National Expert Group of Vaccine Administration, chaired by NITI Ayog member V K Paul and Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, companies were asked to submit proposals detailing capacities for manufacturing, price ranges and suggestions on how the government can support them. The expert committee has also asked for the Standing Technical Sub-Committee of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) for suggestions on selection of vaccine candidates. A senior executive from one of the local vaccine manufacturers said vaccine development involves huge investments, quoted the report. “We have to dedicate some of our capacities to ramp up production of Covid-19 vaccines. This is why the government must indicate an assured market,” he told the publication. Before the expert group meeting, Bhushan told the reporters, “The terms of reference of the expert group include selecting a suitable vaccine, its delivery, prioritising groups that should receive it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-eyes-50-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-initial-procurement-mulls-prioritisation-report-875947.html
21-08-2020||National||180 million PAN cards not linked to Aadhaar numbers may become defunct by March: Report||The IT department is taking this step to nab tax evaders who use multiple PANs to conduct high-value transactions. The government might also track individuals' spending patterns if they find large sums being spent on luxury items but low income being reported to evade tax, the report said.  The department gets an account of these details from banks, financial institutions, mutual funds, credit card companies, etc. Naveen Wadhwa, deputy general manager at Taxmann, a consultancy, told the publication:  If PAN is not yet linked with Aadhaar, there is a possibility to obtain multiple PANs. Once a PAN is linked with an Aadhaar, it will not be possible to obtain multiple PANs.” “It is surprising that in a population of 1.3 billion only 15 million contribute to the I-T kitty. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also pointed this out recently. Available data suggest that there is an urgent need to expand the tax base,” the report cited an IT department official saying. According to the report, there are 50.95 crore PAN cardholders in the country as of June, but only 6.48 crore of them file income-tax returns (ITR), and only 1.5 crore actually pay tax.  Another official told the publication that some people use multiple PAN cards to hide high-value transactions and keep themselves out of the tax net. “As a result, only 327.1 million PANs are linked with Aadhaar. More than one-third PANs could be under the scanner unless linked with Aadhaar before March 31,” he said. The government may also include payments such as education fee and electricity consumption above Rs 1 lakh, domestic business class air travel, gold or white goods above Rs 1 lakh, property tax above Rs 20,000, life insurance above Rs 50,000 and health insurance premium above Rs 20,000. Wadhwa said the proposed move of the government to expand the list of expenditure would not cause any incontinence to honest taxpayers. The government zeroes in on only those cases that manifest a larger gap between the returned income and expenditures, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/180-million-pan-cards-not-linked-to-aadhaar-numbers-may-become-defunct-by-march-report-875952.html
21-08-2020||National||Don't want to use the word 'retirement' because you are way too young, PM Modi tells Suresh Raina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi distinctly remembers Suresh Raina's elegant cover drives during the epic 2011 World Cup quarter-final against Australia in Ahmedabad, something that, he feels, the all-rounder's numerous fans will miss after he followed Mahendra Singh Dhoni into international retirement. The 33-year-old Raina, a member of the 2011 World Cup-winning India team, announced his retirement on August 15, minutes after Dhoni announced his retirement from international cricket. The two players, who are close friends as well, will turn up for Chennai Super Kings in the IPL now. "I do not want to use the word 'retirement' because you are too young and energetic to 'retire'," PM Modi, who also wrote a letter of appreciation to Dhoni, said a two-page note to Raina. "During your cricketing career, you sometimes faced setbacks including injuries but every time you overcame those challenges, thanks to your tenacity," he said. Raina, on his part, thanked the Prime Minister. "When we play, we give our blood & sweat for the nation. No better appreciation than being loved by the people of this country and even more by the country’s PM. Thank you @narendramodi ji for your words of appreciation & best wishes. I accept them with gratitude. Jai Hind," the cricketer tweeted. In the letter, Modi recollected how much he enjoyed Raina's most famous innings of 34 not out in a tricky run-chase against a formidable Australia in the 2011 World Cup quarter-final at Motera. "India can never forget your inspiring role during the 2011 World Cup, especially during the later matches. I saw you live in action at the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad, during the Quarter Final against Australia. Your anchoring innings had a big role to play in our team's victory. "I can confidently say that most fans will miss your elegant cover drives, one which I was lucky to witness that day," said the PM, who was back then the Chief Minister of Gujarat. The PM also described Raina as the perfect team-man who enjoyed others' successes. "...Suresh Raina will always be synonymous with team spirit. You played not for personal glory but for the glory of your team and the glory of India. Your enthusiasm on the field was infectious and we could all witness that you would be among the first and most animated players to celebrate the fall of opposing team's wicket," the PM wrote. A bonafide IPL legend, Raina was praised by the Prime Minister for his prowess in the T20 format. "As a batsman, you especially distinguished yourself across all mediums and particularly in the newest form of the game, the T20 cricket. This is not an easy format. "In tune with our times, it requires quick fixes in double-quick time. Again your promptness and speed were assets for this form," Modi said, lavishing praise on the IPL's most prolific batsman. His sharp fielding was also acknowledged in the Prime Minister's appreciation letter. "Your fielding was exemplary and inspiring. Some of the best catches in recent international cricket have your distinctive imprint. It would take days to count the number of runs you saved with your alertness on the field."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-want-to-use-the-word-retirement-because-you-are-way-too-young-pm-modi-tells-suresh-raina-875954.html
21-08-2020||National||IIT Bombay students discover closest known asteroid to fly by Earth||Two students of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay have discovered an SUV-sized asteroid, that is known to be the closest asteroid to fly by Earth. On 16 August, the SUV-sized asteroid soared just 2,950 km above the surface of Earth. IIT Bombay students Kunal Deshmukh and Kritti Sharma, working on a research project, discovered this object just hours later using data from the robotic Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) in California. Designated 2020 QG, it is the closest known asteroid to fly by Earth without impacting the planet, an IIT-Bombay press statement said. The last known record-holder is asteroid 2011 CQ1, discovered by the Catalina Sky Survey in 2011, which passed above Earth about 1,550 miles (2,500 kilometers) higher than 2020 QG. It was Kritti Sharma’s third day on a research project to find Near Earth Asteroids. She and Kunal Deshmukh were analysing ZTF data on Sunday afternoon and reported five “streaks” in the data as potential asteroids. Little did they know that one of them was a record-breaking asteroid. “The data looked like all other Near Earth Asteroids we have seen so far,” said Kunal, a final year student in the department of Metallurgy and Materials Science at IIT Bombay. After the ZTF team reported their finding to the International Astronomical Union Minor Planet Center, several telescopes followed up to learn more about the asteroid's size and orbit, proving that it had passed very close to Earth. Kritti was overjoyed: “Helping make a discovery like this, so early in my research project, is beyond what I had ever imagined!”, said the third-year undergraduate student of IIT Bombay’s Department of Mechanical Engineering. Their advisor, Prof.Varun Bhalerao, said: “It is wonderful to see these students coming from diverse backgrounds and contributing to astrophysics research. We are very excited about our next phase: studying such objects with the robotic GROWTH-India Telescope at Hanle, Ladakh”. Asteroid 2020 QG is about 10 to 20 feet (3 to 6 meters) across, or roughly the size of an SUV, so it was not big enough to do any damage even if it had been pointed at Earth; instead, it would have burned up in our planet's atmosphere. "The asteroid flew close enough to Earth that Earth's gravity significantly changed its orbit," says ZTF co-investigator Tom Prince, the Ira S. Bowen Professor of Physics at Caltech and a senior research scientist at JPL, which Caltech manages for NASA. Asteroids of this size that fly roughly as close to Earth as 2020 QG do occur about once a year or less, but many of them are never detected. "ZTF's large-field of view and rapid data processing allows it to find rare asteroids like this that other telescopes might not find," says George Helou, ZTF co-investigator and director of IPAC, an astronomy center, at Caltech. ZTF, which is funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and other collaborators, scans the entire northern sky every three nights in search of supernovas, erupting stars, and other objects that otherwise change or move in the sky. As part of a NASA-funded program, ZTF team members search for near-Earth asteroids. When these space rocks speed across the sky, they leave streaks in the ZTF images. Each night, machine-learning programs automatically sort through about 100,000 images in search of these streaks, and then narrow down the best asteroid candidates to be followed up by humans. This results in about 1,000 images that team members and students sort through by eye every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-bombay-students-discover-closest-known-asteroid-to-fly-by-earth-875958.html
21-08-2020||National||Teenager caught plucking flowers; Odisha village boycotts 40 Dalit families: Report||The incident happened over two months ago in Kantio Kateni village of Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, resulting in confrontation between the two communities. The Dalit families have been boycotted for two weeks now. "We had immediately apologised so that the matter could be resolved, but following the incidents, several meetings were called and they decided to boycott us. Nobody is allowed to talk to us; we are not allowed to participate in any social event of the village," the girl's father told The Indian Express. The community has been deprived of daily essentials from their nearest PDS shops. "We have to walk 5 km to buy essentials. Villagers have even stopped talking to us," The Indian Express quoted Jyoti Naik, one of the villagers Following the objection, the community submitted several memorandums to the district administration and to the police station on August 17. The memorandum read that their children were not allowed to study in the local government school and the teachers who belonged to the community had been asked to get themselves transferred elsewhere. However, the sarpanch of the village rejected these allegations but agreed that the villagers were asked to not talk to the members of that community, the publication reported.  The Police and the sub-collector said that they would try to resolve the matter by organising a peace meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teenager-caught-plucking-flowers-odisha-village-boycotts-40-dalit-families-report-875960.html
21-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 29-lakh mark, recovery rate rises to over 74%||India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past 29 lakh, a day after it crossed 28 lakh, with a single-day spike of 68,898 infections, while the recoveries have increased to 21,58,946 on Friday taking the recovery rate to over 74 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total cases of coronavirus infections mounted to 29,05,823, while the death toll climbed to 54,849 with 983 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Case fatality rate has declined to 1.89 per cent while the recovery rate has risen to 74.30 per cent. There are  6,92,028 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 23.82 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,34,67,237 samples have been tested up to August 20 with 8,05,985 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-29-lakh-mark-recovery-rate-rises-to-over-74-875967.html
21-08-2020||National||Rise above party politics: BSP Chief Mayawati to UP legislators||With the UP Assembly in session, BSP Chief Mayawati Friday urged all legislators to rise above party politics and raise issues of public interest and focus on the "dismal" state of law and order. "It is my strong appeal to MLAs, both of the ruling party and opposition in Uttar Pradesh, to rise above party politics and effectively raise the issues of public interest in the House and make the government and administration accountable. This demand is in the wider public interest,” she said in a tweet. 1. उत्तर प्रदेश में सत्ता व विपक्ष के विधायकों से मेरी पुरजोर अपील है कि वे विधानसभा के चल रहे वर्तमान सत्र में दलगत राजनीति से उपर उठकर जनहित के विशेष मुद्दों को जरूर प्रभावी ढंग से सदन में उठाकर शासन/ प्रशासन को जिम्मेदार व जवाबदेह बनायें। व्यापक जनहित की यही माँग है। 1/2 "Though the issue of development is largely missing from the agenda of the government, but do raise your voice on the oppression of women and killings of members of Dalit, Muslim and Brahmin Samaj and other atrocities, meaning the dismal state of law and order in UP. This is the demand of time," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-above-party-politics-bsp-chief-mayawati-to-up-legislators-875973.html
21-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee remains haemodynamically stable, on ventilatory support: Hospital||There was no change in the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and he remains haemodynamically stable and on ventilatory support, the hospital said Friday. Doctors attending to him said his vital parameters are being maintained. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. "The medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains the same. He is being treated for a lung infection and continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-remains-haemodynamically-stable-on-ventilatory-support-hospital-875982.html
21-08-2020||National||CBI starts probe in Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has formally commenced its investigation into the mysterious death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. CBI sleuths fanned out at multiple locations on Friday to gather information about the case – that has been transferred to it by the Supreme Court after a legal tussle on the issue of jurisdiction between the Maharashtra and Bihar governments. A CBI team is studying the case diary of the Mumbai Police and the inquiries it conducted after registering an accidental death report (ADR) following the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on 14 June. The CBI team is also visiting the duplex flat in Mont Blanc building at Carter Road in upscale Bandra locality and reconstruct the crime scene. After this, the team is expected to summon Rhea Chakraborty, the actor’s live-in partner, whom Sushant’s family have blamed for the actor’s death. They have also questioned a couple of people. The CBI has registered an FIR into the case based on the complaint made by Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh, that he made to Patna police, in which he had blamed the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her family and associates for the death of his son and swindling off his money. The Bandra police station has registered an FIR and commenced inquiry under section 174 of the CrPC, during which they have recorded 56 statements. The regional office of Enforcement Directorate has recorded statements of a dozen persons including Rhea. The CBI will seek the statements before that issue summons to people and start recording shreds of evidence. The Bandra police station has recorded statements of the statement of Sanjana Sanghi, Sushant's co-star in "Dil Bechara", actor Mahesh Shetty, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Mahesh Bhatt, Salman Khan’s former manager Reshma Shetty,  Aditya Chopra,  Apoorva Mehta, CEO of Dharma Productions, the production house of Karan Johar, among others. The statements of Shushant’s father and his sisters given to Mumbai police too would be significant in the investigations. The ED has till date recorded the statement of several people in the case including Rhea, her brother Showik, her father Indrajit, Sushant's house manager Samuel Miranda, Rhea’s ex-manager Shruti Modi, his personal staff Ritesh Mewati and Dipesh Sawant, Sushant's sister Meetu Singh, his chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar, Rhea's CA Ritesh Shah, Sushant’s friend and flatmate Siddharth Paithani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-starts-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-875986.html
21-08-2020||National||Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking probe against former CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court dismissed a PIL seeking in-house probe against former CJI Ranjan Gogoi into alleged "commission and omission" by him during his tenure as an apex court judge. The court said that he has demitted the office now and nothing remains in this petition.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-dismisses-pil-seeking-probe-against-former-cji-ranjan-gogoi-875989.html
21-08-2020||National||Kerala gold smuggling case: Court rejects bail plea of Swapna Suresh||A special court here on Friday dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling scandal, in a case registered by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the money trail of the illegal trade. The special PMLA court dismissed her bail plea on the ground that the accused, in a statement given to the ED under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), has admitted that she had roles in hatching the conspiracy and smuggling the gold from the foreign country. Opposing the bail application moved by Suresh, the ED had said that the accused had disclosed to it her association with other accused and also of some others who are involved in the crime. Noting that the revelations made by her indicate that she had 'considerable influence' in the office of Kerala Chief Minister, the ED said if she is released on bail, there is a chance of tampering with evidence and also influencing the witnesses. The Investigating Agency said it apprehends hurdles in the progress of the investigation, if the petitioner is enlarged on bail now. The investigation is progressing and persons connected with the crime and having influence have also to be questioned, the ED said. Earlier, an NIA court and an Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, had also dismissed her bail pleas in separate cases registered by NIA and Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate. Multiple agencies including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate are probing the case of smuggling of gold worth over Rs 100 crore through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram since November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-swapna-suresh-876027.html
21-08-2020||National||Jammu-Srinagar NH remains closed for second day, 3000 vehicles stranded||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained closed for the second consecutive day on Friday due to multiple landslides triggered by heavy rains in Ramban district, leaving over 3000 vehicles stranded, officials said.      The highway was blocked by a major landslide at Trishul Morh, Battery Cheshma and Pantiyal areas on Thursday, officials said. Deputy Superintendent of Police, (Highway Ramban), Ajay Anand, said the stretch between Banihal and Ramban has been hit by landslides and shooting stones at over a dozen places including Sherbibi, Moon Passi, Ramsoo, Pantiyal, Digdool, Battery Cheshma, Monkey Morh, Kelamoore, Maroog, Trishul Morh and Chanderkot area.         He said about 150 stranded vehicles were allowed to move late on Thursday but after fresh landslides, the road is blocked again.         He said shooting stones and landslides were hampering restoration work and clearance of roads will take at least one day.       The clearance operation is going on in full swing to restore traffic movement, the officials said.       Over 3,000 vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the highway and traffic was stopped at Qazigund and Udhampur Chanderkote soon after the highway was blocked. The highway was closed for two days last week due to a massive landslide triggered by heavy rains in Ramban district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-srinagar-nh-remains-closed-for-second-day-3000-vehicles-stranded-876031.html
21-08-2020||National||Rajya Sabha bypoll on Sep 11 for seat vacated following Amar Singh's death||The Rajya Sabha bypoll to fill the seat vacated due to the death of former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh will be held on September 11, the Election Commission announced Friday. Singh had died in a Singapore hospital on August 1 due to kidney-related complications. His term as a Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh was till July, 2022. The notification for the bypoll will be issued on August 25 and the election would be held on September 11, an EC statement said. As per the established practice, the counting of votes will be held on September 11 evening after the conclusion of voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-bypoll-on-sep-11-for-seat-vacated-following-amar-singhs-death-876033.html
21-08-2020||National||Has coronavirus brought caste discrimination back in India?||By Shruti Srivastava Millions of migrant workers made arduous journeys to their villages after India imposed the world’s largest lockdown in March. Back in the rural hinterland, many say caste discrimination is reversing even the small economic and social gains they eked out in the cities. In the village of Aston, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, Raju Banskar, 33, says the double stigma of coming from a lower caste and having travelled from New Delhi where the coronavirus is spreading has made it impossible to find a job. In the city, construction work fueled by India’s decades-long economic boom brought him 250 rupees to 300 rupees ($3-$4) a day, and few paid attention to his caste. But building sites shut down when Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the nationwide lockdown to contain the virus. Back home, Banskar says work created through government jobs programs are mostly allocated by the village headman to upper caste workers. Nine migrants interviewed by Bloomberg News in several Indian states had stories that were similar to Banskar’s, showing how the pandemic is widening one of the nation’s sharpest inequities, the social hierarchy determined by India’s ancient caste system, which can often determine everything from social interactions to economic opportunities. The South Asian country marks the 30th anniversary of its economic liberalization next year, but the pandemic is now unravelling the tenuous benefits that globalization brought to workers like Banskar.  “I have no land, so had left my village some 12 years ago in search of work and to escape this system where I am considered untouchable,” Banskar said by phone. “I have come back to the same situation that I left, in fact, it has only become worse.” People from lower castes were historically not allowed to touch those from higher castes, and Banskar says many of these practices remain in his village. The headman of Banskar’s village couldn’t be reached for comment. Chandrasen Singh, additional chief executive officer of the Zila Panchayat, or the local government body, of Tikamgarh district which administers Banskar’s village said the region’s job program is very active and he hasn’t received complaints about caste discrimination. “All these allegations have no substance,” he said. Some people have refused work because wages under government’s job program are lower than what they were earning outside, and the work in village may not require a lot of labour, Singh said.  In recent months, India’s government has boosted spending to revive the economy, launched employment schemes for those returning to villages, and allocated more funds to rural jobs programs. The benefits aren’t always percolating down to the lowest castes, villagers in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh said in interviews. A spokesperson for the ministry of rural development which administers the jobs program didn’t respond to calls made to her mobile. Manish Kumar, 24, who returned to Tevar village, in the eastern district of Varanasi said caste-based discrimination restarted the moment he entered the quarantine center in his village, where upper castes separated themselves from Dalits, a group that’s perceived to be at the bottom rung of the caste pyramid and includes more than 200 million people nationwide. Kumar said he hasn’t received any work under the government jobs scheme or received free food aid even though he has the required documents. “When I go to shop, the shopkeeper asks people from my caste to wait, they first cater to the upper caste people,” he said. The head of his village couldn’t be reached. The discrimination the migrants describe isn’t new. According to a 2010 study on social discrimination by Oxfam India, a New Delhi-based NGO, Dalits, tribal groups, and Muslims are highly underrepresented in better paid and higher status jobs, while they are disproportionately concentrated among those with lower wages in the informal sector. That’s the area that’s been hit the worst during the pandemic, making those from lower castes more likely to fall back into severe poverty. Sunil Kumar Chaurasia, program officer, with Sahbhagi Shikshan Kendra , a non-profit organization headquartered in northern state of Uttar Pradesh said it is mostly Dalits who suffer as they do not have the connections upper caste people have. Dalits are mostly uneducated and unaware of their rights or government schemes and hence can’t access facilities, he said. Women are particularly sharply hit because they are often responsible for picking up food and water, and some migrant returnees said they wait for hours at the village tap because upper-caste families get access first. In Aston village, Krishna Ahirwar, 22, returned from New Delhi along with her husband and toddler and is staying in a separate locality where Dalits have historically lived. Landless, with no ration card -- the government document required to get food aid - she’s found it hard to arrange for food. “We are thinking about whether to go back to the city,” Ahirwar said. But returning to the city isn’t easy. India has reported 2.8 million coronavirus cases, making the risk of contagion particularly high in crowded cities. Bablu Ahirwar, 32, from village Lakheri, in Madhya Pradesh state, worked as a labourer at construction sites in New Delhi. In March, he and his family - Dalits but not related to Krishna Ahirwar - came back to their ancestral mud house in the village. When he went to seek work from the village headman, he says he was told there were no ongoing projects. The headman of his village couldn’t be reached. “The village headman is giving jobs to people from his caste,” he said. “Nobody has anything for people like me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/has-coronavirus-brought-caste-discrimination-back-in-india-876055.html
21-08-2020||National||Uproar in Rajasthan assembly over issue of Covid-19 management, House adjourned thrice||The Rajasthan assembly on Friday witnessed uproar during a debate on Covid-19 management and economic impact of lockdown leading to repeated adjournment of the proceedings. Health Minister Raghu Sharma opened the debate and highlighted the management of Covid-19 done by the state government and efforts to strengthen health infrastructure. Speaking on the debate after the minister, BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf accused the Congress government of distributing ration and food kits among its supporters. The charge invited a sharp reaction from Parliament Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal. The House saw heated arguments between Transport Minister Pratap Singh and Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria. Amid the uproar, the House was adjourned for 30 minutes. When the House reassembled, the uproar continued and Chairperson Rajendra Pareek adjourned the House for another 15 minutes. Immediately after the House reassembled after 15 minutes, the chairperson announced another adjournment till 2 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uproar-in-rajasthan-assembly-over-issue-of-covid-19-management-house-adjourned-thrice-876056.html
21-08-2020||National||India to impose fresh curbs on visas, universities to thwart China influence||The academicians and the business executives from China may find it difficult to travel to India as New Delhi is contemplating to tighten the visa rules for people coming in from China, as the relation between the two nations has reached a new low of late. The visa applications of the business executives and the academicians seeking to travel from China to India are likely to go through more stringent scrutiny by the security agencies in future, sources in New Delhi said. The move comes amid continuing military stand-off between India and China along the disputed boundary between the two neighbours in eastern Ladakh. The aggressive move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) strained the relations between the two nations. While the Indian Army responded to the transgressions by the Chinese PLA along the de facto boundary between the two nations, New Delhi took several other measures to convey it to Beijing that the overall bilateral relations could not remain unaffected by China’s expansionist move into the territory of India. The DH on August 4 reported that the Ministry of Human Resource Development of the Government of India would review the functioning of the Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms jointly established by China and seven universities and colleges in India. The ministry will also review 54 pacts inked by Indian and Chinese higher education institutions for academic cooperation. Besides, New Delhi on June 29 banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order”. The government on July 28 banned use of 47 more apps – mostly the clones and the different versions of the previously banned ones. New Delhi of late also decided to bar China’s companies from participating in highway construction projects in India. The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and the Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited (MTNL) of late cancelled tender inviting bids from companies for supply of equipment for upgrading its network to 4G – a move, which is apparently aimed at keeping away Huawei Technologies Company and ZTE Corporation of China away from the project and stopping them from expanding footprints in the telecom sector of India. The Modi Government also moved to restrict entities of China from participating in commercial coal auctions in India, implementing a revision in foreign investment policy introduced in April – just days before the military stand-off between the two nations came to the public domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-impose-fresh-curbs-on-visas-universities-to-thwart-china-influence-876070.html
21-08-2020||National||Cabinet never discussed setting up of PM-CARES fund: RTI||Transparency activist Anjali Bhardwaj had filed an RTI queries with the Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Secretariat, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Ministry of Law and Justice, Ministry of Labour and Employment and Chief Labour Commissioner regarding various aspects of the PM-CARES fund, which was set up on March 27. The Cabinet Secretariat, in its response, revealed that "there was no agenda item in any Cabinet meeting specifically related to the creation of the PM-CARES fund". The RTI response from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs showed that on March 28, its office memorandum said that donations to the PM-CARES Fund qualify under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities as it was set up by the central government. In the office memorandum on clarification on contribution to PM-CARES fund as eligible CSR activity, the Ministry said the Companies Act, 2013 provides that contribute to any fund set up by the Central Government for socio-economic development and relief qualifies as CSR expenditure. "The PM-CARES Fund has been set up to provide relief to those affected by any kind of emergency or distress situation. Accordingly, it is clarified that any contribution made to the PM CARES Fund shall qualify as CSR expenditure..." it said. However, in late May, the Companies Act was retrospectively amended to include donations to PM-CARES as CSR activity so that it was not dependent on the definition that the fund was set up by the government. RTI queries seeking details of donations were stonewalled by the government citing that the fund was set up as a public charitable trust and not a public authority under the transparency law. "The documents from MoCA relied on the fact that the fund has been set up by the Central government to approve it for CSR funding. It appears odd that the decision to set up a body in which the Prime Minister is the chairperson in an ex-officio capacity and three ministers are trustees, in an ex-officio capacity, did not go through the cabinet," Bhardwaj said. The Ministry of Law and Justice has so far not responded to Bhardwaj's query whether its comments sought on the setting up of the fund. Following the announcement that Rs 1,000 crore has been allocated for the care of migrant labourers, RTI queries were also submitted with the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Chief Labour Commissioner. The Ministry responded saying PM-CARES was not a public authority and relevant information could be seen on its website. The Chief Labour Commissioner said in response that no such information (earmarking Rs 1,000 crore) was available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-never-discussed-setting-up-of-pm-cares-fund-rti-876095.html
21-08-2020||National||Polls at the time of Pandemic: EC sets norms for new normal of voting||How will elections take place in India amid coronavirus? If a voter with high body temperature turns up at a polling station, she or he will be sent back with a token and asked to come again at the last hour to cast votes. All voters will have to come with masks on faces, but whoever will forget to do so should not worry as they will get ones while waiting in the queues before entering polling booths – maintaining six feet distance from each other. They will also get gloves to put on before pressing the buttons on the Electronic Voting Machines. This is what is going to be the 'new normal' of voting in the Covid-19 era. The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday issued “broad guidelines” for holding polls at the time of the pandemic. Apart from infrared thermometers for checking the body temperatures of the voters, the polling stations will also have sanitizers, soap and water and all poll officials too will be issued masks, face-shields and gloves to put on. The polling booths will be sanitized, preferably a day before the date of voting.   The quarantined Covid-19 patients will be allowed to cast votes at the last hour of polling, along with the ones who will be turned back earlier on the day when thermal screening found them having a high temperature. The ECI on Friday framed the “broad guidelines” for holding elections amid speculation over the forthcoming assembly polls in Bihar – due in October. The poll-panel will also have to conduct several bye-elections across the country. It left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans for holding elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it.  The “new normal” of elections will, in fact, begin with the filing of nomination by the candidates, who will now have the option of filling the forms and the affidavits online and submission of printouts before the Returning Officers. They will also have the option of depositing the security money online. They can however no longer take out long processions while going to submit nomination papers – hitherto used as the first display of strength in the battle of ballots. They can now take only two vehicles and two supporters to the offices of the Returning Officers.  The campaigning ahead of polling in the Covid-19 era is also going to be a toned-down affair. Not more than five persons will be allowed to go for door-to-door campaigning and only five vehicles can take part in the roadshows. Only a limited number of people will be allowed to attend the public meetings in the designated grounds as the EC wants the authorities to ensure strict adherence of the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/polls-at-the-time-of-pandemic-ec-sets-norms-for-new-normal-of-voting-876112.html
21-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: B S Yediyurappa offers bagina at Krishnaraja Sagar dam||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Akshay Kumar is all set to feature in “Into the Wild with Bear Grylls.”; Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, for the fifth time, offered bagina at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Mandya district and Kabini dam in Mysuru district and Supreme Court refused to entertain a plea asking to set up a three-judge panel to inquire into the conduct of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as a judge of the apex court.  Here are the top news of today, Friday: August 21, 2020: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi and superstar Rajinikanth, Akshay Kumar is all set to feature in “Into the Wild with Bear Grylls.” Akshay took to social media to announce this. Sharing a teaser for the episode, he tweeted: ““You thinking I mad… but mad only going into the wild.”  The Into the Wild episode featuring actor Akshay Kumar as a guest will premiere on September 11 on Discovery+ The Supreme Court refused to entertain a plea asking to set up a three-judge panel to inquire into the conduct of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra termed as “infructuous” the PIL and said the petitioner did not press for a hearing in the last two years and moreover, now that Gogoi has already demitted office. Petitioner Arun Ramchandra Hublikar had sought an inquiry into the alleged “omission and commission” by Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. Gogoi is now a Rajya Sabha member. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President Satish Jarkiholi has demanded a judicial probe into the recent incident of violence in Bengaluru.  He said that the Congress party leaders and workers were being selectively targeted for inquiry by the police, hence a judicial probe was needed to clear the air. He further said that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has been blaming the factions in the Congress for the violence. Agreeing that there are factions within the Congress, Jarkiholi said that they were not involved in the violence.  He blamed the BJP government as being responsible for the violence, adding that complainants had been waiting for their complaint to be filed for more than three hours and had that been done immediately, violence could have been prevented. Due to the dubious storage methods, a social media analytics company has exposed nearly hundreds of million user profiles from Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube. Apparently, Social Data, a company known for legally selling influential social media users' data to marketing companies, did not even incorporate password protection nor set-up any authentication process to access the database. Some hackers got their hands on this data and dumped it in dark websites. The data dump contained personal information of the people and user-engagement metrics including username, officially registered name, account description, whether the profile belongs to a business or has advertisements, statistics about follower engagement, including: number of followers, engagement rate, follower growth rate, audience gender, audience age, audience location, likes and last post timestamp and some samples included email and phone numbers as well. Bob Diachenko's Comparitech cybersecurity team identified the millions of user-profiles related to Instagram (19,23,92,954), TikTok (4,21,29,799 ), and YouTube (39,55,892) totalling close to 235 million in some undisclosed websites hosted at three separate IPv6 addresses. However, there is a twist here.  The exposed data had links to the origin (accounts-deep social-90 and accounts-deep social-91) and it belonged to the Deep Social. The latter's Application Programming Interface was banned and sued by Facebook and Instagram in 2018 for fraudulently scraping user profiles.  To know more about this report by Rohit KVN, read it on the Deccan Herald website. A study published in The Lancet medical journal this week says that researchers in Singapore have discovered a new variant of the Covid-19 that causes milder infections. It showed that Covid-19 patients infected with a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 had better clinical outcomes, including a lower proportion developing low blood oxygen or requiring intensive care. The study also showed the variant, which has a large deletion in a part of its genome, elicited a more robust immune response. The positive part is that scientists said the findings had implications for vaccine development and treatments for Covid-19. With rains providing respite in the catchments of River Krishna and its tributaries in Karnataka and Maharashtra, the water inflow into Karnataka has receded today.  The level in River Krishna was below danger level with the inflow being 2.06 lakh cusecs. The discharge of water from dams in Maharashtra had led to the water level in River Krishna reaching the danger mark yesterday. Meanwhile, in the Southern part of the state: Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, for the fifth time, offered bagina at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Mandya district and Kabini dam in Mysuru district today. Bagina is a puja that is offered when the reservoirs are full.  After offering the bagina at the KRS dam, he flew  by helicopter and reached H D Kote taluk and offered bagina at Kabini dam. The Chief Minister had to face the heat of protests by farmers' organisations in H D Kote taluk and Srirangapatna. The farmers have demanded the government to withdraw the amendment to the Land Reforms Act. The farmer organisations had planned to show black flags as a mark of protest against the amendment to the Act but they were not allowed near the dam as the police had beefed up security arrangements. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-b-s-yediyurappa-offers-bagina-at-krishnaraja-sagar-dam-876123.html
21-08-2020||National||Supreme Court extends term of 3 members of Armed Forces Tribunal||The Supreme Court has extended the term of three Administrative Members of the Armed Forces Tribunal for a period of two months. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde passed the order after noting that connected matters were posted for hearing in the next month. “The term of three administrative members of the Armed Forces Tribunal was extended for a period of one month by an Order of this Court dated July 16, 2020.  “As all the connected matters are scheduled to be listed for hearing on September 9, 2020, we deem it appropriate that the term of three administrative members of the Armed Forces Tribunal is extended for a period of two more months,” the bench said. According to section 5 of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, the tribunal shall consist of a Chairperson, and such number of Judicial and Administrative Members as the Central Government may deem fit. A person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chairperson unless he is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court, as per the Act. The Armed Forces Tribunal Bar Association had written to the apex court in 2016 seeking appointment of judicial members of AFTs claiming that the work there has almost come to a "standstill". In the letter to then Chief Justice T S Thakur, copies of which was sent to Defence Minister and Law Minister, Secretary of the AFT (Principal Bench) Bar Association, said there were only five benches functional out of a total of 17, which had resulted in a lack of access to justice to military personnel, disabled soldiers and even widows of defence personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-extends-term-of-3-members-of-armed-forces-tribunal-876126.html
21-08-2020||National||KVIC sends legal notices to 2 firms for fraudulently using Khadi brand||Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has issued legal notices to two firms -- Khadi Essentials and Khadi Global -- for “unauthorizedly” and “fraudulently” using the brand name Khadi. In the notices served to the two Delhi-based firms in the first week of August, KVIC has asked them to immediately stop selling or promoting products using the brand name Khadi and cancel the domain names -- khadiessentials.com and khadiglobalstore.com. The notices said that the two firms sell a range of cosmetic and beauty products through various e-commerce platforms using the Khadi brand misleading consumers and should discontinue their social media handles on various platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Pinterest. “The adoption of your mark...is in bad faith and is aimed at misappropriating the goodwill and reputation of Khadi trademark. Apart from Khadi India, the trademark “Khadi” can only be used by authorized licensee or franchisee holders,” said the notices. KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena said that any misuse of the Khadi brand has a "direct bearing on the livelihood of our artisans who are making genuine handcrafted products in remote parts of India". KVIC will take stern action against any individual or firm misusing the brand, he said. "Failing to comply with the instructions in seven days, legal action will be initiated against the firms," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kvic-sends-legal-notices-to-2-firms-for-fraudulently-using-khadi-brand-876129.html
21-08-2020||National||Fire incident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant deeply unfortunate: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday described the Srisailam hydroelectric plant fire tragedy, in which nine persons were killed, as "deeply unfortunate" and hoped that the injured recover at the earliest.  The incident took place late Thursday night in the plant on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border.  "Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest," the prime minister said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-incident-at-srisailam-hydroelectric-plant-deeply-unfortunate-pm-narendra-modi-876131.html
21-08-2020||National||Nitin Gadkari reviews road projects; launches app 'Harit Path' to monitor plantation along NHs||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday stressed the need for utilising modern and green technologies in highways construction besides reducing the cost of road-building by at least 25 per cent. The road transport minister also launched a mobile app 'Harit Path' to monitor the plantation along the national highways. Chairing a meeting via video conference to review 'New Green Highways Policy (Plantation)' and discuss the use of new technologies in road construction, Gadkari said it should be the ministry's mission to reduce the cost of construction by 25 per cent and for this new technologies are required, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Gadkari, who also holds an MSME portfolio, also stressed on utilising modern and green technologies in road construction all over the country. "The minister launched 'Harit Path', a mobile app to monitor the plantations through geo-tagging and web-based GIS enabled monitoring tools. The app has been developed by NHAI to monitor location, growth, species details, maintenance activities, targets and achievements of each of its field units for each and every plant under all plantation projects," the statement said. While inaugurating the mobile app, the minister emphasised on strict monitoring of plantation and transplantation of trees. The minister suggested that specialised persons/agencies should be hired for plantation of trees along the highways. He suggested involving NGOs, self-help groups and horticulture and forest department in this. The officials assured that they will be able to achieve the goal of 100 per cent plantation on highways by March 2022. "While discussing the issue of transplantation of trees, Gadkari said that it should be our mission to save all the trees from being cut and specialised agencies equipped with new technologies should be hired for the purpose. The minister stressed upon using local indigenous material like jute, coir, etc for strengthening purposes," the statement said. Gadkari also said that the right choice of species suiting local conditions is also very important. He said that specific areas like hilly areas, border areas and coastal areas need different approach and technologies. The minister appreciated the use of such technology in road construction in Andaman and Nicobar and motivated the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd to follow the example in the rest of the projects. Meanwhile, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in a statement said the mobile app 'Harit Path' launched by the minister will provide digital address to every tree planted along the national highways. The GPS-based app has been developed by the NHAI to monitor location, growth, species details, maintenance activities, targets and achievements of each of its field units for each and every plant under all plantation projects, it said. "To commemorate 25 years of its service to the nation, the National Highways Authority of India has also recently undertaken 'Harit Bharat Sankalp', a nation-wide plantation drive which is in line with NHAI’s commitment to promote environment protection and sustainability," the statement said. Under this initiative, the NHAI planted over 25 lakh plants in 25 days along the stretches of the national highways between July 21 and August 15, 2020. The drive takes the total cumulative number of plantations done during the current year to 35.22 lakh. "The nation-wide plantation drive has been actively taken up by NHAI’s regional offices to achieve the collective target of making greener national highways. Maximum number of over 5.0 lakh plants have been planted in Uttar Pradesh, followed by over 3.0 lakh in Rajasthan and 2.67 Lakh in Madhya Pradesh along the national highways," the statement said. In order to ensure 100 per cent survival of the plants, avenue plantation of minimum height of 1.5 metre has been emphasised along the national highways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-reviews-road-projects-launches-app-harit-path-to-monitor-plantation-along-nhs-876139.html
21-08-2020||National||Pray that Lord Ganesha bless us all to overcome Covid-19 pandemic: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind greeted citizens on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi on Friday and prayed that Lord Ganesha bless all to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, celebrated as the birthday of Lord Ganesha, is an expression of people's enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of society along on this occasion, he said. "At present, we are facing the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic. I hope and pray that Lord Ganesha bless us all to overcome this pandemic at the earliest possible and we all live a happy and healthy life," the President said. On this festival, "let us pledge to strengthen the mutual harmony, fraternity and unity among all citizens of the country", he said. Kovind extended his best wishes and heartiest congratulations to all fellow citizens living in India and abroad on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pray-that-lord-ganesha-bless-us-all-to-overcome-covid-19-pandemic-president-ram-nath-kovind-876146.html
21-08-2020||National||Tenure of Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal extended||The Ministry of Jal Shakti has extended the tenure of the  Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal by one year. The government constituted the Tribunal in November 2010 to resolve Mahadayi river's water sharing dispute between Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. The Tribunal submitted its final report on August 2018 to the Ministry. However, all the three states have filed clarification petitions before the Tribunal about its final order. Separately both Karnataka and Goa have filed separate petitions before the Supreme Court raising different issues on the dispute. Since the Tribunal requested the Ministry to extend its tenure for one more year as it has to submit its report on clarification petitions filed by all the three states, its term extended for one more year from April 20 2020, said a gazette notification issued by Jal Shakti Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tenure-of-mahadayi-water-disputes-tribunal-extended-876169.html
21-08-2020||National||JEE, NEET to be held as planned: Centre||The Centre on Friday ruled out postponement of the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) – and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG), even as student organisations renewed efforts for cancellation citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Testing Agency, which conducts both the examinations, pointed out that the Supreme Court had given a clear verdict on a bunch of petitions challenging the conduct of the exams in the middle of a pandemic. The NTA cited the Supreme Court judgement that noted that the examinations were going to be held with due precaution and it was not going to be postponed. “NTA conveys its best wishes to all the candidates of these examinations,” the statement said. It said the admit cards have been issued to 8,58,273 candidates for the JEE (Main) and 6,49,223 students have so far downloaded their admit cards. The NTA said 6,61,911 students had requested a change in the centre city, which has been accepted. As many as 142 students had further requested a change in the centre city, which was being considered positively. The NTA said adequate preparations have been made for the JEE (Main) scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6 and the NEET to be held on September 13. In line with the centre's guidelines on hygiene protocols during the pandemic, elaborate arrangements have been made to sanitise exam centres before and after each shift. Fresh face masks will be handed out to all students. Similarly, students appearing for the NEET (undergraduate) exam were also given the option to change their centres and around 95,000 candidates had availed this opportunity. Of the total 15,97,433 candidates for this exam, 99.87% were given their preferred choice of cities in which to appear for the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-neet-to-be-held-as-planned-centre-876195.html
21-08-2020||National||India to record 68 lakh fewer female births between 2017-2030: Study||India will record 68 lakh fewer female births between 2017 and 2030 due to sex-selective abortions, says a new study. Using official data, an international team of researchers estimated that the average annual number of missing female births between 2017 and 2025 would be around 4,69,000 per year and is likely to increase to 5,19,000 per year between 2026 and 2030. The researchers projected sex ratio at birth in the largest 29 Indian states and union territories that covered 98.4% of India’s population in 2011. As many 17 states (and union territories) showed an inclination for preferring sons, as per the study that makes the projection with a statistical model using government data. Most of them are concentrated in north-west India. In particular, the effect is most significant in nine states: Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. There has been a reported imbalance in India in the sex ratio at birth (SRB) since the 1970s due to the emergence of prenatal sex selection and the cultural preference for male babies.  The Centre in 1994 brought out the pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Technique Act to check the menace of female foeticide. The law was amended later to give it more teeth. However, there have been suspicions on its implementation by authorities. "The imbalanced sex ratio at birth is indirect evidence that sex-selective abortion still exists," principal investigator Fengqing Chao from King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia told DH.  Among all states and UTs, Uttar Pradesh has the largest contribution to the number of missing female births. It will have 20 lakh less female births between 2017 and 2030, representing nearly 30% of the national total. The average annual missing female births in Uttar Pradesh are projected to be 141,000 during 2017–2025 which increase to 151,000 during 2026–2030. “Utter Pradesh is the most populous state in India. The number of births in this state is also the largest. The number of missing female births takes into account both the imbalanced SRB and the number of births,” Chao said. According to the official data, India’s sex ratio (number of females to 1000 males) fell to 896 in 2015-17. The sex ratio is on a downward slide since 2011-13 when it was 909. Subsequently it fell to 906 (2012-14); 900 (2013-15) and 898 (2014-16). “The study flags the issue, which is getting worse every day. But the estimate is conservative as the problem is worse,” commented Punit Bedi, a gynaecologist and foetal medicine specialist at Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, who campaigned against female foeticide for years. “The issue has gone out of our mind; it doesn’t mean the problem has disappeared.” The study was published in the journal PLOS One earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-record-68-lakh-fewer-female-births-between-2017-2030-study-876213.html
21-08-2020||National||Bihar flood situation grim; Heavy rains lash many states, 'orange' alert for Mumbai||Heavy rains submerged low-lying areas and snapped road links in many states, including Odisha, Uttarakhand and Gujarat, while the flood situation worsened in Bihar, with the number of people affected by the deluge increasing to 82.92 lakh on Friday. In Uttarakhand, a man and his two children were buried alive when their house collapsed following rains in Pithoragarh district, while the body of a woman was found in a village four days after she went missing during a landslide. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Maharashtra has issued an “orange” alert for Mumbai, Thane and rest of the Konkan region for Saturday, forecasting heavy rainfall. The orange alert implies that authorities should be ready to handle situations arising out of severe weather. The flood situation in Bihar remained grim with an additional 1.13 lakh people bearing the brunt in 16 districts in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of affected people to 82.92 lakh, a Disaster Management Department bulletin said. Flood-related deaths remained unchanged at 27, it said and as many as 82,92,464 people have been affected by the deluge in 1,322 panchayats of 130 blocks since Thursday. The bulletin said that an additional five panchayat areas faced flood fury in the past 24 hours while the number of blocks and districts remained the same at 130 and 16 respectively. Till Thursday, 81,79,257 people were impacted by the calamity. In West Bengal, high tidal waves owing to new moon and incessant rain have caused the water level to rise in the Sunderbans area, damaging earthen dams along various rivers even as the meteorological (MeT) department on Friday warned of more heavy downpour due to formation of a low pressure area in the region. Breaches in the earthen dams on embankments in the riverine region have damaged mud houses, sources said. Farmers are apprehensive of major losses in yields as saline water entering fields would destroy crops, including paddy, vegetables and also sweet water fish, they said. The MeT department has warned of heavy rain in south Bengal, especially in the coastal districts of South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore. On the rain situation in Maharashtra, IMD Senior Director (Mumbai) Shubhangi Bhute said, "Due to the well-marked low pressure on East MP and associated cyclonic circulation, Konkan region and ghat (upland) areas of central Maharashtra are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next 48 hours." Wind speeds are expected to be between 45 km to 55 km, she said in a video message. "Orange alert is being issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for next 24 hours," Bhute added. The hill-state of Uttarakhand, which is witnessing heavy rain in several of its areas, saw traffic being disrupted on several roads, including those to Himalayan temples of Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri. The roads got blocked at several points with rocks and boulders tumbling down hills following rains, the state disaster management office said in Dehradun. In Odisha, incessant downpour triggered by a series of low-pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal increased water level in several rivers, submerged many low- lying areas and claimed two lives on Friday, officials said. The state government, however, ruled out any fear of flood and said though the water level in some rivers had crossed the danger mark, it is likely to recede as the intensity of rainfall in upper catchment areas has now subsided. Many parts of Odisha have been battered by heavy rainfall under the impact of four back-to-back low pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal this month, officials said. In Gujarat, as many as 131 roads, including a national highway and seven state highways, were shut for traffic as rains continued to lash several parts of the state on Friday, officials said. With the formation of a low-pressure area, some parts of the state are likely to get heavy to very heavy rainfall on Saturday and Sunday, the (IMD) said. Incessant rainfall since Friday morning resulted in water-logging in several parts of the state. In Telangana, hundreds of people have been shifted to safer places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district following heavy rains, even as relief works got underway in other affected areas of the state. The water level in the Godavari river in the temple town of Bhadrachalam (in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district) was flowing above the danger level of 53 feet and stood at 54.90 feet at 1 pm, officials said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the Godavri’s level inched closer to the danger mark at the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage in East Godavari district. On the other side, the Krishna river too received copious inflows bringing the Srisailam reservoir closer to its full capacity, consequent to which over 4.96 lakh cusecs of water was being discharged downstream. The IMD issued a red alert of extremely heavy rainfall in six districts of Madhya Pradesh, even as downpour continued in several parts of the state. As per the alert, which will be valid till Saturday morning, extremely heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places in Hoshangabad, Jabalpur, Betul, Narsinghpur, Seoni and Harda districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-flood-situation-grim-heavy-rains-lash-many-states-orange-alert-for-mumbai-876223.html
21-08-2020||National||China must restore status quo ante in eastern Ladakh to resolve border standoff: Government sources||The Chinese military is not serious about resolution of the border standoff in eastern Ladakh and it is faced with an "unanticipated" consequence for its "misadventure" due to a strong response by the Indian Army, government sources said on Friday. The sources said there has been a stalemate in the military talks as the Indian Army was strongly insisting that the Chinese PLA must restore status quo ante of April this year to resolve the over three-month-old border standoff. The Indian Army has clearly stated to China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) that "shifting" of the Line of Actual Control(LAC) is not acceptable to it, the sources said, adding the Chinese military is now desperately attempting to give "ex post facto strategic meaning" to its actions in eastern Ladakh. "Due to the strong response of Indian Army, the PLA is faced with unanticipated and unintended consequences of its misadventure," said a source, adding it is looking for a "face-saving exit strategy". Another source said the Chinese side is resorting to a strategy of "back and forth" and not showing any interest in finding a solution to the border standoff. India and China on Thursday agreed to resolve outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner" and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said after the two sides held a fresh round of diplomatic talks to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. On Thursday, the two sides held another round of diplomatic talks following which the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said they had agreed to resolve outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner" and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. However, sources said the meeting could not produce any significant outcome. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas, sources said. In the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. Even as both sides are engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian army is making elaborate preparations to maintain its current strength of troops in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to maintain a significantly high state of alertness to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", the sources said. The Army is also in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troops, they added. The temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degree celsius in the winter months. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-must-restore-status-quo-ante-in-eastern-ladakh-to-resolve-border-standoff-government-sources-876235.html
21-08-2020||National||Arun Shourie bats for more openness in collegium system on judges appointments||Former union minister Arun Shourie on Friday said there should be more openness in the system of the collegium on appointment of judges to the Supreme Court and high courts and people should themselves keep a track of individual judges. Participating in an online talk on "Who will judge the judges", the veteran journalist said former Chief Justice of India J S Verma, the author of the collegium system, himself had said it "has become a bargaining place." Pitching for more openness about that system such as the qualifications of the person (chosen for appointment) and judgements, he said "....unfortunately we cannot rely on the collegium of the Supreme Court or any other body to be as candid." Shourie was responding to a query on the appointment of judges during the talk organised by Manthan, a city-based non-government organisation which hosts debates by prominent personalities. "So, it is up to us, citizens, to keep track of individual judges so that when they are elevated, the public is informed ki bhai, ye tho aisa admi hai, bahut acha admi hai, ya iski ye khamiya hai, ye hamari responsibility hai (he is that type of person, a very good person, or these are his drawbacks. We cannot abdicate it to politicians...," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arun-shourie-bats-for-more-openness-in-collegium-system-on-judges-appointments-876242.html
21-08-2020||National||STPI to have India's largest incubation ecosystem with 21 centres in a year: STPI DG||State-owned Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) expects to have the largest ecosystem of incubating new technologies in the country by setting up 21 centres of excellence, a top official of the organisation said on Friday. During an online seminar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce on the usage of blockchain technology in the agriculture sector, STPI Director General Omkar Rai said the organisation has planned 21 centres of excellence (CoEs) to incubate new technologies in various sectors, and 12 of these centres are already operational. "We have centres of excellence in autonomous connected electric vehicles, IoT (internet of things), augmented and virtual realities, animation and gaming, meditech, blockchain, etc," Rai said. He added that a total of 21 CoEs have already been planned and "STPI is going to have the country's largest incubation ecosystem in technology in a year". Rai said STPI is collaborating with industry, academia and all stakeholders to develop new technologies in various verticals. "Out of 21, we have already launched 12 CoEs. Three centres are dedicated to agriculture. We have launched one in Guwahati and another in Gurugram in the name of Apiary. We will launch another centre anytime soon in Patna," Rai said. Agriculture, forestry and fishing jointly contribute around 17 per cent to India's gross domestic product, and about half of the country's population is dependent on the sector for their livelihood. Rai said India is the second-largest producer of farm products in the world and still needs to grow up in the value chain. He also said there is a need to adopt modern technologies to enhance production in agriculture as well as focus on branding to build trust and reap high benefits. "We have to enhance our branding based on trust, transparency and traceability. While keeping all other aspects constant, we have a variable which is branding. Everyone is fond of organic but how do we build trust. Blockchain is one technology that can create trust around the origin and quality of the products," Rai said. He added that agriculture is a sector that is not much explored in terms of usage of modern technologies. "There are a lot of opportunities where one can create products, solutions and technology," Rai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stpi-to-have-indias-largest-incubation-ecosystem-with-21-centres-in-a-year-stpi-dg-876253.html
21-08-2020||National||Former Finance Secretary Rajiv Kumar appointed as Election Commissioner||The government on Friday appointed former finance secretary Rajiv Kumar as the new election commissioner to fill the vacancy created in the three-member-panel after Ashok Lavasa resigned to take over as the Vice President of the Asian Development Bank. Kumar, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 1984 batch, was appointed as the Finance Secretary in July 2019. He retired in February and was appointed as the Chairman of Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) in April. President Ram Nath Kovind has now appointed him as the election commissioner, according to a notification issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice on Friday. Kumar, 60, is likely to continue in the Election Commission for the next five years and may even take over as the Chief Election Commissioner in 2022 after the retirement of Sushil Chandra, who is likely to succeed Sunil Arora, as the head of the poll panel next year. Lavasa was senior to Chandra and was next-in-line to take over as the CEC after the term of Arora would end in April 2021. He, however, resigned to join the Asian Development Bank. The President accepted his resignation “with effect from August 31, 2020”, read a gazette notification issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-finance-secretary-rajiv-kumar-appointed-as-election-commissioner-876265.html
21-08-2020||National||Naik came back from death's door: Goa minister||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik returned from the "door of death" after he contracted the coronavirus infection. Naik, currently admitted to a private hospital, has been doing well after he was administered plasma therapy, Rane informed. The state health minister dismissed criticism -- against the backdrop of Naik catching the viral infection -- about the efficacy of immunity boosters recommended by the the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). "When AYUSH ministry has recommended immunity boosters, they must have done it after proper research and using their wisdom. It is not fair to pass comments on it," Rane told reporters here. To a question, he said, "Naik virtually went to the door of death and came back....It was bad luck that he got infected. He moves around among people. We should be praying for his fast recovery." Rane also informed that the state government will be re-organising Covid-19 treatment facilities from Monday. All critically ill coronavirus patients would be treated at the Goa Medical College and Hospital near Panaji, he said. The minister also appealed people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naik-came-back-from-deaths-door-goa-minister-876285.html
21-08-2020||National Politics||Cong accuses govt of 'double standards' over Chinese sponsor for IPL||The Congress accused the Centre of "double standards" on Thursday as it pointed out that a Chinese company has been allowed to sponsor the IPL while the government talks about self-reliance. "Is it a double standard for the poor sufferers here about whom you preach 'aatmanirbharta' or is it favouritism?" Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi asked while addressing an online press briefing. He hoped that the government would satisfy the conscience for national wealth, nationalism and patriotism on why it has allowed a company with Chinese investments to the tune of hundreds of millions of US dollars to sponsor the Indian Premier League (IPL). "We are not concerned with individual sectors, individual subjects, individual companies, we are concerned with the Government of India as the supposed protector of our national ethos. This is the government, this is the prime minister and this is the home minister, who give us lectures every second on nationalism, patriotism. It purportedly tests it. "We know that this 'aatmanirbhar' slogan may cause a lot of pain, a lot of distress to people, who might have got things cheaper, temporarily at least, from China, but they are all contributing, they are all sacrificing. Why this exemption to IPL and cricket?" Singhvi asked. The government has given a call for self-reliance and a campaign for not dealing with China ever since the neighbouring country's army killed 20 Indian soldiers in a border dispute in Ladakh in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-accuses-govt-of-double-standards-over-chinese-sponsor-for-ipl-875826.html
21-08-2020||National Politics||Facebook a non-partisan platform, says India head amid political row||Facebook on Friday said it is a non-partisan platform and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India that are in violation of its standards, amid allegations that the social media giant did not apply hate speech rules for posts by certain ruling party politicians. Recently, a Wall Street Journal report alleged that Facebook's content policies favoured the ruling party in India. Since then, the ruling BJP and opposition Congress have been trading barbs over social media giant's alleged bias. "Facebook is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form," Facebook India Vice President and Managing Director Ajit Mohan said in a blog post. He also said that Facebook has an impartial approach to dealing with content and is strongly governed by its Community Standards. "We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief. We have removed and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India when it violates our Community Standards," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/facebook-a-non-partisan-platform-says-india-head-amid-political-row-876232.html
21-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks govt on state of economy, unemployment||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday again attacked the government over the state of the economy and unemployment, accusing it of spending public money on "image correction". Citing a news report which claimed the government is seeking to plan a media blitz for its 'image correction' to help improve India's rankings on various indices, Gandhi tweeted, "Economic slump, unemployment, Chinese aggression ail our country. GOI: Let's spend taxpayers' money on 'image correction'." Congress has also demanded answers from the government on its plan to "improve the economy and employment generation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-govt-on-state-of-economy-unemployment-876255.html
21-08-2020||National Politics||With you in fight for justice: Priyanka Gandhi to Sudiksha's family||A Congress delegation met the family of Sudiksha Bhati, who died earlier this month in a road crash, at their Greater Noida home on Friday and extended Rs 5 lakh aid along with a condolence letter from party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in which she has assured full support in their "fight for justice". Gandhi in her letter to the bereaved family recalled Sudiksha as a girl who brought glory to the country. "The incident that happened with Sudiksha and her death shook me. She was a sincere and brave girl. I have heard some of her speeches. Sudiksha could feel the difficulties felt by other girls. She was passionate for the cause of girls' education and for her family. And this is why she brought glory to India at world stage," Gandhi wrote. "I can feel it is a moment of grief for you and your family. I want to assure you, that we all are with you. Do not feel alone in your fight for justice," she wrote in the letter addressed to Sudiksha's parents Jeetendra Bhati and Geeta Devi. Congress secretary Rohit Chaudhary led the delegation which reached Deri Scanar village around 2.30 pm and met the family, party's district unit office-bearer Deepak Bhati said. "The delegation handed over Rs 5 lakh as a token of support to the family and also the condolence letter by our general secretary and state in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra," Bhati told PTI. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on August 11 attacked the Yogi Adityanth government in Uttar Pradesh over the alleged lack of security for women in the state and asserted that there should be zero tolerance to crimes against women in the wake of Sudiksha's death. Sudiksha, who hailed from Deri Scanar village in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Dadri, had died on August 10 in a road accident in Bulandshahr district. Her family had alleged she was being harassed by two motorcycle-borne men that led to the crash and death. Two men were eventually arrested over the matter, even as the Bulandshahr police had ruled out harassment, citing CCTV footages and eye-witness account, and stressed it was a case of "accident". An academically bright student, she was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at the Babson College, Massachusetts in the US on a Rs 3.80 crore scholarship and was scheduled to go back on August 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-you-in-fight-for-justice-priyanka-gandhi-to-sudikshas-family-876269.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Swachh Survekshan: Jodhpur deemed 'Fastest Mover Big City'||Jodhpur in Rajasthan has been adjudged as the "Fastest Mover Big City" in the Swachhata Survey 2020, results of which were announced by the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing on Thursday. Jodhpur has been accorded the 29th rank in the survey among 47 cities with a population of over 10 lakh, which is a huge jump from its 243rd rank in the previous survey. The Ministry observed that Jodhpur has made tremendous improvement and has a huge potential for further improvements. Jodhpur has earned a total of 3,615 points out of 6,000. It had bagged 2,091 points in the 2019 Swachhata Survey. JMC Commissioner Suresh Kumar Ola attributed this quantum leap of 214 places in the ranking to immaculate working on all the aspects pertaining to the Swachhata Survey this year. Expressing gratitude to the staff of the Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) and the people of the city, he said, "We worked on various initiatives, ensuring active participation of people, and it was due to this that Jodhpur occupied the first place in Citizens' Feedback in the entire state." Ola said 4,000 "swachhata sainiks", ward in-charge and chief sanitation inspectors of the JMC played a key role in making this feat possible. "The paintings on city walls, roads and city circles made by the swachhata sainiks kicked off an atmosphere for cleanliness and provided a radiance to the city," Ola said, adding that because of this, Jodhpur got 1,045 points out of 1,500 in "Field Observation". Besides, the city has a system in place for door-to-door waste collection, which is being monitored through GPS technology, he said. The Ministry had included 4,242 cities in the survey with different categories corresponding to their population and Jodhpur was competing among 47 cities under the population category of 10 lakh-40 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/swachh-survekshan-jodhpur-deemed-fastest-mover-big-city-875874.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines PIL against power bill calculation; says approach DERC||The Delhi High Court Friday declined to entertain a PIL alleging that power distribution companies (discoms) here calculated bills for the lockdown months by an "unjust and arbitrary" method and suggested the petitioner to first approach the electricity regulator, DERC. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, right at the commencement of the hearing, said the petitioner -- a doctor -- ought to have moved the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) which would be the competent body to decide how the discoms should calculate the bills. In view of the observation by the bench, the petitioner's counsel, advocate Tushar Mahajan, sought permission to withdraw the petition and make a representation to the DERC. The court allowed the petitioner — Vijay Mahajan — to withdraw the plea and move a representation before the DERC. The bench said that as and when such a representation is made by the petitioner, it shall be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the case. With the direction, the court disposed of the petition, filed through advocates Mahajan, Sharan Mehta, Hardik Rupal, Rohan Yadav and Satyam Aneja. The petition had contended that the discoms, BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna, were calculating the electricity consumption charges, in contravention of DERC regulations, for the months when the lockdown was imposed in the city. "Instead of calculating the electricity charges based upon the specific number of units consumed in a particular month, respondent 2 and 3 (discoms) have equally divided the cumulative units spanning over four to five months to determine the unit consumption per month.  "Doing so resulted in the consumers being put in higher slabs in each month thereby resulting in an automatic increase in their electricity bills by at least 5-15 per cent for each month especially during March and April.," the petition had said. It had also challenged the discoms's decision to demand the entire charges for the 4-5 months in one go without providing consumers with the option of making payments in instalments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-pil-against-power-bill-calculation-says-approach-derc-876003.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court declines PIL against power bill calculation by discoms; says approach DERC||The Delhi High Court Friday declined to entertain a PIL alleging that power distribution companies (discoms) here calculated bills for the lockdown months by an "unjust and arbitrary" method and suggested to the petitioner to first approach the electricity regulator, DERC. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, right at the commencement of the hearing, said the petitioner -- a doctor -- ought to have moved the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) which would be the competent body to decide how the discoms should calculate the bills. In view of the observation by the bench, the petitioner's counsel, advocate Tushar Mahajan, sought permission to withdraw the petition and make a representation to the DERC. The court allowed the petitioner -- Vijay Mahajan -- to withdraw the plea and move a representation before the DERC. The bench said that as and when such a representation is made by the petitioner, it shall be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the case. With the direction, the court disposed of the petition, filed through advocates Mahajan, Sharan Mehta, Hardik Rupal, Rohan Yadav and Satyam Aneja. The petition had contended that the discoms, BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna, were calculating the electricity consumption charges, in contravention of DERC regulations, for the months when lockdown was imposed in the city. "Instead of calculating the electricity charges based upon the specific number of units consumed in a particular month, respondent 2 and 3 (discoms) have equally divided the cumulative units spanning over 4 to 5 months to determine the unit consumption per month.  "Doing so resulted in the consumers being put in higher slabs in each month thereby resulting in an automatic increase in their electricity bills by at least 5-15 per cent for each month especially during March and April.,"the petition had said. It had also challenged the discoms' decision to demand the entire charges for the 4-5 months in one go without providing consumers the option of making payments in installments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-declines-pil-against-power-bill-calculation-by-discoms-says-approach-derc-876016.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Ram Mandir to use copper, not iron for construction||No iron will be used to construct the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the Trust handling the construction said in a Tweet on Thursday. The construction will be according to India’s ancient and traditional techniques, the Tweet added.  “The construction of Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir has begun. Engineers from CBRI Roorkee, IIT Madras along with L&T are now testing the soil at the Mandir site. The construction work is expected to finish in 36-40 months,” the Trust announced. Calling for donations, the Trust said that copper plates will be used to fuse stone blocks. The plates will have to be 18 inches long, 33 mm wide and 33 mm thick. 10,000 such plates may be used in the construction. For Mandir construction, copper plates will be used to fuse stone blocks with each other. The plates should be 18 inches long, 30 mm wide & 3 mm in depth.10,000 such plates may be required in total structure. We call upon Shri Rambhakts to donate such copper plates to the trust. “Donors can engrave family names, place of origin or their community temples' names on these plates. This way, the copper plates will not only symbolise the unity of this country but also be a testament to the entire country's contribution towards Mandir construction,” the Tweet said. Using only stones, it will be built in such a manner that decay due to air, sun and water will not happen and temple will last for at least 1,000 years, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-mandir-to-use-copper-not-iron-for-construction-876022.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM hands over Rs 1 crore cheque to family of 'corona warrior' who succumbed to virus||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the family members of a sanitation worker who recently died of Covid-19, and handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore as an ex-gratia to them. Talking to reporters during his visit in North Delhi's Majnu Ka Tilla area, Kejriwal said that sanitation worker Raju contracted the infection when he was on Covid-19 duty and died while serving the people of Delhi. "We are proud of such 'corona warriors' who are sacrificing their lives while saving the citizens of Delhi," he said. The chief minister said that his government will provide all possible assistance to Raju's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-hands-over-rs-1-crore-cheque-to-family-of-corona-warrior-who-succumbed-to-virus-876029.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Militants glamorise terrorism by releasing attack videos: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday described the militants' attempt to circulate a video of a recent attack on social media as an attempt to “glamorize militancy.”  “By releasing video of attack, militants want to glamourise militancy. But they can’t. We replied by actions & killed 04 top commanders, Sajjad @ Haider & FT (foreign terrorist) Taimur Khan @ Abu Usman (seen in said video/attack) & Naseer @ Sad bhai & FT Ali bhai @ Danish within 72 hours (sic),” J&K police tweeted. The tweet came hours after recently-floated People’s Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF) militant outfit released the video of the Baramulla attack, on multiple social media platforms. On August 17, hours after three security forces personnel were killed in a militant attack in the Kreeri area of Baramulla district, an exchange of gunfire between the ultras and army resulted in the killing of three militants and two soldiers. In the video purportedly shot by one the militants, wearing a body camera, shooting at the security personnel along with another attacker, apparently in Kreeri on August 17. The video has since been removed from YouTube. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had termed the killing of Sajad Haider and Naseer as a “major success for security forces.” This is not the first time that militants shared a video after carrying out an attack on the security forces. On 24 June 2013, a video was shared when militants carried an attack on an army convoy at Hyderpora in Srinagar, killing nine soldiers. Similarly, another video was shared when slain Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Naveed Jatt showered bullets on the vehicle of security forces personnel in south Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-glamorise-terrorism-by-releasing-attack-videos-jk-police-876080.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Centre proposes to modify Motor Vehicle Rules to have clarity on ownership||Aimed at giving greater clarity on ownership type in vehicle registration documents, the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highway has issued a draft notification to amend the Central Motor Vehicle Rules.  The draft notification proposes clearly mentioning ownership type in vehicle registration papers. “It has come to the notice of the ministry that the ownership details are not properly reflected under the ownership under the various forms under motor vehicle rules required for registration of the motor vehicles,” the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. It is proposed to amend Form 20 of the motor vehicle rules to capture detailed ownership types such as autonomous body, central government, charitable trust, driving training school,  educational institute, local authority, multiple owners, police department etc, the statement said. The ministry said the changes are also proposed to ensure that the benefits of GST and other concessions are being provided to the divyangjan (physically challenged person) under various schemes of the government for the purchase /ownership/ operation of the motor vehicles. At present, the ownership captured does not reflect the details of the divyangjan citizens. “It becomes difficult for such divyangjan citizens to properly avail various benefits available under government schemes like the benefits to the divyangjan as per scheme for financial incentives of the Department of Heavy Industries,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-proposes-to-modify-motor-vehicle-rules-to-have-clarity-on-ownership-876087.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Friday prayers held in Jamia Masjid Srinagar after five months||The historic Jamia Masjid in Srinagar’s old city reopened for Friday congregational prayers for the first time after five months of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The 600-year-old mosque was opened the first time for routine prayers on Wednesday. However, this was for the first weekly congregational prayer at the Jamia Masjid located in the congested Nowhatta area of the old city. The government ordered reopening of religious places across Jammu and Kashmir from August 16 while asking the devotees to follow proper guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs). For the convenience of those coming for prayers, the Jamia Masjid administration had put in place all the SOPs and other preventive measures including providing free masks and keeping the sanitisers inside the grand masjid and putting up posters of guidelines to be followed. Till August 20 evening, 30,717 people had tested positive for the Covid-19 in J&K while nearly 600 people have died due to the deadly virus. Hundreds of men and women offered the congregational Friday prayers while maintaining social distancing norms. As the call for prayers (Azaan) blared on loudspeakers, worshippers rushed towards Jamia Masjid to offer the prayers. The Jamia Masjid, which is considered as a key point of the congregation, also remained closed for four months from August to December last year following the abrogation of Article 370.Nowhatta and its adjoining areas are bastions of Valley’s head priest and separatist leader Mirwaiz Umar and are considered as the hotbed of ‘Azadi’ sentiment in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-friday-prayers-held-in-jamia-masjid-srinagar-after-five-months-876090.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||In Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit, a beggar roams in PPE kit||In Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit town, which is about 300 kilometres from Lucknow, many residents thought that he might have been a member of the health officials visiting their localities to take samples for coronavirus test. After all, he had put on a PPE (personal protective equipment) kit, which is generally worn by the health workers. Much to their shock and dismay, it later turned out that he was a beggar and had put on the used PPE kit in a bid to protect himself from the rains. ''He (beggar) had found the PPE kit near a hospital...someone must have thrown it instead of disposing of it properly after using it,'' said a senior health official in the district. The matter came to light when the picture of the beggar wearing the PPE kit went viral on the social networking sites. ''We are probing the matter....we will take action against the company responsible for disposing of the medical waste....it is sheer negligence,'' the official added. Experts said that the PPE kit could be used only once. They say that the used PPE kits, masks and gloves should be disposed of in a bag and sanitised with sodium chloride. Earlier also there had been complaints that the doctors and paramedical staff at a hospital had thrown the used PPE kits outside the premises instead of disposing of them properly. Two children were seen carrying firewood in a used PPE kit, which they had found at a garbage dump, in Agra town a few months back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-uttar-pradeshs-pilibhit-a-beggar-roams-in-ppe-kit-876093.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Railways join hands with India Post for door to door delivery of parcel||Indian Railways is working on a tie-up with India Post for the door to door delivery of consignments across the country. With the Railways has already succeeded in a pilot project in providing first and last-mile connectivity to send two ventilators from Nagpur to Mumbai during Covid-19  lockdown, the national transporter wanted to expand the service throughout pan India. As per the plan, India Post picks up the consignments from the premises of the customers and delivers to the consignee at the destination through special parcel trains being operated by the Railways.  "It is basically door-to-door delivery of service. The Central Railways Zone in Mumbai has done a pilot project and we are planning to introduce this pan-India," Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said. India Post staff will pick up and deliver consignment ( first and last-mile connectivity)  the Railways will ferry the consignment for the longer route in its parcel trains, he said. Keeping in view the special parcel trains being operated by the Central Railway, the Central Railway and Maharashtra Postal Circle came together by offering India Post Railway Parcel Service. Initially, the service was between Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur stations which was expanded to Solapur, Kolhapur, Nashik and Akola. India Post during lockdown period largely depends on Indian Railways parcel trains to transport posts and consignment due to absence of another mode of transportation. India Post in association with pharma companies delivered ventilators, medicines and other hospital equipments through railway parcel vans. With the regular trains services suspended, the Railways is working on to increase the freight revenue. It already operated fixed time tabled parcel trains on pilot basis  to transport fruits and vegetables. The Railways also plans to operate fixed timetabled parcel vans to ferry goods on major routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-join-hands-with-india-post-for-door-to-door-delivery-of-parcel-876118.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||3 of family killed as house collapses after heavy rains in Pithoragarh, missing woman's body found||A man and his two children were buried alive when their house collapsed following rains in Pithoragarh district early on Friday, while the body of a woman was found in a village four days after she went missing in the wake of a landslide. Intermittent rains also lashed various parts of the state blocking several roads, including those leading to the Himalayan temples. A house collapsed following rains around 3 am in Chaisar village of Pithoragarh district, killing its owner Kushal Nath and his two children, including son Dhanajay aged four and daughter Nikita aged two, besides leaving his wife Nidhi (25) injured, Pithoragarh District Magistrate V K Jogdande said. The house seems to have collapsed because of being old, he said. Kushal Nath, 27, had recently bought it from someone, the DM said. SDRF and police personnel extricated the bodies from the rubble of the house besides rescuing Nath's wife who was injured in the incident, Jogdande said. Meanwhile, the Disaster Management Office in Dehradun said the body of 32-year-old Bhagirathi Devi, who had gone missing after a landslide on August 17, was found in Jumma village of Dharchula area in Pithoragarh district on Friday. The roads leading to Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri got blocked at several points with rocks and boulders tumbling down the hills following rains, the state disaster management office said in Dehradun. The Rishikesh-Badrinath highway was blocked in Totaghati in Chamoli, the road to Kedarnath at Jaleshwar Mahadev and Sitapur parking at Rudraprayag and the one to Yamunotri at Silai bend in Uttarkashi, it said. Tawaghat-Pangla, Tawaghat-Sobla, Jauljibi-Munsiyari and Ghat-Pithoragarh roads in Pithoragarh district were also blocked besides Bhatraujkhan-Ramnagar road in Almora, Dugadda-Kotdwar road in Pauri district and the road beyond Kodiyala at Vyasi in Tehri district, the disaster management office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-of-family-killed-as-house-collapses-after-heavy-rains-in-pithoragarh-missing-womans-body-found-876136.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Despite delay due to Covid-19, Jammu Ring Road project likely to meet December 2021 deadline: Official||The Jammu Ring Road project is likely to meet its December 2021 deadline despite the suspension of work for over three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Friday. The first phase of the road project was inaugurated by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday. The agency constructing the road has already mobilised its workforce and machinery, the official said. The first phase of the project was proposed to be inaugurated by March but the emergence of a challenging situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic forced suspension of work for over three months, he said. The official, however, said that the construction agency, Messrs Gayatri-KMB-JV, resumed work on the project in June and has engaged additional manpower besides ensuring double shifts to make up for lost time. The foundation stone for the over 58-km road project was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018 and it will connect Raya Morh in Samba district to Jagati on National Highway (NH)-44. "Efforts are being made to complete the remaining work (on Phase-1) in two months to bringing the project back on the original completion schedule for the remaining five phases; and completing the entire Jammu Ring Road project by December 2021," he said. The official said that the completion of the eight-km first phase would minimise traffic congestion on the Akhnoor Road, the Kangrail Road and Beda Morh by connecting Bhalwal to the Akhnoor Road on NH–144A, besides other interior roads. The phase has one major bridge, six minor bridges, 22 culverts, three major crossings, a six-kilometre rigid pavement and a two-km flexible pavement, besides plantation, he said. The four-laning standalone ring road under the National Highway Development Project starts at Raya Morh in Samba district and ends at Jagati on NH-44 covering 58.255 km after passing through villages like Sarore, Bishnah, R S Pura, Marh, Ghomanasa, Akhnoor, Bhalwal, the official said. The bypass around Jammu city has been planned keeping in view the increase in population in and around it and increase in the number of vehicles, he said. Traffic congestion has been further aggravated with frequent movement of security forces to border areas of Poonch, Rajouri, Nowshera, Akhnoor and other areas through the busy roads of Jammu city, according to the official. The entire project includes the construction of eight major bridges, 31 minor bridges, four viaducts, six flyovers, two interchanges, 219 culverts, one vehicular underpass, 15 pedestrian and cattle passes, 22 bus bays, six truck lay byes, two tunnels, 14.46-km of services roads and a toll plaza, he said. The ring road will cover a total of 60 villages, 54 in Jammu district and six in Samba district, the official said. The road will have 47.34-km of rigid pavement and 10.98-km of flexible pavement besides avenue plantation and median plantation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-delay-due-to-covid-19-jammu-ring-road-project-likely-to-meet-december-2021-deadline-official-876142.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Had to turn to Twitter to make authorities act in case of killing of party worker's kin: Senior BJP MLA||Criticising the alleged police inaction in the killing of a BJP worker’s relative in celebratory firing in Lakhimpur Kheri nearly two months ago, a ruling party MLA on Friday said he had to take to Twitter to make authorities act in the case. Senior BJP MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal said he had to approach Chief Minister Yogi Adtyanath through Twitter to apprise him of the police "inaction" when his five calls each to the state’s additional chief secretary and the police chief on August 17 remained unanswered. Agarwal said the authorities assured him of the requisite action, only after he resorted to Twitter to lodge a complaint with the chief minister. “I deleted my tweets after the Lakhimpur Kheri police arrested the accused after lodging a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code,” Agarwal told PTI on phone. “Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi and DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi both later told me that even the Kotwali SHO, Ajay Kumar Mishra, who has been dilly-dallying in the case, has been transferred to the district police lines,” said Agarwal. Agarwal, however, emphasised that his action should not be misconstrued as a protest against his party's government in the state. “As a BJP MLA, I am with my party inside the assembly, but as a people’s representative, I am with the people outside the assembly,” he said. The case in which Agarwal had to intervene dated back to June 25 this year when brother-in-law Ajit Pratap Singh of BJP worker Mahendra Pratap Singh, suffered a bullet injury in celebratory firing during a marriage procession in his neighbourhood and died unnoticed by people. “Ajit was standing in the balcony of his flat watching the wedding of his neighbour Mustafa's daughter. One Shanu Khan opened fire in celebration during the wedding when one bullet hit Ajit and he died,” said Mahendra Pratap Singh. “Ajit’s body kept lying in the balcony for two days before the killing was discovered. The subsequent post mortem revealed that he died of a bullet injury, but the Lakhimpur Kheri police kept on dithering in taking action and arresting the accused in the case despite deceased’s brother knocking at every door for the last two months,” he said. "Ajit's brother Arvind knocked at every door but to no avail and when he came to me I sought the help from Radha Mohan Das Agarwal," he said. Lauding MLA Agarwal’s intervention in the case, he added, "Radha Mohan Das Agarwal is a great BJP worker as for a small party worker like me, he kept aside his position and stood by me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/had-to-turn-to-twitter-to-make-authorities-act-in-case-of-killing-of-party-workers-kin-senior-bjp-mla-876144.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Plea filed in SC for live streaming of contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for live streaming or video recording of the proceedings being held in Suo Motu criminal contempt against advocate Prashant Bhushan, saying the case has a substantial effect on the Bar, and Bench not only in India but across the globe.  Advocate Amritpal Singh Khalsa said that the video-recording of proceedings of the Court in the instant contempt case would bring to an end the perception, "generated by a lobby" in the mind of the public at large that this Court has been unfair to Bhushan. "It would also set a deterrent message to the public at large, that the criticism which tends to shake to public faith in the institution would be dealt with an iron fist," he added. Citing the Supreme Court's "historic" judgement in Swapnil Tripathi's case (2018) allowing live streaming in important cases, the applicant said with the advancement of technology, it was possible by video or audio recording with absolute perfection and clarity.  "Such records could be electronically transmitted, which makes the concept that all courts are open to the public at large real. All over the world the practice of video and audio recording of Court proceedings and even live telecast thereof came into existence long ago," he pointed out. Khalsa further contended that the instant contempt case is one of the most sensational cases ever since the inception of the Supreme Court and the projection of Bhushan's case at the hands of print and digital media is nothing but glorifying him and his acts which tend to lower the respect and repute of the institution. The top Court had on Thursday asked Bhushan to rethink and tender an unconditional apology for his tweets against the judiciary, after reserving judgement on sentence against him. He was held guilty on August 14. The applicant contended that retired judges of the top Court have extended support to Bhushan, infact Justice Kurian Joseph has even questioned the bench hearing the contempt and has suggested an Intra Court appeal to the contemnor. The said retired judges were mere spectator when others (advocates) were convicted," he alleged. The applicant claimed, "a lobby, of which contemnor Bhushan is one of the founding members, the aim of the lobby is to destabilise the institution, criticise to the lowest possible level, on failure to obtain orders or relief from this court. One of their objectives is to target the Office of Chief Justice of India and past CJIs." Khalsa said the lobby has allegedly been instrumental in holding a protest in Chandigarh, and Chennai and got released multiple press statements by retired judges, civil societies, Bar Associations both foreign and Indian, in support of Bhushan for his widespread tweets which vilified the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-filed-in-sc-for-live-streaming-of-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-876154.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court dismisses plea against Amanatullah Khan's nomination for election as Delhi Waqf Board member||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed with cost of Rs 25,000, a plea challenging the nomination of AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan for election as a member of the Delhi Waqf Board, saying he was not made a party in the matter despite all the allegations made against him in the petition. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the petition was not a PIL at all and was full of allegations against Khan who has not been joined as a party even though it was necessary. "In view of the above, the petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 25,000," the bench said. The plea was moved by one Mohd Tufail Khan, who claims to be a social worker, alleging that the Delhi government's decision to nominate the AAP MLA to be elected as a member of the Board was "illegal, arbitrary and biased". The elections of the Board are scheduled to be held on August 25. The petitioner had contended that the AAP leader was an accused in a case lodged by CBI on a complaint of corruption made in 2016 by the then Lt Governor of Delhi and was also accused by the CEO and a member of the Board in 2019 of having allegedly misappropriated waqf land worth thousands of crores. Besides that a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been lodged against the AAP leader by the Anti Corruption Branch, the petition has claimed.  In view of these corruption cases against him, the AAP MLA ought not to be nominated for being elected to the Board, the petition had contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-against-amanatullah-khans-nomination-for-election-as-delhi-waqf-board-member-876158.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Babri mosque demolition case: CBI submits written arguments in court||The CBI on Friday submitted its written arguments in connection with the Babri mosque demolition case in a special court here.  After taking it on record and supplying its copies to the counsel for the accused, special CBI judge S K Yadav asked the defense counsels to submit their written arguments in response to CBI's arguments by August 24. The special CBI court will pronounce its judgment after submission of written arguments by defense counsels. There are a total of 32 accused in the case including former deputy prime minister L K Advani, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, BJP leaders M M Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiar and Sadhvi Ritambhara. The special CBI court is trying its best to meet the August 31 deadline set by the Supreme Court to conclude the trial of the case. The Babri mosque was demolished in December 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that it was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-mosque-demolition-case-cbi-submits-written-arguments-in-court-876180.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||NCW calls for robust law to combat cybercrime against women||The NCW on Friday called for a robust cyber law that can be effective against the advanced methods used by predators to commit cybercrime against women. National Commission for Women Chairperson Rekha Sharma said there is an imminent need to generate awareness about basic online conduct and redressal mechanisms already in place to report cybercrime. Addressing a webinar, she said it was imperative to fix onus of responsibility on social media platforms to prevent cybercrimes and making the culprits accountable and answerable whenever such cases occur. "A robust cyber law is needed as the Information Technology Act, 2000 needs amendments to accommodate the changing work culture and to prove effective against the advanced ways used by predators to commit cybercrime," Sharma was quoted as saying in an NCW statement. The key deliberations of the webinar were how the present laws have not been able to completely reflect the ground realities of cybercrime that women are subjected to in their daily lives, the statement said. 'The panellists suggested that though the change in legislation is required, what is even more important is to bring awareness on a large scale of the existing provisions to help victims of cybercrime," it said. The panellists also suggested that coming together of NGOs, women cells, government agencies, as well as civil society organisations, is imperative for changing the landscape of cyber safety, it said. One of the key solutions suggested by panellists for combating cybercrimes was the involvement of social media companies for controlling crime against women so that offensive content is pulled down from respective mediums at the earliest, it said. Specific cyberlaw for women and children and control over one's personal information and data were some of the recommendations suggested by the panellists. The panel also recommended that there was an urgent need for setting up a quick redressal mechanism for cyber crimes and educating the future generation legally, ethically and morally so that they grow up to become responsible netizens, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-calls-for-robust-law-to-combat-cybercrime-against-women-876185.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: 'Members of WhatsApp group created to avenge Muslims lost individuality'||Members of WhatsApp group created to avenge Muslims allegedly lost their individuality and started working with mob minds, said a Delhi court Friday while taking cognisance of a charge sheet filed against nine persons in a case of alleged murder of a resident during the communal violence in north east Delhi in February. The court said some youths allegedly failed to perceive the "bottomless stupidity" of the propaganda to take revenge against the Muslims created the WhatsApp group 'Kattar Hindu Ekta'. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purushottam Pathak took cognisance of the offences including rioting, unlawful assembly, murder and criminal conspiracy against nine persons in the alleged murder case of Hashim Ali. The court directed all the accused -- Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chuadhary, Prince, Rishabh Chaudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal and Himanshu Thakur -- to be produced before it through video conferencing on August 28 for further hearing in the case. "I am of the opinion that there is sufficient material on record to take cognisance of the offences alleged to have been committed by accused persons. "I hereby take cognisance of the offence punishable under section 302 (murder), 144 (), 147 and 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 201 (destruction of evidence), 427 (mischief), 432 (mischief by causing inundation or obstruction to public drainage), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code alleged to have been committed by accused ," the judge said in his order. The court said from the statements of the witnesses and the charge sheet, it was prima facie revealed that there was a well-hatched conspiracy amongst the accused persons. "Same is also evident from the fact that in order to take revenge from Muslims some youths of that area who failed to perceive the bottomless stupidity of the propaganda, they as saviours of their community created a WhatsApp group. The groups members as discussed herein above lost their individuality and started working with mob mins. "'Jai Sri Ram' and 'Har Har Mahadev' which are the sacred slogans and are attached to the victorious yelling, deadened their minds and paralysed their creative nature. They planned the manner of committing offence of rioting, murder and other offences and were instrumental for gathering of the unlawful asembly at Bhagirathi Vihar Nala Pulia on February 26 in conspiracy with each other having common intention and unlawful object," it said. It added thereupon the mob allegedly turned rioters and in the process of rioting, they caused death of Ali by inflicting multiple injuries in a brutal manner and with a view to conceal the evidence all of them in furtherance of their common intention threw his dead body in the drain. It said that it has been found that the common object of the unlawful assembly was not only to kill but also to destroy all evidence of that crime. "Thus, all of those involved in the present case actively participated in connection with the carrying of the dead body or disposal of it by throwing it in the drain must have been actuated by the common object. There cannot be any doubt that the accused who killed Hashim Ali were certainly up to their neck in the conspiracy and were thus very active members of the unlawful assembly," the court said. It, however, said in a case where a group of people conspired, thereafter assembled to take revenge and where the victims have been targeted on the basis of their religious identity, the relevant provisions of law attracting relevant offences should have been mentioned in the charge sheet. "It is also clear that there were averments in respect of promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion and acting in a way that are prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony," it said in the order. According to the charge sheet, the body of Ali was found on February 27 in a drain in the Gokulpuri area and injury marks were found on his face. The charge sheet said all the accused persons were allegedly present at the spot on February 26 carrying stones, cudgel, sticks, swords and iron rods etc and were shouting slogans like 'Jai Sri Ram' and 'Har Har Mahadev'. They were allegedly leading the mob and giving directions to their associates by calling each other by their names and were alleged to have been involved in killing of nine Muslims after checking their identity, police had said. Public witnesses stated that a mob allegedly stopped two persons riding on the Apache Bike and after establising their Muslim identity, they killed both the persons with stones, cudgel, sticks, swords and iron rods and thrown their bodies in the Nala (drain) along with the bike, the charge sheet said. It said during the course of investigation, data of mobile phones of Sharma and Bhardwaj revealed that they were members of WhatsApp group namely "Kattar Hindu Ekta". Further investigation of this group was carried out which revelaed that it was created on February 25 for allegedly taking revenge from Muslim community, the charge sheet said. It further said they allegedly conspired to teach Muslims a lesson for attacking the Hindu's and equipped themselves with lathis, danda, sticks, swords and firearms and killed many innocent persons including Hashim Ali and his brother Aamir Khan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-members-of-whatsapp-group-created-to-avenge-muslims-lost-individuality-876188.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Pak army shells forward areas along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan army on Friday resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district violating the ceasefire, officials said. "At about 1830 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector," Defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly to the ceasefire violation by Pakistan, he added. A 65-year-old man was killed as the Pakistan army resorted to mortar shelling in Poonch district. One jawan too was killed in the Pak firing in Rajouri sector along the LoC in another ceasefire violation this month. On July 11, two women were killed in the shelling by the Pakistani army on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in different sectors in Poonch district. On July 10 too, an Army jawan was killed in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistani army along the LoC in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-poonch-876191.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||One more Madhya Pradesh minister tests Covid-19 positive, sixth so far||Madhya Pradesh Public Works Department Minister Gopal Bhargava on Friday said he has tested Covid-19 positive. He shared the information on his Twitter handle. "I got antigen test (for Covid-19) done along with my family and close staff, in which I tested positive as per the initial report. I am getting admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors," Bhargav said in a tweet on Friday evening. Bhargava is the sixth member of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's council of ministers to test positive. Chouhan himself had tested positive for the infection in the last week of July and recovered after treatment. Earlier, Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang, state Cooperatives Minister Arvind Bhadoriya, Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat, Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav and Minister of State (Independent charge) for Backward Class and Minority Welfare Ramkhelawan Patel had tested coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-madhya-pradesh-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-sixth-so-far-876194.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Rapid antigen test results not credible, Centre shouldn't waste money on them: Rajasthan health minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Friday said that the Centre should not waste money on rapid antigen tests for coronavirus as their results are not credible. He said that the state government had requested for these test kits from ICMR but it did not get them. Therefore, 200 kits were taken from a private hospital and their testing was done to find out the accuracy of the results, the minister said. Opening a debate on Covid-19 management and economic impact of lockdown in the state assembly which resumed a week after a trust vote was passed, the minister said that the accuracy level of the tests kits, manufactured by a South Korean company, was 51 per cent. The Rajashtan Assembly on Friday witnessed uproar during the debate, leading to repeated adjournment of the proceedings. "The antigen tests are being used in many cities, including Delhi. Although we did not get the antigen test kit from ICMR and managed tests from a private hospital, their results were not found credible. We have informed ICMR about it," Sharma said. "Rajasthan has been a pioneer in the prevention of Covid-19. We have done about 20 lakh RT-PCR tests," he said, referring to the more reliable method which requires a longer waiting period. The minister added that the rapid testing kits obtained earlier from China did not produce credible results, and the state government had informed the Centre about this. He claimed there were similar problems with the accuracy of the kits bought later from South Korea and said the Centre should not "waste" money on them. Highlighting the work done for strengthening medical infrastructure, the minister said that the state has developed a capacity of conducting 46,000 RT-PCR tests per day in 22 districts and there 286 dedicated coronavirus care centers have been set up. The minister said that the death rate in coronavirus cases in the state is constantly decreasing and at present it is 1.38 per cent. "We are doing excellent in other parameters too, including the recovery rate which is more than 76 per cent. Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients has started in Jaipur, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Kota, and Udaipur. Soon it will be started in Ajmer as well. A total of 211 critical patients have been given plasma therapy and all of them have recovered," he said. Meanwhile, the assembly was adjourned thrice due to an uproar over BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf's comments regarding the arrangements for distribution of ration during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. After the health minister, Saraf spoke on the issue and targeted the state government over arrangements of food packets and distribution of ration during the lockdown. The comments led to an uproar in the House and heated arguments. The house was adjourned for half an hour. When the house reassembled, the uproar continued and the chairperson Rajendra Pareek adjourned the House for 15 minutes. Immediately after the house reassembled, Pareek announced another adjournment till 2 pm. When the house reassembled, Speaker CP Joshi requested the members to hold a constructive debate instead of making personal comments. The speaker expunged the comments which led to the uproar. Then the debate continued. The assembly session began on August 14 and a trust vote was passed by voice vote. After a week-long gap, the session resumed on Friday during which the debate on COVID-19 management and impact of lockdown was held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rapid-antigen-test-results-not-credible-centre-shouldnt-waste-money-on-them-rajasthan-health-minister-876205.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||No one can be called criminal until proven guilty: Uttarakhand BJP in-charge Jaju||BJP in-charge of party affairs in Uttarakhand Shyam Jaju on Friday said no one can be called a criminal until proven guilty. Jaju was commenting on BJP MLA from Dwarahat Mahesh Singh Negi being accused of rape by a woman. When asked by reporters whether or not the party will take action against the MLA, Jaju said action is not taken on the basis of charges. "No one can be called a criminal until proven guilty of a crime. First let the result of the ongoing investigation come out," he said. "Any action will depend on the outcome of the investigation,” he added. A woman who claims to be the MLA's neighbour had filed a police complaint against him on Sunday last accusing him of raping her several times between 2016 and 2018 at Mussoorie, Nainital, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Nepal. She had also alleged in her complaint that the MLA is the father of her three-month-old daughter, insisting on a DNA test of the child to bring out the truth. The legislator's wife on the other hand has already registered a case against the woman at the Nehru colony police station, accusing her of blackmailing her husband. Police have already launched a probe into the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-can-be-called-criminal-until-proven-guilty-uttarakhand-bjp-in-charge-jaju-876206.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court grants bail to man as no evidence against him yet||A Delhi court has granted bail to a man in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, saying prima facie there appeared to be no evidence against him till date. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Rohit on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 each with a surety of like amount in the case of rioting and torching of an auto-rickshaw during the riots in Karawal Nagar area. "At this stage, it cannot be held that the applicant (Rohit) was not part of any unlawful assembly which might have torched the shops and houses in the adjoining area as well, but prima facie there appears to be no evidence on record in this regard, till date. The investigation in the matter is complete. The charge sheet has already been filed," said the court in its order passed on August 20. It directed him to maintain peace and harmony in his locality and not tamper with evidence in the case. The court further directed the accused to install 'Aarogya Setu App' in his mobile phone and to appear before it on each and every date of hearing to attend the proceedings in the case. The court, however, clarified that anything stated in the order should not be construed as expressing any opinion on the final merits of the case, as it was at the pre-cognizance stage. During the hearing held through video conferencing, advocate Amit Singh, appearing for Rohit, told the court that complainant Monish had reported the matter to the police on February 29 but his auto-rickshaw was allegedly set on fire by a riotous mob on February 24. The advocate further argued that there was no CCTV footage of the alleged incident and nothing has been recovered from the accused. Special Public Prosecutor Nitin Rai Sharma opposed the bail application saying complainant clearly identified the accused which showed that he had allegedly taken 'active part' in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-man-as-no-evidence-against-him-yet-876209.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party stage walkout from Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council over law and order issue||Opposition Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party on Friday staged a walkout from the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council over the law and order situation in the state. Raising the matter through adjournment motion notices during the Zero Hour, SP, BSP and Congress members cited various incidents like the Bikru ambush case in which eight policemen were killed, and the kidnapping and killing of a man in Kanpur, among others. The opposition parties termed the incidents a "blot" on the state. Pressing for the admissibility of the notice, Congress' Dipak Singh said it is the first time that so many policemen have been killed in the state and an MLA was beaten up inside a police station, referring to allegations by BJP MLA from Iglas Rajkumar Sahyogi that he was manhandled at the Gonda police station. SP's Ram Sunder Das also raised the recent hijacking of a bus in Agra. A privately-operated bus with 34 passengers on board was hijacked by recovery agents of a finance company in Agra on Wednesday. The bus was traced to a dhaba in Etawah later in the day, officials said. The alleged mastermind of the hijacking, Pradeep Gupta, was arrested following an encounter with police in Firozabad district on Thursday, they said. BSP member Suresh Kashyap asked how the law and order situation in the state can be termed good when a Dalit village head was killed in Azamgarh. Kashyap's party colleague Dinesh Chandra said it is wrong to commit atrocities on members of the Brahmin community on the pretext of the Bikru case. Gangster Vikas Dubey, whose henchmen ambushed the policemen in Bikru village in Kanpur, belonged to the Brahmin community. Dubey was killed in an encounter with the state police last month. Countering the Opposition, BJP's Leader of the House Dinesh Sharma said though some unfortunate incidents have taken place, action has been taken and the culprits nabbed. He said the situation in Uttar Pradesh is not what it used to be a few years ago when criminals roamed freely after committing crimes. Sharma also contested the charges of BSP members, saying "if eliminating criminals is persecution, it means you provide shelter to criminals in the name of caste". He added that BSP members were raising baseless allegations to defame the government. Expressing dissatisfaction over Sharma's reply, members of SP and BSP staged a walkout from the House. Earlier, when the House assembled at 11 AM, the members of the two parties demanded an immediate discussion on the law and order situation in the state, coronavirus pandemic and floods. With the Chair not relenting, SP members, carrying placards, trooped into the Well of the House, while BSP members stood at their seats in protest leading to the adjournment of the House for 20 minutes. The adjournment was later extended till 12:20 PM and the Question Hour could not be held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-bahujan-samaj-party-stage-walkout-from-uttar-pradesh-legislative-council-over-law-and-order-issue-876212.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||No inmate Covid-19 positive in Delhi jails: Prisons department||No prisoner is Covid-19 positive and the situation in jails here has much improved, the Delhi Prisons Department said on Friday. So far, 63 inmates of the three jails --Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- have tested positive for the infection. Sixty-one of them have recovered and two died, the officials said. In August, only the Tihar Jail reported two cases and both the inmates have recovered now, officials said. On Friday, there was no inmate who was Covid-19 positive in the three jail complexes of Delhi, they said. "The first case of an inmate testing coronavirus positive came on May 13 in Rohini Jail. Two Covid-19 positive inmates of Mandoli Jail had unfortunately died on June 15 and July 4. Both were senior citizens," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. A total of 169 prison staffers, 87 of Delhi jail and 82 of Tamil Nadu Special Police, also contracted the infection. Of them, 167 personnel have recovered and only two are still positive for the disease, Goel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-inmate-covid-19-positive-in-delhi-jails-prisons-department-876215.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||UP BJP legislator Janmejay Singh dies of cardiac arrest||BJP MLA from Deoria's Sadar seat, Janmejay Singh, died of a cardiac arrest at a hospital in Lucknow, party spokesperson Chandra Mohan said on Friday. He was 75. Singh was admitted to Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Institute after he developed health complications and died during pacemaker implantation late on Thursday night, Mohan said. The MLA was initially taken to the civil hospital where he tested negative for coronavirus. Vikram Singh, medical superintendent of Lohia Institute, said the MLA suffered a heart attack. According to a report from Gorakhpur, the Sadar MLA was cremated at Muktidham in Badhalganj area late on Friday evening. His eldest son Sriprakash Singh performed the last rites. Senior administrative officials, Deoria District Magistrate Amit Kishore, Superintendent of Police Mohammad Imran, and BJP leaders, including Deoria MP Dr. Ramapati Ram Tripathi, UP cabinet minister Surya Pratap Shahi, and many others attended his cremation. Earlier in the day, the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, which is in session, paid tributes to Singh, who was a sitting member. As soon as the House assembled, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath informed all members of Singh's death. Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit and leaders of all political parties -- Samajwadi Party, BSP, Congress, SBSP and Apna Dal -- paid tributes to Singh and recalled his services. After observing two minutes' silence, the House was adjourned for the day as a mark of respect to the departed soul. "He was a devoted public figure who worked hard for the development of his constituency. He used to work for the poor and weaker sections of the society. In his death, the party has lost a dedicated worker and the public has lost a true well-wisher," Adityanath said in a statement. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav also condoled the death. In a tweet, he prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to his family to bear the loss. The mortal remains of Singh, who is survived by three sons and four daughters, was taken to his Deoria residence from Lucknow. Singh, who was first elected to the House in a by-election in 2000, was again elected in 2012 and 2017 state assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-legislator-janmejay-singh-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-876238.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Police did not handle violence at Jamia professionally according to NHRC report: High Court observes||The Delhi High Court on Friday said the report of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) suggested that the police did not handle itself "professionally" to deal with the violence at the Jamia Millia Islamia University during the anti-CAA protests when there was a law and order problem. "It (NHRC) says law and order problem, but it also says inculcate professionalism (in the police). It (report) indicates that it (incident) was not handled professionally," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. The observation of the bench was in response to the contention of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi that the commission has given a finding that there was a law and order situation at the varsity and therefore, police entry into the campus was legitimate. The ASG, in response to the court's observation, said the report only says that there were individual instances of police excesses and it does not say that the action as a whole was unwarranted. He further said that the commission also left it to the police to enquire into the individual instances of transgression by its officers and not to an outside agency. To this, the bench remarked,"That is fine. But it (report) cannot be read as a clean chit being given to anyone either." The high court was hearing of a batch of petitions which have alleged that ruthless and excessive use of force and aggression was unleashed by the police and paramilitary forces on students at the university. The pleas have sought setting up of an SIT or a Commission of Inquiry (CoI) to look into the violence at JMI in December last year in relation to student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).   Opposing the petitioners' allegations, Lekhi argued that while they claim police action was unwarranted, the NHRC report does not say so. He further said that the police action as a whole was "not disproportionate" to the violence in the campus and only in some isolated instances there was use of disproportionate force. However, enquiry into these isolated instances have been left to the police by NHRC and this indicates that the agency can be trusted, contrary to what the petitioners are claiming, he said. He also said that while petitioners claim the protests were peaceful, the NHRC report refers to it as "violent". The ASG also reiterated his argument made on the last date of hearing, August 14, that police had entered the university to restore order which was disrupted by incidents of arson and destruction of public property during the student protests. Lekhi will continue his arguments on August 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-did-not-handle-violence-at-jamia-professionally-according-to-nhrc-report-high-court-observes-876245.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi cop fatally shot man as he was filming him while drinking in uniform: Police||A day after a Delhi Police head constable was arrested in connection with a murder case, police found that the accused fired at the victim as he was video-recording the policemen while they were drinking in uniform, officials said on Thursday. Surender (47), posted at Shahbad Dairy police station, was arrested after he fired two shots at a 28-year-old man with his service pistol on Thursday morning, following a quarrel between them, officials said. The head constable was dismissed from service following the incident. Surender told police that Deepak Gehlawat, the victim, was recording video while they were drinking. He objected to being filmed in uniform and asked Gehlawat to stop recording. However, when Gehlawat continued recording the video, a quarrel broke out between them during which Surender fired bullets at him, a senior police officer said. At the time of the incident, the accused and the victim were drunk, police said. Police said the accused did not submit his service pistol after completing his duty. The incident took place near a hotel in Budh Vihar area on Thursday morning, when Surender was on his way home after working in night shift. The head constable was coming back in a car along with Gehlawat, a gym owner in southwest Delhi's Dwarka Mor. Gehlawat suffered injuries on his left forearm and upper chest. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. The service pistol used to kill Gehlawat has been seized, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cop-fatally-shot-man-as-he-was-filming-him-while-drinking-in-uniform-police-876250.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Tourism ministry signs MoU with TAAI, FLO||The tourism ministry has virtually signed an MoU with the Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) and the FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO) to promote tourism as a sustainable livelihood model for the economic empowerment of women, a statement issued by the ministry said on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the memorandum of understanding (MoU) will provide an opportunity to increase the participation of women in the tourism sector and make them an integral part of the tourism workforce in the country. "Women in our country are excelling in different fields. We have the best of women doctors, pilots, scientists, businesswomen. Women have also excelled in various adventure-related activities and sports like mountaineering, trekking, bicycling, etc. Today, women form an important component of our armed forces. And we are a nation where women have assumed positions of the prime minister and president. "There is a need to organise and popularise training and skill development programmes targeting women, including those in rural and remote areas, make them aware of digital technologies and facilitate them to be a part of decision making at the community level. Therefore, it becomes our moral responsibility to ensure that women in the travel and tourism sector are encouraged to come forward and participate in the development of tourism, which would not only benefit the sector, but also help in their upliftment and empowerment," he said. Patel said there are many areas in tourism where women can excel, like homestays, tourist facilitators, catering business and more. He expressed happiness to see the work being done for the betterment of women by the TAAI and FLO through their chapters across the country. The main components proposed under the initiative are to encourage travel to at least 15 destinations within the country under the "Dekho Apna Desh" initiative. This will be a mandate for the membership base of over 8,000 women of the FLO and TAAI and their family support systems. They will also conduct community-based tourism activities around an iconic monument or tourist landmark in each state. Women will be tour guides, they will run food stalls, souvenir stalls with their own arts and crafts, handle the overall accounts and running of the landmark. The FLO and TAAI chapters will raise awareness on sustainable tourism practices and focus on tourism as a vital sustainable livelihood tool for women empowerment by way of advocacy and awareness, educational workshops, seminars and panel discussions. They will also tie up with training agencies for tourism workshops for training women about concepts on food safety, health and hygiene, sanitation, environment, culinary and entrepreneurship skills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourism-ministry-signs-mou-with-taai-flo-876262.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah holds meeting with detained leaders||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Friday held a meeting with the second batch of party leaders who were under detention for over a year, a party spokesman said. "The attendees included Mubarak Gul, Choudhary Ramzaan, Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi, Shameema Firdous and Basharat Bukhari. These members who were under detention or house arrest met Abdullah after over a year," the spokesman said. He said these leaders are among the 16 politicians for whom haebas corpus petitions were filed by Farooq Abdullah and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah, but the government claimed in the high court that they were free and not under detention. The spokesman said party's provincial president Kashmir Nasir Aslam Wani, treasurer Shammi Oberoi and political advisor to the NC president Mushtaq Guroo were also present in round two of the meeting held on Friday. The National Conference on  Wednesday decided to convene a meeting of its senior leaders on Thursday after the local administration informed the Jammu and Kashmir High Court that none of the 16 leaders, that the party claimed were in illegal confinement, were detained and that they were free to move around. After the Thursday's meet, the NC said the meeting with other leaders would continue on Friday. The Abdullah father-son duo had filed a bunch of habeas corpus petitions on July 13 seeking the release of the leaders, contending that they were being held in "brazen violation" of constitutional guarantees of the right to liberty. A habeas corpus is a writ requiring a person under arrest to be brought before a judge or into court, especially to secure the person's release unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention. Filing the replies before the high court earlier this month, Senior Additional Advocate General Bashir Ahmad Dar said the contention of the pleas was "not only surprising but shocking as well" as there were neither any legal proceedings underway nor was it being contemplated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-holds-meeting-with-detained-leaders-876275.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||Rapid antigen test results not credible, Centre shouldn't waste money on them: Rajasthan health minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Friday said that the Centre should not waste money on rapid antigen tests for coronavirus as their results are not credible. He said that the state government had requested for these test kits from ICMR but it did not get them. Therefore, 200 kits were taken from a private hospital and their testing was done to find out the accuracy of the results, the minister said. Opening a debate on Covid-19 management and economic impact of lockdown in the state assembly which resumed a week after a trust vote was passed, the minister said that the accuracy level of the tests kits, manufactured by a South Korean company, was 51 per cent. The Rajasthan Assembly on Friday witnessed uproar during the debate, leading to repeated adjournment of the proceedings. "The antigen tests are being used in many cities, including Delhi. Although we did not get the antigen test kit from ICMR and managed tests from a private hospital, their results were not found credible. We have informed ICMR about it," Sharma said. "Rajasthan has been a pioneer in the prevention of Covid-19. We have done about 20 lakh RT-PCR tests," he said, referring to the more reliable method which requires a longer waiting period. The minister added that the rapid testing kits obtained earlier from China did not produce credible results, and the state government had informed the Centre about this. He claimed there were similar problems with the accuracy of the kits bought later from South Korea and said the Centre should not "waste" money on them. Highlighting the work done for strengthening medical infrastructure in Rajasthan, the minister said that the state has developed a capacity of conducting 46,000 RT-PCR tests per day in 22 districts, and 286 dedicated coronavirus care centers have been set up. The minister said that the death rate in coronavirus cases in the state is constantly decreasing and at present it is 1.38 per cent. "We are doing excellent in other parameters too, including the recovery rate which is more than 76 per cent. Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients has started in Jaipur, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Kota, and Udaipur. Soon it will be started in Ajmer as well. A total of 211 critical patients have been given plasma therapy and all of them have recovered," he said. After the debate in which several members of the house spoke, the minister in a reply said that revenue collection had reduced drastically due to the lockdown. He said that the country was already facing economic slowdown due to the decisions of the Centre, including demonetisation which brought down the growth rate to 5 per cent, and the spread of coronavirus worsened the situation. Sharma said that the state has received 1,300 ventilators, of which 945 have been sent to various districts, but only 40 ventilators are currently being used. He added that 765 doctors were appointed during the lockdown period. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was supposed to give a reply during the debate but he was not present at the time of the reply and the minister replied on his behalf. Congress MLA Sachin Pilot who was sacked as deputy chief minister and PCC president last month after his rebellion against the chief minister's leadership also did not attend the house on Friday. Prior to the reply, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and others also took part in the debate and expressed concern on the spread of the virus and problems of livelihood due to the lockdown etc. Kataria said that the state government should adopt the antigen test, saying its report is out in 20 minutes. He said that the accuracy rate may be less but many states are using antigen tests. Meanwhile, the assembly was adjourned thrice due to uproar over BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf's comments regarding the arrangements for distribution of ration during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. After the reply, the house was adjourned till 11 am on Monday. The assembly session began on August 14 and a trust vote was passed by voice vote. After a week-long gap, the session resumed on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rapid-antigen-test-results-not-credible-centre-shouldnt-waste-money-on-them-rajasthan-health-minister-876276.html
21-08-2020||North and Central||1991 Multani disappearance case: Court lets Pb police add murder charge in FIR against ex-DGP||A Mohali court on Friday allowed the Punjab Police to add murder charge against state's former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in a case of the disappearance of a man after a terrorist attack on him in Chandigarh in 1991. While allowing the addition of section 302 of the IPC to an FIR registered in Mohal against Saini and three others on May 6 by a Special Investigation Team of the Punjab Police, Judicial Magistrate Rasveen Kaur also provided for a three-day prior notice to the accused before their arrests. "In order to maintain the sanctity of Article 21 of the Constitution as well as the order dated July 10, 2020 passed by Additional Sessions Judge, accused persons be served with three days' prior notice before their arrests," Judicial Magistrate Kaur said in her order. The court allowed the addition of murder charge in the FIR after two former Chandigarh police personnel, who are also co-accused, turned approver in the disappearance case. Saini served as Punjab Director General of Police between March 2012 and October 2015. The May 6 FIR against Saini was registered for his involvement in a case of the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, who was a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, in 1991. Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police team after a terrorist attack on Sani in 1991 during his tenure as the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh. The Central Bureau of Investigation too had started investigating the case under the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court in 2007 but the Supreme Court had quashed the probe in 2011 on an appeal from the state government Saini and others have been booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The fresh case has been registered against them under sections 364 (abduction for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1991-multani-disappearance-case-court-lets-pb-police-add-murder-charge-in-fir-against-ex-dgp-876289.html
21-08-2020||Opinion||Gunjan Saxena: Individual over patriarchy & patriotism||Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl opens with a rather prolonged disclaimer in which the filmmakers salute the Indian Air Force, appreciate its support for “equality in the skies” and admit to having fictionalised the real events and taken creative liberties.  Yet, the film has been caught in endless, unseemly controversies about factual inaccuracies and the lack of authenticity and overt negativity in the representation of the IAF and its officers, often making one overlook the little departures it manages to negotiate within the larger dramatic and fanciful tropes of mainstream Hindi cinema.  Gunjan as everywoman For a film centred on a woman, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl is full of men. Not astonishingly so, given the gender imbalance in the professional sphere at large, specifically when it comes to the time it is set in (1984-1999). However, more interesting is how, with the overwhelming presence of men, the film places the issue of women’s emancipation right on the male doorstep and makes them complicit in it.  More than as individuals it sees them in relation to the role they play in Gunjan’s life. They are important not for who they are but what they stand for. It’s the lady who is singularised; the gents are either outright impediments, purveyors of prejudiced mindsets and hollow male pride, protective well-wishers with a major saviour complex, reluctant collaborators or active allies in her march towards self-realisation. In other words, the various shades of manhood and male attitude any woman would contend with in pursuing her calling. It’s the men who turn Gunjan into an everywoman figure. The opposing male principles play out within the warm folds of the Saxena family itself with the father Anup and brother Anshuman positioned at two contrasting ends of the spectrum, the love of one fuelling her independence, aspirations and happiness while the other bringing them to the ground with his feudal instincts disguised as protectiveness and righteous worry about the harm that may come her way.  In the process, Gunjan’s wary mother, unfortunately, gets left out rather than being a participant in the debate, becoming more an example of the unquestioning traps women often end up getting boxed in, in the face of seemingly benign male entitlement. And yet it’s an unknown air hostess—the job that her brother would condescendingly find appropriate for Gunjan—who ironically leads her to the door of the cockpit, marking her first step towards her life-long passion for flying.  Redefining ambition While men might form more than 90 per cent of the cast, not a single one of them is offered as a romantic possibility. Here’s a young Hindi film heroine who is devoid of any male love interest. Her only pursuit in life is to become a pilot. She is alone but not quite lonely in the universe that she creates for herself. A song in the film, “Jis pal se dekha hai tujhko mann hi pagal gaya re” (I can’t get over you, from the moment I first saw you), aligns her passion to an inanimate airplane than to a human being. It’s flying that her “mann ki dori” (threads of her heart) are intertwined with. Even a virah geet (song of separation) like “Dori tutt gaiyaan haniya” is not about severing ties with the beloved but about cherished dreams getting shattered.  Disappointments, however, are not an excuse to get co-opted into socially approved ways. The solution for dealing with a difficult world out there is not to shut yourself in a cage but to break it and fly away. It is simplistic messaging, but is quietly impactful.  With the motto, ‘be what you want to be’, the film doesn’t just push the right professional buttons but also redefines patriotism as a commitment to one’s ambitions. Referencing poet Allama Iqbal’s words, “Khudi ko kar buland itna, ke har taqder se pehle, khuda bande se khud pooche, bata teri raza kya hai” (light your inner spark in such a way that God hands you over the responsibility and determination of your own fate), it takes it beyond the fanatical ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ sloganeering to aiming to fulfil individual goals with sincerity, hard work and passion.  ‘Bharat ki beti’ then is the one who owns, fulfils and soars high with her dreams and “desh ki raksha” (security of the nation) need not be in conflict with “barabari ka mauka” (a shot at equality). Away from both patriarchy and patriotism, Gunjan Saxena: A Kargil Girl calls for an allegiance to one’s own self without judging it within a larger moral, social or nationalistic compass.  (Namrata Joshi is an independent writer and well-known film critic. She is the author of Reel India: Cinema off the Beaten Track, Hachette, 2019) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gunjan-saxena-individual-over-patriarchy-patriotism-876111.html
21-08-2020||Panorama||Seniors need support to beat anxiety||Senior citizens create and follow a daily regimen. This regimen keeps them engaged and entertained. The regimen comprises activities, rituals, interaction with people, hobby and chores. Over time, they settle into a pattern that they seldom like changed. With age, most people resist change. They prefer familiarity in their surroundings and lifestyle. When their daily regimen is rudely interrupted and thrown in disarray, they are traumatised and this manifests in behavioural changes including depression and anxiety. Here are some issues faced and how the family can support them, and help them overcome the challenges they face. This is a major issue people across all age groups face in lockdown isolation. In seniors, it is more pronounced. Some learn to live with it while others find various ways of addressing it. Some seniors participate in community activities, meet others in their neighbourhood, join forums of like-minded seniors and engage in activities, and some opt for daycare services run by professional organisations. The pandemic has placed severe restrictions on their movements and deprived them of this engagement – leading to a sinking feeling of loneliness and helplessness. During the lockdown, seniors living alone struggled for their daily supplies. The fear of going out for their day-to-day purchases and having to depend on others increased their anxiety. The news they followed about Covid-19 added to their fears. Extended families, in the city, have always struggled for space indoors. Seniors who were used to some space for themselves with their children and grandchildren leaving home daily don’t have that luxury now. Educational institutions closed and WFH have put pressure on space indoors and seniors invariably come off second best in a scramble for space. Both space and time for their routine are lost. Although most seniors welcomed this change in the beginning, over time, they have started feeling deprived of their space. Frictions - major and minor - keep happening, disturbing the peace of the household. Seniors feel tired and run-down while accommodating the demands of their children and grandchildren. In households that have a dependent senior or person with age-related challenges such as dementia, it’s a daily struggle. The youth have the additional job of care-giving, many a time without help from a professional service agency due to the fear of infection. The lockdown has been an eye-opener for the youth. They now understand what it is to be restricted and homebound – something they believed seniors enjoyed after retirement. The lockdown has sensitised the youth to the fact that ‘sitting at home’ is difficult and monotonous. They have an insight into what a senior’s life is like. The youth have become more sensitive now. Many people have faced pay cuts and layoffs. They are going through a soul-search and are reprioritising their needs. The youth are now valuing relationships that can handhold them through this crisis. The changing attitude of the youth towards seniors can be a game-changer. This generation of youth who have witnessed a large number of seniors losing their lives to Covid-19 have become more sensitive and concerned. All the youth now need is these basic tips on making life more comfortable and happy for their seniors at home. In extended families, some ‘me time’ should be created in which the seniors’ interests and needs are given top priority– TV time-sharing, no disturbance during their nap etc. Some common activities should be planned to make everyone feel included. The youth should reach out to the seniors living alone in their building to run small errands for them – a buddy system that can be mutually helpful. A call once a day to check on them can go a long way in ensuring their wellbeing. Handholding seniors with new technology tools can be very useful in helping them stay connected with their families who may be far away and also to engage them. It will be an enriching experience for the youth too. (The writer is a geriatricspecialist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/seniors-need-support-to-beat-anxiety-875870.html
21-08-2020||Panorama||NEP 2020: 'Revolutionary' changes envisaged in higher education||The New Education Policy 2020 (NEP) by the committee headed by K. Kasturirangan committee is a much-awaited and needed policy voicing the national and educational aspirations of the country. The last NEP was released in the year 1986, followed by a POA in 1992. Since then the concerns of education have been dealt with by various committees or through five-year plans, but the vacuum remained. The new education policy laments less on the existing concerns in higher education but seeks to respond at the structural, aspirational and ideological level. It does not situate the conversation in the existing discourse on quality, access or equity in higher education. In fact, it projects quality in education as a given and as a right of every learner and recognises education as a service. The policy stands out for the revolutionary structural reforms suggested at the higher educational level promoting a flexible three or four years degree programme structure at the undergraduate level, accommodating multiple exits to learners.  Exit after one year of education would result in certification, two years would lead to a diploma and three years and above would lead to a Bachelor’s degree.  The degrees will be assigned based on credit attained, stored in an Academic Bank of Credits, a novel addition.  While the concept of multiple exits is an important step towards reducing dropouts without a degree or certification, a question mark might remain on the value of such certifications or diplomas. This is a concern that is currently manifesting in vocational education considering degrees and job prospects are still closely associated in the Indian psyche, even with the experience of diminishing returns on higher education and educated unemployability. The policy attempts to depart from the current and conventional model of three-year undergraduate programmes and accords preference to the four-year model, inculcating a research component at the undergraduate level which will lead to a degree with research by the completion of the degree. Traditionally, research has been a reserve of postgraduate education in the country. The four-year model allows one to pursue a PhD right after graduation. This, along with the discontinuation of the two-year MPhil programme, may give impetus to the number of students who opt for Doctoral programmes in the country, which is abysmally low at 0.5% as per AISHE report 2019. The flexibility accorded to undergraduate programmes extends to Master’s programmes as well, with a combination of one year and two-year programmes depending on the length of undergraduate education undertaken by a learner.  The recommendation on including subject-specific teaching-education-pedagogy courses across disciplines for doctoral students is commendable considering the lack of formal training and orientation towards pedagogy and andragogy in the existing framework of teacher education, which focusses on training teachers for school and largely excludes pedagogy and practice at the higher education level. With multiple exits and flexibility at the structural level of the Bachelor’s, Master’s programmes, the curriculum design will have to be flexible and organic to ensure that it responds to the need of foundational and higher-order thinking and skill inculcation at different levels of education. Accordingly, the policy moots for higher autonomy for teachers in the curriculum, up-gradation and pedagogical innovations. Another major reform envisaged in the new NEP is the bifurcation of universities under three categories— research-intensive universities, teaching-intensive universities and degree-granting colleges that provide undergraduate degrees. It locates research as an important activity that should be undertaken by all types of universities, though in varying degrees. In the context of research, the policy makes an important declaration in the establishment of National Research Foundation, that would fund peer-review journals and institutional research projects. The policy views universities as multi-disciplinary institutions and suggests gradual phasing out of single-disciplinary institutions, which have been a regulatory nightmare and have adversely impacted quality in Higher Education. It emphasises on a multidisciplinary, broad-based, liberal education where rigid binaries of sciences and arts collapse in the pursuit of knowledge and learning, particularly in higher education, reclaiming Liberal Arts as Indian tradition of education, followed today in the western framework. To this extent, the policy suggests turning IITs to multi-disciplinary institutions offering courses beyond engineering. The policy suggests increasing the number of higher education institutions. Each district must have at least one higher education institution, particularly in states and remote regions that have a dearth of higher education institutions. NEP 2020 recognizes the role of private providers of education in attaining the educational and national goals of the country, with suggestions to encourage private universities to offer increased scholarships. It does not suggest how this may be achieved. It mentions ‘public philanthropy partnership’ model to enhance access to higher education and advocates increased investment in higher education, like its policy predecessors, including the Kothari Commission’s recommendation of 6% of GDP investment in education. The policy indicates the need for and continuance of greater public funding in higher education, which does not speak to the current realities. The policy strives to streamline the various regulatory bodies under the Higher Education Commission of India as an apex body overseeing regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standards through four main regulatory bodies — the National Higher Education Regulatory Framework Council (NHERC), National Accreditation Council (NAC); a meta accrediting body, Higher Education Grants Council (HEGC); a funding and financing body, and General Education Grants Council (GEC), responsible for framing expected learning outcomes of various higher education programmes along with existing discipline-specific regulatory bodies. As the policy also suggests, such adjustment calls for existing bodies to undergo an evolution. While highlighting ‘light but tight’ regulatory model, it suggests the need to ease the regulatory regime in setting up of new HEIs and moots for a broad yet uniform regulatory system for both private and public institutions. To ensure the ‘not for profit’ nature of Higher Education Institutions and curbing commercialisation the policy moots for constituting transparent mechanism in determining fees, reinvesting surpluses in education, and public disclosure of grievance handling and financial status of HEIs. This policy is aspirational and broad-based. It recognized the devaluation of online degrees and vocational courses and seeks to uplift them.  It does not fill pages on existing realities of quality, equity and access but strives to move beyond the public-private binaries in the provisions for education. It calls for an overhaul of the higher education system in India, offers partnerships and makes recommendations to attain transparency to build an environment of trust. How it unfolds remains to be seen.  (The writer is Assistant Professor, Jindal Global Law School)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nep-2020-revolutionary-changes-envisaged-in-higher-education-876079.html
21-08-2020||Right in the Middle||The Trichy connection||I had the opportunity to visit Trichy (Tiruchirappalli) a few years ago, a place I’d never been to. And since I had a lot of time on my hands after work, my hosts offered to show me the sights. So I was taken to the famous Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam, the island on the River Kaveri, where one of the priests insisted that their temple was higher in the hierarchy than even Tirupati. Not one to argue over matters beyond my realm, I just admired the phenomenal architecture and the twenty-seven feet long idol of Sri Ranganatha (Lord Vishnu) and let myself be taken for the extra-special darshana that overwhelmed me. I haven’t figured out why. The Kaveri and Kollidam rivers flow around Srirangam Island. Since I had already been to the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangapattana, I now had only the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Shivanasamudra left to visit of the three major temples built on islands on the River Kavery. Fascinating.  Then we proceeded to the temple of Lord Ganesha in the Rock Fort on top of a hill where I was treated to an ethereal view of the sunset. That was when an imposing set of buildings with a huge campus was pointed out as St. Joseph’s College (established in 1844), the very one Dr APJ Abdul Kalam had studied at. I had read somewhere that he had studied at St. Joseph’s College, but hadn’t realised that it was the one at Trichy. Anyway, when I got back to Delhi, I informed my father about my trip. Incidentally, I had learnt from past experiences that it is best to inform my father about a visit to any place only after the visit. Or he’ll invariably try and get the place scouted in advance. He’d send someone to check on the hotel, the loo, the kitchen… Okay, that’s an exaggeration, but you get the picture. I thus found out then that my father had spent a few years himself at St Joseph’s College as a student in the hostel, while his father was posted at Thanjavur. With my grandfather having been posted all over the erstwhile Madras Presidency at short intervals, I’d lost track of all the places my father had lived in. The two years at St. Joseph’s had left him with fond memories in a great hostel. Could it be that Dr. Kalam and he were at St. Joseph’s College at the same time? I wish I had checked with the Ex-President at the Jaipur Literature Festival in January 2015 after his filled-to-capacity talk when I had the chance. Now it is too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-trichy-connection-875872.html
21-08-2020||Second Edit||Transparent taxation initiative welcome||The launch of a platform — Transparent Taxation: Honouring the Honest — by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week is the latest in the government’s measures intended to improve tax compliance and to make the process simpler and more comfortable for the taxpayer. The new initiative involves faceless assessment and appeals and a taxpayers’ charter. They are intended to bring about transparency in the taxation system and empower taxpayers. Faceless assessment and the taxpayers’ charter came into force last week; faceless appeals begin from September 25. India’s taxation system, especially the direct tax regime, has been considered complex, corrupt and inefficient, with arbitrariness on the part of officials and ignorance and even dishonesty on the part of taxpayers contributing to the system’s ills. It is expected that the new measures will help both the taxpayer and the government.  Faceless assessment entails removing direct interaction between income tax officials and taxpayers through features such as the random selection of taxpayers and the removal of officials’ territorial jurisdiction. The taxpayers’ charter, which has statutory sanction, is a list of guidelines for the department and taxpayers which detail the rights and responsibilities of both taxpayers and officials. They include honesty, courteous and reasonable treatment and a fair and impartial mechanism for appeals and review. The charter also mandates provision of complete and accurate information, collection of correct amounts of tax and respect for privacy and maintenance of confidentiality. These are important in any interaction between the government and the citizens but are especially important in matters related to tax collection. Tax reform measures have often failed in the country for various reasons. The rules and regulations are too many and complicated. They still are. Many reform measures were not implemented properly because of vested interests. The system often did not encourage free functioning of officials and incentivise honesty on the part of taxpayers. The new initiative aims to address these and other entrenched problems with new methods and processes and with the use of technologies like machine learning and artificial intelligence. Tax officials will have to be trained and motivated to adopt the new system and taxpayers will have to be informed and educated on it. Barely 1% of the population pays taxes in the country. A better approach to taxation will bring more people into the tax net. The new processes should be given a serious and sincere push, though there are many odds against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/transparent-taxation-initiative-welcome-875865.html
21-08-2020||South||TN CM wishes SPB well, sidesteps '2nd capital' debate||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday said the government does not have any view on a 'second capital' for the state. Palaniswami also wished singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, battling Covid, a speedy recovery. Days after Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar pitched for designating Madurai as the second capital of Tamil Nadu to better cater to the needs of the people in southern districts, Palaniswami said it was the Minister's view. Asked about the talk on the second capital and government's stand, the Chief Minister said: "It is his opinion. That is not the opinion of the government." He was here to review the anti-Covid initiatives being taken up by the district administration. On the playback singer's health and if he enquired about it, he said he too prayed to the Almighty for SPB's early recovery. He recalled the recent visit of Health Minister C Vijayabaskar to MGM Healthcare in Chennai to enquire about the singer's health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-wishes-spb-well-sidesteps-2nd-capital-debate-875821.html
21-08-2020||South||Kerala all-party meet demands withdrawal of Centre's nod for Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation||An all-party-meeting in Kerala on Thursday demanded the withdrawal of the Union Cabinet decision to lease out the airport here to Adani Enterprises while the Centre said the state government did not qualify in the bidding process that was carried out in "a transparent manner". In the virtual meeting, called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss the issue,barring the BJP all other parties opposed the Union cabinet's decision on Wednesday to lease out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP) mode. It also decided to move a resolution in this regard in the state assembly when it meets for a day on August 24. Vijayan later shot off his second letter in two days to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, conveying the decision taken at the all-party meeting and requested him to reconsider the privatisation move. The Adani Enterprises has won the rights to run six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. Vijayan told the all-party meet that the state government had asked for the management and the operation of the airport with the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) in which it will be the major shareholder. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had taken part in the bidding. "The state government had also informed the Centre that we were ready to offer the amount quoted by Adani enterprise," he was quoted as having said in the meeting by a release issued by the Chief Minister's office. Vijayan said it would be difficult for the entrepreneur to manage the airport without the cooperation of the state government. "In case of development, the cooperation of the state government is a necessity. We don't think anyone would be interested in doing business challenging the state. We all are together in this protest against the decision," he said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the Kerala government did not qualify in the bidding process that was carried out in a transparent manner. "Winning bid quoted to Rs 168 per passenger, KSIDC quoted Rs 135 per passenger and third qualifying bidder was at Rs 63 per passenger", Puri who took to Twitter to clarify the Centre's standon the airport's 2019 privatisation process, said. Per passenger fee was the criteria for the bidding process that was conducted in early2019 for the six airports and Adani Enterprises was the highest bidder. Puri said before the bidding process began, the Centre and the Kerala government had agreed that if the KSIDC's bid comes within the 10 per cent range of the winning bid, it would be awarded the airport. However, as the difference between Adani's bid and that of KSIDC was 19.64 per cent, the former was qualified as the winner. "Thus, despite special provision of ROFR(Right of first refusal) being given to GoK (Government of Kerala), they could not qualify in the international bidding process carried out in a transparent manner", the Civil Aviation Minister said. Vijayan also told the meet that the legal options were also being explored by the state government and sought support of all political parties for "protecting Kerala's interests". In his letter to Modi late Thursday, the Chief Minister said the leaders at the all-party meet felt there was no justification for overlooking the claim of the state. "Leaders also expressed the view that Trivandrum International Airport should have been retained in the public sector and the Union Government should have facilitated the expansion of the Airport by providing supportfor refueling of aircrafts," he said. Earlier in the day, Union Minister V Murleedharan attacked the Kerala government and said its stand exposed its "double standards" as the state already had "private airports" and the attempt was to take away the attention from the recent gold smuggling case. "The state government's opposition to privatisation of Trivandrum airport has exposed their double standards. The Left party is ok to have private Airports at Calicut and Kannur with a mere 32.5 per cent and 30.16 per cent stakes for the state, but oppose Centre's move with a better share for the government of India," he said in Delhi. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury slammed the Centre for the decision alleging that the move was a "loot of national assets" and would lead to an escalation of ticket prices. "Privatisation of airports is loot of national assets to fatten profits of cronies. Then issue Electoral Bonds to raise party funds. Kerala CM's letter makes it clear that this is happening by betraying assurances of PM Modi on the state government's proposal", he said in a tweet. In a press release, the CPI claimed granting the airports to a single business entity and group would lead to monopoly. It alleged that the group will "squeeze" the extra revenues from passengers and airlines. Describing the decision asa "dictatorial act", Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Ramesh Chennithalaof Congress said it was 'unacceptable' and should be 'resisted' while state party chief Mullapally Ramachandran called the move 'deplorable'. However, former union minister and Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor has come out in support of the Centre's decision, saying "a private entity running the operations competitively is the only way this airport could flourish". "The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city's history, status and potential. In this context, a decision, however, controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered", he tweeted. Slamming Tharoor, state minister Kadakampally Surendran said his stand was "treacherous" and sought his apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-all-party-meet-demands-withdrawal-of-centres-nod-for-thiruvananthapuram-airport-privatisation-875822.html
21-08-2020||South||12 hours on, nine employees still trapped inside Telangana's Srisailam power plant||The condition and location of nine employees trapped inside the Srisailam left bank hydroelectric powerhouse, after a fire broke out at about 10:30 pm on Thursday, is still unknown. A major fire broke out at about 10:30 on Thursday night inside the underground powerhouse on Telangana side of the multipurpose project. 15 employees of the Telangana state power generation corporation and two employees of a private firm were inside the plant at the time of the incident. While eight employees managed to escape, nine were trapped inside. The injured were admitted to the nearby TSGENCO hospital and are out of danger. Those trapped inside include a deputy engineer and several assistant engineers. This is the first such major incident at the power plant. Attempts made by the disaster response teams were unsuccessful due to the heavy smoke. Help of the expert teams from the Singareni Collieries is also sought. A short circuit in the electricity control panel is said to have caused the fire which produced thick clouds of smoke that swamped the huge facility. Telangana power minister Jagadeesh Reddy, TSGenco CMD Prabhakar Rao along with senior TSGENCO, police etc., officials rushed to the spot to monitor the rescue efforts. The Srisailam project on River Krishna is jointly managed by the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments and is a major source of irrigation water and electricity for the two Telugu states. With heavy inflows from Karnataka, the reservoir is at its full capacity at 884 feet and water is being released through the spillway by opening 10 crest gates. Power production was on at both the right and left bank units. Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekhar Rao and union Minister of State for home affairs Kishan Reddy expressed shock over the accident at Srisailam and have prayed for the safety of those trapped inside the plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-hours-on-nine-employees-still-trapped-inside-telanganas-srisailam-power-plant-875873.html
21-08-2020||South||Fire breaks out at boat manufacturing factory in Puducherry||A fire broke out at a boat manufacturing factory near Coconut Harbour earlier this morning in Puducherry, according to ANI.  Eight fire tenders are carrying out fire extinguishing operation. Mudaliarpet Police is carrying out an investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-breaks-out-at-boat-manufacturing-factory-in-puducherry-875933.html
21-08-2020||South||1,967 fresh cases recorded in Telangana; state tally at 99,391||Telangana on Friday reported 1,967 new Covid-19 cases as the overall tally neared the one lakh mark in the state. The death toll rose to 737 with eight more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 20. The 1,967 new infections pushed the overall count in the state to 99,391. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 473 fresh infections, followed by Rangareddy (202), Medchal-Malkajgiri (170) and Warangal Urban (101) districts. All 33 districts in the state reported cases in double digits. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.74 per cent, while it was 1.90 percent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far stood at 76,967, while 21,687 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 77.43 percent in the state, while it was 73.91 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home or institutional isolation was 15,332. The bulletin said 26,767 samples were tested on August 20. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 8,48,078. The samples tested per million population was 22,843, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1967-fresh-cases-recorded-in-telangana-state-tally-at-99391-875968.html
21-08-2020||South||Rescue teams from Singareni Collieries leave for Srisailam power plant||Two teams comprising 20 members including three officials of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, a state-owned coal miner, have left for Srisailam Hydel Electric Power project in which nine persons are trapped due to a fire accident, a senior official of SCCL said. "The teams are experts in rescuing people trapped in irrespirable conditions. We have equipment that can allow our personnel where there are poisonous gases and no oxygen. The teams can go even if there is dense smoke," SCCL General Manager (Rescue) S Venkateswarlu told PTI. The official further said the teams left from Peddapalli district where the rescue teams are stationed. Nine persons are feared trapped in Srisailam Left bank hydroelectric station located underground on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border after a fire broke out on Thursday night, officials said on Friday. Though the fire was put off, thick smoke engulfed the tunnel where the power plant is located, hampering the rescue operations. Six of the people are currently undergoing treatment at a hospital for suffocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rescue-teams-from-singareni-collieries-leave-for-srisailam-power-plant-875994.html
21-08-2020||South||Alleged criminal gunned down in police 'encounter' in Tamil Nadu||A drug peddler involved in murder cases besides extortion, was allegedly killed in a police 'encounter' here on Friday morning when he made a frantic bid to escape after attacking a constable, a top city police official said. The deceased Sankar attacked constable Mubarak with a sickle when he was brought to the place of the incident for 'recovery' (of drugs) by a police team following his earlier arrest, City Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said. The Commissioner said Sankar was also involved in three murder, four attempt to murder and 50 other cases, adding he had five non-bailable warrants pending against him and had been detained under the stringent Goondas Act nine times in the past. "An encounter has taken place this morning. The drug peddler attempted to escape after attacking constable Mubarak. Ayanavaram police Inspector Natarajan had to open fire at the fleeing accused who was later declared dead," Aggarwal told P T I. Sankar (49) was rushed to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital here where doctors who examined him pronounced that he was "dead on arrival," he said. The police, who fired three rounds at the accused, warned him after he attacked the constable and opened fire in "self-defence", Aggarwal later told reporters. "There will be a magisterial inquiry as per procedure," and according to laid down Supreme Court guidelines, he said. Aggarwal said that vigil has been stepped up to prevent drug peddling. "Last month we had seized about 800 kg of ganja. We are firm on not allowing drug peddling," he said. Sankar was involved in drug peddling in Ayanavaram and also in other parts of North Chennai. The Ayanavaram police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alleged-criminal-gunned-down-in-police-encounter-in-tamil-nadu-876011.html
21-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy cancels visit to Srisailam following fire accident||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday cancelled his scheduled trip to Srisailam following the fire accident in the left bank powerhouse on the neighbouring Telangana side late Thursday night. He was supposed to conduct puja for the new Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme. Jagan Mohan Reddy was scheduled to reach Srisailam at 11 am and conduct an inspection of the project site. A review meeting with Water Resources Department officials was also planned. A CMO release said the Chief Minister cancelled the trip following the fire mishap in the left bank powerhouse. Expressing grief over the incident, he directed the AP officials to extend all required assistance to their Telangana counterparts to handle the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-cancels-visit-to-srisailam-following-fire-accident-876012.html
21-08-2020||South||Hundreds shifted to safer places following heavy rains in Telangana||Hundreds of people have been shifted to safer places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in Telangana following heavy rains, even as relief works got underway on Friday in other affected areas of the state. The water level in Godavari river in the temple town of Bhadrachalam (in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district) was flowing above the danger level of 53 feet and stood at 54.90 feet at 1 pm, officials said. According to official data, Karakagudem in Bhadradri- Kothagudem district and Venkatapuram in Mulugu district received (from 8.30 AM on August 20 to 7 AM on August 21) very heavy rainfall of 172.8 mm and 127 mm respectively. Several other areas in the state received heavy to moderate rains. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, who visited the overflowing Munneru rivulet at Khammam, said residents of low lying areas in Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts have been shifted to safer places and provided with food and others, according to an official release. He directed the officials to be on alert and continue relief operations till the flood waters receded. Meanwhile, relief works continued in Warangal, where several areas have been inundated following heavy rains this week. Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao had announced on Tuesday that a special month long drive would be conducted in the city to remove all encroachments on drains, which were reportedly the reason for inundation of roads and flooding in residential areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hundreds-shifted-to-safer-places-following-heavy-rains-in-telangana-876046.html
21-08-2020||South||9 killed in Srisailam hydel power plant fire mishap in Telangana; CM Rao orders compensation and probe||Nine employees trapped inside the Srisailam left bank hydroelectricity plant, where a major fire broke out late on Thursday night, were found dead on Friday afternoon. The NDRF, CISF, fire department, and teams from the Singareni Collieries couldn't come tp the aid of the eight men and one woman as flames and thick smoke had engulfed the underground facility. Seven among the deceased, including a deputy engineer, are employees of the Telangana state power generation corporation (TSGENCO), while two are employees of a private firm. Three severely injured TSGENCO employees are undergoing treatment. Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered a CID probe into the incident and announced compensation to the victims' families.  The TSGENCO operates the Srisailam Left Bank hydro power project located in Nagarkurnool district, while the plant on the right bank of River Krishna is run by Andhra Pradesh GENCO. With heavy inflows from Karnataka, the reservoir is at its full capacity at about 885 feet and power production was on at both the right and left bank units. Water is being released downstream through the spillway too by lifting 10 crest gates. The mishap in the 900 (6X150) MW capacity plant in Srisailam was caused by a sudden fire in the control panels at about 10.30 on Thursday night, the TSGENCO officials said. “The employees did their best to douse the fire and save the plant despite danger to their lives. Their efforts were on till 12 am,” TSGENCO said. “The heavy smoke prevented their later attempts to flee through the escape tunnel.”     There were 17 personnel inside the plant at the time and eight managed to escape. The plant is located at the end of a 1.2 km deep tunnel. “The tunnel is the only access for the rescue teams but flames and smoke blocked the entry till Friday afternoon. All the nine were dead, unfortunately, by the time they entered inside,” a TSGENCO statement said. The deceased TSGENCO employees are identified as deputy engineer Srinivas Goud, assistant engineers Venkatak Rao, Mohan Kumar, Uzma Fathima, Sundar, and plant attendants Rambabu and Kiran. Vinesh Kumar and Mahesh Kumar are employees of a private battery firm. Expressing his shock, Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao has announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to DE Goud’s family and Rs 25 lakh each for others, besides a government job for the victims' families.   Rao has also ordered a CID inquiry, with CID additional DGP Govind Singh as the inquiry officer. The Telangana government has ordered another enquiry by a committee to recommend measures to prevent such incidents in the future.   Telangana power minister Jagadeesh Reddy and TSGENCO CMD Prabhakar Rao, who monitored the rescue efforts, expressed their shock and stated that the incident was the worst in the organisation’s history.    The Srisailam multipurpose project on the River Krishna is jointly managed by the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments and is a major source of irrigation water and electricity for the two Telugu states. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy expressed grief over the life loss in the Srisailam powerhouse mishap. Reddy, scheduled to visit Srisailam brimming with water to review the irrigation projects, had cancelled his Friday tour due to the mishap on the Telangana side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/9-killed-in-srisailam-hydel-power-plant-fire-mishap-in-telangana-cm-rao-orders-compensation-and-probe-876072.html
21-08-2020||South||From frying pan to fire, Kerala junior doctors involved in Covid-19 care plead for justice||For over 950 doctors who just passed out of the government medical colleges in Kerala, it has been like jumping from the frying pan to fire as they were engaged in the Covid-19 front-line activities. Many of them are forced to work continuously for days and remain in quarantine, and that too with no remuneration for nearly three months. Despite the repeated pleas of the junior doctors, steps to pay remuneration has been progressing only at snail's pace citing technical reasons. This has forced the junior doctors to approach the Kerala High Court under the banner Kerala Junior Doctors' Association (KJDA) seeking justice. It was towards the end of their mandatory house surgency of MBBS course in March that COVID broke out in Kerala and they were posted in Covid care centres attached to medical colleges from nearly one month by extending their house surgency. Afterwards, even before they got the mandatory registration, the state government posted them at Primacy Health Centres, Community Health Centres and Family Health centres across Kerala, without specifying any remuneration or designation, but reminding the warning of stringent action under the epidemic rules in case of non-adherence. They allege that the medical officers of many health centres abstained from duty and hence they were overburdened with taking care of the daily activities at the health centres to the collection of swabs from Covid-19 suspects. Later when Covid-19 First-Line Treatment Centres were opened, many were deployed there also. In Ernakulam, one junior doctor had to work continuously for ten days in a row round the clock at CFLTCs. KJDA secretary Dr Krishna Priya said that not only that they had not yet received any single penny so far for meeting basic expenses like travel, their future career was also affected. Since their house surgency got extended they could not apply for the Kerala Public Service Commission recruitment test. While those who passed out from private colleges could now prepare for post-graduate entrance exams, they could not prepare because of the hectic work. Many had also paid fee at coaching centres in advance. After strong pressure by the junior doctors, the state government issued an order fixing their remuneration at Rs. 42,000. But since no specific designation was fixed their salaries could not be disbursed through the state government payroll management system. Now the junior doctors are also concerned whether the government would extend their service forcefully as their three-month term is ending shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-frying-pan-to-fire-kerala-junior-doctors-involved-in-covid-19-care-plead-for-justice-876108.html
21-08-2020||South||Karnataka Health Minister's mother dies after recovering from Covid-19||The mother of Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu died in Ballari district, a day after she recovered from coronavirus, he said on Friday. "With deep sorrow I inform you all that my mother Honnuramma passed away on Thursday night due to age related issues. At the ripe age of 95, my mother had completely recovered from coronavirus and just returned home from the Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru," Sriramulu tweeted. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar and many other ministers condoled the death of Honnuramma. According to sources close to Sriramulu, Honnuramma tested positive for coronavirus a week ago and was admitted to the Government Bowring Hospital. On Friday, she was discharged from the hospital after she had recovered from the coronavirus, but hours later she died, they said. While many other ministers and officials, who tested positive for coronavirus preferred undergoing treatment in the super-specialty ultra-luxury hospitals, Sriramulu and his mother had set an example by getting admitted in the government hospital and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-health-ministers-mother-dies-after-recovering-from-covid-19-876113.html
21-08-2020||South||Kerala Assembly to witness no-confidence motion and joint resolutions on Monday||A one-day session of Kerala Assembly to be held on Monday to pass the Finance Bill is likely to witness the opposition joining hands against the government over the Thiruvananthapuram airport issue. At the same time, a no-confidence motion will be moved against the government alleging nexus of Chief Minister's office with the gold smuggling racket. Congress MLA V D Satheesan had given the notice for no-confidence motion stating that the assembly has lost confidence in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government and hence permission may be given to present the notice. Sources said that a five-hour discussion might be allowed on the no-confidence motion notice. The ruling left front is having a comfortable majority of about 90 seats in 140-member Assembly and hence the no-confidence motion did not pose much threat to the government. At the same time, an all-party meeting convened by the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday decided to pass a joint resolution in the state Assembly to protest against the centre's decision to privatise Thiruvananthapuram airport. The Congress will be supporting the resolution, while the lone BJP member may not back it. Though the opposition had given a notice seeking removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishan for his alleged links with gold smuggling accused former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh, that notice would not be considered as it did not meet the mandatory requirement that such notices should be given 14 days in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-to-witness-no-confidence-motion-and-joint-resolutions-on-monday-876138.html
21-08-2020||South||Kerala govt mores High Court against Trivandrum airport privatisation row||The Kerala government on Friday approached the Kerala High Court seeking a stay on the privatisation of the management of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The High Court is likely to consider the plea on Monday. The fresh move came a day after the CPM-led government in the state convened an all-party meeting and decided to pass a resolution in the state Assembly to protest against Centre's move to privatise Trivandrum airport and hand it over to the Adani Group. The Congress is also opposed to the privatisation of the airport. Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan also said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state government would not co-operate with the implementation of the privatisation. The state government had earlier approached the High Court once opposing the plan. The HC had back then rejected the petition citing the no steps were initiated then to hand over the airport to the private party. It subsequently approached the SC and in February, the apex court returned the petition to the Kerala HC with a directive to consider it. However, no fresh steps were taken thereafter. The state has been demanding that the airport management be handed over to an SPV with state government's equity participation. The state had already floated a public-private participation firm Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited and participated in the tendering for the airport. But it quoted a fee of only Rs. 135 per passenger while the Adani Group quoted Rs. 162 per passenger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-mores-high-court-against-trivandrum-airport-privatisation-row-876141.html
21-08-2020||South||Grand challenge brings overnight fame to Kerala IT firm||An IT firm based at a small town in the coastal district of Alappuzha in Kerala has shot to fame overnight by emerging as winners of the Centre's grand challenge for developing video conference solution. VConSol, the application developed by the startup firm Techgentsia Software Technologies, emerged as the winner in Centre's the contest which saw a participation of close to 2,000 contestants. Capacity to handle more participants at a time and compatibility with many platforms were the highlights of VConSol. Joy Sebastian, who is the founder CEO of the firm, has been flooded with congratulatory messages since Thursday after Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad announced the award that carries financial support of Rs 1 crore with additional Rs 10 lakhs for operation and maintenance for next three years. The centre also decided to use the application for government's video conferencing. Joy, who is an MCA holder, said that after clearing the initial rounds of the contest the confidence level of the firm went up. The teamwork of Techgentsia indeed made it happen, said Joy who is a native of the district. Most of the employees of the firm were also from the district. Techgentsia was set up in 2009 and it has been focusing on research and development in real-time communication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/grand-challenge-brings-overnight-fame-to-kerala-it-firm-876150.html
21-08-2020||South||AYUSH secretary asked us to leave meeting for not knowing Hindi: Tamil Nadu doctors||Union AYUSH secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha is at the centre of a controversy for allegedly asking yoga and naturopathy doctors from Tamil Nadu to leave a virtual training programme after they objected to the sessions being conducted in Hindi and not in English. As many as 37 naturopathy doctors from Tamil Nadu participated in the event organised by the Ministry of AYUSH and Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga for Master Trainers of Yoga that saw an attendance of over 300 participants from across the country. Three doctors, who attended the 3-day programme, told DH that only four sessions were conducted in English, while the remaining were in Hindi and alleged that their repeated requests to the organisers to hold them in English or make it bilingual fell on deaf ears. “Our repeated requests to make the presentations in English were not heeded to. All 37 doctors from Tamil Nadu sent messages on the chatbox expressing their displeasure over sessions being conducted in Hindi. When we objected, we were told to leave the session,” the doctor told DH on the condition of anonymity. The doctors also released a video of the programme in which Kotecha, who made a lateral entry into government service after heading the Gujarat Ayurveda University in Jamnagar, is seen telling the participants that he did not speak English well. “I want to congratulate people who have taken the time to attend this event in the past two days. I have information that, for the past two days, there has been a problem…people can leave…I do not speak English very well. So, I will speak in Hindi,” Kotecha is seen telling the participants. One doctor who attended the meeting said the AYUSH Secretary also threatened to act against participants who questioned why Yoga and Naturopathy were being split while they have been together till now. The doctors also claimed that the speakers and trainers at the workshop were not “qualified enough” to impart training to professionals who have completed the five-and-a-half-year BNYS (Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences) course. Another doctor claimed “non-qualified” people with no medical background took the training for qualified doctors who will be imparting lessons to patients. “We have written a formal letter to the Ministry of AYUSH flagging quality issues in training,” he said, adding that doctors from Tamil Nadu were clearly discriminated against for not “knowing Hindi.” According to the ministry, those who received training will be deployed at various Health and Wellness Centres (HWCS) under Ayushman Bharat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ayush-secretary-asked-us-to-leave-meeting-for-not-knowing-hindi-tamil-nadu-doctors-876151.html
21-08-2020||South||7,571 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, total infections breach 1 lakh mark in Bengaluru||Karnataka on Friday reported 7,571 new cases of Covid-19 and 93 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 2,64,546 and death toll to 4,522, the health department said. The total number of positive cases in Bengaluru urban breached 1 lakh mark today, with the city reporting 2,948 fresh cases. The day also saw 6,561 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of August 21 evening, cumulatively 2,64,546 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 4,522 deaths and 1,76,942 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 83,066 active cases, 82,368 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 698 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 22 out of 93 deaths reported on Friday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Ballari (9), Belagavi, Davangere and Kalaburagi (7), Dakshina Kannada and Koppala (5); Bidar, Haveri and Vijayapura (4), Dharwad, Raichur and Tumakuru (3), Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Kolar (2), and Gadag and Mandya (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,948, Ballari 540, Belagavi 384, Udupi 278, Yadgir 255, Dharwad 252, Davangere 237, Koppal 234, Shivamogga 227, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,02,770 infections, followed by Ballari 16,740 and Mysuru 12,304. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 66,602 discharges, followed by Ballari 10,476 and Kalaburagi 7,715. According to the bulletin, a total of 23,14,485 samples have been tested so far,of which 57,623 were tested on Friday alone. Among the samples tested today 22,992 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/7571-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-total-infections-breach-1-lakh-mark-in-bengaluru-876175.html
21-08-2020||South||Don't judge Tamil Nadu law & order by isolated incidents, will not tolerate rowdyism: CM K Palaniswami||Maintaining that Tamil Nadu's law and order situation is managed well compared to several states in the country, Chief Minister K Palaniswami asked his political detractors not to come to conclusions by judging isolated incidents. Justifying the police action on a Chennai drug peddler who was allegedly killed in "an encounter" by the police in Chennai on Friday, the chief minister said his government will not give room for any unlawful activities or rowdyism and would take stern action as per law. "Don't come to conclusions by judging isolated incidents. Tamil Nadu's law and order situation is better compared to many states in the country," he told reporters here when asked about the opposition DMK's charge that even the police lacked security, made in the backdrop of the killing of a constable in a country bomb attack in Tuticorin earlier this week. "It is very strange to say so. The police offer protection to the people. Have there not been murders during the DMK rule? Was not former DMK minister Tha Kiruttinam hacked to death during his morning walk and three persons torched in a family dispute," Palaniswami asked. Earlier, the chief minister announced that a Poultry Research Institute, similar to the High-Security Animal Research Institute at Bhopal and Poultry Management Institute, Pune, will be established in Namakkal. Also, an Arecanut Research Station will be set up in Paramathi Velur in the district, he said. Namakkal, he said, was famous for lorry transport and poultry. Palaniswami inaugurated several projects for a total cost of Rs 250 crore and later inspected the progress of the construction of Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital and the Special Covid Care Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-judge-tamil-nadu-law-order-by-isolated-incidents-will-not-tolerate-rowdyism-cm-k-palaniswami-876203.html
21-08-2020||South||Amit Shah expresses anguish over loss of lives in Telangana fire tragedy||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday expressed deep anguish over the loss of lives in the fire incident at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. Nine people died in the blaze that broke out at the plant on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border late on Thursday night. "Deeply anguished to learn about the loss of lives due to the tragic fire accident at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. My deepest condolences are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Shah tweeted. The fire broke out when at least 17 people were inside the plant and eight of them managed to come out, officials said. Six bodies, out of the nine dead, have been recovered by rescue teams so far and efforts were on to pull out the others from the underground plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-expresses-anguish-over-loss-of-lives-in-telangana-fire-tragedy-876214.html
21-08-2020||South||Erode Collector tests positive for coronavirus||Erode district Collector C Kathiravan has tested positive for Covid-19. According to health officials, the Collector fell sick on Friday morning and took a coronavirus test which indicated he was infected. Following this, he self-quarantined in his residential quarters. His family members, too, took the test during the day and are awaiting the results. The Collector had participated in a function and it is said he might have contracted the infection then. Those who took part in that government function have been advised to take a Covid-19 test. Coronavirus cases in the district are on the rise. Over 1,800 positive cases have been reported and 29 deaths reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/erode-collector-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-876226.html
21-08-2020||South||Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation: Hardeep Singh Puri says Kerala already running two airports under PPP model||The Kerala government is running two "very successful" airports under the public-private partnership (PPP) model and it is still opposing handing over the Thiruvananthapuram airport to a private operator, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. His remarks come after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the Union Cabinet's approval to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises under the PPP model for a period of 50 years. Puri asked why did the Kerala government participate in the bidding process for the Thiruvananthapuram airport if it has been against privatisation. "Kerala is the pioneer as far as airports under PPP are concerned. First PPP airport in India came up in Kochi in Kerala,” Puri tweeted. The Kochi airport "is a successfully run airport" that handled 9.62 million passengers per annum in 2019-20 before COVID-19, he noted. "In fact, it was during the UDF (Congress-led coalition) regime in Kerala that the foundation for Kochi airport was laid in 1994 and the airport was inaugurated in 1999 during LDF (Left-led coalition) regime," he said in a tweet. Another very successful example of an airport operating in PPP mode is in Kannur, also situated in Kerala, he said. "Now, Kerala Government, running two very successful airports in PPP mode, is opposing the handing over of Thiruvananthapuram airport under PPP mode," he said. "It has come to my knowledge that an all-party meeting in Kerala has opposed the PPP model at Thiruvananthapuram airport," Puri said. The minister said the airports in Delhi and Mumbai which handle around one-third of India's air passenger traffic were privatised using the PPP model during the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2006-07. "In comparison the 6 airports now being handed over, only handle less than 10% of the country's total passenger traffic," Puri mentioned. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports - Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati - through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out three airports - Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow - to Adani Enterprises. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal for leasing out the other three airports. "If Kerala Govt is against privatisation, then why did it participate in the bidding process? State Govt was given a fair chance & Right of First Refusal (RoFR) if their bid was within 10% below the range of highest bid. However, they bid 19.64 % below," Puri tweeted. After losing the bid for the airport, the Kerala government then approached the Kerala High Court on this matter which dismissed the petition in December 2019, Puri noted. "Petitioners then filed a SLP (special leave petition) in Hon'ble SC. Apex Court remitted the matter back to Hon'ble Kerala High Court. There is no stay in the case either by Hon'ble SC or Hon'ble Kerala High Court," he said. The Union Cabinet has given its go-ahead for awarding the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the private party subject to the outcome of writ petition and in accordance with provisions of undertaking given by that party, he said. "If the petitioners succeed and the outcome of litigation leads to annulment/cancellation of the bidding process then the Concessionaire will hand over the possession of the airport to AAI," the minister mentioned. "They will be entitled to a refund of the amount paid to AAI and additional investments made in the assets," he said, adding that Adani Enterprises "will also not demand any damages from AAI". The Centre-run Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the one in Kerala's capital city. Mullappally Ramachandran, the president of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, had said on Thursday that the move to privatise the Thiruvananthapuram airport was "deplorable". In his letter, the Kerala CM has asked Modi to reconsider the decision as it will be "difficult" for the state to cooperate. Kerala's repeated requests to entrust the airport management with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) in which the state government is the major stakeholder was also ignored, Vijayan stated. "In view of the unilateral decision taken by the Government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the State government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the State," he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thiruvananthapuram-airport-privatisation-hardeep-singh-puri-says-kerala-already-running-two-airports-under-ppp-model-876233.html
21-08-2020||South||Floods claim four lives in Andhra Pradesh, flow intensifies in Godavari||Floods claimed four lives in Andhra Pradesh as the flow in the Godavari has again intensified on Friday, pushing the level closer to the third danger mark at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage in East Godavari district. The flood claimed three lives in East Godavari district and another in neighbouring West Godavari, according to officials. On the other side, river Krishna too received copious inflows bringing the Srisailam reservoir closer to its full capacity, consequent to which over 3.82 lakh cusecs of water was being discharged downstream. After dropping to 14 lakh cusecs yesterday, the flood flow swelled to over 17.23 lakh cusecs at Cotton Barrage at Dowaleswaram on Friday afternoon and 18.52 lakh cusecs by evening, according to the Water Resources Department data. The increased flood flow kept tens of villages in East and West Godavari districts marooned for the sixth day in a row. More than 64,100 people have been sheltered in flood relief camps in the two districts while village volunteers have been supplying essential commodities to households in many flood-hit villages. East Godavari district Collector Muralidhar Reddy said three people died in the flood in Yetapaka and Amalapuram divisions while another person was missing. Also, 258 head of cattle were also killed in the flood, he said. In Polavaram in West Godavari, the body of a woman who was swept away by surging water two days ago, was fished out on Friday. In East Godavari, 96 houses were also damaged in the flood, as per preliminary estimates. Farmers were pushed into misery as horticulture crops in 8,922 hectares and agriculture crops, mainly paddy, in 1,902 hectares were damaged in East Godavari district. In West Godavari, agriculture crops in 2,440 hectares suffered damage due to inundation. Horticulture crops in 1,273 hectares were also badly affected, according to preliminary estimates. Full-scale enumeration of crop losses would be undertaken only after the flood recedes fully, officials said. After touching a high of 4.17 lakh cusecs, the inflow into Srisailam on river Krishna dropped to 3.93 lakh cusecs this evening and initially 4.96 lakh cusecs was let out through 10 crest gates. Later in the evening, the outflow was constricted to 3.82 lakh cusecs as the flood cushion in the reservoir dwindled to just 4.20 tmc ft after 211.61 tmc ft of water was impounded,sources said. In Nagarjuna Sagar downstream, water flow increased to 4.07 lakh cusecs by late evening, consequent to which 1.67 lakh cusecs was being discharged into the Dr K L Rao Sagar at Pulichintala. As it still has a flood cushion of over 19.09 tmc ft, no water is being released from the Dr K L Rao Sagar, though the inflow increased to 86,599 cusecs. The Prakasam Barrage downstream in Vijayawada received an inflow of 1.27 lakh cusecs as surging water from the Muniyeru rivulet was being discharged. Authorities have opened the Barrage gates to let out 1.14 lakh cusecs into the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/floods-claim-four-lives-in-andhra-pradesh-flow-intensifies-in-godavari-876252.html
21-08-2020||South||Woman says she was raped 5,000 times by over 100 men and women; Hyderabad police register FIR||The Hyderabad police have registered a case of rape and sexual assault against 139 persons – some of them women – based on a 25-year-old woman's complaint. The case, booked at the Panjagutta police station on Thursday, includes names of people mentioned as leaders of a Left student union, doctors, jewelers, media and film industry operatives, acquaintances of relatives, and some even from places like Bengaluru and the USA. Some of the accused are cited as “NAME NO IDEA” in the First Information Report. In her complaint, the woman, stated as unemployed, said that she was married off to one man from Miryalaguda in June 2009 and the ordeal began with sexual harassment and physical assault by her husband’s family members. She took a divorce from him in December 2010 and joined a college for further studies. Thereafter, she was raped and gang-raped around 5,000 times by several men, and was videographed in objectionable positions to be used as pornographic content, the woman said. She has described several such deplorable acts in the FIR, including abuse in the name of caste. The woman also said that the men had tortured and threatened to kill her in different ways like pouring acid and petrol on her. “They run an online sex racket. Many girls are victims of their heinous acts like me.” “We are recording her statements and medical tests would also be conducted. We are trying to gather more information to verify her claims,” a Panjagutta police station officer told DH. The case is registered under various IPC sections like 376 (2), 509, 354 dealing with rape, sexual assault, outraging women’s modesty, and the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-says-she-was-raped-5000-times-by-over-100-men-and-women-hyderabad-police-register-fir-876261.html
21-08-2020||State||No decision on SDPI ban, says Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government on Thursday said it has not arrived at any decision on banning the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Popular Front of India (PFI) for their suspected role in the Bengaluru riots for lack of "concrete" evidence.  “We discussed the issue of Bengaluru riots, but no decision was taken,” Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.   According to Madhuswamy, the government is exploring all legal options to initiate action against those directly and indirectly involved in the riots. "At the moment, we still do not have concrete evidence or a police report in the case before us. We will take suitable action once we get the report," he said.  It was widely expected that the Cabinet will take a call on banning the 'extremist' organisations, with several BJP ministers publicly asking for it.    On recovering damages to public property from rioters, the Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Public Property Act, 1981, recommends that an authority be created to estimate loss and compensation. "The government will constitute the authority soon," Madhuswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-decision-on-sdpi-ban-says-karnataka-govt-875837.html
21-08-2020||State||Conduct larvae survey to check malaria, dengue: Mangaluru DC||Asha workers should visit houses and conduct larvae survey to check the spread of dengue and malaria cases in Dakshina Kannada, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. He said various departments should work in coordination to check the spread of vector-borne diseases. The DC said schools, college and Anganwadi buildings have been closed for the last several months. There is a possibility of water remaining stagnant on the terrace of the buildings, thus giving room for the breeding of mosquitoes. There is a need to identify such places. The department of health and education officials with the help of Asha workers should conduct a survey of the larvae. Stating that there has been rise in Dengue and Malaria cases in Puttur, Belthangady, Sullia and Kadaba areas, DHO Dr Ramachandra Bayari said that the stagnation of water in coconut shells kept for collecting latex from rubber tree, arecanut sheaths fallen on the ground in the arecanut gardens, container kept for the collection of honey, have become a source of breeding ground for the mosquitoes. Further, he said during the inspection at the Bunder area, it was found that mosquitoes were breeding inside the plastic crates kept in boats, water tanks and barrels. The DC directed the officials from horticulture, agriculture departments to create awareness among farmers on water stagnation resulting in mosquito breeding and ensure that water does not remain stagnant.  Stringent action The building owners will be held responsible for breeding mosquitoes in under-construction buildings. Fine should be collected from such building owners. The Mangaluru City Corporation officials should cancel the trade licenses of those petty shops where mosquitoes are found breeding in unused items in and around the scrap shops. The DC said that malaria and dengue cases have been found among destitutes in Mangaluru city. A team of officials from the health department, MCC and social welfare departments should prepare a list of destitutes in the city and submit a report on the measures taken to rehabilitate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/conduct-larvae-survey-to-check-malaria-dengue-mangaluru-dc-875944.html
21-08-2020||State||Water inflow into River Krishna recedes||With rains providing respite in the catchments of River Krishna and its tributaries in the district and Maharashtra, the water inflow into the state receded on Friday. The level in River Krishna was below danger level with the inflow being 2.06 lakh cusecs. The discharge of water from dams in Maharashtra had led to the water level in River Krishna reaching the danger mark on Thursday. There has been a respite from the rains in the catchments of River Krishna and its tributaries since Wednesday. Water discharge from the Koyna Dam too has reduced. Water inflow at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi came down to 2,06,764 cusecs. It included 1,73,500 cusecs from Rajapur barrage in Maharashtra and 33,264 cusecs from its tributary Doodhganga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-inflow-into-river-krishna-recedes-875951.html
21-08-2020||State||KCET 2020 results announced: How to check||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) on Friday declared the results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test 2020. Over 1.8 lakh people took the exam, which took place on July 30 and 31. How to check your results: 3. Enter your login credentials and hit submit 4. Your result will be displayed on the screen. You can download and take a print out for future reference||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcet-2020-results-announced-how-to-check-875993.html
21-08-2020||State||CET results out, 1.5 lakh secure eligibility for engineering studies||The results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) 2020 were announced on Friday with 1,53,470 students securing eligibility to get admission to engineering courses this year. The number of students eligible for engineering courses has gone up by over 10,000 compared to the previous year. During KCET 2019, 1,40,957 candidates were eligible for engineering admissions. Rakshith M of RV PU college Bengaluru received first rank on engineering stream, Varun Gowda AB of Expert PU college Mangalore in B.Sc Agri, Sai Vivek P of Narayana E Techno Bengaluru in BVSc stream and also in B.Pharma and D.Pharma secured first ranks. This year over 1.94 lakh students registered for the test of which 1,75,349 appeared for the test amid the Covid fear. As higher education department made arrangements for Covid-19 infected candidates to appear for test, around 63 candidates who were tested positive for Covid-19 appeared for the test at Covid care centres. This year the counseling dates will be announced after the announcement of NEET and JEE results and their counseling schedule. However, the online document verification will begin from September 1. Karnataka Examinations Authority has released detailed schedule for students to upload documents as per the ranks secured. The candidates who have not received their ranks can upload the marks card and get their rankings. Even those who have applied for revaluation will get fresh ranks once they upload the marks Card.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cet-results-out-15-lakh-secure-eligibility-for-engineering-studies-876008.html
21-08-2020||State||Congress demands judicial probe into Bengaluru violence||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President Satish Jarkiholi demanded a judicial probe into the recent incident of violence in Bengaluru. Congress party leaders and workers were being selectively targeted for inquiry by the police, hence judicial probe was needed to clear the air, he said Speaking to reporters at the party office here on Friday, Jarkiholi said, "Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has been blaming the factions in the Congress party for the violence. We do agree that we have factions within the party, but were not involved in the violence. It has come to the notice that Congress party leaders and workers were being summoned for inquiry by police. Truth needs to come out and judicial probe into the violence is needed." He denied that KPCC President D K Shivakumar threatened Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. He said, Shivakumar addressed him respectfully, using 'Mr' and asked not to make Congress party leaders and workers scapegoats for violence. It does not amount to threatening. Congress party has formed fact-finding committee and it will soon visit the affected areas and collect information about the violence. Committee will submit its findings to the KPCC president. Based on its report, the party will decide the next course of action. The committee was yet to begin its work, he stated. "BJP leaders earlier used to abuse the CBI and call it different names and now want it to conduct an inquiry into the Bengaluru violence. Judicial probe will bring facts to the fore, Jarkiholi expressed. He blamed the BJP government as being responsible for the violence. Complainants had been waiting for their complaint to be filed for more than three hours. Had that been done immediately, violence could have been prevented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-demands-judicial-probe-into-bengaluru-violence-876015.html
21-08-2020||State||CM Yediyurappa offers bagina at Kabini, KRS for the fifth time||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, for the fifth time, offered bagina at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Mandya district and Kabini dam in Mysuru district, at an auspicious time, on Friday. The CM, accompanied by MP A Sumalatha, Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh offered bagina at12.05 pm at KRS dam, after performing puja to the idol of Goddess Cauvery.From there, he left by helicopter and reached H D Kote taluk and offered bagina at Kabini dam at 1.15 pm. He also performed puja for the Kapila river. The Chief Minister had to face the heat of protests by farmers' organisations in H D Kote taluk and Srirangapatna taluk, who demanded the government to withdraw the amendment to the Land Reforms Act, urging him to fulfill their various demands. The farmer organisations had planned to show black flags as a mark of protest against the amendment to the Act, which has affected the farmers. They had gathered at the K G Halli Circle, in H D Kote taluk, and were not allowed near the dam. Police had beefed up security arrangements. Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MLA Anil Chikkamadu, DC Abhiram G Sankar accompanied him||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-yediyurappa-offers-bagina-at-kabini-krs-for-the-fifth-time-876032.html
21-08-2020||State||KCET: Hubballi students bag 3rd, 6th ranks in engineering||Two students from Hubballi have bagged the third and sixth ranks in the Common Entrance Test (CET) Engineering stream, results of which were announced on Friday. M Shashank Balaji, a student of Base PU College Hubballi, bagged third rank in engineering stream and sixth rank in pharma. He has secured 174 out of 180 marks (Physics 56, Chemistry 59 and Mathematics 59 out of 60) in CET. “I did not prepare anything special for CET. I am interested in joining IIT Computer Science stream and preparing hard for the JEE mains,” he said adding that the pandemic did not affect him much as the college had completed the course well before the imposition of lockdown. “I do not pressurise myself with the results and concentrated only on my preparation and performance,” he said. Nakul Abhay Bapat, a student of Vidyanikethan Science PU College has begged the sixth rank in the Engineering stream. He secured 168 out of 180 marks in CET (P-58, C- 56 and M-54). “I wish to pursue pure sciences at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. I am hopeful that I will get through the admission process. I am interested in basic science and research work,” he said, thanking the college for conducting online exams during the lockdown which helped him to crack the CET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcet-hubballi-students-bag-3rd-6th-ranks-in-engineering-876048.html
21-08-2020||State||Mysuru Dasara to be held in simple manner: BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the Mysuru Dasara will be celebrated in a simple manner. The CM was speaking to reporters after offering bagina to the Kabini Dam in Beechanahalli, in H D Kote taluk The CM said, Dasara will be celebrated this year too but, it will be a low-key affair. The committee meeting over Dasara celebration will be held soon, the CM said. The CM also said, the state has received good rainfall and the ground water table has improved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-dasara-to-be-held-in-simple-manner-bs-yediyurappa-876057.html
21-08-2020||State||Government failed to manage flood situation: Satish Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President Satish Jarkiholi has alleged that the government has failed to manage the flood situation and come to the aid of those affected by nature's fury in the North Karnataka region in particular. Speaking to reporters at the party office here on Friday, Jarkiholi said that this year the flood situation was not serious, unlike the previous year, until now but the government is yet to come to the aid of those affected. People have lost their houses and were fearing crop losses including those affected during the previous year. The Government conduct appeared irresponsible, he said Revenue Minister R Ashok should take the lead in inspecting the flood situation and come to the aid of the people instead of relying on reports submitted by the officials. Former revenue minister R V Deshpande had visited the areas affected both by floods and drought to seek first-hand information and come to the aid of the people, he said. Government even failed to manage the Covid-19 situation and the same has been happening with the flood-affected. People who lost their houses during the previous year were yet to get compensation and their incomplete houses were again facing the threat of collapse, Jarkiholi stated. He said, "We have four ministers in the state cabinet from the district, but none were coming to the aid of the people and were confined to their constituencies. It appears that none were concerned about the miseries of the people''. He said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government has meted injustice to the state in allocating compensation for flood losses. The state suffered maximum losses but lesser compensation has been released while other states which suffered lesser losses have got more compensation. We do not know why the state has been discriminated against despite the BJP government both in the state and Centre."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-failed-to-manage-flood-situation-satish-jarkiholi-876076.html
21-08-2020||State||Mandya MP Sumalatha appeals to CM BSY to prevent illegal mining around Krishnaraja Sagar||Raising voice against the rampant illegal mining around the famous Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir across river Cauvery, Mandya parliamentarian Sumalatha has appealed to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking the state government's intervention. Revealing that the unchecked illegal mining around KRS posed a grave threat to the KRS, Sumalatha sought CM to issue directions to stop illegal mining. Participating in a function to offer 'Bagina' to river Cauvery at KRS as a thanksgiving gesture for ushering in prosperity in the form of bounteous rains, Sumalatha submitted a petition to the Chief Minister. "I have been fighting against the illegal mining activities around KRS and my struggle is to put an end to this illegal mining. It is ironic that despite my efforts to prevent these activities at both national and state level, the illegal mining activities have resumed in the region affecting the ecology of the region. I request you to kindly direct officials concerned to put an end to these illegal activities around KRS," Sumalatha appealed to the CM in her letter. She also requested the Chief Minister to restart the operations of MySugar factory facilitating the processing of sugarcane due for harvest across Mandya district that would benefit the farmers of the district. Sumalatha later revealed that CM has responded positively to her requests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mandya-mp-sumalatha-appeals-to-cm-bsy-to-prevent-illegal-mining-around-krishnaraja-sagar-876102.html
21-08-2020||State||Nanjangud doc’s death: CM B S Yediyurappa orders probe, asks doctors to report work stress||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday ordered an inquiry into the death of Nanjangud taluk health officer Dr SR Nagendra who ended his life allegedly due to pressure from his higher-ups. In a note to Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, Yediyurappa ordered the Mysuru regional commissioner to “objectively” inquire into the incident and submit a report in seven days. Even as the doctor's death created a furore among medical professionals, the Karnataka State Government Employees Association petitioned Yediyurappa seeking a probe into Dr Nagendra’s death and a “peaceful” work atmosphere health department personnel. Yediyurappa also hiked the compensation for Dr Nagendra’s family from Rs 30 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. “We have considered this as a special case,” Yediyurappa said. “That apart, any of his dependents will be given a job on compassionate grounds.” In his note to the chief secretary, Yediyurappa sought to boost the morale of medical professionals by asking anyone undergoing stress to immediately approach their seniors at work and resolve whatever issues they faced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nanjangud-doc-s-death-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-orders-probe-asks-doctors-to-report-work-stress-876124.html
21-08-2020||State||Drone used to deliver medicine in Karnataka||A drone was successfully used to deliver medicines to a patient caught in Krishna River's island at Karakalagaddi in Lingasgur taluk of Raichur district on Friday.  Four members of a family remained stranded in the island. Thippanna has been suffering from paralysis. The tables he was taking for the ailment were exhausted. The stranded people had on Thursday appealed to the officials to make arrangements to send the required medicines.  As about 2.75 lakh cusecs of water is being released from Narayanapur dam,  there are strong currents in the river which made the NDRF personnel to deliver medicine in boat.  Under the guidance of University of Agriculture Sciences Vice Chancellor  Dr K N Kattimani and with the help of Agriculture College dean Veeranagouda, assistant professor Abhishek and Sunil Shiraval and Deputy Commissioner  R Venkatesh Kumar, drone was used to deliver medicines.  Connectivity has been cut off to Karakalagaddi and Myadaragaddi due to floods in Krishna River.  Out of 13 people caught at Myadaragaddi, four were rescued three days ago. The rescue operation was stopped as the flood water had increased in the river. A few families are staying in the island as they have agriculture land there. The officials used to bring them to safer places during every floods. However, they demanded a permanent solution by providing them with agriculture land and house out of the island, but their demand remained unfulfilled till date.  A video of reaching medicine through drone has gone viral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drone-used-to-deliver-medicine-in-karnataka-876181.html
21-08-2020||State||Karnataka gets Rs 395.5 crore under SDRF from Centre for floods||The Centre on Friday gave Karnataka Rs 395.5 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to take up relief and rehabilitation in the flood-hit areas. “We had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately release money for the losses caused by the floods. We’re happy that the Centre heeded to the request and released Rs 395.5 crore under SDRF as an advance,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said in a tweet.  ರಾಜ್ಯದಲ್ಲಿ ಅತಿವೃಷ್ಟಿಯಿಂದ ಉಂಟಾದ ಹಾನಿಗೆ ಕೂಡಲೇ ಹಣ ಬಿಡುಗಡೆ ಮಾಡುವಂತೆ ಪ್ರಧಾನಿ ಶ್ರೀ ನರೇಂದ್ರ ಮೋದಿಯವರಿಗೆ ಮನವಿ ಮಾಡಿದ್ದೆವು. ಇದೀಗ ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಮನವಿಗೆ ಕೂಡಲೇ ಸ್ಪಂದಿಸಿದ ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಸರ್ಕಾರ, SDRF ಫಂಡ್ ₹395.5 ಕೋಟಿ ಹಣವನ್ನು ಈಗ ಮುಂಗಡವಾಗಿ ಬಿಡುಗಡೆ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದು ಸಂತಸ ತಂದಿದೆ. The total share in Karnataka’s SDRF for 2020-21 is Rs 791 crore of which the Centre had already released the first installment of Rs 395.5 crore.  The remaining Rs 395.50 crore released by the Centre now as the second instalment. Heavy rainfall since August 1 have caused flooding in a dozen districts, killing 20 people and displacing more than 4,000 persons who are currently housed in 91 relief camps. About 6,600 homes have been partially damaged and 381 are completely damaged.  The floods have affected Belagavi, Chikmagalur, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Hassan, Kodagu, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajnagar, Udupi and Haveri districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gets-rs-3955-crore-under-sdrf-from-centre-for-floods-876222.html
21-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 395.50 crore under State Disaster Response Fund to Karnataka||The Centre on Friday released Rs 395.50 crore to Karnataka under the State Disaster Response Fund to take up relief works in flood-hit areas.   Of the total Rs 791 crore of Centre's share in SDRF for the year 2020-21, the Ministry of Finance already released Rs 395.50 crore as the first instalment. The remaining Rs 395.50 crore released by the Centre now as the second instalment. The state has to utilise this fund to take up relief works during a natural calamity, said a release from Ministry of Finance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-39550-crore-under-state-disaster-response-fund-to-karnataka-876208.html
21-08-2020||West||Gujarat: Ex-MLA to return to Congress party||Former Gujarat Congress MLA Indranil Rajyaguru, who had fought the 2017 Assembly election against Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and later quit the party, will return to the party fold on Friday. Rajyaguru had resigned from the Congress in 2018 alleging that the state party leadership's style of functioning was not good. "Former MLA Indiranil Rajyaguru will re-join the Congress on Friday at the state party headquarters in Ahmedabad," party spokesperson Manish Doshi said. Rajyaguru became an MLA in 2012 from Rajkot East seat. In 2017, he volunteered to fight against chief minister Vijay Rupani from Rajkot West seat, leaving his safe seat. However, he lost to Rupani. Later, he was miffed by the party's state leadership backing other leaders in the district ignoring his bold decision to take on Rupani and give a good fight. He had resigned in June 2018 months after the assembly elections in December 2017. Rajyaguru was one of the richest candidates in the state. He has into construction business and also owns resorts. He will return to the party ahead of civic polls in Rajkot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ex-mla-to-return-to-congress-party-875843.html
21-08-2020||West||Mumbai: Tansa fourth lake to overflow after good rains||With good rainfall in the catchment areas in the last few days, the Tansa lake, a key source of potable water for Mumbai, started overflowing on Thursday evening, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Tansa, located in adjoining Thane district, is the fourth reservoir after Tulsi, Vihar, and Modak Sagar, to get filled to the brim, they said. "The Tansa lake started overflowing today at 7:05 pm. Last year, this lake had overflowed on July 25," a senior civic official said. Seven reservoirs — Modak Sagar, Vihar and Tulsi, Bhatsa, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Tansa — supply water to the megapolis. The total water stock in all the seven reservoirs taken together stood at 87.20 per cent of their storage capacity as on August 20, he said. On Wednesday, the BMC announced to reduce from August 21 the water cut to 10 per cent from the existing 20 per cent. The civic body had imposed 20 per cent water cut in Mumbai from August 5, as there was less than 50 per cent water stock in these seven lakes that supply 3,750 lakh million litres drinking water to the city. The water of Powai lake, which overflowed earlier, is not used for drinking purposes, the BMC officials said. Meanwhile, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Santosh Kadam, said water is being discharged through 13 gates of the Tansa reservoir. Villages located along the Tansa river and reservoir have been alerted after the discharge of water, the official said. Besides, villages along the Bhatsa river have been put on alert, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-tansa-fourth-lake-to-overflow-after-good-rains-875881.html
21-08-2020||West||HC grants interim stay on Rs 5 lakh fine order on private hospital||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday granted an interim stay on the order in which the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on a private hospital for overcharging patients. The NMC, on August 14, had imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the hospital, also a designated Covid-19 facility, for overcharging patients. The civic body had also asked the hospital to return Rs 6.86 lakh in excess charges. A monitoring team of the NMC had found that the city hospital had allegedly recovered charges in excess of those prescribed by the government from some non-Covid-19 patients. The hospital moved the High Court challenging the fine order of the NMC. The petition came before a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor for hearing. On Thursday, the petitioner, though its counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, contended in the HC whether the NMC was justified in imposing the penalty and directing the hospital to refund the alleged excess amount to non-Covid-19 patients. Citing some rules governing private health care providers, Bhandarkar claimed the NMC order was "illegal and arbitrary". The bench issued notices to the Maharashtra government and the NMC, returnable in two weeks, and granted interim stay of the order imposing penalty on the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-grants-interim-stay-on-rs-5-lakh-fine-order-on-private-hospital-875892.html
21-08-2020||West||Mumbai's civic body to start BCG trials||Mumbai's civic body has joined the Indian Council of Medical Research's study to evaluate whether the BCG vaccine is really effective in preventing the Covid-19 pandemic in India in elderly population. The Bacille Calmette-Guerin or the BCG has been given to newborns since 1949 in India. The study includes elderly individuals between 60 and 75 years of age who have not suffered from Covid-19, do not have cancer and are not immune-compromised, according to BMC officials. The participants would be closely monitored for three months. Apart from Mumbai, the study is being undertaken in Covid-19 hotspots including Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Jodhpur and New Delhi. The Mumbai trial will be jointly conducted by King Edward Memorial Hospital and Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College along with the Public Health Department of the BMC. The necessary approval for the trials has been obtained, officials said. “The BCG vaccine has offered hope to the elderly and if found effective, will bring down morbidity and mortality in the elderly population,” the officials said. The number of participants expected to be enrolled in the BCG trial is 250 and it may extend if the trial demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-civic-body-to-start-bcg-trials-875940.html
21-08-2020||West||107-year-old Maharashtra woman beats Covid-19||The woman-daughter duo along with three other family members were discharged from a Covid-19 hospital in Jalna city on Thursday. The centenarian, her daughter, 65-year-old son and two grandchildren, aged 27 and 17, were undergoing treatment for coronavirus for more than a week at the hospital, district civil surgeon Archana Bhosale said. Residents of Mali Pura in old Jalna, the family was admitted to the hospital on August 11 after they tested positive for the infection, she said. The centenarian had recently undergone a spine surgery and when she tested positive for the virus, her old age posed a major challenge in her recovery, Bhosale said. Post-recovery, the family members were given a warm farewell by the hospital staff.  "We had lost all hope. We survived because of the dedication shown by the medical staff...it is nothing short of a miracle," the centenarian woman's son said before heading home. District collector Ravindra Binwade and district superintendent of police S Chaitanya, who were present for the farewell programme, appreciated the efforts of the hospital staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/107-year-old-maharashtra-woman-beats-covid-19-875950.html
21-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man conned of over Rs 1 lakh during online transaction||A plant nursery owner was allegedly cheated of over Rs 1 lakh by a customer during an online transaction in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Friday. The nursery owner from Parnaka allegedly received a phone call from a man who introduced himself as an Indian Army personnel and said he wanted to purchase some mango saplings, Palghar police PRO Sachin Navadkar said. During the online transaction for the purchase, the unidentified accused allegedly sent a QR code to the victim's account on an online payment portal and asked him to scan the same, following which money got debited from the latter's bank account, the official said. The accused later said he wished to return the money and asked the victim to provide his account details and OTP that led to more loss of money, he said. The victim allegedly lost close to Rs 1.5 lakh in the transaction, the official said, adding that a case of cheating has been registered at Dahanu police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-conned-of-over-rs-1-lakh-during-online-transaction-875996.html
21-08-2020||West||27 Maharashtra jails record 1,478 Covid-19 cases; six deaths||A total of 1,166 inmates and 312 jail staff have contracted the infection and six prisoners have died of it, the official said. As far as inmates are concerned, Nagpur Central Jail is the worst-affected in the state with 219 cases, followed by Pune's Yerwada Central Jail with 190 cases, he said. While Arthur Road Jail and Sangli Prison have recorded 182 and 145 cases respectively, he added. With regard to the viral spread among prison staff, Nagpur has reported 62 cases, while Mumbai, Thane, Aurangabad, Kalyan and Yerawada prisons have 46, 35, 34, 31 and 26 cases respectively, the official said. "Of the 1,166 infected inmates, 848 have recovered, while of the 312 jail personnel, 272 have recovered so far," he added. At least 10,536 prisoners have been released from various jails in the state to contain the spread of coronavirus, the official said. The current population of all the prisons in the state is 26,408, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/27-maharashtra-jails-record-1478-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-876010.html
21-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: 17 persons booked for defying ban at Palghar beach||A case has been registered against 17 persons, including three women, for allegedly defying prohibitory orders by holding a pre-wedding photoshoot at Kelve beach in Palghar district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. District collector Dr Kailash Shinde has issued an order prohibiting the movement of people near water bodies, including rivers, dams, waterfalls and beaches in Palghar. At least 17 persons, all from Mumbai, violated the order by gathering at Kelve beach for a pre-wedding photoshoot on August 19, Palghar police PRO Sachin Navadkar said. An offence has been registered under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infectious disease), 188 (defying order issued by a public servant) among other provisions of the IPC, National Disaster Management Rules and Epidemic Act, he said. The violators were issued a warning and let off, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-17-persons-booked-for-defying-ban-at-palghar-beach-876013.html
21-08-2020||West||Citing SC ruling, Bombay HC disposes of PILs related to Sushant case||The Bombay High Court on Friday disposed of a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) seeking various reliefs, including a CBI probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Revati Mohite-Dere said that considering that the Supreme Court had already directed the CBI to probe the matter, nothing remained for the HC to decide. The bench also said that if the petitioners felt that the Maharashtra government, the Mumbai Police, or the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were not cooperating with the CBI, they could approach the Supreme Court. Advocate Subhash Jha, the counsel for one of the petitioners, told the court that considering how the BMC had forced a Bihar police official into quarantine when he came to the city to probe the case, the civic body might do the same with the CBI officials who visit Mumbai for probe. The bench, however, said that Jha was expressing a mere apprehension and that he could go to the Supreme Court if the BMC indeed did so. "Let it happen first," the bench said. "Let the BMC face the music before the SC if there is any impediment for the CBI when it comes here. "The CBI is here on the orders of the Supreme Court," the bench noted. The court was presiding over two pleas, one filed by law student Dwivendra Dubey, and another by lawyer Priyanak Tibrewal. Rajput (34) was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. A CBI team has already landed in Mumbai and started probe into the actor's death. The BMC has exempted the visiting CBI personnel from home quarantine rules which have been put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/citing-sc-ruling-bombay-hc-disposes-of-pils-related-to-sushant-case-876018.html
21-08-2020||West||Covid-19: SC allows Paryushan prayers in 3 Jain temples in Mumbai||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the opening of three Jain temples in Mumbai to facilitate devotees to attend 'Paryushan Puja' on August 22 and 23, saying why only economic activities should be allowed during this Unlock phase. However, the top court clarified that this permission is not a precedent for the demand for permission for Ganpati festival or any other religious festivals that are coming up. It said permission for Ganpati festival will have to be taken on a case to case basis by the state disaster management authorities. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said when Jagannath Yatra was held in June, why other festivals can't be allowed as long as safeguards and social distancing are maintained as per standard operating procedures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for temple trusts, said there would not be any congregation as only five persons at a time and maximum 250 people per day can be permitted at the shrines in Dadar, Byculla, and Chembur. The Maharashtra government, led by senior advocate A M Singhvi, opposed the plea, saying he himself belonged to Jain community but the larger issue was it would create an unmanageable situation as the state of Maharashtra had a huge number of Covid-19 patients. As many as 14,500 patients reported on Thursday itself and the state was the worst affected one. Many festivals have been cancelled this year, he added. The counsel pointed out Ganpati festival would be starting from Saturday but the state had put restrictions. Dave, for his part, asked if the state was policing the malls, shops, barbershops etc. "There are congregations in malls and gyms. Thousands of people were seen standing in line at liquor shops. When a community is saying we can police our people, then why not allow it," he said. Concurring to his contention, the bench said, "We find it very strange that every activity that they are allowing involves commercial interests. They are willing to take the risk when money is involved, when it comes to religion, they say there is Covid and we can't do this or that." "If Jain festival is allowed, how can we stop other religions," Singhvi asked. Ganpati festival is of different nature because of congregation, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted. Money cannot come before spirituality, he added. Dave also said Paryushan is for cleansing, it is not about congregation. Covid has created huge mental stress, allowing the ritual would help people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-sc-allows-paryushan-prayers-in-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai-876026.html
21-08-2020||West||Fire in 7-storeyed building in Mumbai; some feared trapped||A fire broke out in a seven-storeyed commercial-cum-residential building in south Mumbai on Friday, a Fire Brigade official said. Some people are feared trapped in the building, the official said. "A fire broke out in the building, located near the Masjid Bunder suburban train station around 2 pm," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-7-storeyed-building-in-mumbai-some-feared-trapped-876042.html
21-08-2020||West||Maharashtra police records over 300 Covid-19 cases; 5 deaths||The latest casualties have taken the death toll in the police force to 136, which includes 14 officers, the official said. With 62 deaths, Mumbai police had recorded the highest number of casualties in the force due to the pandemic, he added. At least 303 personnel tested positive for coronavirus infection the last 24 hours, rising the tally in the department to 13,180, the official said. Of the 13,180 personnel, including 1,387 officers, 10,655 have recovered from the disease so far, he said. Currently, 2,389 personnel are undergoing treatment at various facilities in the state, the official said. Meanwhile, the police have so far registered 2,31,580 offences for violation of prohibitory orders since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in March and arrested 33,632 persons, he said. At least 335 incidents of assault on police and 69 similar attacks on health professionals have reported in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, adding that 890 persons were arrested in these cases. More than Rs 21.76 crore was collected in fines from people who violated prohibitory orders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-records-over-300-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-876044.html
21-08-2020||West||Ex-IAF staff's Covid-19 data disclosed to RSS-affiliate||A retired Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel has approached the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) against the Nagpur civic body for revealing his identity to an outfit affiliated to the RSS after he tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The city resident, in his complaint filed on August 19 through his advocate Asim Sarode, sought the commission to take action against the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) authorities and the RSS-linked Lok Kalyan Samiti (LKS) for committing a breach of his privacy. The complainant has strong objection over such disclosure of data of persons who have tested positive for Covid-19. It is a direct violation of a patients' right and the individuals' right to privacy, the complaint said. The man said he tested positive for Covid-19 on August 16 and was asked by the Nagpur civic body to quarantine himself at his residence. On August 18, he claimed he got a call from one Sumadhar Gokhale, who said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), through its arm Lok Kalyan Samiti, was providing services to persons who have tested positive for Covid-19. The caller (Gokhale) started asking the complainant details of his health and also family members, it said. "The complainant sought to know (from Gokhale) from where he got his number to which the caller said the civic body provided them the data of positive patients," the plea in the MSHRC said. The complainant then contacted NMC Assistant Commissioner Prakash Varade, who he claimed, said RSS members are helping the corporation with their work against the pandemic. Not maintaining the privacy of patients, disclosing their information and personal data like their name and phone numbers to random persons is a serious issue relating to the violation of fundamental rights, the complaint said. It pointed out that the government has issued guidelines, saying the identity of Covid-19 patients should not be revealed so as to avoid their stigmatisation in society. The complainant never gave his consent to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to hand over his medical information and contact details to the RSS or its Lok Kalyan Samiti, the former IAF man said. He sought the commission to direct the Nagpur police to carry out a probe against Gokhale, NMC Assistant Commissioners Ram Joshi and Prakash Varade. The complainant may kindly be given compensation of Re one each from Sumadhar Gokhale, Ram Joshi and Prakash Varade for having committed a violation of fundamental rights, the complaint said. When contacted, Gokhale said he would not like to comment on the issue as he has not received any notice from the commission. NMC officials were not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-iaf-staffs-covid-19-data-disclosed-to-rss-affiliate-876066.html
21-08-2020||West||Balasaheb Patil's portfolios given to Cabinet colleague||Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Patil will be unavailable for some days due to medical reasons and the additional charge of his portfolios will be given to his cabinet colleague Jayant Patil temporarily, the state government has said. NCP leader Balasaheb Patil holds Cooperation and Marketing portfolios in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Jayant Patil, who is also state NCP chief, heads the water resources department. Balasaheb Patils office had last week issued a statement, saying he had tested positive for COVID-19. As per the recommendation in rule 6-A of Maharashtra government business rules, the charge of cooperation, marketing departments held by honourable Shri Shyamrao alias Balasaheb Pandurang Patil will be given to honourable Shri Jayant Rajaram Patil, minister, water resources, as a temporary arrangement during the period of his unavailability due to medical reasons, the government said in a notification. The NCP shared the notification dated August 19 on its Twitter handle on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/balasaheb-patils-portfolios-given-to-cabinet-colleague-876081.html
21-08-2020||West||Mumbai welcomes Lord Ganesha amid coronavirus pandemic, rain||People of Mumbai and the coastal Konkan coast and elsewhere in Maharashtra on Friday welcomed Lord Ganesha to their homes amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic and heavy rains. This time, the celebrations are going to be a low-key affair as the usual extravaganza is missing in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic that is sweeping across India. Amid chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’, people welcomed Lord Ganesha to their homes, housing societies and complexes and sarvajanik mandals. The usual thrill was missing because of the climate and norms of physical distancing and health concerns. On Saturday morning on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the ‘sthaapna’ pooja will be performed followed by traditional aartis to mark the birthday of Lord Ganesha, the son of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati. Sunday will mark the one-and-a-half-day of immersion when the majority of the idols installed at households would be immersed. Lord Ganesha, the elephant-headed-pot-bellied God of wisdom, brings in prosperity and good fortune. Ganapati stands as a symbol of knowledge, as the lord of the lords as ‘Ganadhipati’ as the remover of obstacles 'Vighnaharta'.  Ganesh Utsav is the biggest festival of Maharashtra – with the golden triangle of Mumbai Metropolitan Region-Pune-Nashik being the epicentre of the celebrations. The Maharashtra government has restricted the height of idols to 2 feet for household and 4 feet for public mandals. Otherwise, some of the idols of Lord Ganesha exceed the height of 20-feet plus. “Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts are expected to experience heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, the deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD. Several of the Ganesh mandals have decided to run health campaigns, organized blood and plasma donation in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to figures collected from the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and BrihanMumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Samanway Samiti (BSGSS), the apex body of Ganesh mandals, several public celebrations have been cancelled. “There are various issues….health, hygiene, physical distancing. People have suffered pay cuts, companies have incurred losses,” BSGSS president Naresh Dahibhavbkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-welcomes-lord-ganesha-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-rain-876110.html
21-08-2020||West||Former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik tests positive for Covid-19||Yet another former Goa Chief Minister tests positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of sitting legislators testing positive to five, in a state which has 40 legislators.  Former Chief Minister and sitting Congress MLA Ravi Naik and his son Ritiesh tested positive on Friday and are currently in home isolation. 73-year-old Ravi Naik served as Chief Minister of Goa in the 1990s on two occasions. His son Ritiesh, a councillor at the Ponda Municipal Council in South Goa district had joined the BJP earlier this month.  Churchill Alemao is the lone Nationalist Congress Party MLA and another former chief minister who tested positive of Thursday. He has been admitted to a private health facility along with his wife who has also tested positive.   Two other Goa BJP MLAs have tested positive namely Nilakanth Halarnkar and Clafasio Dias. Dias was the first legislator to test positive for Covid-19 in July. Dias earlier this month was discharged from hospital after he tested negative on August 9.  Union Minister of State for AYUSH and Defence Shripad Naik is also currently admitted at a private hospital after he tested positive earlier this month. According to a team dispatched from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences to examine the Union Minister Naik is currently stable and has been administered plasma-based treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-goa-chief-minister-ravi-naik-tests-positive-for-covid-19-876121.html
21-08-2020||West||BJP will win all seats in 2022 Gujarat polls: Party's state chief||Newly-appointed Gujarat BJP chief C R Patil on Friday said the party workers have resolved to make the ruling party win all the 182 Assembly seats in the state in the 2022 election. Patil, whose appointment was made a month back, also expressed confidence on winning the by-polls to eight Assembly constituencies, which fell vacant following the resignation of sitting Congress MLAs earlier this year. "Some people may consider it as an exaggeration. But we are moving ahead with a resolve to win all the 182 seats in 2022," Patil told reporters in Rajkot on the third day of his Saurashtra tour. "It can definitely be achieved because the BJP had won all the 26 Lok Sabha seats in the state twice in the past," he added. The BJP had secured 99 seats in the 2017 Gujarat polls after setting a target of winning 150 seats. "It is true that a single party can never win 100 per cent seats in any big state in the country. But I and the party workers are determined to win all the 182 seats in the next state polls," Patil, a Lok Sabha MP from Navsari seat, said. He also expressed confidence that the BJP would win the bypolls to eight seats. The Election Commission is yet to announce the dates for the bypolls yet. Patil said he has asked the party workers to stay away from "groupism". "I told them that groupism will not be tolerated. I have asked them not to join any group because merit is the only criterion for getting a poll ticket or getting a post in the party and recommendations will not help them in any manner," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-will-win-all-seats-in-2022-gujarat-polls-partys-state-chief-876152.html
21-08-2020||West||NHRC to get Maharashtra govt's health report on Varavara Rao examined by expert panel||The National Human Rights (NHRC) on Friday decided to refer the medical report of jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao, who is admitted to a Mumbai hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, submitted by the Maharashtra government to its own expert panel. The panel asked the medical team to submit its report within two weeks. Rao, who was lodged in Taloja jail in Maharashtra in connection with Bhima Koregaon case for the past about two years, is presently admitted to Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital in Mumbai. The NHRC said it has found the report submitted by the Maharashtra government as "reasonable and plausible" and accepted it considering the fact that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state in large-scale. Taking cognizance of the complaints about Rao's health, the NHRC has on July 13 held that the deteriorating health condition of Rao is a serious issue of violation of human rights. The rights body had directed the state government to analyse his health condition. In between, the NHRC was informed that Rao had tested positive for Covid-19 and was transferred to St. George’s Hospital, a state government-run Covid-19 facility. Considering potential danger to his life, it also directed the Maharashtra government to provide him with the best possible treatment at a private hospital without any further delay. Rao has comorbidities and it increased the risk on his life. The government also informed the NHRC that it has shifted Rao to Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital in Mumbai on July 19. "The state government contended that there was no intentional delay in shifting him to the super speciality hospital keeping in view the requirement of arrangements including security. The case being complex one required proper coordination of multiple agencies, which includes, assessment of prisoner’s health condition by a team of experts, required procedural compliance, availability of beds in the super-speciality hospital, which is treating Covid-19 cases, proper coordination with the private authorities and adequate security measures for shifting the prisoner," an NHRC statement said. It is also mentioned that constant vigil was kept on the prisoner’s health condition by the treating doctors, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nhrc-to-get-maharashtra-govts-health-report-on-varavara-rao-examined-by-expert-panel-876157.html
21-08-2020||West||4 Sharad Pawar's domestic aides test positive for coronavirus||Four domestic helps working at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's bungalow in Baramati tested positive for coronavirus infection on Friday, said a senior Pune district official. "A woman and three men who work at Pawar's `Govindbaug' residence in Baramati tehsil were found to have contracted the virus," he said. Officials are now tracing the persons who had come in close contact with these four, he said. Earlier this week, a cook and two security guards at Pawar's Mumbai residence `Silver Oak' had tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-sharad-pawars-domestic-aides-test-positive-for-coronavirus-876217.html
21-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Mumbai Metropolitan Region crosses 3 lakh-mark||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) crossed the three lakh-mark of Covid-19 cases on Friday. The total cases in MMR now stand at 3,02,998 and deaths 12,081. The MMR comprises of twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and neighbouring districts of Thane,  Palghar and Raigad. The total cases in Maharashtra stand at 6,56,450 and deaths 21,698. The number of active cases is 1,64, 562. As many as 11,749 patients discharged on Friday taking the total to  4,70,873 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 71.62 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state is 3.30 per cent. Out of 34,92,966 laboratory samples, 6,57,450 have been tested positive (18.82%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently 11,92,685 people are in home quarantine and 35,132 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-metropolitan-region-crosses-3-lakh-mark-876230.html
