22-08-2020||First Edit||PM-CARES must be transparent||The Supreme Court’s judgement on Tuesday refusing to order the transfer of PM-CARES funds for Covid-19 relief to the National Disaster Response Fund is unfortunate, and will not put an end to the controversy over this newly constituted fund. The court said that PM-CARES is a public charitable trust which consists entirely of voluntary contributions from individuals and organisations and does not get any budgetary support and to which no government money is credited. It also said the Covid-19 pandemic had highlighted the need for immediate enhancement of medical infrastructure and so the creation of a fund with necessary resources to meet the emergent situation was unexceptionable. It rejected the demand for the auditing of the trust funds by the CAG. But the court’s judgement does not answer all the questions raised about the fund.  The issue is not whether the government has the right to set up a fund for the purpose mentioned, but the need for it when the National Disaster Relief Fund, which has the same purpose, already existed. The government has not explained this to the court or the public. It is a public trust to which public and private institutions can make voluntary contributions, with the Prime Minister as its ex-officio chairman and three cabinet ministers as trustees. The government has claimed that it is not a public authority under the Right to Information (RTI) Act and is not answerable to enquiries under the Act. But when it was set up, it was a government-created entity, and it was later that it was made into a trust. A large part of the contributions made to the fund is from public sector organisations. These are public funds and so the people have the right to know how they are utilised.  From the beginning, there has been a complete lack of transparency about the fund and its working. The government has incentivised contributions to the fund by declaring that they would qualify for corporate social responsibility expenditure. But it has not disclosed the list of donors who have made the contributions. It is not known how much money has been collected. The details of how the funds have been spent are also not known. Since public funds are involved and there is public interest in the working of the fund, the demand for its auditing by the CAG is right and legitimate. The government says “transparency is writ large on the fund’’ but it is not seen by others, and it stonewalls all queries about it. Unfortunately, it makes it seem as if those who make the demand for transparency are trying to obstruct the fight against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-cares-must-be-transparent-876293.html
22-08-2020||In Perspective||Jasraj, who could sing ‘Om Allah Om’ on Ramnavami||About two months ago, quite out of the blue, I received a call from Pandit Jasraj. He had stayed with us on many occasions when he visited Bengaluru on his concert tours. We didn’t converse or call each other when he was travelling around India or overseas but when he visited Bengaluru, he usually chose to live in our house. And when at times he stayed elsewhere, he would always call me and invite me to his performances, which I never missed. I was happy and surprised by his sudden call and asked him about the reason for it. I imagined he might be planning to visit my city after a long gap. He said he was calling from the US and he had been dividing his time between India and America over the last many years. He had numerous students there, was associated with a number of universities, and was presently unable to come to India because of the Covid-19 situation. I wondered still as to the purpose of his call. He simply said he wanted to speak to a few friends with whom he shared good warm memories. He recalled his days in Bengaluru at our home and asked about my wife. We chatted on, and I told him I looked forward to his visiting again. The call by Panditji left a strange feeling in me. It warmed my heart and brought both a smile and tears. I mentioned to my wife that it seemed like it was a ‘thanksgiving’. I had a vague sense that Jasraj knew his time on the planet was drawing to a close. The memories of those short stays at our home are still vivid. His silvery hair streaming behind, a glowing face, gentle eyes, a beatific and disarming smile, his soft-spoken winning ways and always impeccably attired in spotless white dhotis with vibrant borders, worn in traditional style, matched perfectly with colourful kurtas are all still etched in my mind. There was a radiant aura around him. That imagery of an arresting and attractive persona was entwined with his melodic voice that penetrated your soul. When he was with us, he was mostly indoors in his room. And the hum of his ragas, swaras, aalaps wafted across and filled the house. At times, there would be the strum of the tamboora or notes of the harmonium, too, when his accompanying artists came to visit him before the concert. To me, those melodies and strains are as precious as his grand concerts. Often, there were streams of admirers who would walk in unannounced and it was a source of annoyance, but when we could snatch an hour alone with him, I would draw him into conversations about other music legends, both Hindustani and Carnatic singers. Once, he narrated an interesting experience that occurred during a concert festival in Kolkata many decades ago. He was a young artiste at the time, and there was the much older but legendary Semmangudi Srinivas Iyer. They had both performed on the concert stage, but the highlight was Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, who had mesmerised the audience. When they were all together after their performances, Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan complimented Jasraj, but he had special praise for Semmangudi. Bade Ghulam Saab apparently said to Semmangudi, “You have great music in you. Your whole being embodies music and distinctions between Hindustani and Carnatic music vanished when I listened to you.” Artists have their own rivalries, but Jasraj had a generosity of spirit and genuine admiration for other great contemporary musicians such as Bhimsen Joshi.  Many of the legendary Hindustani singers and instrumentalists – Ustads Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, Abdul Karim Khan, Begum Akhtar, the Dagar brothers, Vilayat Khan and Bismillah Khan to name a few – practised Islam. But they sang and played instruments in praise of Hindu deities. Bade Ghulam Ali Khan’s bhajan ‘Hari Om tatsat’ is something that could figuratively transport one to heaven. So it was with Nadaswaram Samrat Sheikh Chinna Maulana Sahib. Temple musicians such as Ustad Bismillah Khan and Jesudas, who sang in all major temple festivals, mesmerised their audiences. I still remember the day Pandit Jasraj and I drove together from my home to the famed annual Ramanavami festival at Fort High School in Bengaluru. He sang for nearly four hours. He was 80 at the time. The dais was alongside the deity of Rama. Towards the end of the performance, he sang ‘Mero Allah meherbaan’ and ‘Om Allah Om’. Immersed in that divine music, I was floating as if in a trance along with the rasikas. Then, I caught the words, Allah and Hari, in the same notes. My heart swelled and tears welled up in my eyes. He fused Om and Allah and dissolved himself and every one of us into that Supreme Reality. He held the audience in thrall doing so, just as he captivated us in an equal spell singing ‘Om Namo Bhagawate Vasudeva’, his signature bhajan. In that instant, he transcended all religious barriers and carried everyone into a celestial bliss. That, to me, is his greatest gift and legacy to India and the rest of mankind, which is today in real danger, “broken up into fragments by narrow domestic walls.” Pandit Jasraj must be singing to the Gods and smiling down from the heavens. His melody continues to ring in our hearts. As poet PB Shelley said, “Music, when soft voices die, vibrates in the memory.” (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/jasraj-who-could-sing-om-allah-om-on-ramnavami-876292.html
22-08-2020||Kalaburagi||Newborn found in handbag near Ratkal bridge in Kalaburagi||A newborn baby girl was found stuffed in a handbag near a bus stand on Kalaburagi road in Ratkal village of Kalaburagi district in the wee hours of Saturday. Village elder Revanasiddappa Bada heard the baby crying while he was on his way to his farmhouse to bring milk at around 5.40 am. When he opened a blue handbag left near the bridge, he found a newborn baby girl wrapped in cloth. He along with a few residents of the village brought the baby to the local primary health centre where she was treated. Chincholi CDPO was then informed about it. After registering a complaint at the police station, the baby was handed over to the CDPO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/newborn-found-in-handbag-near-ratkal-bridge-in-kalaburagi-876502.html
22-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||K S Hegde Charitable Hospital gets DCGI nod for plasma therapy||Justice K S Hegde Charitable hospital became the first hospital in Coastal Karnataka to receive permission for setting up convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 positive patients. The DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) after being satisfied with facilities like the well equipped Blood Bank with component and single donor platelet facility issued licence for plasmapheresis. The Blood Bank has `Apheresis' equipment, testing facilities and trained personnel to carry out the plasmapheresis procedure. With this, the hospital has all facilities to treat Covid-19 patients including Convalescent Covid-19 plasma therapy. “On first day itself, we harvested convalescent plasma from three donors and transfused to covid patients,” Medical superintendent of the hospital informed.  Nitte University Blood Bank is the only Blood Bank which has the licence in Coastal Karnataka to carry out plasmapheresis (Convalescent Covid-19 plasma). The Covid-19 recovered, who are above 18 years, all men and nulliparous women can donate plasma. The recovered can donate plasma after 28 days of discharge. Convalescent Covid 19 plasma therapy is a novel treatment to fight coronavirus. Plasma therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 person to treat patients who are critically infected by the virus, sources told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/k-s-hegde-charitable-hospital-gets-dcgi-nod-for-plasma-therapy-876297.html
22-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Dasara this year, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said this year’s Mysuru Dasara will be celebrated in a simple manner in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. After making a traditional offering (bagina) to the Kabini dam across Kapila River in Mysuru, the chief minister said there was no question of whether Dasara will be celebrated. “The state has received good rainfall and the groundwater table has improved. Farming activity has picked up, even though people are affected due to floods in some parts of the state. Dasara will be a low-key affair due to the crisis,” the Chief Minister said. A high-power committee will soon meet on Dasara celebrations and decide on the modalities, the chief minister said. As per Chandramana Hindu calendar, Navaratri starts on October 17, the first day of Nija Ashwija month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-this-year-says-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-876326.html
22-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt transfers Mysuru Zilla Panchayat CEO||The state government, on Saturday, transferred Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, who allegedly abetted suicide of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer in-charge Dr S R Nagendra. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar will hold the CEO post until further orders.  It has to be noted that FIR has been registered against Mishra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-transfers-mysuru-zilla-panchayat-ceo-876439.html
22-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||AAP organises 'Sasyaagraha Chaluvali' against HDBRTS on August 23||To remind the officials of Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) about their obligations of planting more than 5,000 trees on the Avenue corridor of BRTS, the members of Aam Aadmi Party's Dharwad unit, on Saturday, announced that they would be organising ‘Sasyagraha Chaluvali’ on August 23.  Speaking to media persons at party’s office in Hubballi on Friday, AAP’s District President Santosh Nargund said that more than 4,800 trees were ‘massacred’ for implementation of the eight and six-lane dedicated corridor for HD-BRTS. However, the officials are not honouring their words on planting one tree within a distance of 10 meters apart.  “District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar calls HD-BRTS as his pet project and he is also claiming of making twin cities, a ‘City of future’. However, without giving importance to sustainable development and greenery how can we make our City future-ready,” he said.  Santosh also charged that the BRTS officials have hoodwinked the environment impact assessment department by under-reporting the total number of trees to be ‘sacrificed’ for the project. “In 2011, when KRDCL was supposed to implement the project it had sought permission to cut 1,200 trees. However, when the project was completed the HD-BRTS officials had cut more than 4,800 trees,” he said and added that they are under an obligation of planting 10 times the trees that have been cut.  He also stated that the officials have not even provided sufficient space to plant these saplings on either side of the corridor.  Santosh claimed that officials do not have sufficient funds left to plant these trees. “Under one of the heads, HD-BRTS officials had allotted Rs 1.60 crore for planting saplings. However, of that Rs 90 lakh was spent on preparing project plan to plant the trees,” he said and added that the officials can hardly count and show the number of trees they have planted so far.  As a means to remind the officials about their obligations, members of AAP along with NGOs and environment lovers will plant saplings at Navanagar bus stand at 11:30 am on Monday.  “We will wait for HD-BRTS officials response for few days and if they do not take up the planting of saplings during this monsoon season, we will be forced to intensify our protest,” he said.  Party leaders Vikas Soppin, Shashikumar Sullad, Shivakumar Bagalkot and others were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aap-organises-sasyaagraha-chaluvali-against-hdbrts-on-august-23-876460.html
22-08-2020||Main Article||How many does IAF need?||The Indian Air Force’s (IAF) acquisition of five new Rafale fighter aircraft from France attracted media attention like never before in the backdrop of the border clashes with China. Earlier fighter aircraft inductions into the IAF, like that of the Russian Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter aircraft in the late 1990s, the British Jaguar and the Soviet-era MiG-29 fighters in the early 1980s, never made newspaper headlines. Today, television channels bombard Indian society with details about fighter aircraft capabilities like avionics, stealth, weapon payload, flying range, mid-air refueller and manoeuvrability. The IAF has 33 fighter aircraft squadrons. Each squadron has 16 aircraft plus two trainer aircraft, which are two-seaters. This amounts to over 500 fighter aircraft, which is adequate strength to ensure the air defence of Indian airspace against both Pakistan and China. The IAF’s sanctioned strength is a force level of 42 fighter squadrons to fight a two-front war, with Pakistan and China simultaneously. But how logical is the rationale for a 42-squadron fighter aircraft fleet today in the context of aircraft mid-life upgrades, attack helicopters, airborne warning and control system platforms? The industry icon and Indian aviation pioneer JRD Tata, who held the honorary two-star general IAF rank of Air Vice Marshal, headed a committee in the early 1960s to study the requirements for a fighter aircraft fleet. Its recommendations made the government authorise a force level of 42 fighter squadrons to counter threats from erstwhile West Pakistan, East Pakistan and China. At that time, the IAF flew World War II vintage US-built Liberator bombers, among others, and the MiG-21, the workhorse of the fighter fleet, was yet to join service. Subsequently, the mainstay of the IAF’s 42 squadron strength was the Soviet-era MiG-21 aircraft and its variants with different weapon payloads or armament carrying capacities. These aircraft were used for air defence as well as strike and air-to-ground missions. Now, almost all of them have been retired from IAF squadron service, except three modified MiG-21 BIS (Bison) squadrons. These aircraft, too, will exit the IAF over the next few years.  The IAF’s fighter fleet now consists of the MiG-21 BIS, the Jaguar, the French Mirage 2000, MiG-29, Sukhoi-30 MKI and the indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft, the last in squadron service since 2018, besides the British Hawk, inducted in 2004. The MiG-21 BIS, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 and MiG-29 have all undergone mid-life upgrades, which involved embedding their avionics with superior hardware and software to improve weapon payload, navigation and radar capabilities. These provided the aircraft with superior firepower, accurate weapon delivery, modern avionics for pilot-friendly navigation and better communication with ground and other flying platforms. It categorises them as fourth-generation or fourth-plus generation fighters. The Rafale, with superior armament and avionics capability, is a fourth-plus-plus generation fighter aircraft. Except the three MiG-21 BIS squadrons, all these aircraft have mid-air refuelling capability -- a tanker aircraft can refuel them in air to enhance their flying range, aimed at long-range strike against enemy targets. The induction of the Russian Illushyin-78 mid-air refueller tanker aircraft in 2003 added to the force’s combat capability in terms of long-range strike. The IAF’s 12 squadrons of Sukhoi-30 MKI have gradually replaced the MiG-21 BIS. The Sukhoi-30 MKI aircraft is superior to the MiG-21 in all aspects – weapon payload, fuel storage capacity and mission capabilities. The Sukhoi-30 MKI aircraft can carry a 8.5-ton weapon payload, while the MiG-21 BIS carries only two tons of armament. Therefore, in terms of firepower or weapon payload alone, a Sukhoi-30 MKI is as good as four MiG-21 BIS aircraft. In terms of range of operation, the Sukhoi-30 MKI has a much longer range than the MiG -21 BIS, to fly from airbases well within Indian territory (Defence in Depth) and attack targets deep inside enemy territory. Its mid-air refuelling capability enhances the Sukhoi-30 MKI’s longer flying range and greater ‘loiter’ time in the air. It can undertake both air defence and ground attack missions. Therefore, 12 Sukhoi-30 MKI aircraft squadrons are equivalent to 24 MiG-21 BIS aircraft squadrons. In 2009, the IAF acquired AWACS (Airborne Warning and Control System) aircraft equipped with radars, sensors and computers. These ensure optimum employment of air defence aircraft to engage intruding enemy fighters, freeing up many aircraft for other missions. The AWACS are thus effective ‘force multipliers’ that strengthen aerial combat capability. Today, the IAF’s air defence role can be supplemented with air-to-surface missiles like the S-400, which India has contracted from Russia, besides the ongoing Indo-Israeli joint missile development. Missile systems are more agile and transportable. For instance, air-to-ground missions are also supplemented with surface-to- surface missiles. Hence, the need for more aircraft to perform these roles should diminish accordingly. Also, attack helicopters contribute to combat capability. The IAF has US-built Apache helicopters, besides the Soviet-era Mi-25/35, and the HAL-made advanced light helicopter adds to air-to-ground capability. The helicopters supplement the ground attack aircraft, especially in the forward edge of a battle area. Pakistan, with 450 fighter aircraft, has only 18 F-16 fighters with contemporary technology. The rest of its fighter fleet has obsolescent technology. China has 2,100 fighter aircraft, but it also needs to deploy them elsewhere for national air defence management. Therefore, Beijing cannot employ its entire fighter strength against India. Clearly, the Rafale enhances the IAF’s combat capability and ensures air superiority, long-range strike and air defence against the Pakistani and Chinese air forces. Today, the concept of airpower need not be measured in terms of numerical superiority. For any air force, it undergoes transformation with advanced aeronautics technologies and aircraft mid-life upgrades. Therefore, with a 33-squadron fighter fleet, the IAF leadership should be able to “Touch the Skies with Glory”. (The writer is a former fighter/test pilot who directed air operations in the Kargil conflict of 1999)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/how-many-does-iaf-need-876291.html
22-08-2020||Mysuru||FIR against Mysuru Zilla Panchayat CEO in doctor's death case||An FIR has been registered against Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra in connection with the alleged death by suicide of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer (in-charge) Dr S R Nagendra. Alanahalli police have registered FIR based on the complaint from Nagendra's father Ramakrishna. Ramakrishna has alleged that the CEO used to pressure him and also threaten to book him under the Disaster Management Act if he failed to achieve the target. Nagendra, who was working at Kudlapura primary health care centre in the taluk, was given additional charge as taluk health officer. Even after Nagendra had explained the DC, Tahsildar and the CEO about the shortage of staff, the CEO continued to pressure him amid Covid-19 pandemic.  Unable to bear the work pressure, Nagendra died by suicide by hanging self, Ramakrishna mentioned in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/fir-against-mysuru-zilla-panchayat-ceo-in-doctors-death-case-876444.html
22-08-2020||Mysuru||Ganeshotsava heritage music festival in Mysuru begins tomorrow||Sri Prasanna Vidyaganapathi Mahotsava Charitable (SPVGMC) Trust, as part of annual Ganeshotsava, is organising its 59th Heritage Music festival through virtual concerts this year, from August 23 to August 31. The SPVGMC has been organising the traditional music festival for the last 58 years, at 8th Cross, Vontikoppal, V V Mohalla, in a grand manner. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic this year, it has organised virtual concerts which begin from Sunday (August 23). The live programme would begin at 6 pm every day. Vidwan T M Krishna would perform on August 23. Sikkil Gurucharan would present a vocal concert on August 24. J B Shruthi Sagar will present a flute recital on August 25. Vignesh Eshwar will present vocal on August 26, vocal by Ruthwik Raja on August 27, violin duet by Akkarai Sisters - Subbulakshmi and Swarnalatha - on August 28, vocal by Vivek Sadashivam on August 29. Flute duet by Hemantha and Heramba on August 30 and vocal by Sakethraman on August 31. Popular musicians would accompany them with their instrumental music. There will be no programmes at the 8th Cross, in V V Mohalla, this year. The organisation has decided not to install Ganapathi idol this year. The programmes by these popular musicians would be telecast live through Facebook and YouTube, every day from 6 pm to 8 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/ganeshotsava-heritage-music-festival-in-mysuru-begins-tomorrow-876506.html
22-08-2020||National||Discontent in Delhi BJP over minority community members from Shaheen Bagh joining party||A section of Delhi BJP leaders has expressed "displeasure" over the recent joining of some members of a minority community from the Shaheen Bagh area in the city. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, who was present at the joining programme at the party office on Sunday, was not available for a comment. Shaheen Bagh was the epicentre of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in the city earlier this year. "The joinings put the party in a spot not only because the area was an anti-CAA protest venue, but also because it is being linked to the February riots in northeast Delhi," a top Delhi BJP leader said. Another leader claimed that the joinings have not gone down well with the central leadership of the saffron party. "Some senior Delhi BJP functionaries were called by the national leadership to warn against such a political blunder in the future. They were irked that the sensitive issue was not brought to their notice beforehand," he said. Delhi BJP leader Nighat Abbas, who was instrumental behind the joinings, said she was not aware of any complaints from anyone, including senior state or national leaders, in this regard. "I do not know that the central leadership has expressed its displeasure over the joinings. Those who called me only congratulated me for it," she said. Abbas said some of the persons who joined the BJP took part in the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh, while some opposed the new citizenship law but did not take part in the stir. "Those who joined the party finally came to realise that they were being misguided in the name of CAA as it has nothing to do with the citizens of India. The BJP is a big family where everyone is welcome," she said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had launched a sharp attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accusing it of "scripting" the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh with an eye on the Assembly polls in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discontent-in-delhi-bjp-over-minority-community-members-from-shaheen-bagh-joining-party-876306.html
22-08-2020||National||EC guidelines fall short of ensuring conduct of polls in 'free, non-partisan' manner: Cong||The Congress on Friday alleged that the Election Commission's guidelines for holding polls during the coronavirus pandemic fall "far short" of ensuring conduct of elections in a "free, non-partisan and fair fashion" without giving undue advantage to the ruling party. The opposition party also said that despite having sought comments from political parties to which detailed recommendations were given, the Elections Commission (EC) has "overlooked" almost all the suggestions given and prepared guidelines that are inadequate in dealing with the challenge of Covid-19. Congress general secretary in-charge organisation, K C Venugopal, in a statement, called upon the EC to revisit the recommendations made by the Congress and to invite all political parties for a comprehensive discussion meeting where issues can be discussed in a transparent and effective manner. The EC guidelines "fall far short for the conduct of 'free, fair and independent elections' in times of Coronavirus infections and in ensuring the smooth conduct of elections in 'free, non-partisan and fair fashion' without giving undue advantage to the ruling party", he said. The EC guidelines clearly fail these principal tests thereby negating the constitutional obligation of 'superintendence and control of elections' in a non-partisan and unbiased manner, Venugopal alleged. "The simple question to ponder over is, if the very foundation of democracy -- our elections cannot be conducted fairly, how will adult franchise and majority mandate, the lifeblood of our democracy, be effectively upheld?" he said. In the statement, Venugopal also highlighted some of the party's key concerns like the Congress had requested that the use of EVM's be avoided, especially given the extremely high chances of infection for a very large part of the population from shared use of one machine. This concern can be easily avoided with the use of paper ballots, he said. "The EC has completely failed to address this concern, instead opting to passively state that EVM’s and VVPAT's will be sanitised. As the last six months have established, this is not a fool-proof measure," Venugopal claimed. Another concern, he said, was that the guidelines don’t make any deep distinctions between the specific challenges of rural areas and urban areas which have seen the spread of Covid-19 in very different ways. "The EC has left this to the discretion of state officials instead. The ECI must provide for detailed guidelines and not leave the safety and wellbeing of the voters to the differing interpretations and largess of local authorities," Venugopal said. The EC's guidelines say that the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code will be invoked against anyone who violates the said guidelines, however, the poll panel has "surprisingly missed the potential for abuse by the ruling party which controls the policing machinery", the Rajya Sabha MP said. "For example, where members of a crowd in a political gathering violate the rules, how does the EC ensure that the candidate will be indemnified from unjust penalty or harassment?" he said. "These are just select examples of the deficiencies in the Covid-19 prevention measures prescribed for the conduct of upcoming elections," Venugopal said. In case the EC falters in this bounden duty, the consequences for democracy would be "catastrophic", he said.  According to broad guidelines issued by the Election Commission on Friday for holding polls during the coronavirus pandemic, voters will be provided gloves while using EVMs and Covid-19 patients in quarantine will be allowed to vote at the last hour of the polling day.   A separate set of guidelines would be issued for voters who are residing in areas notified as "containment zone", the Election Commission said. The poll panel has also extended the option of postal ballot for electors who are marked as persons with disabilities and those above 80 years. Electors who are Covid-19 positive or are suspected of having the infection and in quarantine at home or at an institution can also exercise the postal ballot option. Bihar may become the first state to go for assembly elections amid the pandemic. The polls are due in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-guidelines-fall-short-of-ensuring-conduct-of-polls-in-free-non-partisan-manner-cong-876338.html
22-08-2020||National||Indian national arrested in $21 million H1B visa fraud||An Indian national has been arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit visa fraud and for inducing foreign nationals to come to the US using fraudulently obtained H-1B visas, federal prosecutors said on Friday. Arrested on Thursday, 48-year-old Ashish Sawhney allegedly used four corporations to orchestrate the improper submission of fraudulent applications for H-1B specialty-occupation work visas, they said. Charged with two counts of conspiracy, three counts of inducing an alien to come to and reside in the US for commercial advantage or private financial gain, and one count of attempted naturalisation fraud, Sawhney allegedly generated gross profits from 2011 to 2016 of approximately USD 21 million, the prosecutors said. If convicted, Sawhney faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. A resident of Sterling, a Virginia suburb of Washington DC, he submitted or caused to be submitted H-1B visa application materials stating that the foreign workers named in the applications would fulfil a specific job, where in fact, no such job existed at the time of filing, the prosecutors said. Sawhney also attempted to naturalise as a US citizen by submitting an application containing false statements, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-national-arrested-in-21-million-h1b-visa-fraud-876340.html
22-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 22||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 29 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 30,39,609 as of August 22 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 56,764   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-22-876343.html
22-08-2020||National||Congress, BJP wrest grows in Parliamentary panels||As the rare spectacle of the Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee of IT Shashi Tharoor (Congress) and its one member Nishikant Dubey (BJP) moving a privilege motion against each other over a row on summoning Facebook before the IT panel plays out, there is a concern that the neutrality of debate in Parliamentary Standing Committees could be at stake. BJD Lok Sabha MP B Mahtab, who has been a member in key Parliamentary committees, says it is a “matter of concern” that party line views are very often being aired in Standing Committees of Parliament nowadays, which used to happen very rarely in the past.” Mahtab was also in the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) headed by Congress leader K V Thomas in 2017, which had seen a similar row. Dubey, as a member of the panel, had written to the then Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, seeking to move a privilege motion against Thomas after the latter kept insisting on calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the panel on the demonetisation decision. As disputes also occurred in other panels that time, Sumitra had to call a meeting of the chairpersons of PAC, Public Undertakings Committee, Estimates Committee and department-related standing committees of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to douse the fire and streamline the working of committees. This time the row erupted when Tharoor expressed the intent to take up the issue of a Wall Street Journal report that suggested how Facebook India turned a blind eye to a hate speech of a BJP leader and three others to ward off any damage to its business prospects. As Dubey went hammer and tongs questioning Tharoor’s decision, the latter wrote to the Speaker to issue a privilege notice against the BJP MP. Dubey was quick to retaliate with a counter privilege notice against Tharoor as well as Rahul. From Land Acquisition Bill to the summoning of Facebook, from adopting a report on 2G to discussing Bofors, Rafale, AgustaWestland and most recently PM-CARES fund, the divide on party-line has sharply come to fore in Parliamentary panels. Over a week ago, Congress and BJP members sparred at a meeting of the IT panel over the issue relating to the speed of internet services in Jammu and Kashmir. A fortnight ago, BJP MPs tried to stall the discussion on the draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 at the first meeting of the Parliamentary standing committee on environment, forests and climate change and science and technology. In July, when PAC Chairman Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wanted to examine the PM-CARES fund, BJP members foiled the attempt. Calling such rumblings “unfortunate”, Mahtab said: “There are set of rules on how Standing Committees have to function in a non-partisan manner. If someone crosses the line, it becomes a collective responsibility of the panel to see it rectified.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-wrest-grows-in-parliamentary-panels-876344.html
22-08-2020||National||AIIMS forms 5-member medical board to look into SSR's autopsy report||A five-member medical board of forensic experts was formed by the AIIMS on Friday to look into the autopsy files related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death after the CBI approached the hospital for assistance. "We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined," AIIMS's forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta, who will lead the team, told PTI. He said the team will evaluate the injury pattern on Rajput's body and correlate it with circumstantial evidence. "The preserved viscera will be examined and the anti-depressants that were given to Rajput will also be analysed at the AIIMS laboratory," Gupta said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) approached the forensic department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Friday for its medico-legal opinion in the case. In a letter to the premier medical institute, the central probe agency said it will provide the team of forensic experts with the necessary medical papers, post-mortem reports, videography and viscera reports at the earliest. "It is in connection with the investigation of Sushant Singh Rajput's death case that a medical board of doctors of the AIIMS, New Delhi is required to be constituted for providing an expert medical opinion. "The necessary medical papers, post-mortem reports, viscera reports will be provided at the earliest. It is, therefore, requested that a medical board of doctors at the AIIMS, New Delhi may please be constituted and deputed for visiting the place of occurrence at Mumbai at the earliest," the CBI said in its letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-forms-5-member-medical-board-to-look-into-ssrs-autopsy-report-876356.html
22-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on 'Ganesh Chaturthi'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted people on Ganesh Chaturthi and wished joy and prosperity everywhere. "Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over," he tweeted.  आप सभी को गणेश चतुर्थी की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। गणपति बाप्पा मोरया! Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-ganesh-chaturthi-876375.html
22-08-2020||National||India records highest single-day spike of 69,874 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally close to 30 lakh-mark||With a record spike of 69,874 infections in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the recoveries surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 percent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 percent, it said. There are 6,97,330 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.43 percent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   A cumulative total of 3,44,91,073 samples have been tested up to August 21 with 10,23,836 samples being tested on Friday, the highest done in a day so far, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR said. Of the 945 fresh deaths, 339 are from Maharashtra, 101 from Tamil Nadu, 93 from Karnataka, 91 from Andhra Pradesh, 64 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 34 from Punjab, 15  from Jammu and Kashmir, 14 each from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Delhi, 12 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan and 11 from Jharkhand. Ten fatalities were reported from Odisha, nine from Goa, seven each from Haryana and Telangana, six each from Assam, Bihar and Puducherry, five from Uttarakhand, two each from Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 55,794 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 21,698 followed by 6,340 in Tamil Nadu, 4,522 in Karnataka, 4,270 in Delhi, 3,092 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,867 in Gujarat, 2,797 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,689 in West Bengal and 1,185 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 991 people have died of COVID-19 in Punjab, 933 in Rajasthan, 744 in Telangana, 593 in Jammu and Kashmir, 585 in Haryana, 498 in Bihar, 390 in Odisha, 297 in Jharkhand, 227 in Assam, 203 in Kerala and 192 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 180 deaths, Puducherry 143, Goa 135, Tripura 70, Chandigarh 33, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 32, Himachal Pradesh 25, Manipur 20, Ladakh 19, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu  two.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-69874-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-close-to-30-lakh-mark-876387.html
22-08-2020||National||Mumbai police tightens security for Ganesh festival||The Mumbai police have beefed up security to keep a hawk-eyed vigil in the city during the 10- day Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which began on Saturday amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. In view of the virus outbreak, the festival is being celebrated in a subdued manner this year to curb the spread of infection, the official said. Besides, Muharram is also being observed in a simple manner as the government has not allowed processions in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, he added. "Apart from the local police, a company of Rapid Action Force (RAF), three companies of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), local arms and riot control police have been deployed in the city," the official said. Quick response teams, bomb disposal squads and anti-terrorism cells have also been put on alert to prevent any untoward incident, he said. According to him, local police stations will provide security cover to Ganesh pandals in their areas, while an additional deployment of 30 police personnel will be present at the city's famous Lalbaugcha Raja Ganesh pandal. "Moreover, the police will monitor the happenings in the city with the help of 5,000 CCTV cameras and also use drones for aerial surveillance," he said, adding that personnel in plain clothes have been manning markets as well. The police have urged citizens not to gather on roads during the festivities and pandals have been asked to cut down noise pollution, the official said. Apart from the instructions to follow social distancing norms, people have also been asked to wear masks and sanitise pandals as a precautionary measure, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-tightens-security-for-ganesh-festival-876404.html
22-08-2020||National||SC to consider plea for guidelines to check custodial crimes||The Supreme Court has agreed to consider a PIL for laying down guidelines to ensure an effective framework to prevent custodial torture, deaths and rapes, in the wake of alleged killings of the father-son duo in police custody in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi district. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian referred the plea by NGO 'People's Charioteer Organisation' and advocate Devesh Saxena for consideration before a bench headed by Justice U U Lalit. The matter came up for consideration before the court on Friday. The petition, drawn by advocate Shashwat Anand, sought a direction to the Union Government to form an independent committee of members from all the relevant departments and ministries to review the entire legal framework and find pitfalls to curb the menace. The petitioner claimed that the recent incidents of custodial crimes have traumatised all those who respect the rule of law and personal liberty in the country. "It is noteworthy to mention here that Indian police are well known for gratuitous beatings, custodial torture, custodial deaths, fake encounters and other blatant state violence...we failed to eliminate the colonial attitude of our police and allowed it to continue with same archaic law such as the Police Act, 1861," it claimed. The murderous police assault, unending beatings and brutal torture, which caused the death of two innocent traders, a father and a son, Jayaraj, aged 62 years and Bennix, aged 32 years in June 2020, at Sathankulam Police Station, near Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu, has brought the issue of custodial deaths to the limelight, the petitioner said. "It underlines afresh the urgent need for institutional correctives within the policing system in this country and the acute need for Union government to enact a strong law to prohibit and prosecute cases of torture and custodial deaths, in fulfilment of its legal obligations, both national and international, to guarantee protection to the right to life," it said. The petitioner cited the Law Commission's 152nd and 273rd reports, as well as other committee reports along with statues of the foreign jurisdiction to buttress its points. It also cited the NHRC's report between 1994-95 to 2017-18 which enlisted the number of death and rapes in judicial custody and police custody as 29979 and 3642 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-for-guidelines-to-check-custodial-crimes-876411.html
22-08-2020||National||India crosses milestone of 1 million Covid-19 tests a day||India has crossed the milestone of 1 million Covid-19 tests a day, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said today. With 10,23,836 tests done yesterday, India has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily. With this achievement, the cumulative tests are more than 3.4 crore (3,44,91,073). It said that early identification through testing, prompt and effective treatment through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, and innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100 percent increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days. The ministry said that average daily tests during the past three weeks also strongly depict the progress made in the enhancement of Covid-19 tests across the country. "As has been reported from States/UTs that have pushed ahead with aggressive testing, there is a commensurate decline in the positivity rate. Although a higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking, and timely effective and clinical management," the ministry said in a statement.  Combined with enhanced testing, policy decisions of the Centre, states and UTs have facilitated easy testing across the country. This has boosted the daily testing capacity, it said. Enhanced diagnostic lab network has also led to this achievement, the ministry said, adding that as on date the country has a strong network of 1,511 labs, comprising 983 in the government sector and 528 private labs.   With a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-milestone-of-1-million-covid-19-tests-a-day-876417.html
22-08-2020||National||61% students defer plan to study abroad due to Covid-19: Study||Covid-19 has left students across the world confused and unsure. Over February, March, and April, there was a steep increase in students stating that their plans had been impacted by the coronavirus. However, during June, July, and August, the results remained at a stable level of 67 per cent. Established in mid-February, as of August 11, the survey amassed over 66,000 responses from prospective international students across 198 nationalities and territories, of which 11,310 responses are from Indians students. As per the overall findings of the survey, 55 per cent of students intend to delay or defer their plans to study abroad until next year. Six per cent of them no longer want to study overseas and 10 per cent wish to study in a different country. In an ideal world, 29 per cent of the respondents opted that they would like to start their studies in 2020. However, when asked the year they expect to continue their studies, the percentage dropped to 19 per cent.    The changes reflect the uncertainty that many prospective international students are experiencing at the start of the 2020 academic year. “While this suggests that universities may struggle to attract students in 2020, it does demonstrate that strong interest remains and that, institutions should also be ramping up recruitment efforts for the second semester of 2020 and the 2021 academic year,” the study notes. Online learning The pandemic, giving a push to online learning, has made it the new normal for the education sector in 2020. Showing remarkable flexibility and innovation, universities across the globe have moved their operations and communications to online platforms. An average of 38 per cent of respondents was not interested in studying their degree online because of the coronavirus. However, the proportion who is not at all interested has declined from 42 per cent in March to 36 per cent in August, pointing that attitudes may be shifting gradually. A total of 45 per cent said that they would be willing to start studying this academic year even if they had to study online for the early months. Tuition Fees A vast majority of 79 per cent believed that the tuition fees should be discounted if they start their studies online until they are able to travel for face-to-face classes. On the other hand, eight per cent said that it should remain the same. Prospective international students expect a significant discount. The higher level of responses ranged between the discount per cent of 21-50, with 21 per cent of the respondents wanting 21-30 per cent discount on the tuition fees. According to the QS coronavirus university survey, 41 per cent respondents plan to study at an undergraduate level, 35 per cent at a postgraduate by coursework level, 19 per cent at a postgraduate by research level, and five per cent seek to study either English language studies, a foundation course, or vocational education and training. The majority of respondents were interested in studying Business and Management (22 per cent), followed by Engineering and Technology (20 per cent), Medicine and Dentistry (seven per cent), Computing (six per cent), Social Sciences (five per cent), and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-students-defer-plan-to-study-abroad-due-to-covid-19-study-876420.html
22-08-2020||National||Covid-19 fear looms large on Ganesh festival in Goa||People brought home Ganesh idols as part of the festival, however, the normal celebratory mood was missing. Similarly, the sarvajanik (community) mandals set up pandals and installed the idols, but they cancelled all cultural and other events this year to curb the spread of the infection. In view of the pandemic, the Goa government has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the Ganeshotsav celebrations, which includes not organising any welcome processions and maintaining social distancing. Many people in the state are now making use of technology to maintain social distancing during this year's festival. "Due to the pandemic, many people have started using virtual meeting apps on their mobiles for Ganesh pooja and other rituals," Kalash Chimulkar, a resident of Quepem in South Goa, said. "Using the apps, the priest performs rituals at one place, which is seen and followed by members of other families," he added. The festival provides an opportunity for people working in urban areas of the state to return to their villages. "As per the custom, people in villages visit each others' places for Ganesh aarti. However, this year there is a tacit understanding that no one will go to others' houses in a bid to avoid the spread of the virus," said Devendra Gaonkar from Velus in North Goa's Sattari tehsil. He said his family and even other households in his village performed the rituals without a priest this time. "People performed the rituals in whatever way they could on their own...But we have decided to celebrate this festival in a big way next year," he said. The Ganesh mandals said they are taking steps to maintain social distancing and have decided not to hold any entertainment programmes this year. "To take darshan of the Ganesh idol at the pandal, people will have to stand in a queue by maintaining social distancing. After offering prayers, they have to immediately move out. The devotees will not be allowed to remain there for a long time," said Tukaram Naik, a trustee of Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav at Ponda. The Covid-19 case count in the state was 13,484 on Friday, while the death toll was 135.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fear-looms-large-on-ganesh-festival-in-goa-876427.html
22-08-2020||National||Jharkhand's ex-CM Shibu Soren, his wife test positive for Covid-19||Former Jharkhand chief minister and JMM president Shibu Soren and his wife Roopi, along with seven others in their household, have tested positive for COVID-19, official sources said. All of them are undergoing home quarantine, they said. Samples of 29 people in Soren's household were collected for examination, of which seven were found to have contracted the disease. Soren's son and Chief Minister Hemant Soren will undertake the test on Monday -- third time in two months. Earlier, the CM had taken the test on two separate occasions -- first time after coming in contact with infected cabinet colleague Mithilesh Thakur, and the second time after 17 employees at his office were diagnosed with the disease. On Tuesday, state health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for the infection. The CM's wife and several other members at his official residence will also undergo the test on Monday, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhands-ex-cm-shibu-soren-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-876453.html
22-08-2020||National||Covid-19 curbs see Ganesh idols shrunk for major festival||Indian authorities have imposed tough anti-coronavirus restrictions on gatherings and the size of Ganesha idols for one of the biggest religious festivals of the year that started Saturday. The 10 days of prayers and family gatherings for Ganesh Chaturthi started under a pandemic cloud with the country closing on three million infections and 56,000 deaths. Most major cities have ordered that effigies of the popular elephant-headed god Ganesha, which can draw thousands of Hindu devotees onto the streets, be shrunk back. Traditionally, the idols can tower 10 metres (30 feet) high or more and need dozens of people to carry them but this year authorities said they can be no more than 1.1 metres tall in a bid to cut crowds. In New Delhi, no Ganesha idols will be shown in public while hard-hit Mumbai has cut back access to the seafront to immerse Ganesha figures, usually the highlight of the festival. Tens of thousands traditionally flock to the beaches on the final day of the festival to immerse elaborately decorated figurines of the deity in the Arabian Sea. This year, authorities in India's financial capital have constructed hundreds of artificial immersion ponds across the city to stop hordes crowding the waterfront. Devotees will also be able to leave their Ganesha idols at collection centres and volunteers will immerse them in the sea. Authorities want devotees to mark the festival at home, dampening enthusiasm among pandemic-weary locals. Even the idols worshipped at home must be no more than 33 centimetres (13 inches). "Every year I looked forward to Ganesha celebrations and visited a nearby lake to watch idol immersions. But this year, we are not even inviting friends home for traditional prayers," Mumbai-based analyst Ruta Amin told AFP. "With lively music, colours, and rituals, the Ganesha festival always brought communities together. But 2020 is muted and sad," the 27-year-old said. In a sign of the times one of the rare Ganesha idols on display sprays sanitizer onto the hands of devotees who come to pray. Worshippers are barred from making public offerings to the deity and organisers have been ordered to sanitise outdoor marquees several times a day. Some cities which have seen a surge in coronavirus cases had proposed a complete ban on Ganesha gatherings in public. But in Bangalore, authorities relented following protests by religious groups. Public displays of the Ganesha idols will still be restricted with socially distanced followers having to wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-curbs-see-ganesh-idols-shrunk-for-major-festival-876468.html
22-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI team visit actor's Bandra residence||In a step further to investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday visited the house of the late Bollywood actor, where he was found dead more than a couple of months ago. The CBI team is currently at the duplex-flat in Mount Blanc in the Carter Road area of Bandra. The team was seen entering the building complex along with Sushant’s flatmate and friend Siddharth Pithani and cook Neeraj Singh. The CBI team which also included officials of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) is examining the building and recreating the scene. The 34-year-old Sushant, who is famous for essaying the role of wicketkeeper-batsman and former Team India skipper MS Dhoni in the biopic MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, was found dead on 14 June. The post-mortem report has cited the cause of death as “asphyxia” and ruled out any foul play. Before it reached the building, the CBI team visited the Bandra police station that has registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR), and the Cooper Hospital, where the post-mortem was conducted. The autopsy report would also be studied by an expert team of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. The preserved viscera may also be examined by the AAIMS that may investigate on the anti-depressants that Sushant was being administered, based on counselling sessions with doctors. The CBI team is scanning the flat in detail and also examining the terrace. They are also expected to conduct a dummy test. The CBI has also taken possession of Sushant’s laptop, mobile phone, plates, glasses, bedsheets, the piece of cloth that he allegedly used to hang himself. Besides, the CBI has taken a look at the case diary and the 56 statements that the Bandra police have recorded during the inquiries under the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is also in possession of the dozen statements that have been recorded by the Enforcement Directorate. During the interrogation of Siddharth Pithani and Neeraj Singh, the CBI dived deep to know the normal routine of the actor and what happened in the fortnight before his death and the reasons his live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty left the house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-team-visit-actors-bandra-residence-876479.html
22-08-2020||National||Centre asks states not to put restrictions on inter-state & intra-state movement of people, goods||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday asked states not to impose restrictions on movement of vehicles in the name of Covid-19 pandemic, saying such actions are impacting supply chain resulting in economic activities and employment and violate the Unlock 3.0 guidelines. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off letters to Chief Secretaries of states and Administrators of Union Territories after complaints that local level restrictions imposed by districts and states are hampering inter-state movement of goods and services. No restrictions should be imposed, Bhalla wrote in the letter. Bhalla cited Para 5 of the Unlock 3.0 guidelines and said it clearly stated that there will be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. It has also said that no separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for such movement of persons and goods for cross land border trade under Treaties with neighbouring countries. "There are reports that local level restrictions on movement are being imposed by various districts/states. Such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting supply chains resulting in disruption in economic activity and employment," a senior official said quoting the letter. Such restrictions amount to violation of guidelines issued by the MHA under provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. It should be ensured that MHA guidelines are followed. The government, which had imposed a nationwide Covid-19 lockdown from March 25, had started unlocking the country since June. So far, three unlock guidelines have been issued. Except for educational institutions, cinema halls, metro rail and large gatherings among others, most of the services are now allowed. The Unlock 3.0 guidelines will be expiring on August 30 and it is to be seen whether the government will further open up services. It is to be seen whether the government will allow opening educational institutions in the new guidelines that will come into effect from September 1. Several states are not enthusiastic about the idea of opening schools at present.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced lockdown with effect from March 25 to combat the coronavirus pandemic which was subsequently extended till May 31. Since June 1, the unlock process began with the opening up industrial activities and offices across the country. .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-not-to-put-restrictions-on-inter-state-intra-state-movement-of-people-goods-876482.html
22-08-2020||National||Pandals go online in Ganesh Chaturthi amid Covid-19||Amidst the Covid-19 crisis, technology has come handy for devotees and pandals who are using social media to offer virtual darshan of Lord Ganesh during the 10-day festival which began on Saturday. Many families are using various applications to connect with their family members and friends, as the viral outbreak has restricted physical movements of people. On the first day of the festival, many people as well as prominent Ganesh pandals took to social media to send invitations for online 'aartis' and consecration of idols. The GSB Ganpati Mandal at Kings Circle in Mumbai went live on various social media platforms to avoid crowding of devotees at the pandal. "We have been using apps like Zoom, Google meet etc for our professional works. These apps are now being used to connect with each other during the Ganesh festival," said Savita Patil, an advertising professional who sent out online invites to her family members, friends and colleagues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandals-go-online-in-ganesh-chaturthi-amid-covid-19-876492.html
22-08-2020||National||Weekend lockdown comes into force in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||All shops except those dealing with essential items remained shut in Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh with weekend lockdown restrictions coming into force on Saturday amid rising coronavirus cases. The Punjab government had announced weekend lockdown in all cities and towns on Thursday, while authorities in Haryana and Chandigarh ordered the closure of all shops except those providing essential services on Friday to check the spread of COVID-19. Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh have come up with stricter restrictions in the wake of rising cases of the infection. While in Punjab and Haryana, the COVID tally has reached 39,327 and 52,129 respectively, in Chandigarh, there are 2,631 cases so far. Shopkeepers who were dealing with non-essential commodities kept their shops shut in both states and their common capital Chandigarh. Unlike on weekdays, a lesser number of people were visible on roads at most of the places on Saturday. Policemen in adequate strength were also deployed in all the cities to ensure the implementation of weekend lockdown, officials said. In Punjab's Phagwara, Ashok Kultham, president of Cloth Merchant Association, said all the shops will religiously follow the state government's lockdown guidelines. "We have kept all our shops closed," he said. A station house officer (city) in Phagwara Onkar Singh Brar claimed that the weekend lockdown was completely observed. He said policemen were advising people to wear masks otherwise strict action would be taken against them. The SHO said eight men were held and their three vehicles were impounded on Friday night for violating the night curfew. In Hoshiarpur also, most of the markets wore a deserted look but shops of essential items like medicines, vegetables, milk, etc. remained open. Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has directed the officials concerned to ensure strict compliance of Section 144, prohibiting gathering of more than five persons. Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said flag marches were being conducted at various places in Hoshiarpur. In Ludhiana, general secretary of the Punjab Beopar Mandal Sunil Mehra welcomed the move of the government, saying such restrictions are required to curb the spread of COVID 19 which is already increasing at an alarming pace. He, however, demanded that the lockdown should be imposed on days other than the weekend as restrictions on Saturdays and Sundays would affect trading activity in Ludhiana. In Moga, a police official said that they had been issuing challans to people who were not wearing masks. Besides weekend lockdown, the Punjab government had also announced to extend the night curfew by two hours from 7 pm till 5 am in all the cities. In Punjab, shops and shopping malls would remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays but shops dealing with essential goods would remain open till 6.30 pm, as per the orders. Only home delivery of food items has been allowed by restaurants, which could open till 6.30 pm on weekends. Liquor shops in both Punjab and Haryana are allowed to remain open but in Chandigarh, such shops will remain closed during weekends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/weekend-lockdown-comes-into-force-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-876496.html
22-08-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Man held for posting inflammatory content on Facebook about Ram temple in Ayodhya||A 37-year-old man was arrested in Madhya Pradesh's Jhabua district for allegedly putting up an inflammatory post on Facebook about the Ram temple in Ayodhya, police said on Saturday. The police on Friday night arrested Golu Qazi in Petlawad town, about 60 km from district headquarters, an official said. The action was taken based on a complaint lodged by Deepak Kag, the district president of Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha, Jhabua superintendent of police Ashutosh Gupta said. The complainant has alleged that the accused had repeatedly posted inflammatory religious posts, the official said. In the report filed on Friday, the complainant has alleged that the accused had put up a controversial post on Facebook on Thursday about the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Qazi has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for putting up the inciteful post, he said, adding that peace has been maintained in the area following the arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-man-held-for-posting-inflammatory-content-on-facebook-about-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-876499.html
22-08-2020||National||Supreme Court extends deadline to complete Babri Masjid demolition trial||The Supreme Court has fixed a fresh deadline of September 30 for the CBI judge in Lucknow to complete the trial against BJP veterans L K Advani, M M Joshi and others in the 1992 Babri demolition case. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee gave further one month's time to the judge for the purpose. The court passed its order on August 19 on a request by Special CBI judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav. "Having read the report of Yadav, Special Judge, and considering that the proceedings are at the fag end, we grant one month’s time, i.e., till 30th September, 2020, to complete the proceedings including delivery of judgement," the bench said. Earlier the court had fixed August 30 to finish the trial and deliver the judgement. The court had then asked the trial judge to use video conferencing for recording evidence and ensure the time frame was not breached further.  The top court had earlier extended the term of the judge and fixed the deadline of April 2020 for finishing the trial in the case. On a letter received by the Special Judge to further extend the time, the bench said, "the effort must now be to complete the proceedings and deliver judgment latest by August 31, 2020." The top court noted that on July 19, 2019, it had given six months time to complete recording of evidence and three more months to deliver the judgement. "Despite nine months having expired, we still find that even the evidence is not yet completed. We may indicate that video conferencing facilities are available and should be used in order to complete all evidence," the bench said. "It is up to the judge to control the proceedings in accordance with law so that inordinate delay that is beyond the time frame that we now give, is no longer breached," the bench added. On April 19, 2017, the top court had ordered day-to-day proceedings to conclude the trial in the December 6, 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case within two years. It had then dubbed the demolition of the medieval era monument as a "crime" which shook the "secular fabric of the Constitution". Besides Advani, Joshi and Uma Bharti, the accused against whom conspiracy charge was invoked in the case included former BJP MP Vinay Katiar and Sadhvi Ritambara. Former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh is also one of the accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-extends-deadline-to-complete-babri-masjid-demolition-trial-876504.html
22-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Outrage in Tamil Nadu over Hindi 'imposition'||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Members of Parliament and political leaders from Tamil Nadu on Saturday demanded action against Union AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for “imposing Hindi” on doctors from the state; A pair of gold-plated spectacles believed to have been worn by Mahatma Gandhi and presented as a gift in the 1900s have broken all records for a UK auction house by selling for 260,000 pounds, and The Centre has asked all states to ensure that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods during the ongoing unlocking process.    Here are the top news of today, Saturday: August 22, 2020: The Centre has asked all states to ensure that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods during the ongoing unlocking process. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said there were reports that local level restrictions on movement were being imposed by various districts and states. Drawing attention to the Unlock 3 guidelines, Bhalla said such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting supply chains, resulting in a disruption in economic activity and employment. The unlock guidelines clearly state that there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, he said in the letter. The guidelines also stated that no separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for movement of persons and goods for cross land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. The home secretary said restrictions amount to violation of guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs under provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. The letter requested that no restrictions be imposed and it should be ensured that the unlock guidelines are followed. Scientists have developed a vaccine against Covid-19 that can be given in one dose via the nose, and is effective in preventing infection in mice susceptible to the novel coronavirus, an advance that may lead to protective candidates that can curb the pandemic. While there are several Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently under development, the study, published in the journal Cell, noted that unlike these, the one delivered via the nose targets the initial site of infection, and causes more widespread immune response. According to the researchers, including those from the Washington University School of Medicine in the US, the nasal delivery route created a strong immune response throughout the body, but it was particularly effective in the nose and respiratory tract, preventing the infection from taking hold in the body. They plan to test the vaccine in nonhuman primates and humans to see if it is safe and effective in preventing Covid-19 infection. "We were happily surprised to see a strong immune response in the cells of the inner lining of the nose and upper airway -- and a profound protection from infection with this virus," said study senior author Michael S. Diamond from the Washington University School of Medicine. An Indian national has been arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit visa fraud and for inducing foreign nationals to come to the US using fraudulently obtained H-1B visas, federal prosecutors said on Friday. Arrested on Thursday, 48-year-old Ashish Sawhney allegedly used four corporations to orchestrate the improper submission of fraudulent applications for H-1B specialty-occupation work visas, they said. Charged with two counts of conspiracy, three counts of inducing an alien to come to and reside in the US for commercial advantage or private financial gain, and one count of attempted naturalisation fraud, Sawhney allegedly generated gross profits from 2011 to 2016 of approximately USD 21 million, the prosecutors said. If convicted, Sawhney faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. A pair of gold-plated spectacles believed to have been worn by Mahatma Gandhi and presented as a gift in the 1900s have broken all records for a UK auction house by selling for 260,000 pounds. The glasses, which were dropped through the letterbox of East Bristol Auctions in Hanham, south-west England, four weeks ago were estimated to fetch between 10,000 pounds and 15,000 pounds but the online bids for the lot kept multiplying to finally go under the hammer of the six-figure sum. “An incredible result for an incredible item! Thanks to all those who bid,” said auctioneer Andy Stowe of East Bristol Auctions, as he closed the bid for the online auction on Friday. “These glasses represent not only an auction record for us but a huge find of great historical importance. The vendor had presumed them to be interesting, but of no value and did tell me to dispose of them 'if they're not worth anything',” said Stowe. “I think he nearly fell off his chair when we presented our valuation. It's a really great auction story – and one that we all dream of,” he said. The unnamed new owner of the spectacles is an elderly man from Mangotsfield, South Gloucestershire in south-west England, who will split the 260,000 pounds with his daughter. Members of Parliament and political leaders from Tamil Nadu on Saturday demanded action against Union AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for “imposing Hindi” on doctors from the state by asking them to leave a conference he was addressing if they did not know Hindi. The incident, which took place on Thursday on the last day of a three-day training session for “Master Trainers of Yoga”, has led to outrage in Tamil Nadu with people calling it “blatant imposition of Hindi” on non-Hindi speaking states.   The doctors from Tamil Nadu said they were told to leave the conference if they did not know Hindi, adding that their repeated requests to the organisers to speak in English fell into deaf ears. As many as 37 doctors from Tamil Nadu participated in the online training session. DMK MP Kanimozhi, who had on August 9 complained that a CISF personnel at the airport asked her if she was an Indian for not knowing Hindi, demanded that Kotecha be placed under suspension and appropriate disciplinary proceedings be initiated. “The statement of the Secretary that non Hindi speaking participants could leave during a Ministry’s training session speaks volumes about the Hindi domination being imposed. This is highly condemnable. The Government should place the Secretary under suspension and initiate appropriate disciplinary proceedings. How long is this attitude of excluding non-Hindi speakers to be tolerated?” she asked. PMK founder S Ramadoss sought to know what would have been the response from participants if a trainer had said he can only speak in Tamil, while Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said no one should forget that it is “Indian government and not Hindian government.” Ramadoss also demanded that it was time for all 22 Indian languages be made into official languages. The doctors also released a video of the programme in which Kotecha, who made lateral entry into government service after heading the Gujarat Ayurveda University in Jamnagar, is seen telling the participants he does not speak English “very well.” Congress MPs from Tamil Nadu, Karti P Chidambaram and Manicka Tagore, also condemned the incident seeking to know whether the government was moving towards one language policy. “Not knowing English is understandable, but this arrogance of asking those who do not know Hindi to leave and insisting on speaking in Hindi is totally unacceptable,” Karti tweeted. Before signing off, we at Deccan Herald wish our listeners a Happy Ganesha Habba. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-outrage-in-tamil-nadu-over-hindi-imposition-876520.html
22-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recovery rate reaches 74.69%, case fatality dips to 1.87%: Health Ministry||A record 63,631 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in a day pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.87 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. While the country's Covid-19 tally neared the 30-lakh mark, the total number of recoveries has surged to 22,22,577 and exceed active cases by over 15 lakh as on date. "Record-high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country, which is the active cases, has reduced and currently comprises only 23.43 per cent of the total cases," the ministry said. The country on Friday also crossed a significant milestone of testing 10,23,836, samples in 24 hours, in line with the commitment of exponentially increasing daily testing. With this, cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 rose to over 3.4 crore. "With a higher number of Covid-19 patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, the recovery rate has reached 74.69 per cent. This has also led to declining Covid-19 case fatality rate, which stands at a new low of 1.87 per cent as on date," the ministry said. Early identification of cases through aggressive testing, comprehensive surveillance and contact tracing along with a focus on timely and efficient clinical treatment of patients have ensured speedy recovery. The higher number of recoveries and declining fatality have shown that India's graded and pro-active strategies are delivering results on the field, the ministry underlined. Building on the continuum of care approach, the policy of testing aggressively, tracing comprehensively and treating efficiently, focussed attention on effective surveillance and house-to-house contact tracing has led to early detection and identification of Covid-19 cases, it said. The ministry underscored that mild and moderate cases are treated under supervised home isolation. According to the standardised clinical management protocol based on a holistic standard of care approach, patients in critical and severe condition are hospitalised and provided the best medical care, it said. With a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-rate-reaches-7469-case-fatality-dips-to-187-health-ministry-876526.html
22-08-2020||National||Arogya Setu's new feature to help organisations get health status of staff, other users||Aarogya Setu has rolled out a new feature that will enable organisations to get the health status of their employees or any other user without violating their data privacy, an official release said on Saturday. Aarogya Setu has now emerged as the most downloaded contact tracing app in the world, with more than 15 crore users, it said. The new feature called 'Open API Service' will help people, businesses and the economy to return to normalcy, and aims to address the fear/risk of Covid-19 infection. The service can be availed by organisations and business entities, who are registered in India with more than 50 employees, and they can use it to query the Aarogya Setu application in real-time and get the health status of their employees or any other Aarogya Setu user, who have provided their consent for sharing their health status with that entity, the release added. "In order to help businesses and economy to start functioning while being safe, the Open API Service enables organisations to check the status of Aarogya Setu and integrate it into its various Work from Home features," the release by Ministry of Electronics and IT said. The Open API (application programme interface) shall only provide the Aarogya Setu status and name of the Aarogya Setu User with their consent. No other personal data shall be provided through the API, the release added. Registration for the new service can be done at openapi.aarogyasetu.gov.in, it said. Since its launch on April 2, Aarogya Setu has been aiding the efforts of frontline health workers and the government in Covid-19 mitigation and management efforts. More than 6.6 million Bluetooth contacts have been traced and percentage positive of those who have tested is almost 27 per cent. "Since its launch, Aarogya Setu has continuously innovated and introduced more novel features like e-pass integration, QR Code scanning, sharing of Health status with family/known persons - all of which have been very effective in keeping India and Indians safe...," the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arogya-setus-new-feature-to-help-organisations-get-health-status-of-staff-other-users-876529.html
22-08-2020||National||National Council for Transgender Persons formed to formulate policies, legislation for the community||The Centre has constituted the National Council for Transgender Persons to formulate policies, programmes, legislation and projects regarding members of the community for achieving equality and full participation by them. The council was established by the Centre in exercise of the powers conferred by the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, according to a gazette notification issued late on Friday night. According to the Act, the functions of the council include advising the Centre on the formulation of policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to transgender persons; monitoring and evaluating the impact of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full participation of transgender persons. The other functions of the council are to review and coordinate the activities of all the departments of government and other governmental and non-governmental organisations dealing with matters relating to transgender persons, to redress the grievances of transgender persons, and to perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the Centre. The council have representatives from community members, five states and 10 central departments. Its chairperson will be the Union Minister of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment while the vice-chairperson will be the junior minister in the ministry, according to the gazette notification. The other members will be from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry Home Affairs, Ministry of  Housing and Urban Affairs, Minority Affairs ministry and Rural Development ministry among others, it said. The representatives of the state governments and union territories by rotation, one each from the north, south, east, west and northeast regions have also been announced. Also, five representatives of the transgender community, one each from the north, south, east, west and northeast regions have also been announced. Meera Parida, a member from the transgender community, representing the east region in the council said they will probably be tasked with identifying issues faced by the community members and advise the government on it. "We have not yet been given any details. But I think we will be given the responsibility for helping the government in identifying the problems faced by the transgender community members and probable solutions," Parida told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-council-for-transgender-persons-formed-to-formulate-policies-legislation-for-the-community-876532.html
22-08-2020||National||India crosses crucial milestone of testing over 10 lakh people in a day||India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in a day, taking the cumulative tests to more than 3.4 crore, while the caseload neared the 30 lakh-mark. As has been reported from states and Union Territories (UTs), which have pushed ahead with aggressive testing, there is a commensurate decline in the positivity rate, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. "Although higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking, and timely effective and clinical management," the ministry said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "Keeping to its promise of exponentially increasing daily Covid-19 tests, India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples in a day." With 10,23,836 tests done on Friday, India has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily, he said. The number of daily tests has been increasing in a steep climb. The average daily tests during the past three weeks also strongly depict the progress made in enhancement of Covid-19 tests across the country, Vardhan said. A cumulative total of 3,44,91,073 samples have been tested up to August 21 with 10,23,836 samples being tested on Friday, the highest done in a day so far, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at the ICMR said. Of the total of 10,23,836 samples tested on Friday, around 3.8 lakh samples were tested through rapid-antigen tests, sources said. The cumulative tests conducted so far have reached 3,44,91,073 of which around 28 per cent samples were tested through rapid-antigen tests, they said. "In a testament to the determined, focussed, consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre and the state and UT governments, India has conducted 1 million tests in a span of 24 hours. With 10,23,836 tests done on Friday, India has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily," the ministry said. Combined with enhanced testing, policy decisions of the Centre, states and UTs have facilitated easy testing across the country. This has boosted the daily testing capacity, it said. Enhanced diagnostic lab network has also led to this achievement, the ministry said, adding that as on date the country has a strong network of 1,511 labs, comprising 983 in the government sector and 528 private labs. With a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent on Saturday, according to the health ministry data. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 per cent, it said. India is third in terms of caseload after the US and Brazil. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 had crossed the 3 crore-mark in India on Sunday. The health ministry had asserted on Monday that the "new landmark" has been achieved due to expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-crucial-milestone-of-testing-over-10-lakh-people-in-a-day-876534.html
22-08-2020||National||Five militant associates arrested in Bandipora||Five militant associates of Islamic State Jammu Kashmir (ISJK) were arrested with ammunition from Bandipora district of the union territory Saturday, police said. They said the militant associates had carried out a recce of an Army camp to attack it. Four of the associates are from the north Kashmir district and one is from Srinagar. They were providing support and radicalizing the youth to join ISJK, a police official said. He said they were making flags of ISJK in Chittibandy Aragam and supplying them to their associates in Srinagar. Besides ammunition, incriminating material such as a matrix sheet and ISJK flags were seized from them. A case under the UAPA Act has been registered at Aragam police station, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-militant-associates-arrested-in-bandipora-876536.html
22-08-2020||National||States, UTs can use NRA's CET scores for selecting candidates for govt jobs: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said states and Union Territories can avail of scores on the Common Eligibility Test, to be conducted by the National Recruitment Agency (NRA), to shortlist candidates for government jobs. This would actually help the recruiting agencies including the state and UT governments to save the cost and time spent on recruitment, while at the same time also be convenient and cost-effective for the young job aspirants, he said. An arrangement in the form of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) could be put in place for using the CET score by them, said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. "Eventually, this could prove a win-win arrangement both for the employer as well as employee," he said. Singh said that the CET score could be shared with the recruiting agencies in the state and Union Territory governments as well as public sector undertakings (PSUs) and also later on with the private sector, according to an official statement. "States and Union Territories can avail the Common Eligibility Test to be conducted by the National Recruitment Agency for job selection, the decision for which was passed at the Union Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday," it said. The NRA is mandated to conduct the CET online for selecting candidates for a majority of central government jobs. Singh said the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) and he himself are in touch with many state and Union Territory governments which have expressed their inclination to be a part of the sharing arrangement of CET score. Most of the chief ministers are also quite enthusiastic and favourable to adopt this reform, he said. Clearing apprehension in certain quarters, Singh said, for those who are appearing for the exam, relaxation in the upper age limit shall be given to candidates of SC/ST/OBC as other categories castes as per the government policy. He said the Common Eligibility Test will have no correlation or incompatibility with the rules of recruitment like domicile etc., followed by certain states or Union Territories, the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Contrary to misgiving in certain quarters, the CET will not be conducted only in Hindi and English language but will be conducted in 12 Indian languages to begin with, while gradually other languages in the 8th schedule of the Constitution will also be included, it said. Hailing Prime Minister Modi's personal intervention and indulgence "without which this revolutionary decision could not have been possible", Singh said, the move is going to prove to be a major reform to bring about ease of living for struggling youth and job aspirants. He said, it is also a reflection of the sensitivity and thoughtfulness with which the government works under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-can-use-nras-cet-scores-for-selecting-candidates-for-govt-jobs-jitendra-singh-876547.html
22-08-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviews security scenario in eastern Ladakh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday reviewed the overall security scenario in eastern Ladakh amid the ongoing talks between India and China on the disengagement process in the high-altitude region, people familiar with the developments said. The meeting was attended by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. The sources said all important aspects of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh were discussed in great detail. The meeting also deliberated on the future course of approach in dealing with the situation, they added. The analysis comes in the wake of the assessment by the Army that the Chinese military is not serious about the resolution of the border conflict in eastern Ladakh. There has been a stalemate in the military talks as the Indian Army was strongly insisting that the Chinese side must restore the status quo ante of April this year to resolve the over three-month-old row. The Indian Army has clearly stated to the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) that "shifting" of the Line of Actual Control is not acceptable to it, the sources said adding Chinese military is now desperately attempting to give "ex post facto strategic meaning" to its actions in eastern Ladakh. "Due to the strong response of the Indian Army, the PLA is faced with unanticipated and unintended consequences of his misadventure," said a source, adding it is looking for a "face-saving exit strategy". India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made in resolution of the border row in eastern Ladakh. On Thursday, the two sides held another round of diplomatic talks following which the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said they had agreed to resolve outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner" and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. However, the sources said the meeting could not produce any significant outcome. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The Chinese military has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas, sources said. In the five rounds of corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. Even as both sides have been engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army is making elaborate preparation to maintain its current strength of troops in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months. Army Chief Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", the sources said. The Army is also in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troops, they added. The temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degrees Celsius in the winter months. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-security-scenario-in-eastern-ladakh-876556.html
22-08-2020||National||Death toll in Air India Express flight crash rises to 20||A 53-year-old man, injured in the Air India Express plane crash here on August 7, died at a hospital on Saturday, taking the toll in the mishap to 20. V Ibrahim from Wayanad district died here this noon, a senior district official said. Eighteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot, were killed and several others injured when the flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard overshot the tabletop runway at the Karipur airport and fell into a valley. It had broken into pieces in the impact. Days after the mishap, 68-year-old Aravindakshan, under treatment for leg injuries, had died of cardiac arrest, taking the toll to 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-in-air-india-express-flight-crash-rises-to-20-876559.html
22-08-2020||National||Kerala records 2,171 cases; tally crosses 55,000 mark, toll reaches 218||Kerala recorded 2,171 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the infection count to56,353 while 15 deaths took the toll to 218, Health minister K K Shailaja said. Fifty four health workers, including 14from Palakkad and 11 from Malappuram, were among those who tested positive. While Thiruvananthapuram recorded 464 cases, Malappuram 395, Kozhikode 232, Palakkad 184, Thrissur 179, Kasaragod 119, Ernakulam 114and Kottayam 104 cases. Of the positive cases, 52 had come from abroad and 102 from other states, the minister said. As many as 1,964 people were infected through contact and the source of infection of 153 was not known, the minister said in a press release here. As many as 36,539 have recovered from the infection, including 1,292 who were discharged today, while 19,538 people are undergoing treatment for the pathogen. Presently, 1,80,249 people are under observation of whom 1,63,738 are in home and institutional quarantine and 16,511 in hospitals, including 2699 admitted today. So far 13,86,775 samples have been sent for testing which includes 37,027 collected in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-records-2171-cases-tally-crosses-55000-mark-toll-reaches-218-876560.html
22-08-2020||National||CAG report on defence offset performance in next Parliament session: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the CAG report on defence offset performance will be tabled in the forthcoming session of Parliament. The report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on offset performance was scheduled to be tabled in the last session of Parliament but could not be done as the session had to be curtailed following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. "The C&AG Report No 20 of 2019...Defence Offset Performance was scheduled to be tabled in Parliament during the budget session (2020). The session ended, before date, due to COVID. Now the report will be placed in the next session. The contents will be known only after that,” Sitharaman said in a series of tweets. Observing that the first Rafale fighter jet was handed over to India in October 2019, the minister said, “There is a year-wise phasing of how much offset obligation the companies/OEMs have to fulfil. MoD informs me that claims of such obligations being fulfilled are coming in.” Last month, India received the first set of five Rafale fighters from France. In the 36 aircraft deal, signed for around Rs 58,000 crore, Dassault Aviation has agreed to provide all fighters in a fly-away condition between 36 to 67 months from the date of signing of the inter-governmental agreement in 2016. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday made a fresh attack on the government over the Rafale fighter aircraft deal. In a tweet, Gandhi quoted a source-based news report which claimed that the CAG has submitted its performance audit on defence offset contracts to the government with no mention of any offset deals related to the purchase of Rafale aircraft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-report-on-defence-offset-performance-in-next-parliament-session-fm-876564.html
22-08-2020||National||Delhi court sends ISIS operative to 8-day police custody||A Delhi court on Saturday sent an alleged ISIS operative, arrested with improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from central Delhi's Ridge Road area, to eight-day police custody. According to the court sources, the accused was produced before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat and the Delhi Police sought eight days' custody. During in-camera proceedings, the police told the court that custodial interrogation of the accused was required to unearth the larger conspiracy, the sources said. The court allowed the plea and directed them to produce the accused before it on August 30. The Delhi Police has stepped up vigil in the city following the arrest. The security checks have been intensified along the Delhi border in Uttar Pradesh's Noida. The suspected ISIS operative was arrested with IEDs after a brief exchange of fire on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-sends-isis-operative-to-8-day-police-custody-876568.html
22-08-2020||National||Why discriminate govt school students from learning Hindi: TN BJP chief||BJP Tamil Nadu chief L Murugan on Saturday took potshots at DMK President M K Stalin for his opposition to the three-language formula suggested in the Centre's National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, asking why government school students should be 'discriminated' from learning Hindi. The NEP's three-language formula, which includes Hindi, had found opposition in Tamil Nadu, with the ruling AIADMK making it clear that the existing two-language policy (English and Tamil) will continue in the state. Speaking to reporters after offering prayers on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi at the BJP headquarters here, Murugan accused Stalin, opposed to "Hindi imposition," of practicing "double standards" on the third language issue. "When students of matriculation schools across Tamil Nadu are offered an option to learn Hindi, denying the third language option for the children of government-run schools, amounts to modern untouchability, which Stalin is practising," he said. He claimed that people, especially students, were keen on learning Hindi. Murugan, accompanied by BJP functionaries offered prayers to a huge idol of Lord Ganesh installed at Kamalalayam, the BJP state headquarters, for the speedy recovery of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, veteran playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and others infected by coronavirus. The alluring Ganesh idol with 18 hands were each decorated with the central schemes. It also had a replica of a Rafale fighter jet. Earlier this month, the BJP president had appealed to political parties opposed to the three-language policy suggested in the NEP, not to allow politics to come in the way of students interests and also not to shut the doors for the students of other states in learning Tamil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-discriminate-govt-school-students-from-learning-hindi-tn-bjp-chief-876574.html
22-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Sisodia urges Centre to cancel NEET, JEE entrance exams, says playing with lives of lakhs of students||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday appealed to the central government to cancel medical and engineering entrance exams JEE and NEET in view of the Covid-19 situation. He also said that an alternative admission methodology should be used this year and the exams should not be conducted. On Friday, Education Ministry officials had said the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled. "The government is playing with lives of lakhs of students in name of JEE and NEET. I appeal Centre govt to immediately cancel both exams and adopt an alternative admission process," Sisodia tweeted. "To think that only exam is a way out for admission, is an impractical and conservative thought. When other countries can have admission though different methods other than exams why can't it be done in India," he said. There have been demands from several students and parents to further postpone the entrance exams in view of increasing coronavirus cases. The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. The JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6 while the JEE (Advanced) on September 27. The NEET will be held on September 13||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sisodia-urges-centre-to-cancel-neet-jee-entrance-exams-says-playing-with-lives-of-lakhs-of-students-876594.html
22-08-2020||National||India rejects reference to J&K in China-Pakistan joint statement||India on Saturday categorically rejected the reference made to Jammu and Kashmir in a joint statement issued by Pakistan and China after talks between foreign ministers of the two countries. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an "integral and inalienable" part of India and that it expects the parties concerned not to interfere in the country's internal matters. "As in the past, we categorically reject the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir in the joint press release of the 2nd Round of China-Pakistan foreign ministers' strategic dialogue," he said. In their second annual strategic dialogue on Friday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi discussed the Kashmir issue and progress on the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor among a host of other issues. In his reaction, Srivastava reiterated India's consistent position on the so-called "China Pakistan Economic Corridor". "India has repeatedly conveyed its concerns to both China and Pakistan on the projects in so-called China Pakistan Economic Corridor, which are in the territory of India that has been illegally occupied by Pakistan," he said. "We resolutely oppose actions by other countries that change the status quo in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir and call on the parties concerned to cease such actions," Srivastava added. A joint statement issued after Wang-Qureshi talks said the Pakistani side briefed the Chinese delegation on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues. "The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-reference-to-jk-in-china-pakistan-joint-statement-876597.html
22-08-2020||National||Nitish Kumar inaugurates power schemes worth Rs 4855.37 crore||Faced with complaints from consumers regarding irregularities in electricity bills, the Bihar government has started installing pre-paid meters in every household, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Saturday. He said the pre-paid meters would be beneficial not only for the consumers but would also reduce losses incurred by two power distribution companies- North Bihar Power Distribution Company Ltd. and South Bihar Power Distribution Company Ltd. The chief minister was speaking after inaugurating and laying foundation stones of various power schemes worth Rs 4855.37 crore. Kumar said during statewide visit in 2016 he found that there were large number of complaints with regard to irregularities in electricity bills. There was only one solution to this problem and that was installing pre-paid meters, he said, claiming even the central government has adopted its schemes of giving power connection to every household with pre-paid meters. Taking a veiled dig at his RJD rivals, he said "there was a time when people used lantern and diyas (earthen oil lamp) to light their house but there is no requirement of such things in the state now because of uninterrupted power supply. "People did not face any difficulties even during lockdown and children could carry their studies smoothly". Lantern is the election symbol of main opposition RJD. Kumar and other NDA leaders have on many occasions highlighted the dismal power scenario in Bihar during 15 years rule of Lalu Prasad-led RJD in the state from 1990-2005, which now has impreved tremendously. Stating that the state used to draw 700 MW of power supply in 2015 which has now increased to 5932 MW, Kumar said he had taken a pledge on August 15, 2012 not to seek votes in 2015 assembly elections if power availability was not increased in the state. The government has completed its goal of providing power connection to every household by October 2018 while dilpadited electric wires were replaced by the end of 2019, he added. The CM said that he has already declared that he would provide water to irrigate every field if people gives him opportunity to serve them. I had made a promise of providing drinking water to every household, I fulfiled the promise. Similarly, every farmland will be provided water for irrigation for which the three concerned departments of water resources, minor irrigation and energy are working on a plan to implement it, he said. Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Energy Minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Energy Departments Secretary Sanjeev Hans also addressed the function. Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar, CMs Principal Secretary Chanchal Kumar and a host of other senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-inaugurates-power-schemes-worth-rs-485537-crore-876603.html
22-08-2020||National||India should lead digital gaming sector, develop games inspired from its culture, folk tales: PM Narendra Modi||India should tap the huge potential in the digital gaming arena by developing games that are inspired from its culture and folk tales, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, asserting that focus should be on use of technology and innovation besides manufacturing products that meet global standards. At a meeting to discuss ways to boost toy manufacturing in the country, Modi said toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of "Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat", a statement said. The prime minister tweeted after the meeting, "Had an extensive meeting on ways to boost toy manufacturing in India. Our focus would be to support the sector and create toys that ensure physical fitness and holistic personality development." The statement quoted Modi as saying that toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all anganwadi centres and schools for all-round development of children. He also stressed on the need to organise hackathons for innovations in toy technology and design. Laying emphasis on the fast-growing digital gaming arena, Modi said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-lead-digital-gaming-sector-develop-games-inspired-from-its-culture-folk-tales-pm-narendra-modi-876604.html
22-08-2020||National||Bloomsbury India withdraws from publishing controversial book on Delhi riots||A leading publication house on Saturday announced the withdrawal of a book on Delhi riots in February authored by three right-wing writers, after a controversy erupted over the participation of BJP leader Kapil Mishra in the launch ceremony which the publisher said they would not have approved. The book 'Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story', which was announced by Bloomsbury India, is authored by Monika Arora, Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra. The book was to have a virtual launch by senior BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav and attended by film director Vivek Agnihotri, Kapil Mishra and OpIndia's Nupur Sharma. As soon as the organisers of the launch on social media on Friday, a controversy erupted over the participation of Mishra, who is accused of giving a speech that incited people and led to the riots in February in north-east Delhi. The publisher said that it had organised the launch and its logo was used in the invite without its permission. In a statement, Bloomsbury India said it had planned to release the book "purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews" conducted by the authors. "However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the Publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society," the publisher said. The statement did not name Mishra, whose remarks in February that they will ensure that the anti-CAA protesters in Jafrabad in north-east Delhi will be removed if the police failed to act within three days. Soon after the remarks in the presence of police, riots started but Mishra has not been named by the police so far. The three writers were part of the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians, which had published a report with the help of OpIndia, on Delhi riots in March giving the right-wing version putting the blame on anti-CAA protesters for the riots. Arora, one of the authors, tweeted late night, "Bloomsbury India, what happened? We sent (a) draft of the book which you approved. We signed (a) contract, exchanged emails. There was no problem. But when leftist-fascist lobby tweeted, Bloomsbury UK pressured you to withdraw. Will international pressure decide what Indian readers will read?" Sharma, who was part of the online launch ceremony, tweeted, "absolute shame, Bloomsbury India. But know this, no matter what, our voices won’t be silenced." Several activists, academicians and writers took to social media to criticise Bloomsbury India's decision to publish the book after the news of the release of the book came out on Saturday. They said they had not demanded a ban on the book but asked the publisher to justify their fact-checking process, which they could not. JNU Professor Jayati Ghosh wrote on Twitter, "I am ashamed at having contributed to a chapter in a Bloomsbury India book. When the history of our times is written, the role of the publisher who colluded and published falsehoods to serve current powers will also be noted. Shame on you. You are no longer a credible publisher." Poet Meena Kandasamy said, "the literary must take a stand. This is not about Cancel Culture. This is about defending literature from fascism. This is about standing up against religious divide, hate speech, Islamophobia and false history." Delhi University Professor Nandini Sundar tweeted, "just refused to review a book for Bloomsbury Academic. If Bloomsbury publishes a book that is full of lies about Delhi's academics, in full collision with Delhi RSS Police's attempt to arrest and interrogate academics, they shouldn't expect any academic cooperation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bloomsbury-india-withdraws-from-publishing-controversial-book-on-delhi-riots-876605.html
22-08-2020||National||CPI urges Supreme Court not to punish Prashant Bhushan for 'expressing his views'||The CPI urged the Supreme Court on Saturday not to punish senior advocate Prashant Bhushan for "expressing his views", while stating that the apex court should distinguish between "constructive criticism and malicious statements". In a contempt of court case, the Supreme Court on Thursday gave Bhushan time till August 24 to "reconsider his defiant statement" refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets. Bhushan has been held guilty of contempt for two of his tweets. "The National Secretariat of the Communist Party of India is of the opinion that Senior Advocate Prashant Bhushan has not committed anything to be termed as contempt. He is one known for his commitment and conviction in articulating the genuine concerns and grievances of people. "The Supreme Court should have distinguished between constructive criticism and malicious statements. Otherwise, it would deter ordinary individuals from performing their citizenship duty of being objective in their expressions about the institutions of our vibrant republic. The party appeals to the apex court not to punish Senior Advocate Prashant Bhushan for expressing his views, that too as a practising senior lawyer," the CPI said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-urges-supreme-court-not-to-punish-prashant-bhushan-for-expressing-his-views-876611.html
22-08-2020||National||ICMR developing multi-lingual portal for information on Covid-19 vaccine||The apex health research body, ICMR, is in the process of developing a vaccine portal which will provide information related to the Covid-19 vaccine development in India and abroad, with majority of the updates in several regional languages in addition to English. The aim of creating the portal is to provide all information and updates relating to the Covid-19 vaccine development at one platform as all the information in this regard is scattered as of now, Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, told PTI. The idea behind making the updates available in regional languages is to make sure every citizen is able to access the information. The portal is likely to be functional by next week, Panda said. The portal would be made operational in phases. In the first phase, the portal will provide all information related to Covid-19 vaccine in India and abroad. Over a period of time, information about all other vaccines used to prevent various other ailments will be put on the portal, he said.  In India, three Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of clinical trials. The phase-1 human clinical trials of the two Covid-19 vaccine candidates developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Zydus Cadila Ltd have been completed and the trials have moved to phase 2, Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava had recently said at a press briefing. The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford, has been permitted for conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India. It is likely to start the trials next week. According to Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday, the country saw a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 29,75,701, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in 24-hour span.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-developing-multi-lingual-portal-for-information-on-covid-19-vaccine-876613.html
22-08-2020||National||MHA issues SOP for international passengers||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under Vande Bharat scheme and air transport bubble arrangement. Accordingly, persons desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights, will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded or residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by Ministry of External Affairs. However, such a registration may not be required on flights operating under air transport bubbles arrangements, the SOP said. People who will travel to India by non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) and ships as allowed by Department of Military Affairs (DMA) and Ministry of Shipping (MOS). The SOP for the operations of these flights or ships will be as issued by MOCA or DMA or MOS from time to time. India so far has bilateral air travel arrangements or air bubbles with the US, the UK, Germany, France, Qatar, Maldives and the UAE while negotiations are going on with 13 more countries.  The Vande Bharat flights have been operating since May 6 and currently the Scheme is in Phase-5. Only those crew and staff, who are tested Covid-19 negative, will be allowed to operate these flights and ships. The SOP said priority will be given to compelling cases of in distress, including migrant workers and labourers who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency/ pregnant women and elderly persons or those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students. The cost of travel, as specified by the carrier, will be borne by such travellers. Based on the registrations received for Vande Bharat flights, MEA will prepare flight or ship wise database of all such travellers, including details such as name, age, gender, mobile phone number, place of residence, place of final destination; and information on RT-PCR test taken and its result.  This data base will be shared by MEA with the respective State and UT in advance. In case of flights operating under air transport bubbles, passenger manifest containing the same details as given above for Vande Bharat flights or in a revised format as may be finalised by MEA with the country concerned, will be submitted by the airlines to the Indian mission in the country concerned. For out-bound flights, the category of persons, who will be eligible to travel on these flights, will be as permitted by MHA from time to time. The MOCA will display on its website the category of persons eligible to travel out of India.  Such persons will apply to MoCA or to an agency or agencies designated by MoCA for this purpose, along with necessary details, including the places of departure and arrival.   The travel from India shall be on the non-scheduled commercial flights, as are allowed by MoCA. Indian seafarers and crew seeking to accept contracts to serve on vessels abroad, can travel on the non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by MOCA or the flights arranged by their employers subject to clearance given by the Ministry of Shipping. Before the tickets of such persons are confirmed, the airline concerned will ensure that the destination country allows entry of such persons with valid visa in that country. The conditions, if any, imposed by the destination country, will have to be fulfilled by the person intending to travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-issues-sop-for-international-passengers-876621.html
22-08-2020||National||Bengal Covid-19 tally climbs to 1,35,596 with 3,232 new infections||The Covid-19 caseload of West Bengal went up to 1,35,596 after 3,232 new infections were reported on Saturday, the health department said. The death toll also mounted to 2,737 with 48 more people succumbing to the disease, the department said in a bulletin. It said that 3,088 Covid-19 patients were released from hospitals taking the states discharge rate to 77.41 per cent. So far, 1,04,959 people have recovered from the disease in West Bengal. The number of active cases is now 27,900, the bulletin said. Of the fresh fatalities, 12 were reported from Kolkata, followed by nine from North 24 Parganas, six from Howrah and five from Hooghly. The remaining 16 deaths were registered in 10 other districts. Thirty-eight of the deaths recorded on Saturday were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental. The bulletin said that North 24 Parganas district registered the highest number of new infections at 547 and there were 516 fresh cases from the metropolis. The districts that recorded more than 100 positive cases on Saturday also included Paschim Medinipur (265), South 24 Parganas (209), Hooghly (185), Purba Medinipur (166), Howrah (153), Murshidabad (140), Malda (110), Dakshin Dinajpur (108) and Darjeeling (104), it said. Since Friday, 36,318 samples have been tested in the state, taking the total number of such tests to 15,24,162, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-135596-with-3232-new-infections-876625.html
22-08-2020||National Politics||Amid leadership debate, CWC to meet next week||Amid an ongoing debate over the issue of leadership of the Congress, the party's highest decision-making body, the working committee, is slated to meet virtually next week. Sources said that the formal CWC meeting can happen as early as Monday or later and it is a percursor to a trial meeting of the party members on Saturday. The trial meeting is to familiarise them with a new digital platform, WebEx, which the party will henceforth use for all its virtual interactions, they said. The switch has come in view of the government issuing advisories regarding data privacy concerns about Zoom which the Congress was using earlier. The CWC meeting comes close on the heels of Congress president Sonia Gandhi completing one year as interim party chief, a post which she accepted last year after her son Rahul Gandhi stepped down. A debate is again raging in the Congress over uncertainty related to its leadership, with a section of party leaders, including some MPs, asking Rahul Gandhi to return to the helm. In an official party briefing two days ago, the Congress said party workers across the country want Rahul Gandhi to assume Congress leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amid-leadership-debate-cwc-to-meet-next-week-876339.html
22-08-2020||National Politics||Here's how election during Covid-19 would look like||The following list has been compiled based on the various views and suggestions received from various political parties and Chief Electoral Officers of States/ UTs on the election campaign and public meetings, the document stated. Here are the guidelines to be followed by all during the election process: * Every person shall wear a face mask during election-related duty. * Thermal scanning of all persons shall be carried out at the entry of the room used for election purpose. * Safety measures and disinfectants such as sanitisers, soaps and water shall be made available on the premises. * Social distancing has to be maintained as per the Covid-19 guidelines of the State Government and the Ministry of Home Affairs. * Adequate number of vehicles shall be mobilized for movement of polling personnel, security personnel to ensure Covid-19 guideline compliance. When voting on EVMs/ VVPATs * First and second randomisation and preparation of EVMs/ VVPATs shall be executed in large halls. * Santisers must be provided in sufficient quantity during the voting process. * Gloves too shall be made available for each official handling EVMs/ VVPATs. Polling Station Arrangements * At the assigned station, mandatory sanitisation has to be done a day prior to the poll. * Temperature must be checked with thermal scanners by polling stand or paramedical staff or ASHA workers at the entry point of every polling station. * Help desk will be set up for distribution of token to voters on a first-come-first-serve basis to prevent long queues from forming. * Boxes will be market to demonstrate social distancing for a queue. * Wherever possible, Booth app to be used at the polling station. * Facemasks should be stored in reserves for those electors who do not carry their own masks. * Only for identification purpose will the voter lower their face mask and whenever required. * Hand gloves to be provided to the voter for signing in the voter register and pressing the EVM button. * Sanitisers to be placed in the booth and at other appropriate locations with clear instructions on usage. * The guidelines also added that Covid-19 patients who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote at the last hour of the poll day, under the supervision of health authorities. * While scanning the temperature of a voter, and it is above the norms of the MoHFW, it must be checked twice. If there is no drop/change in temperature, the elector shall be provided with token/certificate and will be asked to cast their vote at the last hour of the poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/heres-how-election-during-covid-19-would-look-like-876409.html
22-08-2020||National Politics||Political slugfest between BJP, Congress over Rafale deal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday made a fresh attack on the government over the Rafale fighter aircraft deal, prompting Union Minister Piyush Goyal to hit back saying he is welcome to fight the 2024 general elections on the issue. In a tweet, Gandhi quoted a source-based news report which claimed that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has submitted its performance audit on defence offset contracts to the government with no mention of any offset deals related to the purchase of Rafale aircraft. "Money was stolen from the Indian exchequer in Rafale," Gandhi alleged in his tweet without elaborating. In his Twitter post, the former Congress president also quoted Mahatma Gandhi's words: "Truth is one, paths are many". In a sharp retort, Goyal, who is Railway Minister and a senior BJP leader, claimed that many in the Congress have confided that Gandhi's obsession with Rafale is damaging the party. "Many of Rahul Gandhi's Congress colleagues confide in private that Rahul's obsession with Rafale to wash off his father's sins is damaging the party. But if someone is wanting to self-destruct, who are we to complain? We invite him to fight the 2024 elections on Rafale," Goyal tweeted. Gandhi had launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2019 general elections, which the Congress lost. The Rafale aircraft deal was part of the central plan of the Congress' poll campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-slugfest-between-bjp-congress-over-rafale-deal-876494.html
22-08-2020||National Politics||Congress Working Committee to discuss leadership issue on August 24||Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to meet on Monday amid a raging debate within the party over the leadership issue and amid calls for Rahul Gandhi to return to the helm. “A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on 24th August, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. via video conferencing,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said. Efforts were on within the Congress to persuade Rahul to return as party president, a post he quit after a defeat in the Lok Sabha elections last year. The CWC had appointed Sonia Gandhi as the interim President at a meeting on August 10 last year. Rahul, 50, had told party leaders that they should look beyond the Gandhi family for leadership, a view also held by his younger sister and AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A section of the senior leaders appear to be anxious at a sense of drift in the party without a full-time, hands-on president and have called for introspection and internal elections should the Gandhi family refuse to lead the party. Senior leaders Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari have pitched for organisational reforms and elections to the Congress Working Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party. Earlier this week, Priyanka’s year-old interview about her concurring with Rahul’s view on a non-Gandhi heading the Congress, created discomfort in the party which came out in full support of the former party chief. Congress asserted that “millions of Congress workers” want Rahul Gandhi back at the top post as he is the only one who has been consistently targeting the Modi government. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has made it clear to party leaders that she was not keen to continue in the post for long and urged the party to settle the leadership issue. Though Rahul claims to be uninterested in the top post, he appears to have a say in key appointments in the organisation as well as the selection of candidates for elections. The recent Rajasthan crisis also showed that Rahul and Priyanka were in full command as they deputed senior leaders to resolve the differences between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. A section of the seniors believe that Rahul should come forward and lead the organisation from the front, instead of indulging in back seat driving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-working-committee-to-discuss-leadership-issue-on-august-24-876584.html
22-08-2020||National Politics||AAP no longer a common man's party: Delhi BJP||Delhi BJP leaders on Saturday hit out at AAP, saying it was no longer a common man's party, a day after police arrested two persons for allegedly donating Rs 2 crore to it through shell companies. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, in a press conference, alleged that AAP has fooled the people of the city in the name of clean politics. No immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party. "The Aam Aadmi Party is no longer a party of the common people but has become a party of people with black money," he claimed. "The Aam Aadmi Party has fooled the people of Delhi in the name of clean politics. The party, which made a place in the hearts of people by talking about Swaraj, Lokpal bill, the same Aam Aadmi Party is now stabbing people in the back and is no longer a common man's party," he alleged. The Delhi Police has arrested two men, including a chartered accountant, for allegedly donating Rs 2 crore to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) through shell companies, according to officials. The police received a complaint from the Registrar of Companies (RoC) where it was mentioned that the four companies, allegedly on April 5, 2014, donated Rs 50 lakh each to AAP, a senior police officer had said on Friday. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, "The Enforcement Directorate should immediately seize Rs 2 crore received by AAP from donations and collect a 300 per cent penalty on it under the Income Tax Act." The BJP leader said action should also be taken against the AAP leaders who were involved in the donation case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-no-longer-a-common-mans-party-delhi-bjp-876592.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi hotels asked to open with anti-Covid-19 measures like e-wallets, disposable menus||The DDMA on Friday issued an order, asking hotels to open in the city with various anti-Covid-19 measures, including use of contactless processes like e-wallets, undertaking deep cleaning of washrooms and proper crowd management on its premises. It also prescribed use of disposable menus, social distancing at buffet, restricted numbers in elevators and use of escalators with a person on alternate steps. The representatives of the hotel associations in Delhi also met Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and thanked him for opening the hotel industry. During the meeting, the chief minister said all the stakeholders have to work together to strengthen Delhi's economy. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its meeting on Wednesday had given its approval for opening of hotels, restaurants and weekly markets in the city. The order issued on Friday by DDMA said "hotels will be permitted to operate throughout the National Capital Territory of Delhi in all areas, except the containment zones, subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on June 4, 2020, and other instructions and guidelines of Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time." According to the Union Health ministry's SOP, proper crowd management inside and outside hotel premises like parking lots should be ensured and large gatherings at the hotels should be prohibited. Besides general precautions like social distancing, use of face cover and hand and respiratory hygiene, it prescribes furnishing details like travel and medical history as well as identity proof by the guests at the reception. It also states that gaming arcades and play areas for children shall be closed and the hotels must adopt contactless processes like QR code, online forms, digital payments like e-wallets for check-in and check outs. It also prescribes air conditioning to be maintained in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius and relative humidity at 40-70 per cent. Valet staff will use face covers and disinfect key, steering and door of vehicles of the guest, it said. Earlier, during the meeting with representatives of hotel associations, Kejriwal thanked the hotel industry, saying when coronavirus was at its peak, the hotels supported the government in enhancing the capacity of beds for treatment of patients.  Kejriwal said even though the central government was against the opening of the hotel industry in Delhi out of a fear that the cases might rise again, it was a very important step in reviving the economy of Delhi. "The Central government was against the idea of opening the hotel industry in Delhi, and I would not blame them because the Centre must have thought that the cases might rise again. "But I explained to them that the hotels are functioning in areas where the cases of corona are rising in the country. Either the Centre should shut the hotels down across the entire country, or open it in the region where the corona is under control," he said.  The chief minister said there were two challenges -- how to end the spread of the virus  and reviving the economy of Delhi because businesses have been shut and jobs have been lost due to the pandemic. "I am happy that since June 1, when the central government had opened the lockdown, and after we went ahead to lift the lockdown in Delhi on their directions, we did not have the need to re-impose the lockdown in the capital," he said. He said Delhi government planned in detail for this and once the lockdown was lifted on June 1, the government did feel that the situation was getting out of hands during first 15-20 days, but it took support of all and reinstated normalcy and control in Delhi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hotels-asked-to-open-with-anti-covid-19-measures-like-e-wallets-disposable-menus-876300.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Sharda-Yamuna Link row: Amarinder Singh hopes Haryana will see Punjab's viewpoint||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday expressed hope that Haryana will see Punjab's viewpoint on the issue of Sharda-Yamuna Link canal project. Responding to a question from a Patiala resident during his weekly Facebook live #AskCaptain, the Punjab Chief Minister also underlined the need to understand and adhere to international principles on water sharing, “as per which all agreements on this precious resource have to be reviewed after 25 years”. Singh said he had told the same to the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Haryana CM ML Khattar during a video conference meeting with them, convened earlier this week on the directions of the Supreme Court. The Centre on Tuesday had convened a meeting of chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana to discuss the SYL issue following the recent Supreme Court directions. Opposing the SYL project, Amarinder had warned that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana. Meanwhile, Singh also said he had told the Centre and Haryana that the Eradi Commission was 35-year-old and there was a need for reassessment of water availability in Punjab, which now has 109 dark blocks as a result of massive detrimental effects on its rivers due to global warming. Punjab has fed the nation and has a much larger cultivated area than Haryana, he pointed out. “Even though other assets were divided between the two states in a 60:40 ratio at the time of Haryana's creation, the same was not done for the Yamuna river water,” Singh said. Replying to another question from a Tanda resident on the steps being taken by the Punjab government in response to the three agricultural ordinances introduced by the Centre, the Chief Minister said his government was strongly opposed to the same and will not accept them at any cost. “The ordinances were aimed at shutting down Food Corporation of India and eliminating the MSP regime,” Singh alleged. Assuring fool-proof and efficient arrangements for paddy procurement by his government, the CM urged farmers not to go for early harvesting of rice crop. Making it clear that his government was fully prepared for the paddy procurement, as it had been for wheat, the chief minister said bringing the grain to the 'mandis' early would be detrimental as it would just lie around. The CM appealed to striking employees of 'Group C & D' category of the Secretariat and districts to return to work, saying the government was trying to fulfil their pending demands despite the pandemic situation and the fiscal crisis prevailing in the state. The employees have not reported for work since then, seeking resolution of their pending issues, including restoration of the allowances. Singh said his government was committed to the interests and welfare of all its employees and would resolve their issues as soon as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharda-yamuna-link-row-amarinder-singh-hopes-haryana-will-see-punjabs-viewpoint-876346.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||13 booked for cheating people in name of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust: Mathura Police||Thirteen people were booked here for cheating people after a complaint was lodged against them by the secretary of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, Mathura, police said on Friday. According to the FIR registered in Govind Nagar police station here, the 13 people allegedly formed a trust with a name similar to Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust in order to misguide people and take their money. The complaint was filed by the secretary of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, Mathura, Kapil Sharma, police said. The accused persons allegedly formed a trust with the name Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Nirman Nyas to mislead people and collect donations for construction activity in Sri Krishna Janmasthan. However, it is Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust which has been renovating the area since 1944, FIR filed by Sharma said. The police have registered the FIR under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 419 (cheating by impersonation).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-booked-for-cheating-people-in-name-of-sri-krishna-janmabhoomi-trust-mathura-police-876357.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||ISIS operative arrested in Delhi after exchange of fire||Delhi Police Special Cell arrested one ISIS operative with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) after an exchange of fire at Dhaula Kuan on Saturday, Pramod Singh Kushwaha, Delhi Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Delhi Police Special Cell told ANI.  The accused was arrested on Friday night. "The accused was arrested after an exchange of fire from Ridge Road between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwaha said. Security forces have been deployed near Buddha Jayanti Park in Ridge Road area from where the ISIS operative was arrested earlier today. Further details are awaited. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/isis-operative-arrested-in-delhi-after-exchange-of-fire-876376.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||5 intruders shot dead by BSF near India-Pakistan border in Punjab||The Border Security Force shot dead five intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab early Saturday, a senior BSF officer said. This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the over 3,300 km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade, officials said. Punjab shares a 553-km-long frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat, who together constitute the remaining part of the International Border. The senior officer said "alert troops of the 103rd battalion noticed suspicious movement of intruders violating the IB" in the Taran Taran district of Punjab. When asked to stop, the intruders fired on BSF troops who retaliated in self-defence.  Subsequently, five intruders were shot dead, he said. Another BSF official said the incident happened around 4:45 am near the 'dal' border post that is close to the Bhikhiwind town of the district. BSF troops, officials said, first noticed suspicious activity at the border around midnight and launched "focussed" surveillance on the intruders and set up multiple ambushes along the front after which the "contact was established" early morning, just behind the IB fence. The intruders were seen carrying rifles and were taking the aid of the 'sarkanda' or tall grass to sneak into India, they said. A photo collage released by the BSF showed two bodies piled on each other while the three others were lying separately in the slushy green tall grass. Some weapons and backpacks were visible in the photographs and the intrudes were wearing T-shirts or shirts and full pants. The second BSF official said one AK-47 rifle and two pistols have been found. An intensive search is underway to find other possible weapons carried by the infiltrators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-intruders-shot-dead-by-bsf-near-india-pakistan-border-in-punjab-876389.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along International Border in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua||Pakistani Rangers violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling along the International Border in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. The ceasefire violation in the Border Out Post Karol Mathna area of Hiranagar sector started at 11.30 pm on Friday, prompting strong and effective retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), they said. The cross-border firing between the two sides continued throughout the night and ended at 4.40 am on Saturday, officials said. There was no report of any casualty or damage on the Indian side, they said. However, the firing caused panic among border residents who were forced to spend the night in underground bunkers for their safety. Pakistan has been frequently targeting forward posts and villages in Hiranagar sector of Jammu and Kashmir to stall the construction work being undertaken by BSF to strengthen the counter-infiltration grid, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-international-border-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kathua-876405.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Body of 24-year-old man with throat slit found in Uttar Pradesh's Banda||The body of a 24-year-old man with his throat slit was found here, police said on Saturday. According to SHO of Baberu Kotwali Police Station Jaishyam Shukla, the man has been identified as Samarjeet Yadav, an undergraduate student. Yadav was going to Tindwari when the incident took place on Friday, Shukla said. "At around 1 pm, the body was found near a nullah. Prima facie it seems that the attackers were waiting for him... They slit his throat using a sharp-edged weapon," he said. After receiving a complaint from the father of the deceased, a case was registered against five people and efforts are on to arrest the attackers. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-24-year-old-man-with-throat-slit-found-in-uttar-pradeshs-banda-876410.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition remains unchanged||There was no change in the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and his vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support, the hospital said on Saturday. Doctors said attending to the 84-year-old said he is being treated for respiratory infection and continues to be on ventilatory support. "The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose and is being treated for a respiratory infection. His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support," the hospital said ina statement.  Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He was also tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he developed a lung infection and is being treated for the same. His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of specialists at the hospital. Pranab Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-remains-unchanged-876412.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar National Highway reopens after two-day closure||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar National Highway reopened on Saturday after remaining closed for the past two days owing to multiple landslides triggered by heavy rains, officials said. The highway got blocked at over a dozen places between Udhampur and Banihal on Thursday, leaving thousands of vehicles stranded. "The highway was cleared for one-way traffic around 10 am... After clearance of the stranded vehicles, the traffic will be allowed from Srinagar towards Jammu," Deputy Superintendent of Police, National Highway, Ajay Anand told PTI. Heavy rains lashed wide parts of Jammu and Kashmir over the past two days, triggering landslides and shooting stones from hillocks overlooking the highway at Panthiyal, Battery Cheshma, Monkey Morh, Mehar, Chanderkote, Sherbibi, Moum Passi, Ramsoo, Digdole, Kela Morh, Maroog and Trishul Morh. "After hectic efforts by road clearance agencies, the road was made trafficable this morning, but continuous shooting stones from the hills at Panthiyal and Monkey Morh caused some delay," the officer said on Saturday. He said passenger vehicles and trucks carrying essential commodities to Kashmir were cleared on priority after the restoration of the highway amid improvement in weather. "The traffic is moving smoothly and we are expecting to allow traffic from Kashmir towards Jammu around noon," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-reopens-after-two-day-closure-876413.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi sounds alert after arrest of ISIS operative in Delhi||Uttar Pradesh DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi on Saturday sounded an alert in the state following the arrest of an alleged ISIS operative in Delhi. The DGP has asked all police officers, especially those in field posting, to remain alert in view of the arrest and take necessary precautions, a senior official said. The Delhi Police arrested the alleged ISIS operative with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) from central Delhi's Ridge Road area. The accused was arrested on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-dgp-hitesh-chandra-awasthi-sounds-alert-after-arrest-of-isis-operative-in-delhi-876418.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter in Kashmir's Baramulla||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district on Saturday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Check-i-Saloosa area of Kreeri in north Kashmir's Baramulla district this morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants, a police official said. Militants fired at the forces as they were conducting searches in the area. The security forces retaliated, resulting in an encounter in which one militant killed. His identity and group affiliation is being ascertained, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmirs-baramulla-876421.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Security checks intensified in Noida after ISIS operative held in Delhi||Security checks have been intensified along the Delhi border in Uttar Pradesh's Noida in the wake of an alleged ISIS operative being arrested in the national capital with explosives, police said on Saturday. Vehicles and passengers moving to and fro Delhi are being checked at the border, while Gautam Buddh Nagar district is also on alert mode, Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S said.  Senior police officers also assessed security checks in the district bordering Delhi.  The Delhi Police on Friday night arrested the alleged ISIS operative with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), a senior officer said on Saturday. The accused was arrested following a brief exchange of fire in central Delhi's Ridge Road area, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-checks-intensified-in-noida-after-isis-operative-held-in-delhi-876429.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Heavy rains pound parts of west Madhya Pradesh, low-lying areas inundated||Heavy rains inundated low-lying areas at several places in Madhya Pradesh, especially some districts in the western parts of the state, where normal life was affected, officials said on Saturday. Incessant rainfall in some western districts, including Bhopal, Sehore and Indore since Friday, sent small rivers and nullahs into spate, they said. "Sehore received 316 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Saturday, the highest in the state. Indore recorded 263 mm rainfall, while it was 210 mm in Bhopal during the same period," meteorologist S N Sahu of the India Meteorological Department's Bhopal office told PTI. Monsoon is likely to remain active in the western parts for the next two days, he added. The downpour caused flooding in low-lying areas and some slums in Bhopal, where the authorities opened the sluice gates of Bhadbhada Dam of Upper Lake on Saturday to release water. "The sluice gates were opened following a rise in water levels. Inflow from streams in the catchment areas is causing the water level to rise in the Upper Lake," Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner K V S Choudary said. An alert has been sounded in the downstream areas of the dam, he said. Roads in some areas of the state capital got submerged following the downpour. Shahpura Lake in Bhopal started overflowing following incessant rains, the authorities said. A British-era building in the polytechnic college campus at Nowgaon in Chhattarpur district of Bundelkhand region collapsed due to torrential rains late on Friday night. An empty bus parked on the premises got damaged after the debris fell on it, police said. However, nobody was injured in the incident. The building was being repaired when it fell, they added. Three women who had gone to a temple at Tilawad village, around 65 kilometres from Shajapur district, got stuck there last night after water level around it rose suddenly. They were pulled out to safety using ropes on Saturday morning, local residents said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-pound-parts-of-west-madhya-pradesh-low-lying-areas-inundated-876434.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Bhopal's Upper Lake nears full capacity due to heavy rains||Following heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours, sluice gates of Bhopal's Upper Lake were opened on Saturday morning after the water body neared its full capacity, an official said. Several low-lying areas of the Madhya Pradesh capital were inundated, as showers have continued to lash the city for the last two days. Sluice gates of Bhadbhada Dam of Upper Lake were opened following a rise in water levels, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner K V S Choudary said. Inflow from streams in the catchment areas is causing the water level to rise in Upper Lake, he said, adding that an alert has been sounded in the downstream of Bhadbhada Dam. Bhopal city has received about 174 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, Choudhary said. There have been complaints of inundation, with water entering houses in some parts of the city, he said. "Our teams have been working constantly to pump out water and the civic body is in touch with the disaster response forces," he said. At least four gates of Bhadbhada Dam were opened till 11 am, a public relations officer of the civic body said. "According to the proposed Bhopal Master Plan 2031, the Upper Lake area at full tank level is 34 sq km. This is the biggest wetland site of central India," said Kamal Rathi, an environmentalist working for the lake's conservation. The full-tank capacity of Upper Lake is 1666.80 feet. Meanwhile, as many as 100 complaints of waterlogging were received from different parts of the city, assistant fire officer Sajid Khan said. "Most of the complaints are from low-lying areas. We also rescued a couple of people trapped in a car. Citizens have also been shifted to safer places from water-logged localities," he said. An underbridge in Habibganj area, was completely inundated due to heavy rains, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopals-upper-lake-nears-full-capacity-due-to-heavy-rains-876438.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Truck mows down 28-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||A 28-year-old woman died while her two siblings were seriously injured after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle near Nara village in the district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on the Delhi-Dehradun highway on Friday evening when the three were returning to their home in Nara village on the motorbike. While Madhu was crushed under the wheels of the truck and died, her brother Mukesh and sister Lakshmi sustained injuries and were taken to a hospital, police said. The driver of the truck was arrested, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truck-mows-down-28-year-old-woman-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-876440.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Gym owners protest near Delhi LG office to reopen fitness centres||DelhiPolice Saturday detained nearly a dozen gym owners protesting near the Lt Governor's office for permission to reopen the fitness centres in the city. "We want to request the Lt Governor to reopen gyms because it affects the livelihood of over one lakh people employed in this medium-scale industry in Delhi. But police detained us and took us to Civil Lines police station," said Chirag Sethi, the vice president of Delhi Gym Association, which comprises 4,000 small and medium entrepreneurs. A senior police officer said around 12 people were detained but added they would be released soon. A memorandum prepared by the association for Lt Governor Anil Baijal stated that gyms were being "neglected" by the government. "There are approximately 5,500 gyms in Delhi employing around 1 lakh persons whose livelihood is compromised. Fitness trainers, executives, cleaners, helpers, equipment vendors and housekeeping staff are affected," it said. The association said that gyms in neighbouring states were allowed to reopen and no spike in Covid-19 cases was recorded, and expressed willingness to "adamantly" follow the government guidelines and preventive measures to contain the spread of the virus. Gyms in Delhi were shut since the imposition of lockdown in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-gym-owners-protest-near-delhi-lg-office-to-reopen-fitness-centres-876450.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||With one more Covid-19 death, Ladakh's toll rises to 19||One more person died of Covid-19 in Ladakh, taking the death toll due to the infection in the Union Territory to 19, officials said on Saturday. The death was reported from Kargil district on Friday, the officials said, refusing to reveal any details. Of the total deaths, 12 were reported from Kargil and seven from Leh district, the officials said. They said the Covid-19 caseload in Ladakh had also gone up to 2,133 after 56 fresh cases, including 38 in Leh and 18 in Kargil, surfaced on Friday. Leh has so far recorded 1,052 Covid-19 positive cases, while the number of such people in Kargil stands at 1,081. However, 68 percent of the patients have already recovered and subsequently discharged, the officials said, adding only 665 cases are still active in Ladakh which include 388 in Leh and 277 in Kargil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-one-more-covid-19-death-ladakhs-toll-rises-to-19-876461.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Assembly passes many bills without discussion amid Opposition sloganeering||The state assembly on Saturday passed several important bills, including the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill, 2020, without any discussion amid the Opposition protest and sloganeering against the government. Soon after the House met and paid tributes to two of its former members Vivek Singh and Kunwar Bahadur Misra, the Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and holding banners to lodge their protests over law and order, the government’s handling of Covid-19 pandemic and flood in the state. But an undeterred House took up its business agenda, allowing the government to pilot its bills and get them passed within minutes without any discussion. The other bills which were passed included the Uttar Pradesh Public Health and Epidemic Disease Control Bill, 2020 and Cow-Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who was present in the House, gave a statement on the law and order situation and measures being taken to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and presented statistics, asserting that Uttar Pradesh was much better poised on both the fronts than other states. He also attacked the Opposition for being “bereft” of issues and “trying to mislead” people. Later the brief monsoon session, which was scheduled to continue till Monday was adjourned sine die with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna abruptly moving a proposal for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-assembly-passes-many-bills-without-discussion-amid-opposition-sloganeering-876470.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||10-yr-old married to her rapist; given triple talaq in UP's Muzaffarnagar||A 10-year-old girl has allegedly married to her rapist almost six months ago and then given triple talaq, a child care helpline representative said in UP’s Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. The helpline has handed over the case to the police. The incident came to light when a team from the helpline visited her for counselling at a village under the district's Budhana police station on August 6. According to helpline in-charge Punam Sharma, the victim alleged that she was married to her sister's brother-in-law on February 16. The accused, a resident of Shamli district, left the girl to her parents’ house on August 4 after which she approached the helpline, she said. Budhana SHO K P Singh said they have started an investigation into the allegations and have called the accused on Monday for further action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-yr-old-married-to-her-rapist-given-triple-talaq-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-876471.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Over a year after Gupkar declaration, parties in Kashmir resolve to fight for special status||Political parties in Kashmir on Saturday unanimously resolved to fight for restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed pre-August 5, 2019, saying the measures taken were "spitefully shortsighted" and "grossly unconstitutional". The parties reiterated that they are bound, wholly, by the contents of the 'Gupkar Declaration', a resolution issued after an all-party meeting on August 4, 2019 at the Gupkar residence of NC president Farooq Abdullah. The resolution at the end of the meet on August 4, 2019, a day before the Centre announced its decision of revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and split it into two union territories, said the parties unanimously resolved that they would be united in their resolve to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu and Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts. "That modification, abrogation of Articles 35A and 370, unconstitutional delimitation or trifurcation of the state would be an aggression against the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh," the 'Gupkar Declaration' read that day. On Saturday, over a year later, the parties issued a joint statement saying they adhere to the last year's declaration. "We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar Declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and the restoration of the state and any division of the state is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be 'nothing about us without us'," the statement said. The statement, issued by the parties through National Conference (NC), said the signatories to the Gupkar Declaration of August 4 last year have barely managed to establish basic level of communication with each other in the face of "a series of prohibitive and punitive curbs" imposed by the government, "aimed at impeding all social and political interactions". However, they said, the limited confabulations held within the constraints imposed have resulted in this unanimous resolution. The signatories of the joint statement include NC president Farooq Abdullah, incarcerated PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee president G A Mir, CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone and Jammu and Kashmir Awami National Conference senior vice-president Muzaffar Shah. The statement said the "unfortunate events" of August 5 last year have unrecognizably changed the relationship between Jammu and Kashmir and New Delhi. "In a spitefully shortsighted and unconstitutional move, Articles 370 and 35A were abrogated and the state was bifurcated and relegated to the status of two Union Territories and its Constitution tried to be made unenforceable. "The series of measures undertaken on August 5, 2019 were grossly unconstitutional and in reality measures of disempowerment and a challenge to the basic identity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The measures attempt to redefine who we are. These changes were accompanied by repressive measures meant to silence people and coerce them into submission, and continue unabated," it said. The parties said these are testing times and times of pain for the peace-loving people of Jammu and Kashmir and said they assure the people that all their political activities will be subservient to the "sacred goal" of reverting to the status of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed on August 4, 2019. "We all reiterate our commitment to collectively fight to restore the special status of Jammu and Kashmir as guaranteed under the Constitution and the commitments made from time to time. There is unanimity amongst us that collective institution is the effective way to fight for these rights and tirelessly struggle to get back the special status and restore the Constitutional guarantees forcibly taken away, against our will. “We want to assure the people that all our political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed on August 4, 2019," the statement said. While expressing gratitude to the people of India, political parties, intelligentsia and other civil society groups for opposing the "unconstitutional" measures of August 5 last year and "ever since standing with the people of Jammu and Kashmir in this crises, we appeal for their unstinted support to our just cause till the unconstitutional measures of August 5, 2019 are undone and the special status of Jammu and Kashmir restored". The parties exhorted the leadership of the subcontinent to take due notice of the "ever increasing skirmishes" at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and Line of Control (LoC) resulting in casualties on both sides and unabated violent incidents in Jammu and Kashmir and work for enduring peace in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-a-year-after-gupkar-declaration-parties-in-kashmir-resolve-to-fight-for-special-status-876476.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||54-kg ovarian tumour, half the bodyweight of patient, removed at Delhi hospital||A 54-kg tumour, which was half the bodyweight of the patient, has been removed from her ovary at a city hospital here, with the doctors claiming it to be the largest of its kind to be operated in the world. The 52-year-old New Delhi resident was gaining weight for the last few months and weighed 106 kg. She recently started having difficulty in breathing, acute pain in her lower abdomen and consequently problem in walking and sleeping, Dr Arun Prasad, senior consultant, Surgical Gastroenterology and Bariatric Surgery at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said. With rapid weight gain and increasing complications, the family consulted a local surgeon, who then referred the patient to the hospital. "Upon investigation, it was revealed that the woman had a giant, progressively expanding tumour in her ovary and this was putting pressure on her intestine (intestinal adhesions) causing acute stomach ache and inability to digest food. "Additionally, her haemoglobin level dropped to six, causing severe anaemia," Dr Prasad said. In a three-and-half hour surgery on August 18, a team of surgeons extracted the 54-kg tumour from the ovary. Elaborating on the case, Dr Prasad said, "In over 30 years of my experience as a surgeon I have never come across a case where the tumour weighed almost half the person's body weight. Previously, the largest case was in 2017 from Coimbatore where a lady was operated for a 34-kg tumour in her ovary." "Extraction of a 54-kg tumour was a challenge for the team. More so because the patient had exceptionally low haemoglobin and had to undergo in total six units of blood transfusion before, during and after the procedure," he said. This procedure was a perfect example of how important it is to understand the traditional methods of surgery while evolving with new minimal access procedures, the doctor said. "Here, there was no space in the abdomen for insertion of equipment via laparoscopy or robot-assisted methods, hence we had to resort to traditional methods of surgery. "With the combined effort of experts from the gastroenterology, gynaecology and anesthesiology teams, the extraction was done successfully," Dr Prasad explained. A key surgeon in the case Dr Abhishek Tewari said the patient was admitted with complaints of stomach ache, breathing stress and obvious weight gain. She was advised immediate surgery else the tumour would have grown exponentially and caused pressure on other organs leading to possible organ failure. "Fortunately, the tumour was benign and the patient had no co-morbidities, which enabled a faster recovery. Post-surgery her weight dropped to 56 kg," Dr Tewari said. Dr Geeta Chadha, senior consultant, Gynecology and Obstetrics at the hospital said there is no proven reason for the emergence of a tumour in the ovary, but it can happen during the formation of the cells in a human body. As the first-ever case of a 54 kg tumour in the ovary, this was a challenging procedure. Due to the giant tumour, the intestinal tract was compressed and flattened which was putting pressure on the gut leading to a risk of rupture in the ovary, Dr Chadha said. "The surgery had to be done with utmost precision, keeping in mind seamless extraction of the tumour and simultaneously ensuring no harm is caused to the ovary or the gut. Post-surgery the patient showed tremendous recovery and is set to be discharged on Saturday evening," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/54-kg-ovarian-tumour-half-the-bodyweight-of-patient-removed-at-delhi-hospital-876478.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Suspected ISIS operative held in Delhi had planned terror strikes: Police||A suspected Islamic State (IS) operative was arrested in the national capital after a brief gunfight with the police Saturday claiming that he was planning terror strikes in "high footfall" localities in the city. Mohd Mustakeen Khan, who hails from Uttar Pradesh's Balarampur, was apprehended by the Special Cell on Friday late night from the section of the Ridge Road between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh. Two pressure cooker IEDs, a pistol, ammunition and a motorcycle, suspected to be stolen, were recovered from him. Police officials said Khan opened fire at the police party, which trapped him. "Initial plan was to enter the city around August 15 and carry out a terror strike but he did not enter the city due to heavy security. However, after the Independence Day celebrations, he felt that the security had been loosened and came to the capital," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P S Kushwaha said. Kushwaha said the 36-year-old suspect was to carry out the strike and then return home to get ready for a "suicide attack" later on the instructions of the new Emir of Islamic State of Khorosan province. He was first handled by Yusuf Al-Hind, an Islamic State operative who was killed in Syria last year. After this, he came under the control of Abu Hasafa Pakistani, who is part of the Islamic State of Khorasan province. During this period, police claimed, he learnt how to make IEDs. Kushwaha said they were verifying whether Khan himself made the IEDs he was carrying though, during interrogation, he has told police that he was the maker. Pakistani had also told them Khan would be taken to Khorasan and the latter had made passports for his wife and four children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-isis-operative-held-in-delhi-had-planned-terror-strikes-police-876485.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||BSF kills 5 Pakistan intruders at Punjab border; arms, drugs recovered||The BSF shot dead five Pakistan intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab's Tarn Taran district early Saturday, the force said. This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the over 3,300 km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade time period, officials said. Punjab shares a 553-km-long frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat, who together constitute the remaining part of the International Border. A BSF spokesperson said troops recovered nine packets containing over 9 kg of heroin, along with an AK-47 rifle, two magazines and 27 rounds, four 9 mm Berretta pistols with seven magazines and 109 live rounds, two mobile phones and Rs 610 in Pakistani currency. The spokesperson said after suspicious activity was noticed near the border fence, the force personnel "cordoned the area and challenged the intruders to stop and surrender”. “The Pakistani armed intruders did not pay any heed to the challenge and opened fire on the BSF troops," the official said. "Hence, to stop their further misadventure and in self-defence, the BSF troops retaliated with fire due to which the five Pakistani armed intruders succumbed to bullet injuries," he said. A senior BSF official said the exchange of fire began around 4.45 am near the Dal border post which is close to Bhikhiwind town of the district and is guarded by the 103rd battalion of the Border Security Force under the Ferozepur sector. BSF troops, officials said, first noticed suspicious activity at the border around midnight and launched a "focussed" surveillance and set up multiple ambushes after which the "contact was established" early morning, just behind the IB fence. The intruders were seen carrying rifles and were taking the aid of 'sarkanda' or tall grass to sneak into India, they said. A photo collage released by the BSF showed two bodies piled on each other while the three others lying separately in the slushy green tall grass. Some weapons and a backpack was also visible in the photographs and the intrudes were wearing T-shirts or shirts and full pants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-kills-5-pakistan-intruders-at-punjab-border-arms-drugs-recovered-876491.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||70 deaths, 5,375 new coronavirus cases in UP; total count 1,82,456||Seventy more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday as the state reported its highest daily count of 5,375 cases, pushing the number of infections to 1,82,456, according to a Health Department bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 2,867 lives, it said. Among the fresh fatalities in the past 24 hours, 15 were reported from Lucknow; six each from Allahabad and Bareilly; four each from Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Pilibhit; three each in Kanpur Nagar, Moradabad, Kushinagar, the bulletin said. The maximum cases were reported from Lucknow (769), followed by Gorakhpur (363) and Allahabad (300), the bulletin said, adding that the state recorded 5,375 infections on Saturday. The number of active cases is now 48,294 while 1,31,295 people have recovered from the disease, it said. On Friday, 1,24,274 samples were tested, taking the total number of COVID-19 tests done in the state to over 44 lakhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/70-deaths-5375-new-coronavirus-cases-in-up-total-count-182456-876514.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand BJP summons four party MLAs||The Uttarakhand BJP on Saturday summoned four party MLAs to appear before the state leadership here on August 24. Legislators summoned by the party on the direction of Pradesh BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat are Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, Desraj Karnawal, Pooran Singh Fartyal and Mahesh Negi, Pradesh BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin said. Two of these MLAs are embroiled in controversies and two are facing breach of party discipline charges. Mahesh Negi, who represents the Dwarahat constituency in Uttarakhand Assembly recently, landed in a controversy after he was accused of rape by a woman, causing embarrassment to the party. Khanpur MLA Champion kicked up a controversy last year after a video in which he was seen dancing with guns went viral, leading to his suspension by the party. There is speculation that his suspension may be revoked on August 24. Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnawal and Lohaghat MLA Pooran Singh Fartyal are charged with breach of party discipline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bjp-summons-four-party-mlas-876515.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||LG reviews progress of Jammu-Kashmir railway line; likely to be completed by August 2022||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday reviewed the progress of the much-awaited 272 km-long Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail link, which is likely to be completed by August 15, 2022, an official spokesperson said. Sinha reviewed the progress of the project at a meeting here, which was attended by Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav, Advisor to Lt Governor K K Sharma, Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam and Northern Railway General Manager Rajiv Chaudhary, he said. The spokesperson said the Lt governor was informed that 161 km length of the Rs 27,949 crore project has been commissioned. Sinha directed the Railway authorities to complete the remaining part of the project from Katra to Banihal by August 15, 2022, and assured full support to the executing agencies for timely completion of the project. The Railway authorities assured the completion of the project by the set deadline, the spokesperson said. The world's highest railway bridge with a height of 359 metres is coming up on the Chenab river under the project, while India's first cable-stayed railway bridge on Anji Nallah in Reasi is also coming up along the link. Sinha directed the Railway authorities to expand the rail link towards unconnected areas of Rajouri-Poonch and Kupwara region. On this, the Railway officials informed that a preliminary survey for the 223 km-long Jammu-Poonch rail link at an estimated cost of Rs 22,768 crore was completed and submitted in 2017, and for the 39 km-long Baramulla-Kupwara rail link with an estimated cost of Rs 3,843 crores, the survey has been completed and submitted to the Railway Board in July this year. The Lt governor asked the railways to prepare detailed project reports of both the projects so that the matter could be taken up with the Ministry of Finance for sanctioning of these projects, the spokesperson said. He said the Railway authorities requested Sinha to resolve the issue of non-availability of minor minerals in Ramban district. Sinha issued on-spot directions to the director of Geology and Mining and the deputy commissioner of Ramban to issue short-term permits so that the railways could procure essential construction material without any hassle, the spokesperson said. He said the Lt governor also asked the railways to run vistadome coaches in Kashmir to attract tourists and offer them a better view of the scenic Kashmir Valley once the Covid-19 situation normalises. On the intervention of Sinha, the railways agreed to run a local train service between Kathua and Udhampur to benefit local commuters. The local train service will be started once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. It was informed that on the request of the Union Territory government, the railways has agreed to construct a rail over-bridge at its own cost near Madhopur to decongest traffic between Pathankot and Lakhanpur, the spokesperson said. He said Sinha also asked the railways and the Jammu and Kashmir State Road Transport Corporation (JKSRTC) to launch a single-ticket travel facility to provide travellers with an opportunity of going from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu via train and bus. The spokesperson said the Lt governor directed the divisional commissioner of Jammu to identify projects to be taken up by the Indian Railways under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lg-reviews-progress-of-jammu-kashmir-railway-line-likely-to-be-completed-by-august-2022-876537.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Oppn ‘bigger danger’ to law and order in state: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to assembly||Facing attack over the alleged rise in crime graph in the state, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday dubbed the Opposition as a “bigger danger” to law and order, asserting that there has been a drastic fall in criminal cases since 2016. “They talk about law and order, (but) they are a bigger danger to it. The state has already been saved from criminals and the work on it would continue more effectively,” the Chief Minister told the legislative assembly while submitting to it figures since 2016 to show that crime has come down in the state. “Since 2016, cases of dacoity have come down by 74.5 percent, loot by 65.29 percent, murder by 26.43 percent, rape by 38.74 percent. These are the figures showing a decrease in crime,” said Adityanath. “Even the National Crime Record Bureau data shows the state's figures are much better than other states,” Adityanath told the House, adding that state also lodged the highest number of FIRs (1,434) in cases of triple talaq and 265 arrests were made as it was serious on the issue of women security. Going all out against the Opposition, he alleged that “bereft of issues”, their frustration was being manifested in their raising such matters as they are not ready to debate on relevant issues. Making a special mention of the Samajwadi Party and Congress, he alleged they want the release of "the two Khans". Though the CM did not take names, he apparently referred to SP leader Azam Khan and Gorakhpur paediatrician, Dr Kafeel Khan, both of whom are presently in jail. Kafeel has been booked under the stringent NSA. The chief minister also asked his party MLAs to keep up the good work and speed it up during the remaining one and a half years before the next Assembly polls. Cautioning them to stay clear of “all (Opposition) conspiracies”, the chief minister asked his party MLAs to apprise people of the government’s achievements. “You have to show that you have done more work in your constituencies in five years which could not be done in 20 years,” he told the MLAs, adding the Opposition will not be able to match them in their hard work. On the issue of handling Covid-19 pandemic, Adityanath presented the state’s data and compared it with that of Delhi to stress that despite massive population and several challenges, UP's fatality and infection rates were low. On steps taken by his government to extend relief to people, especially migrants and students during the pandemic, he also referred to the bus controversy involving the Congress party and said an attempt was made to mislead people by giving registration numbers of scooters in place of buses. “The Opposition indulged in negative politics in the time of crisis, presented wrong data. Gave registration numbers of scooters in place of buses, it was an unpardonable crime,” he said. The Congress members had already left the House in protest by then. Lauding legislators’ efforts in helping people amid the pandemic, he said the state also lost his two ministers to the virus. He also mentioned about the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya earlier this month, saying there is happiness all over the country because of this historic step and stressed that “the Opposition has also started talking about Ram, through Parshuram, but there is no difference between the two”. The laying of the foundation stone for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will be presented before the country and world in a big way, he said. “They are the ones who had opened fire on the Ram bhakts….they talked about tilak-taraju and said wrong things about the society,” Adityanath said attacking the SP and BSP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oppn-bigger-danger-to-law-and-order-in-state-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-assembly-876543.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 14 more Covid-19 deaths, 1,412 fresh cases||Delhi recorded 1,412 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the infection tally to over 1.60 lakh while the death toll rose to 4,284, authorities said. Fourteen more fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, they said. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin, 6,090 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 13,345 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. With the 1,412 new cases, the tally has now risen to 1,60,016. The number of active cases stands at 11,594, while 1,44,138 patients have either recovered, been discharged or have migrated out of the city, according to the bulletin. The number of containment zones stands at 591. In a related development, an order has been issued for winding up healthcare facilities operating in banquet halls in linkage with the designated Covid-19 hospitals of the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-14-more-covid-19-deaths-1412-fresh-cases-876544.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||UP police on alert following ISIS operative's arrest in Delhi||Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy sounded an alert in the state on Saturday following the arrest of an alleged ISIS operative in Delhi. The DGP asked all police officers, especially those in field postings, to remain alert in view of the arrest and take necessary precautions, a senior official said here. The Delhi Police arrested the alleged ISIS operative with two improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from central Delhi's Ridge Road area. Mustakeem Khan alias Abu Yusuf, a resident of a village in Uttar Pradesh's Balarampur district, who was under watch for over a year, planned to carry out a "lone-wolf" strike at a high-footfall area in the national capital, the Delhi Police said. The accused was arrested on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire. Meanwhile, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said, "The ISIS operative arrested from Delhi's Dhaula Kuan has connections with Uttar Pradesh. The possibility of his other associates being active cannot be denied. Security agencies in the state are on alert." He also said the DGP has issued directives to the police officials of all the districts in Uttar Pradesh to conduct intensive searches at public places, religious places, hotels, roadside eateries, judicial buildings, bus stations, railway stations and crowded places, and remain vigilant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-on-alert-following-isis-operatives-arrest-in-delhi-876554.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Kashmir politicians day-dreaming, restoration of Article 370 next to impossible: BJP||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday said the Kashmir-based politicians are “day-dreaming” for the restoration of Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution which is “next to impossible”. He claimed the controversial Articles were like a “wall of hatred” which did nothing except “digging an ocean of misunderstandings” and retarding the growth and development of the erstwhile state. The J&K BJP chief made the remarks after various political parties in Kashmir on Saturday unanimously resolved to fight for the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state as it existed before August 5, 2019, and said the measures taken were "spitefully shortsighted" and "grossly unconstitutional". Reacting to the statement, Raina said "the restoration of Articles 370 & 35(a) is next to impossible. Due to these Articles, J&K has suffered for decades and they gave rise to terrorism, separatism and flared up the Pakistani agenda and as such, they won't be restored at any cost". "Kashmir-based leaders are doing nothing except daydreaming as they are feeling restless to return to the corridors of power to enjoy all luxuries for themselves and their near and dear ones," Raina said, addressing party workers at Sialsui village of Kalakote in Rajouri district. He alleged that due to the pre-370 arrangements, more than one lakh people have lost their lives in J&K because these "pseudo-leaders were carrying on their duties with the hidden agenda of Pakistan". "After the abrogation of these Articles, the communities like West Pakistan Refugees, Gorkha Samaaj, Valmiki Samaj, daughters of the soil, Gujjar-Bakarwals and many other communities enjoyed the air of freedom as they were being discriminated on every issue earlier," the BJP leader alleged. Raina said the people of J&K have rejected the "dirty politics" of parties like the National Conference, Congress, PDP and the People's Conference and the J&K is now progressing on the definitive lines of unprecedented development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-politicians-day-dreaming-restoration-of-article-370-next-to-impossible-bjp-876555.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab cop dismissed after video showing him using drugs goes viral||An Assistant Sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police was dismissed from service after a video purportedly showing him taking drugs went viral, officials said on Saturday. Based on the directives of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who also holds the Home portfolio, Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale issued the notification dismissing the ASI, Jorawar Singh. The chief minister also warned of strict action against any personnel in uniform found indulging in criminal acts. Taking serious note of the video, also reported by a section of the media on Friday, the chief minister had, during his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, announced his decision to dismiss the ASI after an inquiry. The inquiry prima facie found that the ASI, posted at Sarai Amanat Khan police station in Tarn Taran, was consuming drugs with the help of a lighter and silver foil, as seen in the video, according to an official spokesperson. The chief minister felt that retention and continuation of ASI Jorawar Singh in service would be detrimental to the interests of the state, the police force as well as the general public, the spokesperson said. He felt that the dismissal was necessary to send a strong message that the state government would not tolerate such criminal practice, especially from those in uniform, according to the spokesperson. The spokesperson said not only was the dismissal essential to prevent erosion of the police and government image in the eye of the citizens but also for the success of the anti-drugs fight of the Amarinder Singh-led government, which had declared zero tolerance to drugs immediately after taking over the state's reins. The chief minister has directed Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that such criminal acts by men in the force are not allowed at any cost, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cop-dismissed-after-video-showing-him-using-drugs-goes-viral-876563.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||4 of family drown after car plunges into canal in Sonipat||Four members of a family drowned after their car fell into a canal near Nahra village in Sonipat district bordering the national capital, police said on Saturday. The family members were on their way to their village, Garhi Bindrauli in Sonipat district, from Mehrauli in Delhi on Friday night when the car skidded off the road and fell into the canal, police said. However, the driver of the car swam to safety, they said. The deceased had been identified as Sadhu Ram (56), his wife Seema (46) and their sons Monty (17) and Dhruv (15), police said. Sadhu Ram ran a transport business in Mehrauli, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-of-family-drown-after-car-plunges-into-canal-in-sonipat-876569.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 14 more Covid-19 deaths, 1,412 new cases||Delhi recorded 1,412 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, the city's biggest single-day spike in infections this month, bringing the infection tally to over 1.60 lakh while the death toll rose to 4,284, authorities said. Fourteen more fatalities linked to the novel coronavirus were recorded in the last 24 hours, they said. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin, a total of 19,435 tests -- 6,090 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 13,345 rapid antigen tests -- have been conducted in the last 24 hours. So far 14,12,363 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Delhi while the number of tests per million population stands at 74,334 in the city. The positivity rate stands at 7.26 per cent while the recovery rate is 90.07 per cent. Delhi has seen a fluctuation in the number of coronavirus cases since August 1. On August 1, the number of cases was 1,118 while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a single-day stayed below the 1,000 mark. From August 5 to August 9, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again stayed above the 1,000 mark only to come down to 707 on August 10. As many as 1,404 cases were recorded on August 8, the previous highest single-day spike of August. Three days between August 11 and August 22 saw less than 1,000 fresh cases being reported -- August 13 (956), August 16 (652), and August 17 (787). With the 1,412 new cases, the tally has now risen to 1,60,016, the Saturday's health bulletin said. The active case count stands at 11,594, up from 11,426 the previous day, while 1,44,138 patients have either recovered from the infection, been discharged or have migrated out of the city, according to the bulletin. The number of patients in home isolation is 5,791.  Out of 14,124 total beds in hospitals, 3,600 are occupied. As many as 3,597 beds of Covid Care Centres are occupied by people under quarantine including travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. The number of containment zones stands at 591 in Delhi. In a related development, an order has been issued for winding up healthcare facilities operating in banquet halls in linkage with the designated Covid hospitals of the Delhi government. On Friday, Delhi had recorded 1,250 new Covid-19 cases, which took the caseload to 1,58,604 while the death toll rose to 4270 with 13 more fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-14-more-covid-19-deaths-1412-new-cases-876582.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Only 27% children in Uttar Pradesh have electronic devices, online education is impractical: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday termed as impractical the decision of the Uttar Pradesh government to impart online education following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement issued here, Yadav said, "The way in which the BJP implemented demonetisation and GST without any preparations, it is similarly proceeding with the online education for children. The results are not good. This is an impractical step." He also said, "Online education cannot work without a computer, laptop or smartphone. Only 27 per cent of children in the state have a laptop or smartphone. More than half of the children in the state do not get electricity." "Apart from this, the speed of internet connection is slow. There is a difference in the socio-economic level of the students, as a result of which online education is not easy for everyone," he added. The SP chief said that when his party was in government, it had distributed 18 lakh laptops to students. "At that time, the BJP people used to ridicule it, and today the laptops have become a necessity," he said. Yadav also said, "The BJP talks about Sanskrit and sanskriti (culture). But, the reality is that the government is ignoring the Sanskrit schools. The government is going to close them. Attention should be paid to accommodate students and scholars studying there."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-27-children-in-uttar-pradesh-have-electronic-devices-online-education-is-impractical-akhilesh-yadav-876587.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Manish Sisodia holds meeting with committees preparing framework for formation of Delhi Education Board||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday held the second joint review meeting with committees preparing the scheme and framework for the formation of the Delhi Education Board and a new curriculum, officials said. In the annual budget for 2020-21, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation had announced its plans for curriculum reform and creating a New Board of Education for Delhi. "We need to strictly stick to the timelines so that we can launch the new curriculum for children up to 14 years by the next academic year. We need to introduce a framework based on attitude-skill-readiness for the next learning stage," Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said. "However, if we focus only on the readiness part, leaving the attitude and skill behind, the purpose of education will be half-served," he was quoted as saying in an official statement. Learning skills in schools becomes extremely important for preparing students to live their lives happily and responsibly, the deputy chief minister said. "We need to determine what 6, 8, 11 and 14-year-old children should have in terms of attitude and skills and readiness for the next stage. At every stage, there should be a minimum set of learning outcomes, which our education system should aim for,” said Sisodia. The committees should recommend the process of continuous assessment internally in schools and "set up a framework to end third party assessment of the attainment of learning outcomes capturing skills and attitude", he said. Delhi has a fair amount of digital penetration and this should be used for continuous learning assessment of students using technology, Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manish-sisodia-holds-meeting-with-committees-preparing-framework-for-formation-of-delhi-education-board-876600.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt aims to meet water demand-supply gap in 3 years; water minister chairs 8-hr long meeting||The Delhi government has set an ambitious target of meeting the gap between water supply and demand in the next three years, and various water augmentation projects are being expedited keeping that in mind, officials said on Saturday. The city needs around 1,150 million gallons of water per day (MGD) and the Delhi Jal Board is able to supply around 900 MGD on an average, which means that about 222 per cent of the demand is not being met. Delhi Water Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday chaired a meeting of senior Delhi Jal Board officials that lasted more than eight hours and reviewed the progress of various projects. "There are several projects on which work is going on. These are expected to meet the water demand-supply deficit in the next three years," a DJB official said. There are 15 ranney wells in the city which can together provide 20 MGD water, but these were non-functional due to high ammonia content in water. Now, we have the technology to treat high ammonia concentration, he said. The technology was pilot tested at a non-functional ranney well in east Delhi and implemented at four more such facilities. "The DJB will now take up the work to tap 11 more such ranney wells," the official said. The DJB has also taken up the work to rejuvenate lakes across the city which can supply additional 30 MGD water. "Work is underway to rejuvenate five lakes. The tendering work for another three has been completed. The work to rejuvenate eight to 10 more lakes, including at Tikri Khurd, Bhalswa, and Hauz Khas, will be taken up in the next four-five months," he said. More tubewells will be installed at places where groundwater levels are high to meet the demand-supply gap.   "In many areas, groundwater levels are high but water could not be used due to contaminants. The department has now been instructed to use the latest technology to remove contaminants," the official said. The minister directed officials to expedite the work of connecting households to sewer network in an uncovered area. "As soon as the sewer line is laid, the DJB will provide household connections in these areas," the official said.   Jain also said that no amount of treated wastewater should go waste. "The treated wastewater has to be reused for horticulture, groundwater recharge, rejuvenating lakes, water bodies and in forest areas in the national capital. Nothing should go to waste," the official said. The national capital generates around 720 million gallons of wastewater per day, of which around 520 million gallons is treated by sewage treatment plants. Delhi mandatorily releases 267 MGD treated wastewater in the Yamuna as a part of its commitment to the Upper Yamuna River Board. Ninety MGD is used in various park and gardens, and the rest goes to waste. According to the National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, only 20 per cent of the treated wastewater is being used in the city.   Every 4,500 households being added to the sewer network will increase one MGD wastewater in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-aims-to-meet-water-demand-supply-gap-in-3-years-water-minister-chairs-8-hr-long-meeting-876614.html
22-08-2020||North and Central||Ahead of bypolls, MP BJP launches membership drive in Gwalior||BJP leaders including Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia targeted Congress leader Kamal Nath on Saturday as the saffron party launched a three-day membership drive here. The drive comes ahead of the yet-to-be-announced byelections to 27 assembly seats in the state. Chouhan recalled that when Scindia, while he was in the Congress, said he would hit the streets if people's grievances were not resolved, then chief minister Kamal Nath had said dismissively that he was free to do that. "In fact, Scindia has brought Nath on the road," Chouhan said. "Nath is an outsider, he will return to Delhi after the by-elections," Chouhan added. Under Nath, Vallabh Bhawan (secretariat) had turned into "corrupt Bhawan", Union Minister Narendra Tomar said. "That is why Scindia left the Congress and joined the BJP," he added. Scindia alleged that a culture of corruption flourished during Nath's tenure as chief minister. "Nath as chief minister had time for businessmen but not for ministers and party MLAs," he said. State BJP president V D Sharma claimed that people's "mandate was for Scindia" when Nath became CM in 2018. Meanwhile, the police arrested hundreds of Congress workers who protested near the venue. The event violated the coronavirus-related restrictions, the opposition party said. Congress' media-in-charge for Gwalior and Chambal region K K Mishra accused the police of highhandedness. While on the one hand the state government has banned public display of Ganesh idols citing coronavirus outbreak, the BJP put up a big pandal with a huge stage to accommodate a big crowd, he said. The saffron party, meanwhile, claimed that Congress workers from all 26 constituencies in the Gwalior-Chambal region are set to join the BJP. During the three-day drive, Chouhan, Scindia, Tomar and Sharma will hold talks with the party's public representatives and office-bearers in the region to chalk out a strategy for the bypolls, it added. Twenty-two Congress MLAs, mostly from the Scindia camp, resigned in March, reducing the Kamal Nath-led dispensation to a minority and paving the way for the BJP to form the government. Scindia and these former MLAs then joined the BJP. Last month, three more Congress MLAs resigned and joined the saffron party. Two other assembly seats have fallen vacant due to the demise of legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-bypolls-mp-bjp-launches-membership-drive-in-gwalior-876622.html
22-08-2020||Right in the Middle||The telephone house||Way back in the year 1965, there was a big sensation in our house in Mysore. For the first time, a telephone was installed and ours was the only house in the locality with one. The black telephone with rotary dial became a prized possession. Very soon, our house came to be called as the telephone house or telephone mane. As young boys, my brothers and I longed to receive a call. Alas, none of our friends had a telephone. Not to mention, Sunil Dutt singing the song “Jalte hain jiske liye” over the phone to Nutan in the film ‘Sujata’ added a romantic hue to the instrument. Slowly the novelty faded and the joy was short-lived as gradually troubles began. We started getting calls from strangers asking us to call a neighbour. In the beginning, these errands were completed without fuss. Once the frequency of such calls increased, arguments started between the brothers like “You go!”, “No, you go”, “Last call I went”, “Before that I went twice” and so on. Neighbours walked in to make local calls and we desisted from refusing, fearing that the bonhomie cultivated over the years would be lost. Matters worsened when relatives residing nearby came and booked long-distance trunk calls. Once a trunk call was booked to talk to a number in another city, the operator had to call you back after connecting to that number. We had to thank our stars if the call came in less than half an hour. Not infrequently, it would take hours for the connection to be given. As a result, we would be saddled with the unwelcome relative, conversing, offering tea and snacks and sometimes lunch or dinner too. When the call finally came, it would not be audible enough and our guest would be heard shouting at the top of his voice, “HELLO, HELLO.”  Sometimes strangers would come to make a call citing an emergency. It dawned upon us after a while that the telephone was more a liability than a convenience. The solution was simple but painful. Surrender the phone. Telephone gone, peace returned to the house but the label of telephone mane remained. Now seeing school kids flaunting a mobile, I recall the days when we watched with wonder and disbelief, James Bond using such hi-tech gadgets in his films!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-telephone-house-876296.html
22-08-2020||Second Edit||Pakistan must read the writing on the wall||Pakistan’s obsession with Kashmir is costing it dearly. Its relations with Saudi Arabia are fraying over its insistence that the Saudi-led Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) call a high-level meeting to discuss India’s abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s autonomy. Since the revocation of Article 370, the Pakistani government has been badgering the Saudis on the matter, with a view to embarrassing India and in the hope of isolating it. It accelerated its campaign to do so a fortnight ago when Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi issued an ultimatum to the OIC that Pakistan would go ahead and call a meeting of Islamic countries that would stand by it on the Kashmir issue if the OIC did not convene a meeting immediately. The Saudis responded swiftly, but not in the way Islamabad would have wanted. They called on Pakistan to return $1 billion of a $3 billion loan and have frozen an oil credit facility worth $3.2 billion that they had offered it in 2018. Unlike in the past, when the Saudis would have simply written off the loan, this time, they have called in the debt. After all, it is Riyadh that is the dominant partner in the Saudi-Pakistani relationship and Islamabad overstepped the limits by badmouthing the Saudis. Pakistan should have read the writing on the wall several years ago. Saudi Arabia’s relationship with India is improving. Unlike in the past, when Riyadh has blindly backed Islamabad, it has adopted a more nuanced approach in dealing with India and Pakistan in recent years. More importantly, Pakistan’s warming ties with Iran as well as its cosying up to Turkey and Malaysia, the kingdom’s rivals for leadership of the Sunni-Muslim world, has not gone down well with the Saudis. When Prime Minister Imran Khan enthusiastically participated in planning a summit of Islamic countries in Malaysia, the Saudis cracked the whip. Not only did Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman abruptly deny Khan a ride home from the US in his private jet, but he also threatened Pakistan with sanctions if it participated in the Malaysia summit. Khan stayed away. Surely, Pakistan’s leaders would have been aware that the Saudis would not take their criticism lightly. Domestic calculations could be driving Qureshi’s recent comments on Kashmir. He could be positioning himself as a champion of the Kashmir cause, as a stronger proponent of this issue than Imran Khan. There is speculation that Qureshi took a hard line on Kashmir to impress the military, which is said to be tiring of Khan, but the Saudi reaction to it has queered the pitch for Qureshi himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pakistan-must-read-the-writing-on-the-wall-876295.html
22-08-2020||South||Covid-19: 'Ganesh Chaturthi' celebration without festivity in Puducherry||Lt Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V Narayanasamy made separate appeals to the people to avoid gathering and celebrate the festival at homes so that there would be no room for the pandemic to spread. Narayanasamy, wearing a mask turned up at the famous shrine of Manakula Vinayakar early morning to offer prayers. The temple priests were seen wearing masks and performing the rituals and maintained social distance. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar in a WhatsApp message to the media said, "There was a lot of overcrowding in various places." He wanted the public to have awareness of the situation. The territorial government had already prohibited installation of tall statues of Lord Ganesha at roadsides. This year, the artisans who are adept in making paper umbrellas and other colourful materials were bereft of work this year. The usual pomp and fervour were missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-ganesh-chaturthi-celebration-without-festivity-in-puducherry-876402.html
22-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu celebrates Ganesh Chaturthi with fervour||Vinayaka Chaturthi was celebrated across Tamil Nadu with usual fervour on Saturday, although the trademark large idols of the elephant God were missing this year in lines with a government directive in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief Minister K Palaniswami held prayers at his residence in his native Salem, strictly following Covid-19 protocols-- social distancing and wearing mask-- with his family. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier banned installation of large Ganesha idols in public places in the state besides public worship and processions before the immersion of the idols in water bodies. The government had appealed to the people to confine the celebrations to their homes. On Saturday, citizens turned up in good numbers to buy clay idols of the Lord to conduct puja at homes and in some places were seen compromising on social distancing norms. For their part, vendors who put up temporary stalls to sell the images and flowers solicited customers, making the latter temporarily forget about the dreaded Coronavirus. Ahead of the festival, the Hindu Munnani, which is instrumental in organising the Ganesh Chaturthi festival and immersion, had appealed to the people to celebrate the Pillaiyar (as the Lord is known) Chaturthi safely due to the pandemic. "We didn't want a procession this time owing to the spike in coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu and want the people to be safe," A T Elangovan, president, Hindu Munnani, Chennai, told PTI. The organisation's state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam had announced that idols of Lord Ganesh will be installed in private places, houses and temples on Saturday and they will be immersed this evening by the outfit's members "without involving the public and by upholding the social distancing norms." Although the Hindu Munnani announced to install about 1.5 lakh idols of Lord Ganesh, the number is likely to be lower, a senior functionary said. "Owing to Covid-19 restrictions, our organisation had announced earlier that there will be no public meetings or processions," Elangovan said. Hailing Madras High Court's Friday order permitting the installation of the idols by individuals, he said this reflected the prevailing sentiments in the Hindu Munnani. Permitting installation of Ganesha idols and subsequent immersion in water bodies during the Ganesha Chaturthi festival by individuals, the Madras High Court had upheld the state government order banning processions for the occasion. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and R Hemalatha observed that people cannot be prohibited from doing their religious duties, which are age-old practices. Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister K Palaniswami greeted people on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-celebrates-ganesh-chaturthi-with-fervour-876428.html
22-08-2020||South||Puducherry records 520 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 10,112||Puducherry posted 520 fresh coronavirus cases and eight related deaths on Saturday, raising the overall tally to 10,112 in the union territory. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that eight more people including a 52-year-old woman succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours ending 10 am pushing the toll to 151. Most of those who died had co-morbidities and were in the age group ranging between 38 and 84 years old. The Director said of the total 10,112 cases of infection so far 3,654 patients were active cases while 6,307 recovered and were discharged. He said 520 new cases were identified at the end of examination of 1,318 samples in the whole of the Union Territory. As many as 373 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. The Director noted that the rate of fatality in Union Territory was 1.49 percent while the recovery rate was 62.37 percent. Of the 62,413 samples tested so far 50,769 were found to be negative and results of examination of remaining samples were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-records-520-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-10112-876432.html
22-08-2020||South||Outrage in Tamil Nadu over AYUSH Secretary's 'Hindi imposition' on doctors||Members of Parliament and political leaders from Tamil Nadu on Saturday demanded action against Union AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for “imposing Hindi” on doctors from the state by asking them to leave a conference he was addressing if they did not know Hindi. The incident, which took place on Thursday on the last day of a three-day training session for “Master Trainers of Yoga”, has led to outrage in Tamil Nadu with political leaders like DMK President M K Stalin calling it “blatant imposition of Hindi” on non-Hindi speaking states.  Two MPs – Kanimozhi from DMK and S Jothimani from Congress – wrote to Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Yesso Naik seeking “appropriate action” against officials responsible for the incident and ensuring that English is also used in future training sessions. Kotecha says “hooligans” disrupted the training On his part, Kotecha told a television channel that there was “some manipulation” in the video clip released by the doctors and alleged that “some hooligans entered the meeting and shouted that I should speak only in Hindi when I was making my speech in both English and Hindi.” “The entire video is in the public domain and people can watch. I spoke in both languages in the conference,” Kotecha said. A doctor who attended the three-day virtual conference told DH that the ministry sent out invites for participants to join the meeting for the first two days, while it streamed the event on the last day on its social media handles.   The doctors from Tamil Nadu said they were told to leave the conference if they did not know Hindi, adding that their repeated requests to the organisers to speak in English fell into deaf ears. As many as 37 doctors from Tamil Nadu participated in the online training session. Political parties demand action against officials In a statement, Stalin demanded “strict action” against Kotecha and said such incidents reflect the BJP Government’s plans to impose Hindi using officials. “The Prime Minister should ensure that such incidents do not recur in the future. Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Edappadi K Palaniswami, should write a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to ensure that the link language of English should be used in such conferences to enable people from non-Hindi states also understand,” Stalin said in the statement. PMK founder S Ramadoss sought to know what would have been the response from participants if a trainer had said he can only speak in Tamil, while Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said no one should forget that it is “Indian government and not Hindian government.” Ramadoss also demanded that it was time for all 22 Indian languages be made into official languages. The doctors also released a video of the programme in which Kotecha, who made lateral entry into government service after heading the Gujarat Ayurveda University in Jamnagar, is seen telling the participants he does not speak English “very well.”   MPs write to AYUSH Minister DMK MP Kanimozhi, who had on August 9 complained that a CISF personnel at the airport asked her if she was an Indian for not knowing Hindi, demanded that Kotecha be placed under suspension and appropriate disciplinary proceedings be initiated. “The statement of the Secretary that non-Hindi speaking participants could leave during a Ministry’s training session speaks volumes about the Hindi domination being imposed. This is highly condemnable. The Government should place the Secretary under suspension and initiate appropriate disciplinary proceedings. How long is this attitude of excluding non-Hindi speakers to be tolerated?” she asked. Congress MPs from Tamil Nadu, Karti P Chidambaram and Manicka Tagore, also condemned the incident seeking to know whether the government was moving towards one language policy. “Not knowing English is understandable, but this arrogance of asking those who do not know Hindi to leave and insisting on speaking in Hindi is totally unacceptable,” Karti tweeted. Tagore wrote on Twitter: “It is a condemnable action by a Secretary of GoI. Will raise it in the Parliament for sure. Will @PMOIndia act? Or it all started with the Mindset of RSS back thinking of One Nation, One Religion, One language Government?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/outrage-in-tamil-nadu-over-ayush-secretarys-hindi-imposition-on-doctors-876435.html
22-08-2020||South||Covid-19 cases in Telangana crosses 1-lakh mark with 2,474 new infections||The total coronavirus caseload in Telangana crossed the one lakh mark with 2,474 fresh cases being added, health officials said on Saturday. With seven more people succumbing to the virus, the toll in the state mounted to 744. Out of the fresh cases, 447 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by districts of Ranga Reddy 201, Nizamabad 153, Medchal 149, Khammam 125, Warangal Urban 123, Nalgonda 122, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 21. The overall tally of Covid-19 rose to 1,01,865 as 2,474 new cases were added. It said 1,768 people were discharged on Friday taking the total number of people getting discharged to 78,735 so far, while 22,386 were under treatment. According to the bulletin, 43,095 samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, 8,91,173 samples have been tested. The recovery rate was 77.29 percent in the state, while it was 74.30 percent in the country. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths caused by Covid-19 was 46.13 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-in-telangana-crosses-1-lakh-mark-with-2474-new-infections-876446.html
22-08-2020||South||Girl from migrant family secures first-rank in degree exam in Kerala||Migrants have been making their presence inevitable in various sectors in Kerala and now, they have marked their presence in education also with a girl from a Bihari family securing the first rank in the degree examination. Payal Kumari, daughter of Pramod Kumar and Bindudevi who hails from Gosaimadhi village in Sheikhpura in Bihar and now settled in Ernakulam district in Kerala, secured first rank in BA Archaeology and History examinations of Mahatma Gandhi University conducted in March this year. "Owing to motivation from family, teachers and friends, I wished I got a rank. But I never expected the first rank," said Kumari who wants to enter the civil services. She gives credit for her success to her parents, who has been struggling to provide quality education to their three children, as well as teachers of Mar Thoma College for Women at Perumbavoor, near Kochi, who persuaded her to continue her education when she thought of discontinuing it owing to financial difficulties. The congratulatory messages she has been receiving over the last couple of days include that of Kerala Higher Education Minister KT Jaleel who spoke to her over the phone. It has been almost 20 years since Pramod Kumar migrated to Kerala with his family in search of a job. They settled at Kangarappady in Ernakulam district and Pramod did daily-wage jobs to eke out a living. Since Pramod and his wife could not complete schooling, they wanted to give proper education to their three children -- Aakash, Payal and Pallavi.  The family speaks Malayalam fluently. The children had hardly visited Bihar after they came to Kerala in 2001. Over the years, Kerala has become home to hundreds of migrants who settled here with families after coming in search of jobs. Most of them had not returned to their native places during the pandemic. The Kerala government is also offering welfare measures like insurance schemes for migrants. Most government schools in Kerala are also having the presence of children of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/girl-from-migrant-family-secures-first-rank-in-degree-exam-in-kerala-876448.html
22-08-2020||South||Lacklustre Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Karnataka due to floods, Covid-19 pandemic||The Covid-19 and grim flood situation in certain parts of Karnataka have cast their shadow on the Ganesha festival this year with lacklustre celebrations across the state. There was very poor turnout of devotees at the Ganesha temples and very few installation of the lord's idols at public places this year in the state. In view of the coronavirus scare, the state government had issued guidelines, discouraging the installation of Ganesha idols at every nook and corner. The guidelines stated that the idol should not exceed four feet and each ward should have only one Ganesha Pandal. The organisers have also been directed to ensure social distancing, compulsory mask and sanitisers. Reports coming in from various parts of the state say that there was poor sale of Ganesha idols all over the state. Loudspeakers blaring religious songs at public places on the occasion have fallen silent this year. Most parts of North Karnataka are suffering a double whammy. While coronavirus has hit the people hard, the floods have wreaked havoc in many towns and villages in the region. Spiritless festivities marked the Ganesha festival in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Hassan, Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Koppal, Vijayapura, Bidar, which are known for grand celebrations for at least nine days starting from Ganesha Chaturthi. The famed Dodda Ganapathi temple at Basavanagudi in the state capital could not remain unaffected due to coronavirus. "Every year we used to see a long queue of devotees stretching on to the road throughout the day on Ganesha Chaturthi but today there are hardly 400 present there," Neelakantha K, one of the temple management committee members, told PTI. Manjunath Sharma, a temple priest at the Bhalamuri Ganapathi temple at Kumaraswamy Layout in Bengaluru rued the poor turnout of devotees. "Every year on this day there used to be 3,000 to 4,000 people visiting the temple but this time it is somewhere between 200 to 300," Sharma said. K Rajendran, an idol seller from Attibele in Bengaluru on the border of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu said the less number of Ganesha idols he had brought to sell had a few takers. "The market is dull this time. Big idols are not at all moving. I am only praying that I am able to recover the manufacturing and transportation cost," he told PTI. There was poor demand for fruits, vegetables, mango and plantain leaves this time, the vendors said. Prices of vegetables and fruits did not spiral this time, which had been the trend every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lacklustre-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-in-karnataka-due-to-floods-covid-19-pandemic-876449.html
22-08-2020||South||Pettimudi's 'Kuvi' gets a new family||'Kuvi', a local dog at the landslide-hit Pettimudi near Munnar in Idukki who was literally orphaned as all her caretakers were killed, has been adopted by a police dog trainer. The local breed dog caught the limelight as it tracked the body of two-year-old Dhanushka, who was his companion, in the debris. It was after 'Kuvi' continuously barked at a spot at the river near Pettimudi landslide site that the rescue workers searched the area and spotted Dhanushka's body a week after the mishap. All other members of her family, except the aged grandmother, were killed and hence Kuvi was orphaned. He was not taking food for days and was roaming around with a gloomy face. Civil police officer and dog trainer Ajith Madhavan, who came across Kuvi's plight, expressed a desire to adopt Kuvi. Kuvi was also found to be quite comfortable with Ajith. The district administration gave nod to his desire and Ajith took Kuvi with him on Friday. Two other local breeds, Tiger and Rose, also helped in tracing bodies at the landslide his Pettimude where 65 bodies were already recovered and five still missing even two weeks after the August 6 tragedy. Two specially trained sniffer dogs of Kerala police, including one of Belgian Malinois breed, were also used for tracking humans||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pettimudis-kuvi-gets-a-new-family-876474.html
22-08-2020||South||Probe has to be conducted abroad to unearth all conspirators in gold smuggling case: NIA tells Court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the sensational gold smuggling case in Kerala has said an investigation has to be conducted abroad to unearth all conspirators in the crime. It has also said steps have been taken for issuing Blue corner notices against four accused currently in UAE through Interpol to secure them for investigation. "Investigation revealed that the absconding accused Fazil Fareed (A3), Rabins Hameed (A 10), Sidhiqul Akbar (A 15), and Ahammed Kutty (A 20) are in UAE. Therefore, NBW (non-bailable warrant) against them has been obtained from this NIA court. Steps have been taken for issuing Blue notices against them through Interpol to secure them for investigation," the agency said in a report submitted in the special NIA court here on Friday. A Blue corner notice is issued to locate or obtain information about a person in a criminal investigation. In the report, the NIA reiterated that the investigation discloses that the accused had earned profit from the offence and proceeds of smuggling could be used for terror funding. It said the investigation conducted so far revealed that the accused had conspired and sourced gold in large quantities from abroad on multiple occasions earlier and smuggled it through various airports, especially in Kerala. The investigation has to be conducted abroad and interrogation into roles of high profile individuals and Consulate officials is also necessary to unearth all conspirators in this crime, the NIA said. It said the accused have used various social media platforms to communicate with co-accused and suspects for committing the offence. The seized digital devices of the accused have been forwarded to C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram for cyber forensic analysis. "Investigation had also revealed the larger conspiracy involving influential people both in India and abroad behind this crime and that the racket has already transported bulk quantities of gold from Middle East through diplomatic baggage and sold it clandestinely to various people, with the intention of threatening the economic security of India," the NIA said. The NIA submitted the report seeking judicial custody of four arrested accused-- Mohammed Anwar, Hamzath, Samju and Hamjad---in connection with the case. The court allowed the agency's plea and sent them to judicial remand yesterday. The NIA said it is clear that accused had conspired to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. "Their deliberate act of using the diplomatic baggage of UAE as a cover for smuggling may have serious repercussions to the friendly relations with UAE and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well. Further, the involvement of other people in this crime, as well as the end users and beneficiaries of this crime, need to be ascertained," the agency said. Gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore was seized by the Customs at the airport in the state capital on July 5 and the NIA was entrusted with the probe after the state government asked the Centre to order an appropriate investigation. Other central agencies including the Customs and Enforcement Directorate are also probing the matter. The NIA has already arrested three key accused-- Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith-- in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/probe-has-to-be-conducted-abroad-to-unearth-all-conspirators-in-gold-smuggling-case-nia-tells-court-876517.html
22-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records 10,276 fresh Covid-19 cases, 97 fatalities||After a 13-day gap, Andhra Pradesh once again reported over 10,000 new coronavirus cases in a day, pushing the tally to 3,45,216 on Saturday. With four districts reporting cases in excess of one thousand each, the state registered 10,276 fresh Covid-19 infections. Also, 97 more fatalities were reported in 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday, taking the death toll to 3,189. The latest bulletin said 8,593 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals after they got cured. The state now has 89,389 active cases after a total of 2,52,638 people got cured. The infection positivity rate climbed further up to 10.82 per cent after a total of 31,91,326 tests were conducted so far. East Godavari district continued to top the Covid-19 chart in the state, adding 1,321 new cases in 24 hours while Chittoor added 1,220, West Godavari 1,033 and Anantapuramu 1,020. SPS Nellore reported 943, Kurnool 850, Guntur 719 and Prakasam 693 more cases. Kadapa district crossed the 20,000 mark as it added 539 fresh Covid-19 cases. Chittoor continued to report more fatalities, adding 13 afresh, while Anantapuramu reported 11 and SPS Nellore 10. East Godavari, Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and West Godavari saw eight fresh deaths each. Guntur and Visakhapatnam added six more deaths each, Srikakulam five and Krishna and Vizianagaram three each, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-10276-fresh-covid-19-cases-97-fatalities-876542.html
22-08-2020||South||Renovation of Amirthakadeshwara temple begins||The Dharmapuram Adheenam Mutt on Saturday commenced renovation of the Lord Amirthakadeshwara temple at Thirukkadaiyur in Nagapattinam district. Built during the Chola era in the 10th century, the temple is being renovated after 23 years. Head of the mutt MasillamaniDesiga Paramacharya Swamigal said the renovation was being carried out at a cost of Rs 11 crore. The place of worship contains many inscriptions throwing light on medieval Chola kings. Located on a 11-acre land, the temple has five gopurams (towers). Believed to be the place where the collection of Tamil poems 'Abirami Anthathi' was first rendered, this temple is considered one among the 'Shakthi Peetams' in the country in addition to being a noted Saivaite temple. The temple is owned and administered by the Dharmapuram Adheenam Mutt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renovation-of-amirthakadeshwara-temple-begins-876557.html
22-08-2020||South||Low-key start to Onam festivities amid Covid-19 pandemic||Unlike previous years, there was no colourful rally on the streets of nearby Tripunithura on Saturday, as people largely celebrated the Atham festival indoors, marking the start of the 10-day 'Onam' festivities in Kerala, in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. The low-key celebrations began with Tripunithura MLA M Swaraj hoisting the Atham flag symbolically at Tripunithura, officials said. Locals said various folk art forms like Ammankudam, Pulikkali, Theyyam and Mayilattom and classical art forms like Kathakali used to add colour to the traditional Athachamayam procession at Tripunithura, the erstwhile capital of kingdom of Cochin. Hundreds of people including foreign tourists used to gather at Tripunithura to enjoy the traditional Athachamayam procession accompanied by floats and folk dance performances, they said. In the year 2018 and 2019, Athachamayam processions held in Tripunithura were dampened by devastating floods. This year, the celebrations are marred by Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. Big celebrations are missing this year due to the measures taken by the administration to prevent the fast spread of novel coronavirus, they said. The Ernakulam district administration issued a guideline banning public celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the days of kings, the Maharaja of Kochi used to participate in the procession from Tripunithura to the Vamanamoorthy temple at Thrikkakara. According to legend, the festival is celebrated to welcome King Mahabali, whose spirit is believed to visit Kerala at the time of Onam to see his subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/low-key-start-to-onam-festivities-amid-covid-19-pandemic-876566.html
22-08-2020||South||SP Balasubrahmanyam still on ventilator& ECMO support||Veteran playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, battling Covid-19, continues to be on ventilator and ECMO support and was 'stable', MGM Healthcare said on Saturday. He was closely being monitored by its multidisciplinary clinical team, the hospital treating the 74-year-old musician said. Balasubrahmanyam "continues to be on ventilator and ECMO support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU)," Dr Anuradha Baskaran, Assistant Director-Medical Services, MGM Healthcare said in a bulletin. "His current clinical condition is stable and he continues to be closely monitored by our multidisciplinary clinical team," Baskaran said. The said team consists of specialists from Internal Medicine, Critical Care, Pulmonolgy, Infectious Diseases and ECMO care. It was "actively collaborating" with international experts from reputed centres in the US and UK that have "witnessed large volumes of Covid-19 patients requiring ECMO support," Baskaran said. "The international experts concur with the clinical care that is being provided by our expert team to Thiru SP Balasubrahmanyam," Baskaran added. SPB, as the popular singer is known, was admitted to the hospital on August 5 after testing positive for coronavirus. He was put on the ECMO support, a heart-lung assistance machine, on Wednesday, nearly a week after he suffered a setback in his health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sp-balasubrahmanyam-still-on-ventilator-ecmo-support-876570.html
22-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 5,980 new Covid-19 cases, 80 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 5,980 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,73,410 cases, while 80 fatalities pushed the death toll to 6,420, the health department said. After reporting more than 100 fatalities daily since August 3, the fresh death cases in the state was in double digits today. Active cases stood at 53,710 with 5,603 discharges from various health care facilities and in total 3,13,280 have recovered, a health department bulletin said. According to the bulletin, 73,547 samples were tested today, taking the tally to 41,36,490. Of the new infections, Chennai reported 1,294 cases while neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet collectively contributed to 1,047. Ranipet, Tirupattur, Vellore, Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi recorded a total of 684 cases today. Of the state's tally of 3,73,410 cases, Chennai's share was 1,24,071, the bulletin said. As many as 23 people who had tested positive today were returnees from domestic and overseas destinations. Among the deceased, 72 had comorbidities. A one-year-old baby from Tirupathur district who was Covid-19 positive with "aspiration pneumonitis' was admitted to the district government hospital and died on August 22. The deceased also included a 90-year-old man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-5980-new-covid-19-cases-80-fatalities-876577.html
22-08-2020||South||Padmanabha Swamy temple to open for devotees from August 26, Covid-19 protocol to be followed||The famed Lord Padmanabha Swamy temple here will open for devotees from August 26, adhering to strict Covid-19 protocol. Devotees will have to book for darshan online through the temple website "spst.in" a day ahead of their visit to the shrine and before 5 pm, keep a copy of the same and carry their original Aadhaar card along with them during the visit. They will have to wear masks and after washing hands with soap in front of the temple and sanitisers, would be allowed entry. Following the rise in coronavirus infections, the shrine has remained shut since March 21. In the backdrop of various temples opening for devotees, the managing committee of the shrine decided to allow darshan for devotees, but with restrictions. The darshan is from 8 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to deeparadhana around6.45 pm, a temple press release said. At each point of time only 35 devotees would be allowed inside the shrine and a maximum of 665 people a day, Executive officer, V Rateeshan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/padmanabha-swamy-temple-to-open-for-devotees-from-august-26-covid-19-protocol-to-be-followed-876578.html
22-08-2020||South||Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation: Tharoor sticks to stand; says it will expand potential||Unfazed by criticism over his stand favouring Centre's decision to lease out the airport here to Adani Enterprises, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Saturday privatisation would help expand its potential and attract investors. The congress MP had faced flak not only from the Left parties but even from his own party for his stand favouring privatisation of the Trivandrum airport. "Dear @drthomasisaac, thanks4yr thoughtful criticism of my stand on TvmAirport. I think you miss the point, which is not about revenue. It is about expanding the potential of the airport to its fullest, there by providing a better facility to businesses & locals & attracting investors," Tharoor tweeted on Saturday in reply to a tweet by state Finance Minister Thomas Isaac. Isaac had earlier tweeted that Tharoor was "vocal for primitive accumulation of corporates in contemporary India." "...Tharoor is so eloquent against primitive accumulation of British in India but so vocal for primitive accumulation of corporates in contemporary India. When we have successful model of CIAL in Kochi why does Tharoor consider Adani is indispensable for TVM? #airportprivatisation. "Thiruvananthapuram airport privatised to Adani rejecting the claim of Kerala govt, even after offer to match Adanis rate.PMOs promise to accept Kerala proposal broken. People of Kerala will not accept this act of brazen cronyism.#Airportprivatisation," Isaac had tweeted on August 20. Tharoor in his tweet today said the Airport Authority of India receives Rs 2,500 crore yearly. "But since you mention revenue, in Delhi airport, @GMR agreed to give 46% revenue share to@AAI_Official, a huge amount the Govt had never made before. Today for Mumbai and Delhi airports, AAI gets 2500 crores yearly. And for Thiruvananthapuram, there are the additional benefits of attracting businesses to our city that are now deterred by our poor (& worsening) air connectivity. The spinoff benefits in employment & income generation will also increase the state govt's tax revenues," Tharoor said. The Union cabinet had on Wednesday approved the proposal for leasing out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP) for a 50-year period. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. The CPI(M)-led LDF government and the UDF spearheaded by the opposition Congress had opposed the centre's decision and an all party meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on August 20 had demanded its withdrawal. Earlier Tharoor had come out in support of the centre's decision and said "a private entity running the operations competitively is the only way this airport could flourish." "The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city's history, status and potential.In this context, a decision, however, controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered," he had said in a tweet. However, Congress party state chief Mullappally Ramachandran had criticised Tharoor's stand and said there was no need for anyone to support a corporate giant and the move to privatise the airport was "deplorable". "We need to protest in order to force the centre to withdraw this decision.None of us need to be in the payroll of these corporate giants," Ramachandran had said on Thursday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thiruvananthapuram-airport-privatisation-tharoor-sticks-to-stand-says-it-will-expand-potential-876580.html
22-08-2020||South||Thiruvananthapuram airport: Kerala govt hire firm close to Adani group, Congress demands clarification||Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday asked the LDF government to clarify the alleged involvement of a firm close to the Adani Group in the state's bidding process for privatisation of the Thiruvananthapuram airport. The CPI(M)-led state government and the opposition Congress has opposed the Union Cabinet's approval to lease the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises through PPP for a period of 50 years. "Reports of the state government seeking legal advice on the bidding process from Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, a firm owned by a close relative of Adani, raise concerns. If true, this shows a nexus between the state government and the Adani Group," Chennithala said in a statement. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. "Adani Group was one of the major bidders for the airport along with the state government. The fact that a single firm gave legal advice to both, the state and the Adani Group, and the latter winning the bid raise serious questions on proprietary and integrity. The LDF government must explain how they got hired despite this conflict," the Leader of Opposition said. Chennithala also said the Opposition stood by the state on the airport privatisation matter, adding the government should bring a clarity in the matter before introducing a resolution on this issue in the Assembly on August 24. An all-party-meeting was called by the state government, during which all parties except the BJP had opposed the privatisation of the airport and decided to pass a resolution on August 24, when the Assembly will be convened for a day to pass the Kerala Finance Bill. Meanwhile, BJP state unit said the state government opposes the Adani group for airport but was in favour of them for legal help. BJP state chief K Surendra told the media that he will sit on a fast on August 23 seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for "harbouring anti-national elements." The BJP, in a release said, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis will inaugurate the fast virtually. The fast will begin at 10 am and end at 5 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thiruvananthapuram-airport-kerala-govt-hire-firm-close-to-adani-group-congress-demands-clarification-876595.html
22-08-2020||State||Covid-19 positive students get positive result in K-CET||Sitting for any exam on a good day is harrowing enough; imagine doing that amid a pandemic, and that too when you are Covid-19 positive. But that’s what 63 students did, taking the crucial Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) despite being sickened by the deadly pathogen. On Friday, when the K-CET results were announced, many had reason to cheer as they scored ranks between 150 and 200. The students also applauded the government for allowing them to write the exam.  “I had almost given up hope on K-CET as I had tested positive a few days before the exam,” said a student, whose family requested DH not to name him. “However, the government did not discriminate and allowed us to write the exams. Today, I am happy that I have secured a good ranking and plan to pursue aeronautical engineering.”  Talking about the experience, another student said it was “not an easy task for invigilators to wear a PPE kit and watch us write exams”. “I really appreciate the invigilators who helped us write the exams comfortably,” said the student who was ranked within 150.  Continuing, the student said his “father was in a critical state” at that time. “Also, I was unsure of whether I would reach the exam centre as I had tested positive. None could drive me to the centre. But my principal helped me by informing the district administration who arranged for the transport,” said the student. Another student — who has been ranked within 120 in veterinary and 650 in engineering — said, “The credit for my success goes to all those authorities who made arrangements for me to write the exams all alone in the centre.” Bengaluru, Mangaluru students bag top ranks Continuing with the regular trend, students from Bengaluru and Mangaluru bagged the top ranks in the K-CET results, which were announced by Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan. Rakshith M of RV PU College Bengaluru topped the state in the engineering stream, while Varun Gowda AB from Expert PU College Mangaluru secured the first rank in BSc (Agri). Sai Vivek P of Narayana E Techno School, Bengaluru, secured the first rank in both BVSc (Veterinary) and BPharma/DPharma. In Naturopathy and Yogic sciences category, Arnav Aiyappa PP from Alva’s PU college Moodubidre secured the first rank. Karnataka witnessed a considerable increase in the number of candidates eligible for the engineering stream. While 1,40,957 students had qualified for engineering courses last year, this year, a total of 1,53,470 students secured eligibility, an addition of more than 12,000 students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-positive-students-get-positive-result-in-k-cet-876312.html
22-08-2020||State||Karnataka promises all-in-one platform for industries||Facing stiff competition from its neighbours, Karnataka wants to remodel its single-window system for industrial approvals with several new, investor-friendly features as part of a larger ease-of-doing-business reforms initiative over the next five years.  The new ‘integrated digital single-window system’ will be an upgraded version of the current e-Udyami and act as the single “touchpoint to facilitate the required approvals”, according to the new industrial policy 2020-25. The end-to-end integrated digital system will cover investor facilitation, integration with line departments, monitoring and grievance redressal. It will offer a common application form, online approval based on investors’ profile among other things.  Industrial projects need clearances from at least 15 government departments. But the existing single-window system allows investors to apply for a new project and seek approvals from various departments, separately. This will be fixed by a common application form (CAF) which investors will fill out to get multiple clearances. However, this idea has been in the works for several years now.  “The CAF has been prepared by our team and it requires some legal vetting. It should be done in the next one month or so,” Commerce & Industries principal secretary Gaurav Gupta told DH. “In all, the CAF will be part of the single, integrated portal that will be entirely in the online form, which should have legal sanctity,” he said.  To make the life of investors easy, the government is working on a DigiLocker for each applicant that will serve as a repository of documents required for approvals. According to the new policy document, this system will allow the investor to upload documents only once in a life cycle, hence avoiding uploading the same documents repeatedly.  Recently, the government decided to exempt manufacturing industries or enterprises from seeking various licences and permits for three years.  The government has also promised a slew of regulatory and procedural reforms that include auto-renewal of trade licences and uniform guidelines for fixation of property tax, development cess, other levies in industrial areas.  Between 2014 and 2019, Karnataka attracted investments worth Rs 3.73 lakh crore. The new policy targets Rs 5 lakh crore, and the government hopes that the recent land reforms will help achieve growth.  Investors have been promised clearance within seven working days or eight weeks for agricultural land they purchase directly from farmers. Also, the time required for the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) to allot land will be reduced further from 45 days, the policy says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-promises-all-in-one-platform-for-industries-876325.html
22-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi woman gets national-level best teacher award||Surekha Jagannath, a science teacher at  a government school in Bandarwad of Afzalpur taluk, has been chosen for the national-level best teacher award for this year The science teacher hails from Vandali village in Devadurga taluk of Raichur district and holds a post-graduate degree in Botany. Surekha joined as an assistant teacher at Kodadur village in Chittapur taluk in 2004. She was then transferred to Gobbur village in Afzalpur taluk and is now serving at Bandarwad.  She had presented on botany at an international seminar held at Karunya University in Tamil Nadu.  Surekha was awarded the taluk-level best teacher award in 2016 and subsequently, the district-level best teacher award in 2017. She has also received the state-level Rajiv Gandhi memorial best science teacher award.  She is one of two teachers chosen for the award from Karnataka. A teacher from Government High School of Nada village from Beltangadi taluk is the second one selected for the award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-woman-gets-national-level-best-teacher-award-876332.html
22-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka exceed 2.7-lakh mark||Karnataka recorded 7,330 fresh Covid-19 cases and 93 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of the infected past the 2.70-lakh mark and the dead to 4,615, the health department said. The data released during the day did not include Mysuru district as the doctors there have gone on strike protesting over the suicide of the Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer Dr S R Nagendra after alleged harassment by his superiors. The spike in cases and deaths was reported from Bengaluru Urban district, which recorded 2,979 fresh cases and 28 deaths. According to the bulletin, 533 fresh cases were reported in Ballari, 348 in Udupi, 312 in Belagavi, 277 in Davangere, 253 in Dharwad, 228 in Dakshina Kannada, 221 in Shivamogga, 170 in Koppal, 165 in Kalaburagi and 151 in Vijayapura. Fresh cases were also reported in Hassan, Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Mandya, Kolar, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Haveri and other districts. The department said there were seven deaths each in Ballari and Dharwad, six each in Koppal and Tumakuru, five in Davangere, four each in Bidar, Shivamogga and Dakshina Kannada. Deaths were also reported in Belagavi, Raichur, Vijayapura, Mandya, Yadgiri and Uttara Kannada, among others. While majority of those who died were above 50 years of age, the rest were young people. There were two people in their 30s and 15 in their 40s. Most of those who died had severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) or the influenza-like illness. There were 2,71,876 infections in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic. That comprised 1,84,568 discharges, including 7,626 during the day, the department said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-exceed-27-lakh-mark-876598.html
22-08-2020||West||Institutional quarantine for 50-plus patients with comorbidity: BMC||Asymptomatic coronavirus patients who are above 50 and have co-morbidities will be asked to go into institutional quarantine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday evening. The civic body once again modified its quarantine guidelines. As per the revised guidelines, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who are over 50 and have co-morbidities "will be persuaded not to home quarantine". All other asymptomatic positive patients without co- morbidity will be given the choice of home quarantine. The SWM (solid waste management) department shall carry out sanitization at least once when a case is detected in a housing society, the BMC said. "The home of the patient and the common areas both should be sanitized," it said. According to the BMC's earlier guidelines issued on August 19, all Covid-19 patients above 50 years with or without co-morbidities should be asked to get admitted in Covid Care Centres, irrespective of symptoms. The decision was taken to bring down the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/institutional-quarantine-for-50-plus-patients-with-comorbidity-bmc-876336.html
22-08-2020||West||Maharashtra wakes up to 'Ganpati Bappa Morya' chants as Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations begin||Amid chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’, people of Mumbai and Maharashtra welcomed Lord Ganesha on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi on Saturday marking the beginning of the 11-day-long Ganeshutsav. The viral pandemic and downpour, however, could not dampen the spirit of people. The elephant-headed-pot-bellied Lord Ganesha was welcomed in homes, housing complexes, public mandals and villages with traditional fervour. Ganesha, the son of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati, is worshipped as the God of new beginnings, remover of obstacles as well as wisdom and intelligence. Although it is unknown when Ganesh Chaturthi was first observed, the festival has been publicly celebrated in Pune since the era of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior. After the start of the British Raj, the Ganesh festival lost state patronage and became a private family celebration in Maharashtra. In 1892, Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari aka Bhau Lakshman Jawle, a royal physician, organised the first public Ganesh festival in Pune. In 1893, the festival saw a revival by revolutionary freedom fighter and social reformer Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in Pune and Mumbai. The first Ganesh festival in Mumbai was organised by Keshavji Naik Chawl in Girgaum in 1893. Since then, the festival has grown bigger – but the Covid-19 pandemic and in the new normal things have changed – and so as the festival. मंगलमुर्ती मोरया गणेश चतुर्थी तसेच गणेशोत्सवानिमित्त सर्वांना हार्दिक शुभेच्छा !! In 1896, the plague epidemic cast a shadow on the festival in Mumbai. At that time also, the celebrations were subdued and people used photographs of Lord Ganesh to offer prayers since the idols could not be made. Now, 2020 is witnessing a subdued celebration in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Maharashtra government has restricted the height of idols to 2 feet for homes and 4 feet for public celebrations. Otherwise, some of the idols of Lord Ganesha are taller than 20-feet plus. Also, maintaining physical distancing is a must. Ganesha festival is the biggest festival of Maharashtra – with the golden triangle of Mumbai Metropolitan Region-Pune-Nashik being the epicentre of the celebrations.  Several Ganesh mandals organised blood and plasma donation camps to supplement the efforts of the government in fighting the pandemic.  In various temples of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, pujas were performed seeking the blessings of Lord Ganesha, however, the public was not allowed because of Covid-19 restrictions.  Several people took darshans standing outside temples including the Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai and Daghusheth Halwai in Pune. "We have made arrangements for online darshans," said Aadesh Bandekar,  chairman of Shree SiddhiVinayak Temple Trust of Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-wakes-up-to-ganpati-bappa-morya-chants-as-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-begin-876363.html
22-08-2020||West||Ganesh festival begins on low-key note, Covid-19 dampens spirit||Amid the coronavirus pandemic and restrictions on public movement, the 10-day Ganesh festival started in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra on Saturday, although the usual pomp and glory was missing this year. The Maharashtra government has issued guidelines regarding 'Ganeshotsav' celebrations, saying that processions should not be taken out before installing and immersing the idols of the deity. It also said that the heights of Lord Ganesh idols installed by sarvajanik (community) mandals and at household- level should be limited to four feet and two feet, respectively, this year. As a result, the number of people coming out in the market to buy Ganpati idols for installation in their houses, housing societies and sarvajanik pandals, was limited. The usual spirit and fervour of the festival were relatively low this year. Due to the subdued celebrations, small businesses of that thrive during the festival, like flower vendors, sweet shops, outlets selling decoration items, imitation jewellery, transporters took a hit. The pandemic also affected several others, including artistes and transporters. However, in some popular market places like Dadar in central Mumbai, people still came out in large numbers to purchase material required for decoration, puja rituals in the last couple of days. Lalbaugcha Raja, Mumbai's best-known sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandal, cancelled the festival this year in view of the pandemic, while Wadala's GSB Sewa Samiti, considered one of the richest mandals in the metropolis, postponed the celebration to 'Magh Shudh Chaturthi' in February next year. The usual pandal decorations in the city are missing this year and cultural events have been replaced by public awareness programmes and health camps by the mandals. Mumbai and the neighbouring areas have been witnessing heavy rains since the last few days. The downpour continued on Saturday morning, but people stepped out to bring home the idols of the deity amid chants 'Ganpati bappa moraya'. In some areas, firecrackers were also burst to welcome the Lord. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also welcomed Lord Ganesh at his official residence 'Varsha'. Some celebrities and political leaders also installed the idols at their places. The installation of the deity was done as per the rituals in the morning. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the city for the festival. Apart from the local police, a company of Rapid Action Force (RAF), three companies of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), local arms and riot control police have been deployed. Quick response teams, bomb disposal squads and anti-terrorism cells have also been put on alert to prevent untoward incidents and police will monitor the happenings in the city with the help of 5,000 CCTV cameras and also use drones for aerial surveillance, a police official said. The festival of 'Ganesh Chaturthi' is also known as Vinayaka Chaturthi, marks the birth of the elephant-headed God. It begins on the fourth day (chaturthi) of the month of Bhadrapada, the sixth month of the Hindu calendar. It concludes after 10 days on the day of Anant Chaturdashi, when the idol is submerged in the nearest body of water. Lord Ganesh is considered an embodiment of wisdom and widely revered as the remover of obstacles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ganesh-festival-begins-on-low-key-note-covid-19-dampens-spirit-876386.html
22-08-2020||West||Forced to travel 50 km for online classes, Maharashtra village children reach out to NCPCR for internet||Hit by a pandemic and then a natural disaster, the children from remote villages in Maharashtra had to deal with Internet disruptions since early June when connectivity along the coastal area of Ratnagiri district became scratchy. But when even after a month the situation did not improve, one of the students finally reached out to the apex child rights body NCPCR for help. The National Commission for Protection Child Rights, in turn, ensured that the connectivity is restored in the fastest possible manner by reaching out to cellular companies and the district magistrate of the area, NCPCR Chairman Priyank Kanoongo said. In his letter to the district magistrate of the area, Kanoongo stressed that the authorities must ensure that the issue gets resolved at the earliest. "The commission has taken cognizance of a complaint received regarding poor and disrupted network connectivity along the coastal area of Ratnagiri District, Maharashtra, particularly in the area of PIN Code 415714, which was deadly hit by cyclone Nisarg on June 3, 2020 and since then, the residents of area do not have mobile and data connectivity," Kanoongo said in the letter to the district magistrate on July 25. "As a result, around 200 students are facing difficulties in online educational activities due to corona lockdown. Besides, the students are taking the pain to travel about 50 kms a day to access data connectivity for their online education activities," he said. He sought immediate intervention from the Ratnagiri district magistrate on the matter. "I hereby draw the kind attention of DM, Ratnagiri to immediately intervene in the matter, make liaison and issue suitable directions to the concerned cellular service provider to get the Internet connectivity restored at the earliest so that no child becomes a victim of undue pressure or stress concerning their education," Kanoongo said in the letter. Speaking to PTI, Kanoongo said the NCPCR continuously followed up with the authorities and finally the Internet connection in the area was restored by one of the cellular networks while the rest of them assured that they will resolve the issue at the earliest. "We intervened and wrote to the district magistrate and cellular companies and we dealt with it as a policy intervention in which NCPCR has to play a role in helping children. As a result, action was taken on a priority basis and internet connectivity of the village was restored," he said. He further stressed that it is very important to ensure barrier-free Internet facility for the children in these times. "It is very important that if children are dependent upon the Internet for their education then it needs to be ensured that they get barrier-free Internet facility," he said. The nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But a weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children in rural areas. According to official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forced-to-travel-50-km-for-online-classes-maharashtra-village-children-reach-out-to-ncpcr-for-internet-876447.html
22-08-2020||West||Foreign attendees of Tablighi event made scapegoat, says High Court||In a significant order, the Bombay High Court has said the foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi in March this year, were made "scapegoats" and blamed for the spread of Covid-19 in India. A division bench of Justice T V Nalawade and Justice MG Sewlikar of Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court also slammed the media for carrying out propaganda. “There was big propaganda in print media and electronic media against the foreigners who had come to Markaz Delhi and an attempt was made to create a picture that these foreigners were responsible for spreading Covid-19 virus in India. There was virtually persecution against these foreigners. A political Government tries to find the scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity and them circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats,” the 56-page judgement said. “The aforesaid circumstances and the latest figures of infection in India show that such action against present petitioners should not have been taken. It is now high time for the concerned to repent about this action taken against the foreigners and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action,” the judgement states. The verdict of Justice Nalawade and Justice Sewlikar came in three independent petitions filed by 35 persons including six Indians and 29 foreigners from Indonesia, Ghana, Iran, Djibouti, Benin, Tanzania, Brunei and the Ivory Coast. The petitioners were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Action, Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly flouting tourist visa norms by attending the Markaz convention in Delhi. "The propaganda against the so-called religious activity (Tablighi Jamaat) was unwarranted. The activity was going on for more than 50 years and it is there throughout the year," it added. The justices noted: “In view of the Articles of Indian Constitution like Articles 25 and 21, when visa is granted to foreigners, such foreigners cannot be prevented from visiting Masjids, if they go there to observe religious practices or to offer only Namaz. This Court is referring to the orders issued by the competent authority under the aforesaid special enactments subsequently. For the present purpose this court is observing that there is nothing on the record to show that the Indians were prevented from accommodating persons in the Masjid or from supplying meals to the persons including the foreigners.” According to the court, the statements of the witnesses recorded by the police are stereotypical and it can be said that the statements are copied. “Further, some trustees of the Masjids are made accused in these proceedings and also in separate proceedings and there are statements of those trustees which cannot be used against foreigners or against those trustees. Most of the information shown to be given by the witnesses is apparently hearsay in nature,” it observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/foreign-attendees-of-tablighi-event-made-scapegoat-says-high-court-876473.html
22-08-2020||West||Pune: Idols of five 'Manache ganapati' installed||The idols of the five `Manache Ganapati' (pre-eminent Ganeshas) were installed in the city on Saturday as the historic Ganesh festival began under the shadow of coronavirus. Kasba, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Guruji Talim, Tulshibag and Kesriwada are traditionally considered as the five `Manache Ganapati' of the city. They also take precedence in the immersion procession. Many other `mandals' (groups which celebrate the 11- day festival by putting up pandals) also installed idols on Ganesh Chaturthi on Saturday, but the usual exuberance, crowds, noise and high-decibel music were missing. Several mandals uploaded videos of the installation ceremony on social media. Devotees also installed idols at home. With restrictions on gatherings, this year there would be no cultural programs which accompany the celebration. People, however, thronged vegetable and flower markets to shop for the festival. The police have beefed up the security in the city, deploying around 7,000 personnel, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-idols-of-five-manache-ganapati-installed-876500.html
22-08-2020||West||90% of annual rainfall already recorded in Gujarat||Gujarat has received over 90 per cent of the average annual rainfall so far, more than half of it in August alone, officials said on Saturday. Water stock in the dams in the state has reached nearly 62 per cent of the gross storage capacity. Against 821 mm of average annual rainfall, the state till Friday had received 754.12 mm or 90.75 per cent rains, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. It received 403.22 mm rainfall in August alone, it said. Kutch has so far received 159.12 per cent of average annual rainfall, followed by Saurashtra at 121.60 per cent, south Gujarat at 83.40 per cent, east-central Gujarat at 69.58 per cent and north Gujarat at 67.87 per cent. Devbhumi Dwarka in Saurashtra has received 255.18 per cent rainfall, the highest in the state, while Dahod in east-central Gujarat has received the lowest 44.29 per cent rain, it said. At least 66 out of 206 dams, including 52 in Saurashtra, have reached their full capacity, the state water resource department said. Dams in the state have reached 61.87 per cent of their gross storage capacity, the department said. Sardar Sarovar dam, the largest in the state, is 57.10 per cent full. On Friday, monsoon remained vigorous over Saurashtra- Kutch region and active across the state, with Valsad in south Gujarat receiving very heavy showers, said the Ahmedabad centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy rainfall was reported on Saturday in Devbhumi Dwarka district of Saurashtra as well as in Mehsana, Aravalli and Panchmahal districts. As per the IMD data, Halvad tehsil in Devbhumi Dwarka received 126 mm rainfall between 6 am and 2 pm on Saturday, followed by Satlasana in Mehsana with 120 mm rainfall, Bhiloda in Aravalli with 90 mm and Shahera in Panchmahal with 75 mm rainfall in the same period. In 24 hours till Saturday morning, Umargam and Vapi in Valsad district received very heavy showers of 150 and 102 mm respectively, it said. At least 102 roads, including six state highways in Anand, Kutch, Bharuch, Surat and Junagadh districts, were closed due to heavy rains, an official said. The MeT department has predicted widespread rainfall in Gujarat till Monday, with heavy to very heavy showers in some districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/90-of-annual-rainfall-already-recorded-in-gujarat-876552.html
22-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: 14,492 new coronavirus cases, 297 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 14,492 new coronavirus cases, matching the highest single-day spike witnessed only two days ago, which took the case tally in the state to 6,71,942, a health official said. With 297 Covid-19 patients succumbing, the death toll rose to 21,995, he said. On August 20, the state had seen a record rise of 14,492 in the cases of the viral infection. There are 1,69,516 active cases as 4,80,114 patients have been discharged after recovery in the state. In Mumbai, 1,134 new cases and 32 deaths were reported on Saturday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city thus rose 1,35,362 and death toll reached 7,388. The number of active cases in Mumbai is 18,301, the official said. Pune city reported 1,581 new cases along with 40 deaths. The total number of cases in Pune city is 87,862 and death toll is 2,289, the official said. So far 35,66,288 tests have been carried out in the state. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Total cases 6,71,942, New cases 14,492, Death toll 21,995, Recoveries 4,80,114, Active cases 1,69,516, and people tested so far 35,66,288.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-14492-new-coronavirus-cases-297-deaths-876575.html
