23-08-2020||Davangere||Police personnel suspended for sharing controversial social media post||A police constable attached to District Armed Reserve Force was suspended for liking controversial Facebook page containing a message in favour of Pakistan and sharing the same in WhatsApp groups. The suspended staff has been identified as Sanaullah. He was appointed as a police constable in 2008. He had served as a driver at Basavanagara police station and was suspended in 2014 for assaulting youth belonging to Hindu religion for having an intimate relationship with the girl belonging to a minority community. He is a resident of Vinobnagar in the city. He has been absconding since his Facebook page became a controversy. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya said he has been suspended for the second time. "We are investigating the case and legal action would be initiated against him if he is guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/police-personnel-suspended-for-sharing-controversial-social-media-post-876841.html
23-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Now, pigs go astray at Raichur’s Covid-19 hospital||After GIMS Covid Hospital in Kalaburagi, a pig herd was spotted at a Covid ward in OPEC Super Specialty Hospital. A video of which has gone viral on social media platforms. A relative of a Covid-19 patient who videographed the mess in the Covid ward asked how his father, a Covid-19 patient, get treatment in such hospital. Pigs wandering on the hospital premises is a routine here, he added. In the video, one can see a herd of pigs with bags of medical waste heaped in Covid-19 ward No-7. The officials took cognisance of the incident when the video went viral. Admitting the pig menace in the RIMS premises, Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences Dean Dr Basavaraj Peerapura told DH that pig owners are leaving pigs on the premises though the hospital has a compound wall. The owners were warned several times in this regard. The menace did not come under control though drives were carried out to shift them. The CMC officials carried out a drive on Sunday and caught the pigs, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/now-pigs-go-astray-at-raichur-s-covid-19-hospital-876817.html
23-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Who said there is cabinet expansion? asks Shettar||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said there are no talks of cabinet expansion or reshuffle of portfolios on in the Karnataka State cabinet. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, Shettar said “Who told you that there is a cabinet expansion or reshuffle. What is the source of this information as there are no such talks being held either in the party or in the government. This is all media’s creation,” he said. When asked about several BJP MLAs (including rebel MLAs) and MLCs eyeing six vacant ministerial berths in the Yediyurappa led cabinet and ministers and elected representatives from Belagavi seeking plump posts, Shettar refused to comment instead saying that the media should tell the party who is seeking these posts. On phone tapping Shettar asked Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar to stop making false claims regarding phone tapping. “Phone tapping is a thing of the past; it was when the Congress and its supported governments were in power,” he said and added that Congress is making such statements to divert the attention from the main issue of riots. The BJP leader warned Shivakumar against ‘intimidating’ Bengaluru police commissioner from doing his duty. “Congress is in Catch-22 situation. To secure its vote base, none of the top Congress leaders, including Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, have condemned the Bengaluru riots so far, in spite of the house of their MLA being burnt,” he said. Shettar sought Congress’s clarification on Chamrajpet MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan’s compensating police firing victims, who allegedly have links with the ‘anti-national’ Social Democratic Party of India. “There should be a limit to appeasement, it cannot be at the cost of the nation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/who-said-there-is-cabinet-expansion-asks-shettar-876765.html
23-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Entire Congress Party in Karnataka stands by Gandhi family, say state leaders||Amid talks of having a "full time" leadership in Congress that is active in the field and "visible", leaders of the party's Karnataka unit on Sunday threw their weight behind the Gandhi family. The Party's state unit Chief D K Shivakumar said the entire Congress party in Karnataka stands by the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and the Gandhi family. "Mrs. Gandhi has led the Congress during times of crisis and saved our party. Anything that has to be discussed must be done so in the party forum and not in the media," he tweeted. Leader of the Opposition in the assembly and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah termed the development as "unfortunate". "It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family is being questioned by a few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency & attack on democracy by @BJP4India, we should collectively strive to strengthen @INCIndia & not weaken it," the former Chief Minister tweeted. The tweets by Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar came amid reports that 23 Congress leaders have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi on the leadership issue. Having a "full time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the far-reaching suggestions made by 23 senior Congress leaders in a letter to Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation, sources said on Sunday. They were also critical of the way the Congress Working Committee, the party's apex decision-making body, was being constituted and was functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/entire-congress-party-in-karnataka-stands-by-gandhi-family-say-state-leaders-876865.html
23-08-2020||National||Fire in polymer unit warehouse in Telangana, none hurt||A major fire broke out at a polymer unit in Bonthapally Industrial area of neighbouring Sangareddy district on Saturday night, Fire Department officials said. No casualty was reported in the incident. As per the available information, it is suspected that the fire started in godown of the unit and the drums containing solvents started exploding one after another and the fire spread rapidly, they said. Seven fire tenders, including two from the Dundigal Airforce Academy, were pressed into service to extinguish the flames, a Fire Department official told PTI, adding the blaze has been brought under control. Thick black smoke emanated from the area, he said. "The intensity of the fire has been reduced... there is no human loss or injury to anyone. No one was there in the unit at the time of the incident," the official said. The shed collapsed after the drums exploded, the official added. On August 21, a major fire broke out in the Srisailam hydroelectric power plant located on the Telangana side of the border with Andhra Pradesh leaving nine people dead, most of them engineers, and three seriously injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-in-polymer-unit-warehouse-in-telangana-none-hurt-876640.html
23-08-2020||National||61 new Covid-19 cases in Andamans; tally rises to 2,808||Sixty-one more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the Union territory's tally to 2,808 on Saturday, a health official said. As many as 109 more people have been cured of the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,853, he said. The fresh infections have pushed the number of active cases in the islands to 923, the official said. Thirty-two patients have succumbed to the infection so far, he said. A total of 73,933 tests per million have been conducted in the Union territory so far, the official added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-new-covid-19-cases-in-andamans-tally-rises-to-2808-876645.html
23-08-2020||National||Spiteful measures undertaken by Centre on Aug 5 last year have not fared well in J&K: NC||The National Conference (NC) on Saturday said the "spiteful measures" undertaken by the Centre on August 5 last year have "not fared well" in any region of Jammu and Kashmir and the party will fight for the restoration of the unique identity of the erstwhile state.   "The spiteful measures undertaken by the Government of India on August 5th last year have not fared well in any region of Jammu and Kashmir," a spokesperson of the party said in a statement. He added that the NC will fight for the restoration of the unique identity of Jammu and Kashmir. The statement came after a meeting of the party functionaries of Srinagar district, presided over by NC general secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar, which was held at the party headquarters here -- Nawa-e-Subha. This was the first meeting addressed by Sagar in over a year as he was under detention. The spokesperson said in his maiden address to NC workers and functionaries after his release from the year-long incarceration, Sagar expressed gratitude to them for holding the party flag high during the most tumultuous and challenging times post the "unilateral abrogation of the (erstwhile) state's unique constitutional status". "Our party has survived various watershed moments since its inception on account of its deep-seated connection with the people of Jammu and Kashmir. It will continue to mirror the aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. No power on earth can brush off the NC from the political scene of Jammu and Kashmir since we draw our sustenance from people. It is the trust of people and the sacrifice of our numerous leaders, workers, associates and delegates that have kept us going," Sagar told the party functionaries. He said time has again proved that the NC is a true representative voice of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "The unity amongst the rank and file of the party, the perseverance and forbearance which was exhibited by our workers, functionaries during the times when the leadership was behind the bars are worth appreciation. Time has again proved that the NC is not just a party, but a movement. "Today, Jammu and Kashmir is at crossroads, democracy has been lent dysfunctional, opposition repressed, political voices dismembered and the economy is in shambles. The onset of a global pandemic has only aggravated the already grim scenario prevailing post the August measures of last year," Sagar said. Addressing the workers, NC's Kashmir provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani said the party, owing to its representative character and deep-rooted bond with the people of Jammu and Kashmir, has been in the line of fire from forces that are inimical towards the genuine interests of the people of the Union Territory. "Politics for us is a medium to serve people and give voice to the socio-political aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The party has a deep-rooted interest in the socio-political emancipation of the masses of Jammu and Kashmir, exclusive of all prejudices and exclusiveness," he said. Wani said the "tragedy that befell on us" on August 5 last year has "deeply enraged us, but failed to dent our determination". "The way the peace-loving people of Jammu and Kashmir withstood the assault on their identity also merits appreciation. The measures have also not fared well in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. People in every region of Jammu and Kashmir are worrisome about the future of their kids. Far from bringing the promised dividends claimed by the ruling dispensation, the measures have plunged entire Jammu and Kashmir into chaos. "We, on our part, continue to work on the sacred mission of restoring what was snatched from the people of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 last year. Peace, harmony, equity, equality have long been the star attractions of our politics and will continue to be the cornerstone of our struggle," he said. Meanwhile, the spokesperson said party president Farooq Abdullah held the third and conclusive round of meeting on Saturday with another batch of seven NC leaders, who were under detention or house arrest since August last year. The leaders who met Abdullah were Bashir Veeri, Irfan Shah, Aga Syed Mahmood, Muhammad Khalil Bandh, Abdul Majeed Bhat Larmi, Hilal Lone and Saif Ud Din Bhat, he added. Wani, party treasurer Shammi Oberoi and political advisor to the NC president Mushtaq Guroo were also present on the occasion. On Wednesday, the NC decided to convene a meeting of its senior leaders on Thursday, after the local administration informed the Jammu and Kashmir High Court that none of the 16 leaders, who the party claimed were in illegal confinement, was detained and that they were free to move around. After Thursday's meet, the NC had said the meeting would continue with other leaders on Friday and Saturday. Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah had filed a bunch of habeas corpus petitions on July 13, seeking the release of 16 NC leaders who the party claimed were in illegal confinement, contending that they were being held in a "brazen violation" of the right to liberty as guaranteed under the Constitution. However, the local administration informed the Jammu and Kashmir High Court that none of the 16 leaders was detained and that they were free to move around. A habeas corpus is a writ requiring a person under arrest to be brought before a judge or a court, especially to secure his release unless lawful grounds are shown for his detention. Filing replies before the court earlier this month, Senior Additional Advocate General Bashir Ahmad Dar said the contention of the pleas was "not only surprising, but shocking as well" as there were neither any legal proceedings underway nor was it being contemplated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spiteful-measures-undertaken-by-centre-on-aug-5-last-year-have-not-fared-well-in-jk-nc-876652.html
23-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 23||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 29 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 30,88,276 as of August 23 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 57,524   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-23-876661.html
23-08-2020||National||Crisis in Congress: Ahead of CWC meeting, 23 senior leaders write to Sonia Gandhi, call for changes in leadership||Battle lines were drawn ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday with at least 23 leaders writing to party chief Sonia Gandhi flagging the leadership crisis and calling for internal elections, while another section pressing for the return of Rahul Gandhi as Congress President. The letter is the first united attempt by Congress leaders for an intervention by the party chief to set right things in the organisation which appears adrift with the lack of a full-time president to take on the challenge posed by the well-oiled machinery of the BJP. While the 23 leaders, including veterans Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma to youngsters Manish Tewari, Milind Deora and Jitin Prasada, have called for sweeping changes in the Congress organisation, section of party leaders see it as a move to derail Rahul’s return to the helm of party affairs. “This letter is a new conspiracy to blunt the leadership of Rahul Gandhi,” former Mumbai Congress President Sanjay Nirupam said asking Rahul to stop being adamant and return as Congress President. Rahul had quit as Congress President in July last year, accepting responsibility of the party’s second successive debacle in the Lok Sabha elections and conveyed that the Congress should look beyond the Gandhi family for leadership. “In view of existing conditions, any further delay in promoting Rahul ji as the President-AICC can cause incalculable harm to the progress of the Congress party and can be dispiriting to the entire Congress family,” AICC Secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy said in a letter addressed to members of the Congress Working Committee. The joint letter by 23 leaders to the Congress President is said to have been written about a fortnight back, but the Congress had officially denied the existence of any such letter. Rahul has conveyed to the party on numerous occasions that he was unwilling to return as party president and was ready to work for the party as an ordinary member. However, since his resignation as Congress President last year, Rahul has had a say in key appointments in the party and selection of candidates for Rajya Sabha elections. Rahul had also stepped in to defuse the crisis in Rajasthan where Sachin Pilot had rebelled against style of functioning of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot gave up on his rebellion after discussions with Rahul and his sister AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crisis-in-congress-ahead-of-cwc-meeting-23-senior-leaders-write-to-sonia-gandhi-call-for-changes-in-leadership-876681.html
23-08-2020||National||ICMR to launch coronavirus vaccine portal: All you need to know||The first stage will contain information about the coronavirus vaccine in India and will eventually become a repository for all the vaccines that can be used to prevent the infection of various diseases. "People can get all the updates on a vaccine in India under one roof. As of now, all the information is scattered. Therefore, after the directions from DG, we are working to develop this ICMR vaccine portal. Initially, the website will show data for Covid-19 vaccine. But, in future, we will update the website with information for other vaccines too as ICMR is an institute of biomedical research," said Dr Samiran Panda, Scientist and Head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) Division of the medical body, according to an ANI report. Dr Panda also added, "The Central government along with the ICMR is making all best efforts to combat coronavirus pandemic. Wearing masks, hand-hygiene and social distancing are preventive measures but at the same time vaccine development is another important aspect which will be updated on the ICMR vaccine portal." At present, the country has three coronavirus vaccines, all in different trial stages. The first is being developed by Hyderabad-based Biotech International Limited in collaboration with the ICMR and is known as ‘Covaxin’. The second vaccine is Serum Institute’s ‘Covishield’ that has got approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) to conduct Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical study in the country. The trial among 1,600 volunteers across 17 centres, started on August 22, and the vaccine may be launched by the first week of December. The last is a ‘DNA vaccine’ by pharma giant Zydus Cadila. The vaccine uses plasmid DNA and was found to be safe and well-tolerated in Phase I, which began on July 15, the pharma company said. The vaccine portal will also include multiple sections such as Covid-19 vaccine, India’s initiatives with respect to coronavirus, International Symposiums and FAQ for the general public (available in regional languages).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-to-launch-coronavirus-vaccine-portal-all-you-need-to-know-876695.html
23-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes people on Nuakhai, lauds farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted people on the occasion of Nuakhai, a harvest festival celebrated in parts of the country, especially Odisha.  He lauded farmers, saying it is due to their efforts that our nation is fed.  "The special occasion of Nuakhai is about celebrating the hard work of our farmers. It is due to their efforts that our nation is fed.  "May this auspicious day bring prosperity and good health for everyone. Nuakhai Juhar!" the prime minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-people-on-nuakhai-lauds-farmers-876696.html
23-08-2020||National||Covid-19 caseload in India crosses 30-lakh mark||With a single-day spike of 69,239 infections, the country's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 30,44,940, while the death toll climbed to 56,706 with 912 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.86 percent. There are 7,07,668 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.24 percent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,52,92,220 samples have been tested up to August 22, with 8,01,147 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-caseload-in-india-crosses-30-lakh-mark-876698.html
23-08-2020||National||UP: Two arrested for raping woman co-worker||Two employees of an inter-college in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district were arrested for allegedly raping a woman colleague and making a video of the crime to blackmail her, police said on Sunday. They were arrested after the woman lodged a police complaint, Station House Officer (SHO) Karmvir Singh said. The woman has alleged that the two men had raped her and were blackmailing her with the video, police said. The incident took place at Kandhla tow Rn in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-two-arrested-for-raping-woman-co-worker-876701.html
23-08-2020||National||Mehbooba Mufti's daughter wants her mother's name changed in passport||The younger daughter of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has sought to change her mother's name in her passport to Mehbooba Syed. A notice stating this was published in a local newspaper by Irtiqa Javed. "I, Irtiqa Javed, daughter of Javed Iqbal Shah Resident of Fairview House Gupkar Road, Srinagar, Kashmir 190001 want to change the name of my mother in my passport from Mehbooba Mufti to Mehbooba Syed. "If anybody has any objection regarding the same may please contact the concerned authorities within the period of seven days after that no objections will be entertained," the notice read. Mehbooba Mufti and her husband are not living together. The couple has two daughters -- Iltija and Irtiqa. While the elder daughter has followed in the footsteps of her mother and taken on the Mufti surname, the younger one appears to be closer to her father. Mehbooba is under detention at her official residence here that has been declared a subsidiary jail. She was among hundreds of people who were taken into preventive custody hours ahead of the Centre revoking the special status of the Jammu and Kashmir and breaking the state into two union territories on August 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-muftis-daughter-wants-her-mothers-name-changed-in-passport-876713.html
23-08-2020||National||No change in Pranab Mukherjee's health: Hospital||There is no change in the health of former President Pranab Mukherjee and he continues to remain on ventilator support, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Sunday. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said his vital parameters are stable. Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he developed lung infection and is being treated for it, doctors have said. "There is no change in the condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee this morning. He remains in a deep coma and on ventilator support. His vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-change-in-pranab-mukherjees-health-hospital-876717.html
23-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Actor's friend Siddharth Pithani, cook reach DRDO guest house for questioning||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput's flat-mate Siddharth Pithani and cook Neeraj Singh reached the DRDO guest house here on Sunday morning for questioning by the CBI in connection with the actor's death case, a police official said. Pithani and Neeraj arrived separately at the guest house located at Kalina in Santacruz, where the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the case is staying, he said. Their questioning was underway, the official said. On Saturday, the CBI team accompanied by Neeraj, Rajput's another domestic help Deepesh Sawant and Pithani visited the late actor's house in Bandra to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead there on June 14. These three were present in the apartment when Rajput was found hanging in his room. The CBI team, which also comprised forensic science experts, left around 8 pm, after spending more than five hours in the actor's flat. Another CBI team on Saturday visited the state-run Cooper Hospital in the city, where autopsy had been performed on Rajput's body. A third CBI team had visited the Bandra police station to meet Mumbai Police officials who were investigating Rajput's alleged suicide earlier. On Friday, the CBI officials recorded the statements of Pithani and Neeraj. The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI. After Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment, the Mumbai Police had registered a case of accidental death. Later, Rajput's father filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor's suicide and misappropriating his money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-actors-friend-siddharth-pithani-cook-reach-drdo-guest-house-for-questioning-876718.html
23-08-2020||National||Odisha reports 2,993 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||With this, the state's Covid-19 death toll has mounted to 409 and the infection tally reached 78,530, a health official said. Fifty-three other coronavirus patients have also died, but the cause of their deaths was attributed to some other reasons. Of the new 2,993 cases, 1,879 were reported from different quarantine centres, while the remaining 1,114 were detected during contact tracing, he said. The state had last reported its highest single-day surge of 2,924 cases on August 15. The fresh cases were reported from all the 30 districts. Khurda district reported the highest 606 cases, followed by Ganjam (271). Nine districts reported new cases above 100, he said. "Regret to inform of the demise of ten Covid-19 positive patients while under treatment in hospitals," the state Health and Family Welfare Department said in its official Twitter post. Three of the 10 new fatalities were reported from Ganjam district, two each from Cuttack and Rayagada and one each from Bolangir, Gajapati and Nayagarh districts, the official said. So far, 52,277 people have recovered from the highly infectious disease. The state now has 25,791 active Covid-19 cases. Odisha on Saturday tested a record 68,906 samples for Covid-19, taking the cumulative tests so far to 13,02,711.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-2993-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-876724.html
23-08-2020||National||Govt should consider concerns of students on NEET, JEE: Rahul Gandhi||Top Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, on Sunday requested the government to defer the all-India medical and engineering entrance examinations taking into consideration the concerns raised by a section of students and parents amid the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi said the government must listen to the 'mann ki baat' of students and arrive at "an acceptable solution", while party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sought the postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) till the coronavirus situation improves in the country. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting that the exams be deferred, while Kapil Sibal said these needed to be postponed. "GOI must listen to the #StudentsKeMannKiBaat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. In a tweet in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi said, "The COVID-19 situation in the country is yet to normalise. In such a situation, if students who are taking NEET and JEE, and their parents have raised concerns, then these should be taken into consideration by the government and those conducting these exams." Chowdhury requested PM Modi to intervene and postpone the exams. "The aspirants of national examination are under tremendous mental pressure as to how they could be remain immune to the infection while attending the examination physically. Right at this pandemic situation their concerns should be given due consideration. The spectre of corona will be haunting the students during the examination period stretching from September 1 to 6," he said in his letter. Chowdhury said when the country is witnessing a spike of Covid-19 infection with the single-day rise of 70,000 cases, "I think it is absolutely necessary to review the date of exam because approximately 25 lakh students are supposed to participate in the exam, hence I thought it prudent to knock the door of wisdom of Prime Minister of India." "Your sagacious intervention may bring about the relief of those anxious aspirants. My suggestion to you Prime Minister is that the examination could be deferred for a certain period till the situation is stable," he said. Former HRD Minister Kapil Sibal also tweeted, "Stop this injustice. NEET-JEE Entrance Exams. Elitist approach. The poor discriminated. Digital divide. Jeopardising lives. Reaching exam sites hazardous. Poor connectivity and more. Only just , fair and sensible solution is to postpone: NEET, JEE." The Supreme Court on Monday had dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of COVID-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. The JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6, while the JEE (Advanced) on September 27. The NEET will be held on September 13. On Friday, Education Ministry officials had said the JEE (Main) and the NEET-UG will be conducted in September as scheduled. JEE is for admission into premier engineering colleges, while NEET for undergraduate medical courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-should-consider-concerns-of-students-on-neet-jee-rahul-gandhi-876734.html
23-08-2020||National||You can express better in your mother tongue, says Ramesh Pokhriyal on NEP: Report||Speaking on the new National Education Policy, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, in an e-Adda hosted by The Indian Express, said that “one expresses best in her own mother tongue,” which is why mother tongue is set to be the medium for primary education till class 5. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet last month replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in schools and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. The Union Cabinet Minister pointed out that according to educationists and researchers, children have the maximum ability to learn between the ages of three and six years. “People are happy that our children will get to study in their mother tongue,” he said. Countering ‘misconceptions’ that the NEP 2020 is against the English language, Pokhriyal stressed that the 22 languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution should be strengthened, else they will perish.  “The US, Japan, Israel, Germany, these are all developed countries, what is the medium of education there? It’s their mother tongue. We are not against any language, learn English too, but we should do justice to the child and his talent,” the Education Minister said at the e-Adda. “Which state does not want to teach its regional language?” asked Pokhriyal. “I doubt there would be any state that wants its language to die. Teach in any language that you want; what is the problem with teaching that child ten other languages, children have a lot of potentials to learn," he further added. Earlier, attacking the NEP 2020, DMK President MK Stalin said that it was an attempt at "imposition" of Hindi and Sanskrit and vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and Chief Ministers of other states. School principals have also raised concerns that while teaching students up to class 5 in the mother tongue or regional language will promote multilingualism, students may face difficulties coping up in upper classes where the medium of instruction is English. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-can-express-better-in-your-mother-tongue-says-ramesh-pokhriyal-on-nep-report-876736.html
23-08-2020||National||Could have never imagined he would take to terrorism: Father of ISIS operative held in Delhi||Father of alleged ISIS operative Mohammad Mustakim Khan, alias Abu Yusuf Khan, who was arrested in Delhi, on Sunday said people know his son as a "very good person" and he could have never imagined that he would take to terrorism. Kafeel Ahmed told a news channel that his son has always been very polite and never fought with anyone. Khan, 36, from Badhiyaa Bhaisaahi village in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district was arrested from central Delhi's Ridge Road area late on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire with police, according to officials. Two "fully ready" IEDs were recovered from him and he planned to carry out a "lone wolf" strike at a heavy footfall area in the national capital, the officials said. Ahmed said Khan left home on Friday for Rath in UP's Hamirpur district and after that, his whereabouts were not known. "On Saturday, we learnt that he has been arrested in Delhi," he said. Asked about Khan collecting explosive material and testing bombs in a graveyard, Ahmed said, "I have not heard anything about explosive material. If I had any idea that he was collecting explosive material, I would not have allowed Abu Yusuf to stay at my house." "Only after the police came in the evening and found the material I realised what it is," he said. Ahmed said he is "deeply saddened" by what has happened. "Everyone knows that Abu Yusuf is a very good person. He used to speak very politely, and did not get into fights with anyone," he said. Khan had been on the police radar for over a year now, according to the officials. He has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He was remanded to eight days in police custody and taken to different places in Uttar Pradesh, including Balrampur, for further investigation, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/could-have-never-imagined-he-would-take-to-terrorism-father-of-isis-operative-held-in-delhi-876740.html
23-08-2020||National||IIPM director Arindam Chaudhuri arrested for Rs 23 crore tax evasion||IIPM director Arindam Chaudhuri has been arrested by Central Goods & Services Tax South Delhi Commissionerate on Friday. He has been nabbed for an alleged Rs 23 crore tax evasion case. He has been arrested under Section 89 of the Finance Act which enlists penalties for evading payment of service tax. IIPM was found guilty of giving false MBA degrees to students in 2014. Chaudhuri has also produced films like Rok Sako To Rok Lo, Faltu, The Last Lear,  Sanjhbatir Rupkathara among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iipm-director-arindam-chaudhuri-arrested-for-rs-23-crore-tax-evasion-876748.html
23-08-2020||National||22 new green expressways to put India on par with US, UK: Nitin Gadkari||Focus on critical infrastructure building through an integrated approach, right from a number of strategic tunnels and bridges to 22 green expressways, is bound to place India in the league of advanced nations like the US, UK and Australia in the coming two years, union minister Nitin Gadkari has said. Apart from a number of strategic tunnels and bridges being built across the length and breadth of the country, 22 green expressways at an estimated cost of Rs 3.10 lakh crore comprising 7,500 km are planned to be executed in the next couple of years, the road transport minister said. He further said that talks are in advanced stage for building Rs 8,250 crore Chambal Expressway in Madhya Pradesh, a first of its kind in collaboration of the state government. "To take India's infrastructure to the next level it has been decided to work on it in an integrated manner as per Prime Minister Narendera Modi's vision. Plans are afoot to tap full potential while building newer highways by laying optic fibre, transmission line and gas pipe lines," Gadkari told PTI in an interview. The power ministry will come up with plans for transmission line while the IT ministry will give nod for optical fibre cable network, the minister said adding that similarly gas pipeline can be laid along the big roads that are being built. These are planned along the proposed 22 green expressways, of which the work on seven including Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway has started. "Given the pace of work on critical infrastructure including strategic tunnels, bridges and highways, I am confident that whatever work we are doing... (in) coming next two years you will see a changed India. Roads, tunnel and bridges which we see in in the US, UK, Germany and Australia, the same kind of work will be seen in our country," the senior minister said. Gadkari, who also holds the MSME portfolio, said the strategic Rs 2,379 crore Z-Morh Tunnel project in Jammu and Kashmir, that stuck for long after it was abandoned, was cleared and is expected to be built soon. The Z-Morh Tunnel along with the Zojila tunnel are designed to provide all-weather road connectivity to Jammu and Kashmir parts which remain closed during the winters due to heavy snowfall. "Z-Morh tunnel work was stuck. I have cleared it. ...work on Zojila tunnel will start in two months," Gadkari said. Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Ltd (MEIL) has emerged as the lowest bidder for the prestigious Zojila Pass tunnel to provide all-year connectivity between Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh union territories. Among the three bidders in the race including Larsen & Toubro and Ircon International JV, the Hyderabad-headquartered company had quoted the lowest Rs 4,509.5 crore for the tunnel project, stuck for over six years now. The project holds strategic significance as Zojila Pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh National Highway and remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall. Besides, the minister said work was in full swing for Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, India's longest expressway at 1,320 km which is slated to reduce travel time between Delhi and Mumbai from 24 hours to 13 hours. Apart from optic fibre, transmission and gas pipelines, a large number of industrial clusters are planned on its side, he said. Stating that there have been some obstructions in execution of highway projects due to the coronavirus outbreak, Gadkari said nevertheless his ministry believed in converting this crisis into an opportunity and overcoming it. The pace of execution of projects has been expedited, he said. Chambal Expressway is proposed to be executed at a cost of Rs 8,250 crore and it could be a game changer for the poor and tribals living in far-flung areas of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, Gadkari explained. The 404 km project providing cross-connectivity with the Golden Quadrilateral's Delhi-Kolkata corridor, North-South Corridor, East-West Corridor and Delhi-Mumbai -Expressway will prove to be the newest model of infrastructure development jointly between the states and the Centre, he said. It provides an alternate route from Kanpur to Kota through Madhya Pradesh, and then it joins the Delhi-Mumbai corridor. The minister also said that work is underway on Ram Janaki Marg from Ayodhya to Janakpuri including 370 km in Bihar at a cost of Rs 2,700 crore. Of the 370 km in Bihar, construction of 220 km will be completed at a cost of Rs 1,300 crore by June 2021. "We have completed about 80 per cent work on Kailash Mansarovar route and the remaining work is likely to be completed by April 2021," he said. The minister had recently complimented the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for completing the work of road connectivity from Dharchula to Lipulekh, popularly known as Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route, which will ease the journey of pilgrims. The newly built 80-km strategically crucial stretch connects the Lipulekh pass at a height of 17,000 feet along the border with China in Uttarakhand with Dharchula. Gadkari also said that efforts are on to complete Rs 12,000 crore Chardham project by May-June next year by ironing out obstacles like forest clearances etc as early as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-new-green-expressways-to-put-india-on-par-with-us-uk-nitin-gadkari-876749.html
23-08-2020||National||Covid-19 effect: RTI finds 1.78 crore rail tickets cancelled in five months||The Railways has cancelled more than 1.78 crore tickets since March this year due to the coronavirus pandemic and refunded an amount to the tune of Rs 2,727 crore, an RTI has found. The RTI has found that the Railways, which had suspended its passenger train services since March 25, cancelled 1,78,70,644 tickets. PTI has earlier reported how perhaps for the first time the Railways has refunded more than it has earned from ticket bookings, registering a negative passenger segment revenue of Rs 1,066 crore in the Covid-19-hit first quarter of 2020-21. Last year, while the Railways had refunded Rs 3,660.08 crore for the April 1-August 11 period, it also earned Rs 17,309.1 crore in the same period. This is the first time when the refunds were more than the amount earned by the Railways from the sale of tickets. An official explained that due to the suspension of services, tickets booked for travel in April, May and June were offered refunds, while fewer tickets were booked during these three months and the ensuing period due to the restrictions. The first three months of this financial year, when the Railways had to suspend all its regular passenger services, the national transporter’s revenue was in the negative -- Rs 531.12 crore in April, Rs 145.24 crore in May and Rs 390.6 in June (all in negative). In the last fiscal, it had earned Rs 4,345 crore in April, Rs 4,463 crore in May and Rs 4,589 crore in June. As of now, the Railways has cancelled all regular passenger services indefinitely. In the first quarter of the 2019-20 fiscal, the Railways had earned Rs 4,345 crore in April, Rs 4,463 crore in May and Rs 4,589 crore in June. In the RTI filed by Madhya Pradesh-based Chandra Shekhar Gaur, the Railways has said that no amount/cancellation charges has been deducted for cancellation of tickets for trains stopping due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-rti-finds-178-crore-rail-tickets-cancelled-in-five-months-876752.html
23-08-2020||National||No rise in complaints of crimes against children during lockdown: NCPCR chief||In fact, the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights' body, reported to authorities some reports claiming otherwise, he said. Speaking to PTI, Kanoongo also said the NCPCR took various steps to address the challenges faced by children due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Asked if the number of complaints related to crimes against children saw a rise during the lockdown, which began on March 25, he said "no". "In fact, we reported to authorities a few reports that claimed that there has been a rise during this period," he added. On concerns that there may be a rise in the dropout rate for school children due to the pandemic, Kanoongo said having such apprehension even before the schools reopen is "not correct". "It will be unfair to challenge the wisdom of children. Children fulfil their national duty by going to school and studying. Children, even in difficult circumstances, are attending schools, so we should not have a negative approach towards them," he said. Kanoongo said the NCPCR asked states to ensure shelters for children when labour migration began in the country in March, and also took up complaints regarding online education with them. "The children were supplied with ration and milk and we ensured that rights of the children are not affected in any way," he said. "Secondly, we received several complaints related to online education. We also took up this matter with all state governments. How issues related to fees must be addressed, we also took that up with the state governments," he said. On the issue of child trafficking during the lockdown, Kanoongo said the commission is moving from a child-centric approach to a family-centric approach. "Till now, the NCPCR had a child-centric approach to deal with cases of trafficking. But now, from a child-centric approach, we are moving towards a family-centric approach. We spoke to all state commissions on this matter," he said. "One point is very clear, the main reason for trafficking is poverty so it is essential to undertake preventive measures at the source from where a child is trafficked. Vulnerable children and their families can be mapped and they can then be linked to different social schemes for which we have prepared a strategy and shared it with states," he said. The NCPCR chief said the child rights' body revamped procedures to address the issues faced by street children due to the pandemic. "The worst sufferer of poverty is a child so we need a plan to rehabilitate these children. We need to remember that a family is a unit and the first protection mechanism a child gets is from his family. So we must ensure that in the best interest of the child the whole family is rehabilitated. "We must strengthen the family to ensure the safety and security of children. We need a family-centric approach," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-rise-in-complaints-of-crimes-against-children-during-lockdown-ncpcr-chief-876756.html
23-08-2020||National||Indian Railways earned Rs 561 crore from ticketless travellers in 2019-20||More than one crore passengers were fined for travelling without a ticket in 2019-20, earning the Railways a revenue of Rs 561.73 crore -- a growth of around 6 percent over 2018-2019, an RTI application has found. The Railways has earned Rs 1,938 crore through fines imposed on ticketless travellers between 2016-2020, a rise of 38.57 percent from 2016. An RTI application filed by Madhya Pradesh-based activist Chandra Shekhar Gaur revealed the details. The Railways earned Rs 405.30 crore as penalties from ticketless travellers in 2016-17. In 2017-18, it recovered Rs 441.62 crore and it earned Rs 530.06 crore in 2018-19. In 2019-2020, 1.10 crore passengers were found travelling without valid tickets. The Indian Railways has laid down norms to curb ticketless travel. A passenger travelling without a ticket needs to pay a minimum fine of Rs 250 along with the cost of the ticket. If a passenger refuses to pay the fine, the person is handed over to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and booked under Section 137 of the Railways Act. After that, the person is presented before a magistrate. The magistrate can fine him for Rs 1,000. In case the person still refuses to pay the fine, he or she may be jailed for up to six months. A Parliament Railway Convention Committee had in 2018 raised concerns over the loss of revenue due to ticketless travel after inspecting the Railways' financial report of 2016-17. Taking cognisance of the observation, the Railway Board directed zonal railways to intensify the drive against ticketless travellers across the country. The zonal railways were also asked to fix annual targets for Travelling Ticket Examiners (TTE)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-earned-rs-561-crore-from-ticketless-travellers-in-2019-20-876762.html
23-08-2020||National||More than 3.52 crore samples tested for Covid-19 in India||Testing over eight lakh samples for six days in a row, India's total Covid-19 tests have touched 3.52 crore, while the average daily positivity rate has come down from 9.67 per cent during August 3-9 to 7.67% over the last week, the Centre said on Sunday. So far, 3,52,92,220 samples have been tested for detection of Covid-19 with 8,01,147 being tested on Saturday. The steep rise in testing is a result of effective implementation of the aggressive testing strategy of the Centre through a focussed and graded approach, the ministry said. "The rising average daily tests during the past three weeks present a strong depiction of the progress made in the enhancement of Covid-19 tests across the country. The rise in daily testing has been followed by a decrease in the average daily positivity rate," the health ministry highlighted. Keeping a sharp focus on the 'test, track and treat' policy, tests per million population have seen a boost, touching 25,574 as on date.  "It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified, their contacts tracked in a timely manner and promptly isolated, as well as the severe and critical patients provided the needed clinical treatment," the ministry said. The testing strategy also ensured a steady expansion of the laboratory network. Today, with 983 labs in the government sector and 532 private labs, a total of 1515 labs are providing comprehensive testing facilities to the people, it said. With a single-day spike of 69,239 infections, India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 30,44,940, while the death toll climbed to  56,706 with 912 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-352-crore-samples-tested-for-covid-19-in-india-876775.html
23-08-2020||National||If everything goes well, India would get Covid-19 vaccine by year-end: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that if everything goes well, India would get a vaccine against the novel coronavirus by the end of this year. Three Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of development in India. The phase-one human clinical trials of the two indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates, one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd, have been completed and the trials have moved to phase-two, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava had said recently. The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford has been permitted for conducting its phase two and three human clinical trials in India. It is likely to start the trials next week. In a tweet in Hindi, Vardhan said on Saturday, "I hope that if everything goes well, India will get a coronavirus vaccine by the end of this year." Meanwhile, the apex health research body, ICMR, is in the process of developing an online vaccine portal which will provide information related to Covid-19 vaccine development in India and abroad, with the majority of the updates in several regional languages in addition to English. The aim of creating the website is to provide all information and updates relating to the Covid-19 vaccine development on one platform as all the information in this regard is scattered as of now, Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, told PTI on Saturday. The idea behind making the updates available in regional languages is to make sure that every citizen is able to access the information. The portal is likely to be functional by next week, Panda said. With a single-day spike of 69,239 infections, India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 30,44,940 on Sunday, while the death toll climbed to 56,706 with 912 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-everything-goes-well-india-would-get-covid-19-vaccine-by-year-end-harsh-vardhan-876778.html
23-08-2020||National||Supreme Court approves elevation of 6 advocates as Delhi High Court judges||Supreme Court of India has approved the proposal for elevation of six advocates as judges of Delhi High Court.  The apex court collegium in its meeting held on August 17, 2020, approved the proposal for elevation of advocates Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna as the Judges of the Delhi High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-approves-elevation-of-6-advocates-as-delhi-high-court-judges-876786.html
23-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Pakistan denies Dawood Ibrahim's presence in Karachi||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Pakistan does a U-turn on info on Dawood Ibrahim; Battle Lines are drawn in Congress over Rahul’s presidency and BJP clears the air over Ranjan Gogoi’s name being considered for the party’s Assam Chief Ministerial candidate.    Here are the top news of today, Sunday: August 23, 2020: After a statutory regulatory order (SRO) issued by Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs revealed the addresses, aliases and passport numbers of Dawood Ibrahim, the  ministry issued a statement that reports claiming “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory, based on the information contained in the SRO, are baseless and misleading.” Dawood is one of the most wanted men by Indian authorities for perpetrating the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts and he is among 88 others who were in a list of persons under an arms embargo, whose assets were ordered to be frozen and is placed under a travel ban. The SRO was issued by Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs to avoid being blacklisted by the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The statement read: “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued two consolidated SROs on 18 August 2020, reflecting the current status of the UN Taliban and ISIL(Da’esh) and AQ Sanctions list. These lists contain names of individuals and entities designated under the two sanction regimes established pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions. The consolidated SROs are issued periodically as a routine matter. Similar SROs have been issued, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the past, as per statutory requirements to meet our international obligations. Last such SROs were issued in 2019.It is once again reiterated that the information contained in the SRO is reproduced as per the details in the list entry of the individuals/entities designated under the two sanctions regime, which is publically available, and contains names of individuals who despite their confirmed deceased status still continue to be on the sanctions list.”   Other than Dawood, Lashkar-e-Taiba head Hafiz Saeed, head of LeT’s operations Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi and Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar are among the list of those sanctioned. IIPM director Arindam Chaudhuri has been arrested by Central Goods & Services Tax South Delhi Commissionerate for an alleged Rs 23 crore tax evasion case. He has been arrested under Section 89 of the Finance Act which enlists penalties for evading payment of service tax. IIPM was found guilty of giving false MBA degrees to students in 2014.   Battle Lines were drawn ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting tomorrow with at least 23 leaders writing to party chief Sonia Gandhi flagging the leadership crisis and calling for internal elections, while another section pressing for the return of Rahul Gandhi as Congress president. The letter is the first united attempt by Congress leaders to intervention of the party chief to set right things in the organisation which appears adrift with the lack of a full-time president to take on the challenge posed by well-oiled machinery of the BJP. While the 23 leaders, including veterans Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma to youngsters Manish Tewari, Milind Deora and Jitin Prasada, have called for sweeping changes in the Congress organisation, section of party leaders see it as a move to derail Rahul’s return to the helm of party affairs. Asking Rahul to stop being adamant and return as Congress president, former Mumbai Congress President Sanjay Nirupam said that the letter is a new conspiracy to blunt the leadership of Rahul Gandhi.   Rahul had quit as Congress President in July last year, accepting the responsibility of the party’s second successive debacle in the Lok Sabha elections and conveyed that the Congress should look beyond the Gandhi family for leadership. In a letter addressed to members of the Congress Working Committee,  AICC Secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy: “In view of existing conditions, any further delay in promoting Rahul ji as the President-AICC can cause incalculable harm to the progress of the Congress party and can be dispiriting to the entire Congress family.” The joint letter by 23 leaders to the Congress President is said to have been written about a fortnight back, but the Congress had officially denied the existence of any such letter. Rahul has conveyed to the party on numerous occasions that he was unwilling to return as party president and was ready to work for the party as an ordinary member. However, since his resignation as Congress president last year, Rahul has had a say in key appointments in the party and selection of candidates for Rajya Sabha elections.   Rahul had also stepped in to defuse the crisis in Rajasthan where Sachin Pilot had rebelled against the style of functioning of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot gave up on his rebellion after discussions with Rahul and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.   Former Assam Chief Minister and veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogo has claimed that he got information that former CJI Ranjan Gogoi was in the list of BJP's Chief Ministerial candidates for next year's Assembly elections.  But BJP was quick to rubbish it and termed it as "a desperate statement" by 85-year-old Congress leader, saying Gogoi says whatever comes to his mind. Chief spokesperson of BJP's Assam unit, Rupam Goswami told DH: "Has Tarun Gogoi joined BJP? He is a veteran politician and served as Chief Minister for three terms. How can he make such a light and irrelevant statement about decision by another party and about a former CJI? It suggests he has become frustrated as he knows that BJP and its allies will again form the government."   Tarun Gogoi, who declared that he would not be Congress' CM candidate this time, had claimed that BJP could consider the former CJI as CM candidate as BJP was happy with his judgement over Ram Mandir issue at Ayodhya.  Tarun Gogoi told reporters: "Why did not he refuse Rajya Sabha seat? He could become chairman of human rights commission or any other similar body. This shows he is interested in politics. I have information that Ranjan Gogoi is in the list of BJP's CM candidate."  When asked about BJP's CM candidate for the Assembly elections slated next year, Goswami said, "The election is still six-seven months away. Let the time come. But BJP will not ask Tarun Gogoi while deciding on this."  Another leader in BJP said the ruling party would not like to change Sarbananda Sonowal for the CM post given his clean image and acceptability among voters and leaders belonging to different communities. This despite the fact that a section within the party wants senior leader and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to be BJP's CM candidate.  While BJP plans to continue with the pre-poll alliance with the regional AGP and Bodoland People's Front, the Congress is trying to stitch a "grand alliance" with Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front and other smaller political forces like left parties to unseat the BJP from power.    The Assembly elections in Bihar, due later this year, would be held on time, highly placed sources in the Election Commission told PTI. The term of the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly comes to an end on November 29. Indications are that the polls could be held sometime in October-November. a senior official of the poll panel said: "Bihar elections are definitely happening on time." The state's principal Opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, has questioned the need for holding the elections amid the pandemic. The Lok Janshakti Party, a constituent of the ruling NDA, has urged the poll panel to postpone the polls in view of the pandemic. Some other parties like the NCP and the National People's Party too have demanded postponing the elections. Political parties had recently responded to a letter from the EC seeking suggestions on how to conduct campaigning during the pandemic for the upcoming Bihar elections and certain other by-elections. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pakistan-denies-dawood-ibrahims-presence-in-karachi-876796.html
23-08-2020||National||Satellite tracking of trains helps to improve its efficiency||Tracking the movement of trains through satellite has improved the efficiency in train operations amid Covid-19 pandemic as Indian Railways made a stride in freight transportation, said Railways. Around 6,500 locos (electric and diesel) are already equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS), about 6,000 locos to be equipped by December 2021, said an official in the railways. The Centre for Railway Information System (CRIS), the information technology arm of the Ministry of Railways in collaboration with  ISRO implementing the Real-time Train Information System (RTIS)  in trains. The Railways has installed a GPS aided geo-augmented navigation system (GAGAN) based devices on locomotives to collect train movement data, said the official.  Since the GAGAN installed in locomotives, the national transporter easily can track the movement of trains on real-time basis. The technology helpful to railways find out the exact location of trains. The railways also achieved a significant milestone of pulling freight traffic ahead of last year's level amid COVID-19 challenges. On August 19, 2020, the freight loading was 3.11 million tonnes which is higher than last year for the same date (2.97 million tonnes). On the same date, Indian Railways also earned Rs 306.1 crore from freight loading which is Rs 5.28 crore higher than last year for the same date (Rs 300.82 crore), the statement from the railways says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satellite-tracking-of-trains-helps-to-improve-its-efficiency-876813.html
23-08-2020||National||Jindal Aluminium increasing focus on defence, aerospace segments: MD||The country’s largest aluminium extrusion firm Jindal Aluminium, which controls over 30 per cent of the domestic market, is increasing its focus on the defence and aerospace segments as it expects these sectors to be more active given the policy changes allowing private players, says a senior company official. The Rs 3,000-crore Bengaluru-based company with 52 years of history is also the second-largest maker of aluminium flat-rolled products, producing 50,000 million tonnes of rolled products, giving it 10-12 per cent of the market; and 1,20,000 million tonnes of extruded products per annum. Its products reach 42 countries globally, contributing 15-20 per cent of its topline annually, says vice-chairman and managing director Pragun Jindal Khaitan, the grandson of the group founder and chairman Sitaram Jindal. "While we straddle the entire spectrum of the aluminium downstream industry, we see lot of scope to widen our focus on the defence sector with the government allowing larger private participation in this. Another focus area is the aerospace segment, where also we see more business coming in from. “Currently our revenue from these two segments is negligible. We want to really play big in these two areas," Khaitan told PTI. He, however, did not offer a revenue target from these new focus areas. Currently, most of its business come from electrical, electronics, facade, solar and aviation, he said. Another focus area will be the packaging segment and also the metro/high-speed rails, Khaitan said. "We also want to grow by catering to the packaging industry as well as high-speed/metro rail systems.” Beverage cans are a big market but we will not get into manufacturing the cans, but only supply the raw material, he said. Ruling out an inorganic route to scale up, he said they plan to increase output gradually in a modular manner every year so that both manpower and technology go hand in hand to meet rising demand. Ramping up capacity with the help of technology is what we are looking forward to and not in snapping up an existing plant because mergers have their own cultural and integration issues. Though the pandemic-driven lockdowns had hit production in the initial months of the first quarter, the operations are close to 80 per cent of the pre-pandemic days now, he said and he expects this fiscal to be marginally better than last year when it had closed with a topline of Rs 3,000 crore. He refused to share bottomline numbers since the company is privately held. He also ruled out taking it public saying they don't need additional capital given the fact that they have been profitable from the very first year of operations. He said there is no plan to defer the annual capex which typically is under Rs 80 crore because of the pandemic. A few of the projects have been delayed by a few months due to the pandemic but there is no curtailing of capex, he said. Khaitan, who was recently promoted as the vice-chairman also ruled out increasing export focus saying the domestic market is too large -- with per capita aluminium intake of 2.2 kg annually as against the global average of 42 kg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jindal-aluminium-increasing-focus-on-defence-aerospace-segments-md-876835.html
23-08-2020||National||Defiant Prashant Bhushan unlikely to escape punishment||As advocate Prashant Bhushan stuck to his position that he would not apologise for his tweets, there is a very dim chance of him escaping the punishment, though a token one, after having been held guilty of Suo Motu criminal contempt. A three-judge bench led by Justice Arun Mishra has given him time till August 24 to tender his apology. If he does so, the Court would then consider the matter on purging his contempt on August 25. If not, the Court may pronounce the sentence, since it had concluded its last hearing on Thursday on the issue. Of the three-judge in the bench, Justice Mishra is set to demit office on September 2. So pronouncement of the sentence is unlikely to be delayed beyond that day. The sentence, however, may not be implemented immediately after the pronouncement, as the bench has given an oral assurance on the last date of hearing. Bhushan has sought to file a review petition against his conviction on August 14, for his "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and 29 on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary. In passing the order on sentence, the Court would consider several aggravating and mitigating factors. Among the mitigating factors, the Court would surely consider the fact that Bhushan has taken up innumerable public interest causes leading to landmark decisions. The Court would surely weigh the fact that Bhushan is already 62-year-old. Alongside, the Court would consider aggravating factors like his continued defiance showing no regret, remorse, contrition or apology. On the contrary, he has maintained that his tweets are bona fide beliefs and were not made in a 'fit of absent-mindedness'. He asserted it would be insincere and contemptuous on his part to offer an apology. On the last date of hearing, Bhushan's counsel Dushyant Dave had asked for deferring the matter to allow him file review petition. He had also asked why the question of the sentence should be determined by the bench concerned. The court has then told him that an impression should not be created that he wanted to avoid the bench. This may also go against him. Section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act prescribed simple imprisonment up to six months and/or fine up to Rs 2000 as punishment. In case of advocate Mathews J Nedumpara, the top court on March 27, 2019, barred him from practice before it after holding him guilty of contempt of court. He had then taken the name of senior advocate Fali S Nariman and contended that judges were unfit to grant senior advocates designation to the lawyers as they do it to only judges relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defiant-prashant-bhushan-unlikely-to-escape-punishment-876842.html
23-08-2020||National||Swara's comment is not an attack on SC: Attorney General refuses consent to initiate contempt action||Attorney General K K Venugopal has declined to grant his nod for initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Swara Bhaskar for her comments against the Supreme Court. Usha Shetty sought the AG's consent to a petition demanding to take contempt action against Swara. On February 1, 2020, Swara reportedly said, "We are living in a country where the Supreme Court states that demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgement rewards the same people who brought down the mosque". In his reply to the letter, Venugopal said, "the comment is not an attack on the institution...does not constitute criminal contempt". With regard to her comment, "we are in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not", the AG said that it is a vague statement and not related to any particular court. "Something which is so general that no one would take any serious note of this statement". Under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, a consent from the Attorney General or Solicitor General is required to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against anyone. Petitioner Shetty has now approached the office of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the necessary consent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swaras-comment-is-not-an-attack-on-sc-attorney-general-refuses-consent-to-initiate-contempt-action-876846.html
23-08-2020||National||How much more people of other languages should sacrifice for not knowing Hindi, asks Kumaraswamy||Flaying the AYUSH secretary's conduct for allegedly asking non-Hindi participants to leave a training programme, JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday asked whether it was done with "shameless excitement" to impose Hindi. The former Chief Minister also asked how much more people of other languages including Kannadigas have to sacrifice in this country for not knowing Hindi. Referring to the reported incident, where those who did not understand Hindi were asked to leave an online training session held by the AYUSH department, by its secretary Rajesh Kotecha, citing his inability to speak English, Kumaraswamy asked, "is this a request for not knowing English or a shameless excitement to impose Hindi?" In a series of tweets in Kannada, he said constitutional federalism is the mantra for this country's unity, every language here is part of the federal structure. "When such is the situation, isn't asking people to go out of the training programme for not knowing to speak in Hindi, a violation of the federal system? anti-constitution?" he asked. Seeking to know how much more people of other languages including Kannadigas have to sacrifice in this country for not knowing Hindi, Kumaraswamy demanded immediate action against Kotecha, who has "obsession for Hindi supremacy", as he urged to respect the federal system. Recently, alleging that political leaders from the South were deprived of opportunities by "Hindi politics and discrimination", Kumaraswamy had said it has prevented many South Indians from becoming the Prime Minister. He had also accused the ruling class of ignoring the south with "disdain", and raised concerns over Kannadigas allegedly being denied opportunities from getting jobs as for many governments and public sector jobs, one has to write exams either in English or Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-much-more-people-of-other-languages-should-sacrifice-for-not-knowing-hindi-asks-kumaraswamy-876853.html
23-08-2020||National||Vande Bharat tender cancelled after bidders revealed financial offers, says Railways||Indian Railways on Friday cancelled tender for manufacturing 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat Express trains, which was floated last year, after some of the bidders had revealed details of financial offers in their technical bids, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said on Sunday. Contrary to rumours, the tender was not cancelled because of a Chinese company's bid. "Some bidding companies revealed their proposed prices in the qualifications stage, which is not the practice. The tender committee recommended the cancellation. Chennai based ICF, which floated the bid,  agreed to cancel to maintain the highest level of transparency," Yadav said. He also said that the Railways will invite fresh tender soon and which will include provision for a local component of more than 50%, in line with the government’s Aatma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. "The fresh tender, there will be provision to manufacture the train sets at all three railways production units--ICF Chennai, Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala and Modern Coach Factory Raebareli," Yadav told reporters. Chennai-based Indian Railway's Integral Coach Factory, December 2019 had invited global tender for procuring propulsion systems or electric traction kits for 44 trains to function as the Vande Bharat Express which is also dubbed as Train -18 project. When bids were opened recently for Rs 1400 crore project, a total of six firms participated including Chinese and Indian joint venture  CRRC Pioneer Electric Pvt Limited. The remaining five bidders were the state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, the Bharat Industries, Sangrur, the Electrowaves Electronics (P) Limited, the MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited and the Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the Railway Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-tender-cancelled-after-bidders-revealed-financial-offers-says-railways-876863.html
23-08-2020||National||Now Garuda Prakashan to publish book on Delhi riots||Garuda Prakashan on Sunday said it will publish "Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story", a day after Bloomsbury India announced withdrawing the upcoming book following outrage over a virtual pre-publication launch event featuring BJP leader Kapil Mishra. Garuda Prakashan, which claims to promote "indic narrative", said the book is expected to hit the stands within 15 days. "Garuda Prakashan is committed to an authentic narrative of Indian history - both ancient and contemporary. It is sad to see that other publishers are being driven by extraneous events rather than the content of the book. We support eminent authors of the book to bring out the true picture of Delhi riots," said Sankrant Sanu, CEO of Garuda Prakashan. Bloomsbury India on Saturday announced that it will not publish the book after there was outrage over a virtual pre-publication launch, which it said was being organised without its knowledge. The publishing house faced massive backlash online on Friday after an advertisement of the book launch on Saturday with BJP leader Mishra as a guest of honour did the rounds on social media. There have been allegations that several leaders including Mishra made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in Northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury India issued a statement saying it strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society. The virtual event, where the book was "released" by BJP MP and national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, went ahead as scheduled with Mishra in attendance among other guests. The authors -- advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra -- have thanked Garuda Prakashan for agreeing to publish the book and supporting freedom of expression. They have alleged that Bloomsbury UK was pressurised by some international authors and social activists for not publishing their book. "The book launch was planned on 22nd August, 4 pm. At 3:30 pm Bloomsbury India tells us that Bloomsbury UK has pressurised them to withdraw this book. They said that Bloomsbury UK was pressurised by international authors and other social activists who have tweeted and tagged Bloomsbury UK not to publish this book. "These people have not read this book and without reading they have pressurised Bloomsbury to withdraw the book. This is the killing of freedom of expression. It is the killing of writers' right to write. We want to tell Bloomsbury UK that black lives matter, brown lives matter too," the authors said in a joint statement. Publishing house Garuda Prakashan's earlier books include "Urban Naxal" by director and author Vivek Agnihotri, "India Facts: Hindu Human Rights Report 2017" by author Mayank Patel, and "The English Medium Myth" by author Sankrant Sanu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-garuda-prakashan-to-publish-book-on-delhi-riots-876876.html
23-08-2020||National||Covid-19 fight: ICMR begins trials to use BCG vaccine; results to be known next year||Indian Council of Medical Research has begun a trial in which anti-tuberculosis BCG vaccine which is given to babies after birth, will be administered to 60 plus people to find out if the vaccine protects the elderly from Covid-19. Being conducted at six sites, the trial spearheaded by the ICMR’s National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai will entail BCG vaccination for nearly 1,600 individuals, who would be monitored for six months to check if the strategy works. The ICMR decided to conduct following multiple scientific reports of how countries with BCG vaccine in their child immunization portfolio had benefited indirectly with a lower number of Covid-19 positive cases as well as deaths. “BCG boosts immunity. This is the reason we have gone on trials to check whether the vaccine can be used in elders. Whether it is efficient or not will be known only after results come out,” Manoj Murhekar, director, NIRT told DH. The trials began in July in Chennai and Tiruvallur districts of Tamil Nadu. Other sites are National Institute of Occupational Health, Ahmedabad; National Institute for Research in Environmental Health in Bhopal; GS Medical College and KEM Hospital in Mumbai; National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases in Jodhpur and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. “The study will cover around 1,600 healthy individuals above the age of 60. Vaccination will be over by September-October, after which they will be monitored for the next six months to check if it works,” Murhekar said. The principal investigator and NIRT scientist C Padmapriyadarsini said while the vaccine would be administered to around 1,600 people across the sites, the institute currently didn’t have a compilation of the number of people who received the shots. “We do not have the number of people who have been given the vaccination at present. We have not noticed any side-effects in any of the patients so far, but will be able to provide a better response after the completion of the trials.”  The BCG vaccine is one of the several repurposed therapies that scientists are currently experimenting with in order to find out a way to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “BCG is an immunopotentiator. It is being tested elsewhere also. A large trial in Australia is being carried out with the aim to see if it offers non-specific protection. Even if it works to some extent and short term the advantage is it's very cheap,” commented veteran virologist Shahid Jameel, chief executive officer of Wellcome Trust-Department of Biotechnology India Alliance, which is an India-UK partnership to promote biotechnology research. Gobardhan Das, a biologist at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi who researches on BCG vaccine concurs. “Revaccination with BCG is a strategy being tried around the world and trials are yielding results. In several other diseases, BCG is administered to the adults as a part of the therapy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fight-icmr-begins-trials-to-use-bcg-vaccine-results-to-be-known-next-year-876880.html
23-08-2020||National||India, China military officials may meet again on withdrawal of troops to end Ladakh standoff||The military commanders of India and China may meet again soon to follow up on the recent video conference between the diplomats of the two nations, even as hopes for an early end to the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are diminishing in New Delhi. A video conference between Indian and Chinese diplomats last week saw both sides agreeing to expeditiously resolve the “outstanding issues” for completing the mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi, however, remains cautious, as the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) over the past few weeks repeatedly declined to implement on the ground agreements reached during the talks between the senior diplomats and the military officials. A source in New Delhi told the DH that the senior military commanders – Lt Gen Harinder Singh of the Indian Army and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA – might hold a meeting at the Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC soon. The local commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA, Major General Abjijit Bapat and Senior Colonel Haan Rui, may also meet after the meeting between Lt. Gen. Singh and Maj Gen Liu, added the source, who is aware of New Delhi’s engagements with Beijing to resolve the stand-off. The last round of talks between the senior military commanders of the two nations on August 2 failed to end the stalemate over the process of mutual withdrawal of the front-line troops of the face-off scenes along the LAC. The Indian Army rejected the Chinese PLA’s proposal to repeat the pullback formula applied in Galwan Valley last month in the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake) too. The Indian Army early last month withdrew troops nearly 1.5 kilometers away from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley after the Chinese PLA did the same to create a “buffer zone” in order to avert a repeat of the June 15 violent face-off. It, however, rejected a similar proposal put forward by the communist country’s military recently for resolving the stand-off on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.          The proposal was rejected as its implementation would have required the Indian Army to vacate a critical post – named after the 1962 India-China war hero Maj Dhan Singh Thapa – near the “Finger 3” thus giving an edge to the Chinese PLA. It would have also required the PLA to pull back troops from its current position near “Finger 5” but allowed the communist country’s soldiers to continue to hold a large chunk of the territory claimed by India. “The actions of the PLA units on the ground along the LAC in Ladakh often do not appear to be consistent with the words of the Chinese Government’s diplomats in Beijing,” said another source in New Delhi. The last meeting between Maj Gen Bapat and Sr Col Haan on August 8 on the issue of “disengagement” on the scene of the face-off at Depsang Y junction near the Daulat Beg Oldie military station also failed to make any headway as the Chinese PLA refused to accept Indian Army’s demand for withdrawal of troops, who transgressed at least eight kilometers into the territory of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-military-officials-may-meet-again-on-withdrawal-of-troops-to-end-ladakh-standoff-876898.html
23-08-2020||National||Chorus grows for postponing entrance exams amid Covid-19 pandemic||The chorus for postponing various examinations, including NEET and JEE, grew louder on Sunday with over 4,000 students observing a day-long hunger strike to press for the demand in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The protest came on a day Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government must listen to the 'mann ki baat' of students and arrive at "an acceptable solution" and his party demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred. According to the leftist All India Students Association (AISA), over 4,200 students observed the day-long hunger strike at their respective home demanding that CBSE compartment exams of Classes 10 and 12 be cancelled and entrance exams such as the UGC-NET, CLAT, NEET and JEE be postponed. Using the hashtag, SATYAGRAHagainstExamInCovid, many students also took to Twitter to appeal to the government to heed to their demands. Manoj S, a JEE aspirant from Karnataka, said, "We have to report to the JEE exam centre at 7 am. My centre is almost 150 kilometres away and there are no train or bus services available currently. "Many of my friends have said that their centres are 200 to 250 kilometres away. How are we supposed to travel? How will we write exams wearing masks for seven to eight hours?" He urged the government to postpone the exams till normalcy is restored. Anisha, hailing from Odisha, said with all the hotels and guest houses closed, where would they stay in case they have to travel for exams. "I am from Balasore and my NEET exam centre is in Bhubaneswar. I will have to travel for five hours to take my exam. There are no hotels or guesthouses that are open. Where will we stay?" she said. Siddh Dutt, who will be appearing for CBSE compartment exam, said, "I am an asthma patient. I am scared of what may happen to me if I catch Covid-19." Madhurima, who said she has to take four different entrance exams, wants authorities to listen to her appeal -- "Please produce a vaccine so that we can take exams. "I am a JEE, IISER, DUET aspirant and also have to take another entrance exam," she said. Md Danish Khan from Bhagalpur in Bihar said he has been "allotted an exam centre in Patna, which is a Covid-19 hotspot". "I do not want to risk the lives of my relatives by staying at their place when I go to take the exam. I also stay in a joint family and if I contract the virus, it will create a chain of infection," he said. A Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) aspirant from Kolkata, who requested anonymity, said she fears for her parents' safety during this time. "My father is a diabetic and my mother just had an operation for a tumour. Even if they go to drop me to the exam centre using public transport, I will be putting them at risk. The government is not ready to listen to us. "We will have to sit and write the exams wearing masks, gloves and headgear under hot weather conditions," she said. Other students also shared similar woes and urged the government to postpone entrance exams and declare the academic year as a "zero year".  The AISA lent solidarity to the demands of the students. A day ago, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had appealed to the central government to cancel medical and engineering entrance exams JEE and NEET in view of the Covid-19 situation. He also said an alternative admission methodology should be used this year and the exams should not be conducted. On Friday, Education Ministry officials had said the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled. Jwaharlal Nehru University Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh said student representatives of some universities, including Hyderabad Central University, Aligarh Muslim University and JNU, have written to the National Testing Agency over issues pertaining to the recently declared exam date of UGC NET. "We request the authorities to address the logistical issues, before going ahead with the exam," she tweeted. JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh tweeted Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day and threw economic activities out of gear. India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past the 30-lakh mark on Sunday, just 16 days after it crossed 20 lakh, while 22,80,566 people have recuperated in the country so far pushing the recovery rate to 74.90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chorus-grows-for-postponing-entrance-exams-amid-covid-19-pandemic-876902.html
23-08-2020||National||Congress only safe in Sonia or Rahul's hands; those raising questions against Gandhis want to weaken party, says Adhir||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury came down heavily on Sunday on a section of his party colleagues who have questioned the leadership, by saying it is a "deliberate attempt" to weaken the Congress while asserting that the party is in safe hands of the Gandhi family. Accusing the said section of Congress leaders of raising the bogey of "leadership crisis" at the behest of "interested parties" as a "manufactured truth", Chowdhury, the Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said lakhs of party workers and supporters have unquestionable faith on Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi's leadership and "no one else can do justice to the post" of party president. "We, the members of Parliament representing the length and breadth of the country, have heard and read with dismay and disbelief about these claims being made by even those members of the party, who have benefitted and grown in the Congress due to your encouragement and the faith that you have placed in them," Chowdhury, a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), said in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi. His remarks came in the backdrop of 23 Congress leaders, including some former ministers, writing to Sonia Gandhi for an overhaul of the party's organisational structure. At a time when the country is facing a "grave threat" from the BJP-RSS and their fascist governance, to raise the bogey of "leadership crisis" at the behest of interested parties is only a "manufactured truth", Chowdhury said in his letter to Sonia Gandhi. "They would like to perpetuate to derail yours and Rahulji's persistent efforts to pin down the Modi government on its failed governance. This is a deliberate attempt to weaken the party," he added. Referring to Sonia Gandhi's refusal to take over as the prime minister in 2004 and Rahul Gandhi's decision to step down from the post of Congress president after the party's 2019 Lok Sabha polls debacle, Chowdhury said these decisions prove that the family do not hanker for power. Expressing complete faith in Sonia Gandhi's leadership, he said she took over the reins of the Congress at a difficult time and shepherded the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to power at the Centre when the grand old party was least expected to run the country. Chowdhury lauded the contribution of Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh for ensuring economic and social growth of the country as compared to the "prevailing propaganda and 'jumlas' put together". "We would like, therefore, to reiterate our complete and unwavering faith in your leadership of the Congress party. The Congress party is only safe in your hands or in those of Rahulji. No one else can, nor will, do justice," he said. Chowdhury's comments assume significance as they come just ahead of the CWC meeting on Monday in New Delhi, where the leadership issue is likely to be discussed with Sonia Gandhi completing a year as the interim party chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-only-safe-in-sonia-or-rahuls-hands-those-raising-questions-against-gandhis-want-to-weaken-party-says-adhir-876911.html
23-08-2020||National||Centre directs states, union territories to cover eligible disabled persons under food law||The Union Food Ministry on Sunday said it has written to all state governments and union territories to provide subsidised foodgrains to all eligible disabled persons under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). States have also been asked to issue fresh ration cards to eligible disabled persons not covered under the NFSA. They have been asked to cover disabled persons who do not have ration cards under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package scheme, it said. Under the NFSA, the central government distributes highly subsidised foodgrains to more than 81 crore beneficiaries in the country. Each beneficiary is entitled for 5 kg foodgrains at a rate of Rs 1-3 per kg. "The department advised all States/UTs to ensure that all disabled persons, who are eligible as per identification criteria of beneficiaries under the NFSA, are covered under the NFSA, 2013," the ministry said in a statement. The states have been asked to provide an entitled quota of foodgrains to eligible disabled persons not only under the NFSA but also under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), it said. Under PMGKAY, the government is providing an additional 5 kg foodgrains to each NFSA beneficiary and 1 kg pulses to beneficiary families free of cost. Initially, it was implemented for three months till June and later extended till November. The PMGKAY is being implemented to help the NFSA beneficiaries tide over the economic hardships created due to Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry in the letter reiterated that "disability" is one of the criteria for inclusion of beneficiaries under AAY households and as disabled persons are vulnerable section of the society. The letter further advised that it is imperative disabled persons are also covered by states/UTs under the priority households as per the criteria of identification evolved by them, it said. The Section 10 of the NFSA provides for coverage of persons under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) in accordance with the guidelines applicable to the said scheme and the remaining households as priority households in accordance with such guidelines as the States Government may specify. The ministry further asked the states to cover disabled persons without ration cards under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package scheme which was launched specially for migrants --during the COVID-19 lockdown period for May and June -- who do not have any ration card - state or central. "Since this scheme would lapse on August 31, 2020, and there is still one week left for this, the Department requested to all States/UTs, that they may identify such disabled persons who do not have ration cards and provide them benefits under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package," it said. The letter also mentioned that the scheme started in May 2020 and it was presumed that all eligible beneficiaries without ration cards including the disabled should have been covered, it said. It is understood that the ration lifted so far has been utilized by the states for distributing to eligible beneficiaries without ration cards including the disabled. States are requested to undertake proactive steps in this regard, it added. The section 38 of the Act mandates that the central government may from time to time give directions to the State governments for effective implementation of the provisions of the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-directs-states-union-territories-to-cover-eligible-disabled-persons-under-food-law-876916.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Dushyant Chautala appointed JJP's senior vice president||Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was on Saturday appointed Jannayak Janta Party senior vice president as the outfit announced its 12-member national executive and presidents for its units in three states. Chautala, who is one of the founding members of the JJP, and Dr K C Bangar would be senior vice presidents of the party, a party statement said here. The 32-year-old Deputy chief minister, a first-time legislator who was also an MP between 2014-19, has been given national role for the first time in the party, it said. Bangar was secretary general of the party and had also headed the Haryana Public Service Commission earlier. Over a month ago, the JJP had dissolved all its units including national and state executives, paving the way for a revamp of the one-and-half-year-old party's organizational structure. The decision to dissolve the units was taken on the suggestion of JJP patriarch and former MP Ajay Singh Chautala, who is Dushyant's father. Eyeing to expand its base, the JJP also appointed the presidents of its units in Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Senior leader Om Parkash Sehravat would be Delhi JJP chief and Chaudhary Mohinder Singh would head its Uttar Pradesh unit. Senior leader Nishan Singh would be again heading the party's Haryana unit. "The former MLA from Tohana, Singh had worked hard for the party during his first stint as party president before the JJP became a coalition partner in the government," the statement said. In the national executive, Anantram Tanwar has been appointed national vice president. He is close confidant of Ajay Singh Chautala and was among the first who left the INLD and joined the JJP. JJP MLA Ishwar Singh has also been given the role of national vice president. He became MLA for the first time in 1977 and also remained Rajya Sabha MP from 2008-2014. Senior leaders Teluram Jogi, Rao Kanwar Singh Kalwari, Phoolwati, former Speaker Satbir Singh Kadyan and former minister Satpal Sangwan have also been appointed as national vice presidents of the party. JJP senior leader Radhe Shyam Sharma would be new national secretary general while Rajinder Litani will be new national organizational secretary. The JJP, which won 10 seats in the Haryana Assembly polls, extended support to the BJP after the saffron party could manage to win only 40 of the 90 seats. They formed a coalition government in the state. Senior JJP leader Dushyant Chautala was made the deputy chief minister in the new government. The JJP was formed on December 9, 2018 after a split in the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) due to infighting in the Chautala family. The JJP is based on the ideology of former prime minister Devi Lal, who was the founder of INLD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dushyant-chautala-appointed-jjps-senior-vice-president-876627.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||BJD govt has become a property dealer: Sambit Patra||Accusing the BJD government in Odisha of having become a property dealer, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra on Saturday alleged that the Puri district administration has started selling the land of a century-old dharamashala in an illegal manner. The Puri district administration has denied the allegation and said the Bagala Dharmashala land has not been sold to any private lodge owner but only 12 per cent of its total area has been used to rehabilitate some servitors of Shri Jagannath Temple who have given their land for a beautification project. Patra, who was on a visit to Odisha, told reporters that sale of land of any dharmashala, particularly any property received by the government in the form of donation, is illegal. In order to please some senior leaders and officers, the state government has demolished a part of the dharmashala meant for poor pilgrims. The state government itself has become a property dealer, the BJP leader alleged. Stating that a devotee, Kanheya Lal had donated the land to Bagala Dharmasala in 1905 to cater to the needs of pilgrims and the poor devotees visiting Puri, he said the land is now being sold illegally by the state government and the district administration. As part of a beautification project near the Shri Jagannath Temple, several people were evicted from areas within 75 metres from the boundary wall of the shrine, he said adding that 300 people were affected but only a handful of them were provided land at the Bagala Dharmasala site. Patra also said that the Centre had provided an assistance of Rs 20 crore to Bagala Dharmasala for the development of facilities to accommodate pilgrims and work had already commenced, but it was stopped after spending Rs three crore and plotting was made on the land for selling. Plots have so far been sold to six persons, the BJP leader alleged and demanded that the state government immediately stop plotting on the Dharmashala land and accelerate the construction work for Jagannath Tirtha Niwas for accommodating poor pilgrims visiting the seaside town. BJP leaders have claimed that the interests of devotees of Lord Jagannath and tourists have been ignored by the government. Puri MLA Jayant Sarangi and his supporters launched an agitation demanding cancellation of the sale of land. The Shree Jagannath Bishram Sthali project under PRASAD scheme has been arbitrarily dropped and attempts are being made to hand over the land of the Dharmashala to six people, Sarangi alleged. Denying the allegation, the district administration in a statement said that Bagala Dharmashala is situated over 2.738 acre and its building has the capacity to accomodate 200 people. It is wrong to say that Dharmashala land has been sold to private lodge owners, it said adding only 12 per cent of total area related to its premises have been utilized to rehabilitate sevayats and persons who have given their land, which is in very close vicinity of the Srimandir - that is within the 75 m corridor. The persons who have given away their land are mostly sevayats who have been residing and utilizing this donated land and serving the deity for centuries. It is because of the appeal of the government that they donated the land to the temple for the corridor project, it said. The state government has rehabilitated some of them on the land now belonging to the revenue department, the statement said. The rehabilitation policy has been approved by the cabinet and is being executed to ensure the temple's security, increase capacity as well as provision for better quality accommodation for pilgrims so that Puri emerges as a world heritage center, it said. While Bagala Dharmasala was running a lodge with a capacity of 200 pilgrims, the state government is already constructing a pilgrim center with a capacity of 2000 for poor pilgrims. Further, the state government is going to add lodging capacity of 8000 for poor pilgrims in Puri. Thus, the state government is in the process of almost increasing the poor pilgrim accommodation in Puri by 50 times - from 200 to 10,000, it said. It is important that we acknowledge and appreciate the sacrifices made by the sevayats in donating their centuries old land properties for the cause of Srimandir. The state government has approved and implemented Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy for their appropriate rehabilitation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjd-govt-has-become-a-property-dealer-sambit-patra-876628.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Punjab minister Sukhjinder Randhawa tests Covid-19 positive||Punjab Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for the coronavirus, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday evening. "My Cabinet colleague and Cooperation & Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for #Covid19. I wish him a speedy recovery and look forward to him joining us at work soon," the chief minister said in his tweet. Randhawa is the third minister of the Amarinder Singh-led government to have contracted the infection. Earlier, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Gurpreet Singh Kangar had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-tests-covid-19-positive-876629.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Modi extends birthday wishes to Baghel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted Congress leader and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on his birthday.  Baghel, who took over as the state chief minister in 2018, turned 59 on Sunday.  "Best wishes to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on his birthday. May God grant him a long life and keep him always healthy," the prime minister said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-modi-extends-birthday-wishes-to-baghel-876688.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||BJP, JD(U), Lok Janshakti Party to contest Bihar polls together||BJP President J P Nadda said on Sunday that all three NDA constituents in Bihar, the JD(U), LJP and his party, will fight the coming assembly polls in the state together with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as the face of the alliance, and expressed confidence that it will emerge victorious. Nadda's remarks at a virtual meet of the Bihar BJP comes amid a bitter war of words between Kumar's JD(U) and Chirag Paswan-headed LJP. The BJP has been maintaining that the ruling National Democratic Alliance is intact in the state and has stuck to Kumar's projection as its chief ministerial face. Nadda also claimed that the opposition in Bihar as well as elsewhere has become a "spent force" and asserted that the BJP is the only party which is being looked at by people with hope. The opposition has neither ideology nor vision nor any spirit to serve people, and it can't rise above petty politics, he added. He praised the Bihar government's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in the state. The special package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been implemented in "letter and spirit", he said, asking the state BJP to go to people with its details. Nadda also shared details of the Modi government's work to boost health care measures to battle the pandemic and to provide relief to people, especially the poor, with several packages. Assembly elections in the state are due in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jdu-lok-janshakti-party-to-contest-bihar-polls-together-876704.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi posts video of him feeding peacocks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday posted a video on his Instagram page in which he is seen feeding peacocks at his residence during his morning exercise routine.   The 1.47-minute video also has a few glimpses of the prime minister's daily walk from his home to his office within the Lok Kalyan Marg residence.   Peacocks are often a regular companion of the prime minister during his exercise routine, sources said.   At his residence, the prime minister has also placed elevated structures, often found in rural India, where birds can make their nests, they said.   Modi also posted a Hindi poem with the video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-posts-video-of-him-feeding-peacocks-876726.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Congress can’t survive without ‘fake Gandhis’: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Sunday said the Congress party cannot survive without the ‘fake Gandhis’ being at the helm. He was reacting to the news of 23 senior Congress leaders writing a letter to the All India Congress Committee President Sonia Gandhi for a change in leadership for the revival of Congress party. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, Joshi said Gandhis are part of the Congress party’s DNA. “Expecting changes in Congress is waste as they do not believe in democracy but dynasty,” he said, adding that over the years Congress has not allowed party workers to grow as leaders and depended only on the dynasty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-can-t-survive-without-fake-gandhis-pralhad-joshi-876759.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Congress must give consensus a chance instead of elections for leadership: Salman Khurshid||Amid calls from within the Congress to hold polls for presidency, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said the party should give consensus a chance instead of elections which create divisiveness. Khurshid also said Rahul Gandhi enjoys the "full support" and "endorsement" of party leaders and workers, and it does not matter whether he wears the label of a president or not. "I have said very clearly that the Gandhis are leaders of the Congress. Nobody can deny this, even the opposition cannot deny this. I am quite happy having a leader, I don't worry about whether or not we have a president, we have a leader (in Rahul Gandhi) and that is comforting for me," the former Union minister told PTI in an interview. His remarks assume significance as they come just ahead of the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision-making body, which is likely to deliberate on the leadership issue that is in the spotlight with Sonia Gandhi completing a year as interim chief. Also, 23 Congress leaders, including some ex-ministers have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for the overhaul of the organisational structure. Asked about the section of party leaders calling for elections to the CWC and presidency, Khurshid hit out at those asking for internal polls, saying why are people so anxious to make these demands in the Congress when they are not made in any other party. "I am very surprised. I have not heard a single demand being made in the Communist party or in the regional parties or in the BJP. I have not heard about demand for elections in any of those parties," Khurshid said. "Elections are important, but the historical context in which elections have to be held, circumstances, have to be taken into account. Consensus has been an important part of the political process in the Congress," he said. Giving up consensus and opting for elections, without reflecting upon the implications and consequences might be running into "unknown, unchartered territory", he said. Khurshid also said that such issues should be discussed within the party and not outside it. His comments come days after Shashi Tharoor had said that he has been advocating elections to the CWC and for the post of the president as it would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party. Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit had also said recently that it is "high time" that the Congress appoints a full-time president by "selection or election". Asked if consensus was the way forward instead of internal polls, Khurshid said, "My instinct says this. My understanding of the Congress says that consensus is extremely important." "People react to that by saying that you are being anti-democratic. I don't know if consensus is in some way an undemocratic thing to happen. It should be a genuine consensus. Of course it should not be a forced consensus. I think we should give consensus a chance," he said. On whether polls can lead to divisiveness in the party, Khurshid said elections do divide. Elections, in the right spirit, should not divide, but the ground reality is that elections do divide, he said. "So, let us just hope we gradually mature to a stage where elections will not divide," he said. Asked if Rahul Gandhi should come back as party chief, Khurshid said it was up to him to make his decision and leaders should allow him to take a call. "When you give someone your allegiance as a leader then you have to listen to the leader and whatever the leader wants to do. There is a view in a large number of people that he should not stay away from presidentship of the party," he said. Noting that Gandhi has his own reasons to keep himself away from the presidentship, Khurshid said party leaders should respect his decision and not in any way create a situation that becomes difficult for him. "Let us wait for him to take a call, I think he understands what people's expectations and hopes are and I think he will respond to those hopes," he said. Asked about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's remarks carried in a book endorsing Rahul Gandhi's views that the party should have a non-Gandhi president and whether that person would be under pressure of the Gandhis, Khurshid said where is the question of pressure as there "may be a president who is a non-Gandhi, but there will also be a leader who is a Gandhi". "Even the president will have to accept 'the leader' Gandhi. You cannot choose a leader who is already chosen. People have given full support and have given their endorsement to Mr Rahul Gandhi and that will remain a fact," he said. "Whether he (Rahul) wears the label of a president or he doesn't wear the label of a president, he remains a leader," Khurshid said. If Rahul Gandhi is a leader, surely, he should also be respected for his views on what the presidential structure or what the organisational structure should be in the future, he said. Khurshid said if Rahul Gandhi is the leader and he gives respect to a president, everybody will give respect to the president, he said. The party should not be breast-beating about the leadership issue and it will get resolved, Khurshid said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-must-give-consensus-a-chance-instead-of-elections-for-leadership-salman-khurshid-876764.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||BJP, JD(U), LJP to fight Bihar polls together, Opposition a spent force: J P Nadda||All the three NDA constituents in Bihar - the BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP - will together fight the coming assembly polls in the state with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as the face of the alliance, BJP president J P Nadda said on Sunday and expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious.  Nadda's remarks at a virtual address to the Bihar BJP executive meeting come amid a bitter war of words between Kumar's Janata Dal (United) and Chirag Paswan-headed Lok Janshakti Party.  Whenever the three parties have fought together, their National Democratic Alliance has notched up a big victory, he said. The coming polls will be the first time when the three parties fight together in an assembly election after their superlative show by winning all but one seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha election as allies.  "We are going to the polls under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Our victory is certain," Nadda said. While Chirag Paswan has often questioned the Nitish Kumar-led state government over a host of issues, the BJP has done the balancing act and maintained that the ruling NDA is intact in the state. It has also been endorsing Kumar as the alliance's chief ministerial face.  In his address from the national capital where he was joined by several Union ministers elected from Bihar, Nadda also claimed that the opposition in the state as well as elsewhere has become a "spent force" and asserted that the BJP is the only party which is being looked at by people with hope. The opposition has neither ideology nor vision nor any spirit to serve people, and it can't rise above petty politics, he added.  He praised the Bihar government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in the state, while noting that the assembly elections are expected at a time when the state faces the twin challenges.  The Election Commission is yet to announce the election schedule, but there have been indications that it will be held on time. The assembly elections in the state are due in October-November.  Nadda asked party leaders to organise small meetings and door-to-door campaign in line with the Covid-19 guidelines while preparing for the polls.  He said the special package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the state has been implemented in "letter and spirit" and asked party members to go to the people with its details.    Nadda also shared highlights of the Modi government's work to boost health care measures to battle the pandemic and to provide relief to people, especially the poor, with several packages.   The Modi government announced a 'Garib Kalyan package' of Rs 1.70 lakh crore and Rs 20 lakh crore package for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the BJP president noted.   As many as 32 districts of Bihar are part of the government's Rs 50,000-crore package for the poor's employment.    The Bihar government, he said, has done a good job in battling the coronavirus and the state's recovery rate is over 73 per cent.    Its infection positivity rate is only 2.89 per cent and the number of corona tests has risen to one lakh per day, he added.   Nadda also mentioned financial packages announced by the Nitish Kumar government in his address and asked BJP members to work for the victory of the saffron party as well as its allies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jdu-ljp-to-fight-bihar-polls-together-opposition-a-spent-force-j-p-nadda-876771.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Amarinder Singh opposes challenge to Gandhi family leadership||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has opposed the bid by some Congress leaders to challenge the Gandhi family leadership in the party, saying this is not the time to raise such an issue. In a statement, Singh said the need today is for a strong opposition against the BJP-led NDA which is out to destroy the country’s constitutional ethos and democratic principles. The veteran Congress leader said the NDA’s success was attributable to the absence of a strong and united Opposition. "The move by these Congress leaders to demand a re-haul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation," he said. "What the Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not just to a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large," he said, adding that the Gandhis were the right fit for this role. "Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wants," he said, adding that Rahul Gandhi should thereafter take over as he is fully competent to lead the party. Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party with one section comprising sitting MPs and former ministers demanding a collective leadership, while another group has sought the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. Some Congress leaders, including ex-ministers, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for the overhaul of the organisational structure and changes to the leadership. The letter by former ministers and some MPs was believed to have been written a few weeks ago and sets the stage for a stormy Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday where issues flagged by dissenters are expected to be discussed and debated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-opposes-challenge-to-gandhi-family-leadership-876773.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Congress government in Rajasthan betrayed people: BJP chief Nadda||BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday accused the Congress government in Rajasthan of inaction, betraying people and failing to provide relief to them during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Addressing the party's Rajasthan unit leader and workers through a video conference, he said the rising crime graph was a symbol of crumbling administration. "The Ashok Gehlot government has proved inactive during the lockdown. Instead of providing relief, the government has betrayed people," Nadda said. He also said, "Rising crime graph in the state is a symbol that the administration is crumbling and the government did nothing except nepotism."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-government-in-rajasthan-betrayed-people-bjp-chief-nadda-876774.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi offers to resign amid calls for 'full-time' Congress President||Congress President Sonia Gandhi has asked the party to find a new president after a group of leaders flagged the lack of a “full-time” president, setting the tone for a stormy meeting on the Congress Working Committee on August 24. The battle lines were drawn with 23 leaders writing a letter to the Congress President, which was seen by a large section of the party as an attempt the divert the attention from pressing issues such as the sagging economy and create confusion in the minds of millions of party workers. Stung by the first united attempt by a section of the leaders to call for organisational elections and steady the party that appeared adrift with the absence of a full-time president, Gandhi, 73, is learnt to have conveyed her desire to step down and asked the party to look for a new leader. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy issued statements decrying attempts by the 23 leaders to call for a “complete overhaul” in the party. Amarinder termed the demand for leadership change in the Congress as “untenable”, contending that a complete overhaul at this juncture would be “detrimental” to the interests of the party and the nation. “Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wanted,” the Punjab Chief Minister said, and added that Rahul should thereafter take over as he was fully competent to lead the party. Baghel termed Sonia and Rahul as a “ray of hope” for the party in challenging times. “The nation can get rid of the crisis it was going through only under your leadership,” the Chhatisgarh Chief Minister said. While the 23 leaders, including veterans Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma to youngsters Manish Tewari, Milind Deora and Jitin Prasada, have called for sweeping changes in the Congress organisation, a section of party leaders see it as a move to derail Rahul’s return to the helm of party affairs. Though the letter calls for sweeping changes in the Congress party, it has not criticised the leadership of Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. State units of the Congress rallied behind the Gandhi family terming the action of the 23 leaders questioning their leadership as “unfortunate”. “It is unfortunate that the leadership of the Gandhi family is questioned by few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by the BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen Congress and not weaken it,” former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said. State Congress Presidents of Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu also issued statements supporting the Gandhis. “This letter is a new conspiracy to blunt the leadership of Rahul Gandhi,” former Mumbai Congress President Sanjay Nirupam said asking Rahul to stop being adamant and return as Congress President. Rahul had quit as Congress President in July last year, accepting the responsibility of the party’s second successive debacle in the Lok Sabha elections and conveyed that the Congress should look beyond the Gandhi family for leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-offers-to-resign-amid-calls-for-full-time-congress-president-876784.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Letter by Congress leaders unfortunate, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said the Gandhi family has kept the party united and the letter written by senior Congress leaders over party leadership is an unfortunate move. He said the leaders who are said to have written the letter have worked with the party for long and this was not expected of them. "I am not aware of any such letter but if this is true, then it is unfortunate. They all have worked with the party for so long and the move of the letter is uncalled for," Gehlot told PTI. Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party with one section comprising sitting MPs and former ministers demanding collective leadership, while another group has sought the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. While two dozen Congress leaders, including some ex-ministers, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for the overhaul of the organizational structure and changes to the leadership, some leaders close to Rahul have also written to the CWC pressing for the Gandhi scion's return as chief. The letter by former ministers and some MPs was believed to have been written a few weeks ago and sets the stage for a stormy CWC meeting where issues flagged by dissenters are expected to be discussed and debated. Gehlot said Congress president Sonia Gandhi took reins of the party in 1998 and despite all challenges, she continued holding the party united. "She became the party president in 1998 in challenging circumstances and has been the saviour of the party. Today, despite her health issues, she is still holding the 'Congress Kunba' (party) united. Is it a small thing?" Gehlot added. "Democracy is under threat and a struggle for saving democracy is going on and therefore, we should not step back. The Gandhi family has kept the party united and in the time of crisis; we need them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/letter-by-congress-leaders-unfortunate-says-gehlot-876832.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Delhi Congress demands Rahul Gandhi be appointed party chief 'without further delay'||The Delhi Congress, after an "emergency" meeting on Sunday, demanded Rahul Gandhi's ascension as the party's national president without further delay. The meeting, presided by Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar, passed a resolution demanding that Rahul Gandhi should be appointed as the party's national president without further delay, a statement said. Ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party, with a section comprising MPs and former ministers demanding a collective leadership, while another group has sought the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. The Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) resolution noted that some senior leaders going public with their opinion regarding a change in the leadership has given "ammunition" to the opponents to mount an attack on the party, "demoralising" its cadre. The issue should have been raised at internal fora, not outside, it said. Batting for Rahul Gandhi, the resolution said the former party chief "should be appointed as the president of the All India Congress Committee without any further delay to provide a dynamic and youthful leadership to the party in these trying times. Only a powerful and fearless leader like Rahul Gandhi can expose the lies and falsehood of the BJP and the Modi government". The resolution also thanked Congress president Sonia Gandhi for her "dynamic leadership" during "testing times" due to the Covid-19 pandemic and motivating the party cadre to work among people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-congress-demands-rahul-gandhi-be-appointed-party-chief-without-further-delay-876849.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Collective leadership vs Gandhis: Cracks wide open in Congress amid speculation of Sonia Gandhi's resignation||Ahead of the crucial Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, the party was deeply divided on the leadership issue with a section demanding a "full-time" chief and another backing Gandhis at the helm, amid indications that interim president Sonia Gandhi might offer to quit. After around 20 leaders wrote to the party chief seeking collective leadership and a revamp of major bodies, sources close to Sonia Gandhi said she might offer to step down in the CWC and ask the party to look for a full-time president. AICC media chief Randeep Surjewala, however, denied it. As the debate over the issue of leadership raged, another group of leaders put their weight behind the Gandhi family on Sunday, calling for Sonia Gandhi to stay or Rahul Gandhi to take charge again. While Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress leader in Lok Saha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and former ministers Ashwani Kumar, Salman Khurshid and KK Tewary backed the Gandhis, the dissenting group included former ministers Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Mukul Wasnik, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Opposing the bid to challenge the Gandhi family leadership, Amarinder Singh said this was not the time to raise such an issue. "The move by these Congress leaders to demand a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation. "What the Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not just to a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large," he said, adding that the Gandhis were the right fit for this role. "Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wants," he said, adding that Rahul Gandhi should thereafter take over as he is fully competent to lead the party. Gehlot termed the letter as unfortunate and said the Gandhi family has kept the party united. "I am not aware of any such letter but if this is true, then it is unfortunate. They all have worked with the party for so long and the move of the letter is uncalled for," Gehlot told PTI. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tweeted, "It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family is being questioned by few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen Congress and not weaken it." In a letter to the CWC on Sunday, AICC secretary for Maharashtra Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy said any delay in Rahul Gandhi's reinstatement would be at the cost of the Congress. Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore too demanded Rahul Gandhi’s return as Congress president. Tharoor put out a cryptic tweet quoting Jawaharlal Nehru that said “we have become prisoners of the past”. "Without passion and urge, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality, a settling down on lower levels of existence, a slow merging into non-existence. We have become prisoners of the past and some part of its immobility sticks to us," he tweeted. Ashwani Kumar, Salman Khurshid and K K Tewary spoke against elections to the post of party president and favoured consensus. Kumar and Khurshid both argued that elections would be divisive and consensus should be given a chance. Tewary, a party veteran, feared the party might disintegrate if Gandhis withdrew. In response to the letter by Azad and others, sources said, Sonia Gandhi might offer to quit as party's interim chief and ask the leadership to scout for a full-time president. She took over as interim chief on August 10 last year following a request from the CWC after Rahul Gandhi declined the committee's unanimous appeal to stay as chief post the 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle. In their letter, the nearly 20 leaders including ex-ministers have asked Sonia Gandhi for overhaul of the organizational structure and changes to the leadership while some leaders close to Rahul have also written parallel letters to the CWC pressing for the Gandhi scion's return as chief. Surjewala, meanwhile, said, "I have not seen any purported letter and hence cannot comment upon it". On the issue of Sonia Gandhi's possible resignation, Surjewala said, "Sonia Gandhi has not made any comment or has given any interview and media reports in this regard as false". In their letter, Azad and other leaders have also stressed on collective decision-making with the Gandhi family as its "integral part." They have also called for the appointment of a full-time leadership which is active and which can be easily contacted by workers and leaders. The pro-reform leaders are further learnt to have called for free and fair organizational polls from the block up to the working committee level. The leaders said that over-centralisation of the organisation and micro-management has always proven to be counter-productive, and that uncertainty over the leadership has "demoralised the Congress workers and further weakened the party". They were also critical of the way the Congress Working Committee, the party's apex decision-making body, was being constituted and was functioning. Highlighting the gravity of the challenges facing the party, they said that it was "imperative" to urgently establish an institutional leadership mechanism to collectively guide the party's revival. The letter talked about forming the CWC in accordance with the Congress' constitution as well as reconstitution of the central parliamentary board and the central election committee They are learnt to have pointed out that the CWC is not "guiding" the party effectively in mobilizing public opinion against the BJP. Among leaders learnt to have signed the letter are Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of Congress in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, besides ex ministers Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, M Veerappa Moily, Shashi Tharoor, MP Manish Tewari, and former MPs Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada and Sandeep Dixit. The signatories are also said to include former party unit chiefs including Raj Babbar, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur besides leaders Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Kuldeep Sharma. They have called for contacting and winning back all those Congressmen who have quit the party and joined the BJP and expressed concerns over rank and file getting demoralised due to the "drift in the party." While most of the leaders who have written the letter did not answer calls on Sunday, some who answered remained tight-lipped on the issue having set the stage for a CWC debate on the need for a Gandhi versus a non-Gandhi Congress President. Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore, meanwhile, called for Rahul Gandhi's return as party president. "Gandhis are the symbol of sacrifice. Decision by Congress CWC was a majority decision reflecting the will of 1100 AICC, 8800 PCC members, five crore workers and 12 crore supporters who want Rahul Gandhi as their leader," Tagore said, referring to the 2019 decision of the CWC to name Sonia Gandhi as party president after Rahul declined to accept a unanimous CWC appeal to stay in the post. In his letter to CWC, Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy said, "In view of existing conditions any further delay in promoting Rahul Gandhi as AICC president can cause incalculable harm to the progress of Congress Party and can be dispiriting to the Congress family."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/collective-leadership-vs-gandhis-cracks-wide-open-in-congress-amid-speculation-of-sonia-gandhis-resignation-876857.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Ashwani Kumar bats for Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress chief||Amid calls for a leadership change, senior Congress leader and former Union minister Ashwani Kumar on Sunday said this is not the time for an electoral exercise that is potentially divisive and the need of the hour is to close ranks. He said Sonia Gandhi has held the party together through difficult times and it is not right to question her unifying leadership while noting that "political adventurism cannot be the way forward". The former law minister said Sonia Gandhi should continue as the party chief under the current circumstances. Questioning the timing and motivation of a letter written by some Congressmen to Sonia Gandhi, he noted that there are some leaders who have harmed the party repeatedly even after receiving more than they deserved and hoped that such people get exposed. "This is not the time for an electoral exercise which is potentially divisive. At this point of time and considering the extraordinary situation in the country, the need of the hour is to close ranks," Kumar told PTI. He said the party functions best on the basis of a broad political consensus, hammered through meaningful and wide consultations amongst the leadership. "Sonia Gandhi's judgment in the accommodation of competing claims to recognition has generally served the party well," Kumar said. He said issues can be addressed under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, who has held the party together through difficult times. "Only a year ago, Congressmen literally begged Sonia Gandhi to lead the party and she agreed as a call of duty. It is wrong to question her unifying leadership at this stage. I am of the view that under the present extraordinary circumstances, political adventurism cannot be the way forward," the former minister said. Ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party, with a section comprising MPs and former ministers demanding a collective leadership, while another group has sought the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. While two dozen Congress leaders, including some former ministers, have written to Sonia Gandhi for an overhaul of the organisational structure and changes in the leadership, some leaders close to Rahul Gandhi have also written to the CWC, pressing for the Gandhi scion's return as party chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashwani-kumar-bats-for-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-congress-chief-876881.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Rehaul versus Rahul in Congress as Sonia set to quit||As the power play in 'out of power' Congress on Sunday assumed dramatic proportions ahead of Congress Working Committee meeting, a number of leaders, who claim to be loyal to Rahul Gandhi, cried foul. They said that the 23 leaders' letter to Sonia Gandhi, seeking a complete 're-haul' of the party is nothing but an attempt to marginalise Rahul. Young leaders close to Rahul find the letter to be in demand for a leader who is 'visible' in party offices, and young voters having shifted loyalty to BJP, questions are being raised on the leadership of Rahul. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam, who had earlier alleged that Rahul Gandhi’s close associates are being pushed to the sidelines in the party, said that instead of Sonia Gandhi resigning, all members of Congress Working Committee (including those who have penned the letter to Sonia) should resign as Rahul had resigned in 2019 taking responsibility for the Lok Sabha poll debate. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai called the development an “uprising against the Gandhis”. “This is a no-confidence against them. This is very uncharitable also coming at a time when it was the Gandhis who recently managed to resolve a major political crisis in the party-ruled Rajasthan. Also, the leaders, who wrote the letters mostly owe their rise in positions to the Gandhi family and cannot win any election on their own," he said. When Rahul had resigned in 2019, he was seeking to send a message that senior leaders in the position of power should also put in their papers for Congress' disaster in 2019 Lok Sabha elections and had slammed Kamal Nath, Ashok Gehlot and P Chidambaram for focussing on the future of their sons instead of the party. However, the seniors stuck to their guns. Later, Nath government collapsed in Madhya Pradesh after Jyotridaditya Scindia's rebellion and the latter joined the BJP. On the other hand, the Gehlot government could survive the rebellion of Sachin Pilot only after Gandhis (Priyanka and Rahul to be precise) intervened to pacify Pilot. As per insiders, Rahul felt that he was not given a free hand and once he quit, his team got sidelined. In the last two years, many young leaders like Ashok Tanwar (Haryana), Ajoy Kumar (Jharkhand), Pradyot Deb Barman (Tripura) who are groomed by him have been left out of the party. Congress supporter Tehseen Poonawalla, who is regular on the TV debates, said, “For me and 11 crore voters who vote for Congress, our leaders are only the Gandhi's. Sonia Gandhi ji, Rahul & PGV. We do not trust any other leader to fight the BJP/RSS but the Gandhi family that has sacrificed a lot for this great nation. Proud to be a Gandhi supporter! “ Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote a letter to Rahul Gandhi, urging him to return as the president of the party saying, “Under the leadership of Rahul ji, the party put up a good show in the Gujarat assembly elections and paved the way for the formation of government in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh." He obviously glossed over the fact that the Congress recorded its two worst poll debacles in 2014 and 2019 general elections when Rahul Gandhi was in command. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi requesting her to give the position of Congress president to Rahul Gandhi so that he can lead the party and fight BJP and RSS from the front. Ironically, the demand for change in leadership did not come from 2013 to 2017, when the party recorded a series of losses in polls. But as Congress looks to stage a comeback after their performances in some states improved, cracks begin to appear. They have been successful in winning three in 2018 (MP, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh) and becoming an ally in the governments of Jharkhand and Maharashtra and have improved its tally in Haryana in 2019. Will Congress' somewhat resurgence be thwarted by this crisis? Only the future holds the answer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rehaul-versus-rahul-in-congress-as-sonia-set-to-quit-876908.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||TNCC chief backs Gandhis, says Sonia Gandhi is the 'binding force'||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri on Sunday hailed party interim president Sonia Gandhi as the "binding force" of the nation as the grand old party appeared divided on the leadership issue. "Mother Sonia Ji's leadership should continue. She is the binding force of the nation in South, north, west and east. Rahulji @ Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Ji are followed by millions of Congress party cadres and people of the nation," Alagiri said on his Twitter handle. A section of party leaders have demanded a "full-time" chief, while others backed the Gandhis at the helm amid indications that interim president Sonia Gandhi might offer to quit during the crucial Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday. After around 20 leaders wrote to the party chief seeking collective leadership and a revamp of major bodies, sources close to Sonia Gandhi said she might offer to step down in the CWC and ask the party to look for a full-time president. AICC media chief Randeep Surjewala, however, denied it. Lok Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Manickam Tagore has called for Rahul Gandhi's return as party president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tncc-chief-backs-gandhis-says-sonia-gandhi-is-the-binding-force-876917.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Scindia left Cong despite getting so much from the party: Digvijaya||Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Sunday hit out at BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, saying that the latter left the Congress even as the party had given him "so much". Singh said leaving Congress was not expected from Scindia and his move has dented the credibility in politics. Singh's criticism of Scindia came on the day the ruling BJP claimed that as many as 35,843 Congress cadres joined the ruling party in the last two days of its three-day membership drive underway in Gwalior. However, Singh said that the Congress has grown much stronger in the Gwalior-Chambal region after Scindia quit the party. The BJP's membership drive began in Gwalior on Saturday. Talking to reporters here on Sunday, state Energy Minister Pradhyuman Singh Tomar said, "As many as 35,843 Congress leaders and workers joined the BJP in two days in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and RS member Jyotiraditya Scindia." The minister added that former Congress MP from Morena Barelal Jatav and former Congress MLA from Gwalior rural constituency Ramvaran Gurjar on Sunday joined the saffron party. The Congress, which had held a protest against the BJP's membership drive when it was launched on Saturday, also organised a 'dharna' (sit-in) at the Rani Lakshmi Bai memorial here on Sunday. After taking part in the protest, Digvijaya Singh said "The Congress has given so much to Scindia, still he left the party. It was not expected from him. This has dented the credibility in politics." "The massive protest of thousands of Congress cadres on Saturday against the BJP's big membership drive on its opening day, speaks of the fact that the party has grown stronger after Scindia's exit," Singh told reporters in the afternoon. Congress media in-charge for Gwalior-Chambal region K K Mishra said that his party held the protest as the ruling BJP violated the COVID-19 protocols. "The BJP function in Gwalior is being held in violation of the lockdown rules imposed in the state to curb the spread of coronavirus," he added. Meanwhile, Chouhan, Scindia, Union minister Narendra Tomar and state BJP president V D Sharma have been holding talks with the party's public representatives and office- bearers in the region to chalk out a strategy for the yet-to- be announced bypolls for 27 seats in the state, 16 of them from Gwalior-Chambal region. Twenty-two Congress MLAs, mostly from the Scindia camp, resigned in March, reducing the Kamal Nath-led dispensation to a minority and paving the way for the BJP to form the government. Scindia and these former MLAs then joined the BJP. Last month, three more Congress MLAs resigned and joined the saffron party. Two other assembly seats have fallen vacant due to the death of legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scindia-left-cong-despite-getting-so-much-from-the-party-digvijaya-876922.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Most Cong workers would like to see Rahul's return as Congress chief, says Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan Congress chief Sachin Pilot on Sunday said most of the party workers would like to see Rahul Gandhi take over as the president of the grand old party. "Mrs Gandhi and Rahul ji have shown what it means to sacrifice for the greater good of the people and the party. Its now time to build consensus and consolidate. Our future is stronger when we're united. Most Congress workers would like to see Rahul ji take over and lead the party," he said in a tweet. Pilot's comments came ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in New Delhi on Monday, where the leadership issue is likely to be discussed. While around two dozen Congress leaders, including some former ministers, have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi for an overhaul of the organisational structure and changes in the leadership, some leaders close to Rahul Gandhi have written to the CWC, pressing for the Gandhi scion's return as party chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/most-cong-workers-would-like-to-see-rahuls-return-as-congress-chief-says-sachin-pilot-876923.html
23-08-2020||National Politics||Selja says Sonia-Rahul sole ray of hope for Congress workers, people of country||With some Congress leaders calling for a change in leadership and an organisational overhaul, the party's Haryana unit chief Kumari Selja on Sunday said Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are the "only and sole ray of hope" for Congress workers as well as the people of the country. "Some people of the Congress, who enjoyed fruits of power and whose status is because of the party, are today raising questions about our leadership," she said targeting the 20-odd leaders who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking collective leadership and a revamp of major bodies. "Today, the country needs the bright leadership of Sonia and Rahul. The leadership of both is the only and sole ray of hope for the countrymen and innumerable Congress workers throughout India. Today the hopes of the poor, labourers, farmers, dalits and youth of the country are focussed on this leadership," Selja, a former Union minister, wrote in a letter to Sonia Gandhi. Meanwhile, five Territorial Committee presidents of the Congress wrote to all Congress Working Committee (CWC) members, batting for Rahul Gandhi taking over as the party president again. The signatories are Pradeep Chhabra (Territorial Congress Committee president of Chandigarh), Ketan D Patel (Daman and Diu), Kuldeep Sharma (Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Hamdullah Sayeed (Lakshadweep), and Mahesh Sharma (Dadra and Nagar Haveli). They said, "...this is the worst time in India we are facing under the present government and in order to have a strong opposition to combat these inadequacies and inefficient policies of the present government, we need to have in the first place a full-fledged leader of our Congress party. And, therefore, it is high time that we elect our president by promoting our ex-President Rahul Gandhi ji.... He can animate both the young and senior leaders, unite their energies, direct their vigour and inventiveness." "It is our earnest and humble request that Shri Rahulji may be unanimously promoted/re-elected as the President of our Congress party during the forthcoming CWC meeting as any further delay may cause incalculable harm to the progress of our Congress party," they wrote. The CWC will meet on Monday. In a video message, Selja said, "At a time, when we are facing a challenge and when the BJP is trying to weaken our democracy, the need is to further strengthen the hands of our leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi so that they can continue to play their role in taking this country forward." "Those people, those forces which are trying to weaken the Congress, I believe there are some elements within Congress who are hand-in-glove with BJP and part of their conspiracy," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/selja-says-sonia-rahul-sole-ray-of-hope-for-congress-workers-people-of-country-876924.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi police team takes alleged ISIS operative to his Balrampur village for probe: UP cops||A Special Cell team of Delhi Police took alleged ISIS operative Mustakeem Khan to his village Badhya Bhaksai in Balrampur district on Saturday evening for the scrutiny of his various claims, a top UP police officer said. Mustakeem Khan alias Abu Yusuf, allegedly planning to carry out a “lone wolf” terror strike in the capital, was arrested in Delhi on Friday night after a brief exchange of fire with a Delhi police team. “Khan was taken to his village on Saturday evening by a Delhi Police team after he was remanded in police custody by a court there,” a senior officer of the Anti-Terrorist Squad of UP police told PTI in Lucknow. The accused was taken to his village to verify his various claims from his relatives and neighbours in his village, he said. Following communication from the Delhi Police of its intention to take the accused to his village, a UP ATS team had swooped on the village earlier in the day and cordoned it off to restrict the entry of outsiders to prevent any trouble in the area, said the UP police officer. During enquiries in the village, it transpired that Khan had left his village for Lucknow two days ago on the pretext of getting one of his relatives treated there, he added. But it could not be ascertained how he reached the national capital where he was arrested on Friday night from the central Delhi's Ridge Road area, he said. Khan was found in possession with two pressure cooker IEDs which were “fully ready” and just needed to be activated with a timer, the Delhi Police had said earlier on the day after securing his police custody for eight days from a court there. Khan’s relatives in the village feigned ignorance on how he reached Delhi despite saying he was going to Lucknow, the ATS officer added. He said the accused was taken to his village, besides some other places, and was intensively questioned. The Delhi police team also asked about Khan’s antecedent from several of his relatives and neighbours in his village, the official said. “During the enquiries, it transpired that nearly eight years ago, he had left the village to work in Mumbai but he came back after he got injured there in an accident,” the official said. “Around four years ago, he had opened a cosmetic shop here which he ran briefly,” the official said. A major terror strike was averted with the arrest of Khan from Central Delhi's Ridge Road area after a brief exchange of fire, Delhi Police officials said earlier on Saturday. A suspected ISIS operative, Khan was found in possession with two pressure cooker IEDs which were “fully ready” and just needed to be activated with a timer, said Delhi police. The Delhi Police said Khan was on police radar for over a year. He was planning to carry out a “lone wolf” strike at a high footfall area in the national capital, it said. Khan had planned to strike in the national capital on August 15, but could not do so due to heavy security arrangements, Delhi’s Special Cell Deputy Commissioner of Police P S Kushwah had said. Security was stepped up in the national capital and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh following the arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-team-takes-alleged-isis-operative-to-his-balrampur-village-for-probe-up-cops-876626.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Chetan Chauhan died not due to Covid-19, but because of poor treatment at Lucknow hospital: SP leader||A Samajwadi Party (SP) leader has alleged that Uttar Pradesh minister Chetan Chauhan, who succumbed to COVID-19 in a Gurugram hospital, died not because of the disease, but due to carelessness in his treatment at the state-run SGPGI here. Chauhan (73), who was admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) after he tested positive for COVID-19, was shifted to the Medanta hospital in Haryana's Gurugram when his condition deteriorated. The cricketer-turned-politician died last week due to COVID-related complications, after being put on life support for nearly 36 hours. Raising the issue in the Upper House of the Uttar Pradessh Legislature, SP MLC Sunil Singh Sajan alleged on Friday that Chauhan received poor treatment at the SGPGI. The SP leader also claimed that Chauhan and he were admitted to the same ward of the hospital. "Once during a round, a doctor and a nurse asked who is Chetan, to which the minister raised his hand since he was a simple person. He was asked as to when he got infected with the virus, to which he explained the entire matter to the hospital staff. At that time, another personnel asked Chauhan what do you do, to which he said he is a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government," Sajan said. He added that he was angered by the behaviour of the hospital staff with Chauhan. "When I could not control my anger, I told the doctor that Chauhan had played cricket for India, to which the doctor said 'oh, he is that Chetan'. After this, the doctor and the other staff left," the SP leader said. The footage of Sajan's speech in the Legislative Council went viral on social media platforms on Saturday. In a tweet in Hindi, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said, "While comparing the so-called better preparations for COVID-19 to that of the USA, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister had forgotten the kind of behaviour his cabinet colleague Chetan Chauhan experienced at a government hospital." When contacted, SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman expressed surprise at Sajan's statement. "During treatment, I had spoken to Chauhan a number of times, but he never brought up the incident. And he went to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram citing family reasons. If there were any complaints, it should have been conveyed. The incident will be probed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chetan-chauhan-died-not-due-to-covid-19-but-because-of-poor-treatment-at-lucknow-hospital-sp-leader-876634.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt brings in amnesty scheme for factory owners||In a bid to bring back the pandemic-hit city economy on the track, the Delhi government has started an amnesty scheme for late payment dues on rent lease and brought down interest rate to 10 per cent on such dues, providing relief to factory owners, officials said. The move will benefit thousands of factory owners in Delhi, ruling AAP's Trade wing convener Brijesh Goyal said. "Under the amnesty scheme for industrial areas, the factory owners will get a rebate of 50 per cent on the accumulated interest on the ground rent, lease rent dues if they make the payment within two months from August 14," said an official of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation(DSIIDC). The order was issued by the DSIIDC on August 14. The government has also reduced the percentage of simple interest on dues from 18 per cent to 10 per cent on ground rent, lease rent, composition charge and charge on delay in construction, the officials said. The move came about after the factory owners recently met Industries minister Satyendar Jain and shared their problems with him, Goyal said. He said nearly 20,000 factory owners will be benefitted with these decisions. In the meeting with Jain, the factory owners also urged him for changing lease hold plots to free hold, relief from fixed charges of power bills, and rationalising circle rate anomalies, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-brings-in-amnesty-scheme-for-factory-owners-876637.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||2 hurt as concrete slab of under-construction flyover falls on Gurugram's Sohna road||Two persons were injured when a huge concrete slab of an under-construction flyover fell on Gurugram's Sohna road on Saturday night, police said. The injured, said to be labourers, were hospitalised, they added. The area was cordoned off, a police official told PTI. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said a team of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the sub-divisional magistrate of the area and a civil defence team were at the site. "Slab of elevated corridor Sohna rd (road) Gurugram collapsed. There have been 2 injuries and both have been admitted and (are) under treatment," he said in a tweet. Locals told the police that they heard a loud sound when the concrete slab fell on the road. They said a major accident was averted as there were not too many people at the site when the incident occurred. Preliminary reports suggested that a few girders installed between two pillars fell all of a sudden, leading to the incident. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-hurt-as-concrete-slab-of-under-construction-flyover-falls-on-gurugrams-sohna-road-876641.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Former state BJP chief Satpal Singh Satti appointed chairman of Himachal Pradesh's 6th Finance Commission||Former president of the BJP's Himachal Pradesh unit, Satpal Singh Satti, has been appointed as the chairman of sixth State Finance Commission. The newly-constituted commission will review the financial position of the panchayats and municipalities and devolution of resources to these institutions, according to a notification issued by the Himachal Pradesh government here on Saturday,. Satti will enjoy the status of a cabinet minister, the notification added. Additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries of rural development and panchayati raj and urban development departments will be its ex-officio members, it added. Besides, advisor planning will function as ex-officio member secretary of the commission, according to the notification. The commission will make recommendations to the state government for streamlining the work of these departments. The notification further stated that the period of the commission would commence from the date of issuance of the notification and it would make its report available by December 31, 2021 covering a period of five years from April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2027||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-state-bjp-chief-satpal-singh-satti-appointed-chairman-of-himachal-pradeshs-6th-finance-commission-876647.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Man held for posting morphed pictures of PM Narendra Modi on social media||A man has been arrested here in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly posting morphed photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and obscene comments on a social media platform, police said on Sunday. Parvez Alam, aged around 28, has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 292 (sale of obscene books, etc), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and the Information Technology Act Section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form), Gohalpur police station's inspector Ravindra Goutam said. On July 12, one Sartaj Alam lodged a police complaint against Parvez Alam, accusing the latter of uploading morphed photographs of the prime minister with obscene comments on Facebook, he said. The accused was arrested late Friday night, the official said, adding that he was produced before a local court which sent him in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-posting-morphed-pictures-of-pm-narendra-modi-on-social-media-876715.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status becomes rallying cry for political parties||After a political hiatus of more than a year, regional parties in Kashmir have of late geared up their activities with the restoration of J&K’s special status becoming a rallying cry. J&K’s oldest regional party – National Conference (NC) – held a series of meetings in the past week with the party president Farooq Abdullah declaring that such meetings would continue in the coming days.  The first in the series of three meetings was on Thursday, during which Abdullah interacted with four senior party leaders and later five others on Friday. An NC leader said more than “discussing political course of action the meeting was an emotional reunion.” “Farooq Abdullah is a changed person and he literally cried in the meeting. He feels let down by the decisions of 5 August 2019. He told us that we will put up a fight to get back the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, be in a constitutional manner or a democratic electoral process,” he said. Similarly, NC’s arch rival – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) - is planning to hold its first major meeting in over a year on Monday at the residence of its patron Muzaffar Hussain Beigh. The meeting will be held despite the party president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, still in detention. Her detention under Public Safety Act (PSA).was extended on July 31 by a period of three more months. Sources said the meeting is expected to be attended by more than 25 party leaders. The planned meeting also puts an end to speculations of Beigh’s exit from PDP and that of his “reduced interest in party affairs.” Some of the second rung PDP leaders had on August 3 held a press conference during which they had announced to mark August 5, the day the government of India scrapped the special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir, as a “black day”. However, in the run up to August 5, at least half a dozen middle-rung PDP leaders were detained to foil their plans of holding protests. On Saturday, Abdullah, Mehbooba, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone, CPM senior leader Muhammad Yusuf Tarigami, J&K Congress president GA Mir and JK Awami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Shah passed a joint resolution stating they will “strive for reverting to pre-August 2019, position.” This is the first time political parties have spoken together in over one year’s time since signing “Gupkar Declaration” on 4 August 2019.  “Gupkar declaration” vows to protect the special status of the erstwhile state. However, BJP has not only said that restoration of Articles 370 and 35A was impossible, but accused the “Kashmir-based political leadership of day-dreaming to regain power to enjoy luxuries for themselves.” “The Kashmir-based leaders are daydreaming as they are feeling restless to return to the corridors of power to enjoy all luxuries for themselves and their near and dear ones,” BJP J&K president Ravinder Raina, said in response to joint resolution of six political parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restoration-of-jammu-kashmir-s-special-status-becomes-rallying-cry-for-political-parties-876743.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi government launches campaign for registration of construction workers from Monday||The Delhi government will launch a 15-day-long campaign starting Monday for registration of construction workers in all the 70 assembly constituencies in the city. Delhi's Labour and Employment Minister Gopal Rai said the construction workers may apply to get registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board at these camps from August 24 to September 11. If proper documents are furnished, the process of registration and verification will be completed on the spot, he said. "In each of the 70 Assembly segments, a camp will be set up in a local school for registration of construction workers. The local MLAs, trade unions, engineers of agencies like PWD, MCD, Flood and Irrigation department have been asked to get the workers registered at these camps," Rai said in a press conference. The online registration process that was started during the pandemic will continue and the construction workers can go to the camps for verification after applying online, he said.  The construction work which was halted due to the pandemic has restarted and there is a demand of workers at construction sites, he said. Rai said the Board had provided Rs 5,000 to each of the 40,000 registered construction workers for two months during the lockdown period. It also undertakes various welfare measures like providing financial assistance for education and marriage of children, old age pension and accidental insurance to the registered construction workers, Rai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-launches-campaign-for-registration-of-construction-workers-from-monday-876753.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Education Ministry invites suggestions from school teachers, principals on NEP implementation||The Ministry of Education has invited suggestions from school teachers and principals on the implementation of the new National Education Policy, Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Sunday. "We believe that the teachers are the key to the implementation of NEP 2020, and hence we have decided to call for suggestions from all school teachers and principals from across the country on how to take the implementation process of #NationalEducationPolicy forward," he tweeted. The NEP approved by the government last month replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Teaching up to Class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions, except for law and medical colleges, and common entrance tests for universities are part of the sweeping reforms in the new NEP. Replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping M.Phil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions are among other salient features of the new policy. "To simplify the process for the teachers, the suggestions are being called on each theme of the NEP related to school education, through a question answer process. The questions are framed in such a manner that teachers can relate to them from their experience as teachers and classroom transactions. Each question also gives reference to the paragraph of NEP to which refers to, to enable the teacher to read the same for better understanding of the policy before uploading suggestions," said School Education Secretary Anita karwal. "All suggestions received shall be examined by a team of experts from NCERT. Though suggestions are being called in a limited word format, however, for gathering further information, if required, teachers whose suggestions are found useful for incorporating in National Curriculum framework or in the implementation plan, shall be individually contacted," she added. The ministry has requested states and union territories to disseminate the call for suggestions widely amongst all teachers in the state whether belonging to government schools, private schools, or affiliated to different secondary school boards. "States and UTs may hold video conference on priority, send to teachers WhatsApp groups being maintained at various levels, or use the route of SCERTS and DIETs, for ensuring wide dissemination of this process," Karwal said. The suggestions can be uploaded through a dedicated link from August 24 to 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/education-ministry-invites-suggestions-from-school-teachers-principals-on-nep-implementation-876761.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi farmer buys flight tickets to bring back 20 workers from Bihar||A Delhi-based mushroom farmer, who had sent 10 of his workers to their home state Bihar by plane in May during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, has now booked air tickets for them and 10 other migrant labourers to return and join work here. Pappan Singh has booked tickets worth over Rs 1 lakh so that the workers, who have toiled for him, some for over 20 years, can join him in farming mushrooms during the August to April season. Of the 20 workers, 10 of them would be flying for the first time, and they will arrive at the IGI Airport here on August 27. They will start working in the new mushroom farming season along with Singh in Delhi's Tigipur village. Talking to PTI over phone from his native village in Bihar's Samastipur district, Naveen Ram said they are excited to travel on a plane, but added that he is not nervous this time as he has the experience of his first air travel in May. Naveen was among the 10 migrant workers who Singh had sent back home in May after they were stuck in Delhi following the coronavirus-forced lockdown in the country. He said they had tried to book railway tickets to reach Delhi, but trains are not available for the next one-and-a-half-month. "If we wait for trains, we cannot do mushroom farming this season, which starts in August. When we told our 'malik' (employer) about this, he said that he will book flight tickets for us so that there is no delay," Naveen said.  Recalling his first flight experience in May, he said that he was nervous because all of the 10 workers did not know airport formalities. But now, Naveen said, he knows how to get through such formalities at an airport. According to him, Singh has also made travel arrangements for all 20 migrant workers to reach Patna airport on August 27 from their native places. Singh said every year, he does mushroom farming on over three acres of land, but this time he is doing it on only one acre of land as old stock of mushrooms is still with suppliers due to the closure of markets in view of Covid-19 restrictions in recent days. "I treat my workers as part of my family members as they have been working for me for 15 to 25 years. I could have arranged workers from here (Delhi) because I am doing mushroom farming on a small piece of land this year. "But, I have an emotional attachment with my workers and that is why I have booked their air tickets so that they can earn their livelihood while working here," he said. In May this year, Singh had spent around Rs 68,000 on flight tickets of his 10 migrant workers to send them to their home state Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-farmer-buys-flight-tickets-to-bring-back-20-workers-from-bihar-876763.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Suicide vests, explosives recovered from suspected IS terrorist's house in UP||Two suicide vests, explosives, pieces of IS (Islamic State) literature and flag were recovered from the house of suspected IS terrorist Abu Yusuf alias Mustakeem Khan, who was arrested in Delhi on Friday, in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district, about 250 kilometres from Lucknow. A team of special cell of Delhi police recovered the materials from Yusuf's house at the latter's native village of Mokama Badhiya Bhaisahi in the district on Saturday night. Police sources here said that three kilograms of explosives, two jackets having pockets to keep a large amount of explosives, a leather belt and some incriminating documents. Three persons were detained from the village on suspicion of having links with the IS operative, sources said adding that they were being quizzed by the cops. While Yusuf's father claimed that he had no knowledge about his son's motives and that the people considered him (Yusuf) to be a ''good person'', the suspected IS terrorist's wife said that her husband had been collecting gun powder for the past two years. ''Yusuf had opened a cosmetic shop at Utraula market near the village but he spent most of his time in listening to the sermons of radical Islamic clerics on Youtube....he used to keep the gunpowder in a box...I told him many times not to do this but he did not pay any heed,'' the wife, a mother of four children, said. Sources said that the police were trying to ascertain if Yusuf had links with local people also.  Yusuf was arrested from Delhi on Friday after a brief encounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suicide-vests-explosives-recovered-from-suspected-is-terrorists-house-in-up-876782.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Health Minister tests Covid-19 positive||Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Prabhuram Choudhary on Sunday said he has tested coronavirus positive. He shared the information on his Twitter handle. Choudhary is the seventh minister in Madhya Pradesh, besides Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to test positive for the infection. "My Covid-19 test report came out positive. I request those who had come in my contact to undergo a coronavirus test. Those in close contact should quarantine themselves," he tweeted. "With your prayers and blessings, I will return amidst you soon to serve the people," he said. In the last week of July, CM Chouhan had tested positive and recovered after treatment. Besides, Public Works Department Minister Gopal Bhargava, Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang, state Cooperatives Minister Arvind Bhadoriya, Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat, Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav and Minister of State (Independent charge) for Backward Class and Minority Welfare Ramkhelawan Patel had also tested coronavirus positive for infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-health-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-876783.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti's daughter wants her mother's name changed on passport||The elder daughter of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has sought to change her mother's name in her passport to Mehbooba Syed. A notice stating this was published in a local newspaper by Irtiqa Javed. "I, Irtiqa Javed, daughter of Javed Iqbal Shah Resident of Fairview House Gupkar Road, Srinagar, Kashmir 190001 want to change the name of my mother in my passport from Mehbooba Mufti to Mehbooba Syed. "If anybody has any objection regarding the same may please contact the concerned authorities within the period of seven days after that no objections will be entertained," the notice read. Mehbooba Mufti and her husband are not living together. The couple have two daughters -- Iltija and Irtiqa. While the younger daughter has followed in the footsteps of her mother and taken on the Mufti surname, the elder one appears to be closer to her father. Mehbooba is under detention at her official residence here that has been declared a subsidiary jail. She was among hundreds of people who were taken into preventive custody hours ahead of the Centre revoking the special status of the Jammu and Kashmir and breaking the state into two union territories on August 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-muftis-daughter-wants-her-mothers-name-changed-on-passport-876790.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 5 family members found hanging at home; police suspect suicide||A retired government employee, his wife and three other family members, including a four- year-old child, were found hanging at their home in Madhya Pradesh's Tikamgarh district on Sunday, police said. Police said initial investigation suggested the family members committed suicide, but no note was recovered from the spot. Some neighbours of the victims, who lived in Khargapur town, about 35 km from the district headquarters, alerted the police after they did not see anyone coming out of the house in the morning, Superintendent of Police Prashant Khare said. The police later reached the spotand got opened the door which was bolted from inside. They found Dharamdas Soni (62), a retired state government employee, his wife Poona (55), their son Manohar (27) and daughter-in-law Sonam (25) hanging from a ceiling, and a four-year-old grandson hanging from a window grill, police said. Soni, his wife, daughter-in-law and the grandson were found dead in one room, while his son Manohar was found hanging in another room of the house, the official said. Khare said initial investigation suggests it to be a case of "mass suicide". He, however, added that no suicide note has been recovered. The bodies were sent for postmortem and a probe was underway in the case from all angles, he said. Khargapur area police inspector Sunil Sharma said according to initial investigation, Soni, who retired from the states veterinary services, recently sold two acres of land and his son Manohar wanted money from him to buy a shop to earn his livelihood. Soni was averse to his son's idea following which their relationship turned sour, he said. A detailed investigation was on in the case, he added. On getting information about the incident, Collector Subhash Dwivedi and Khare reached the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-5-family-members-found-hanging-at-home-police-suspect-suicide-876798.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Chidambaram urges Jammu and Kashmir parties to demand restoration of special status||Former Union minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday welcomed a joint resolution of six national and regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir, and appealed to them to stand "resolutely" behind their demand for restoration of special status of the erstwhile state. "Salute the unity and courage of six mainstream Opposition parties who came together yesterday (Saturday) to fight the repeal of Article 370," tweeted the former Union minister, who held portfolios like home and finance. Six political parties, including the National Conference and its arch rival PDP, issued the resolution making clear that there can be "nothing about us without us", a statement which clearly indicated that the Centre has to take into confidence people of Jammu and Kashmir before implementing any constitutional change. The political parties termed the abrogation of special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 of the Constitution as a "spitefully shortsighted" and "grossly unconstitutional" move and pledged a combined effort for restoration of the pre-August 5 position of last year. In a series of tweets in both English and Hindi, Chidambaram said, "I appeal to them to stand resolutely behind their demand. Ignore the uninformed criticism of self-styled nationalists who do not read history but try to re-write history." Stating that the Constitution contained many examples of special provisions for states and asymmetric distribution of power, he said, "How will the government resolve the Naga issues if it is against making Special Provisions?" The Saturday's resolution, termed Gupkar Declaration-II, was circulated in the media. It was signed by National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, J-K Congress chief G A Mir, People's Conference leader Sajjad Lone, state CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, and Jammu and Kashmir Awami National Conference senior vice-president Muzaffar Shah. This is the first combined statement issued by the political parties after more than a year. The national and regional political parties termed the changes made in the state in August last year as "unfortunate" which have unrecognisably changed the relationship between Jammu and Kashmir and New Delhi. "In a spitefully shortsighted and unconstitutional move, Articles 370 and 35A were abrogated and the state was bifurcated and relegated to the status of two Union Territories and its Constitution tried to be made unenforceable", it had said. The Jammu and Kashmir unit of BJP president Ravinder Raina termed this demand of the six political parties as "day-dreaming" and made it clear that restoration of special status was "next to impossible". He claimed the controversial Articles were like a "wall of hatred" which did nothing except "digging an ocean of misunderstandings" and retarding the growth and development of the erstwhile state. On the resolution, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti's Twitter handle, which is being operated by her daughter Iltija, posted a comment saying that "Ms Mufti appreciates the statesmanship shown by Dr Farooq sahab in forging a collective response to Delhi's onslaught on JK's special status. It's time we forego political differences and stand together." Mehbooba Mufti is currently under detention. People's Conference leader Sajjad Lone, who was a former ally of the BJP in the last government of the state, tweeted that it was a "very satisfying day. We firmly believe that a collective mechanism is the only way out. It is no longer about power. It is about a struggle to get back what rightfully belongs to us. Thanks Dr Farooq sahib, Mehbooba Ji and Tarigami sahib."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chidambaram-urges-jammu-and-kashmir-parties-to-demand-restoration-of-special-status-876799.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||ITBP troops carry woman for 15 hrs in operation||A team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel carried an injured woman for 15 hours as it rescued her from a mountainous and remote border location of Uttarakhand, an officer of the border guarding force said on Sunday. The troops negotiated swollen rivulets, rocky tracks and landslide-prone heights on Saturday while rescuing the woman on a cot from Lapsa village in Pithoragarh district's Munsyari town. The woman fell from a hillside and broke her legs on August 20 but she could not be rescued for two days as a chopper could not land in the area, an ITBP spokesperson said. As her condition worsened, the ITBP was informed and subsequently, troops from the 14th battalion of the force deployed at the Milam border post along the Sino-India Line of Actual Control (LAC), about 22 kms from the woman's village, trekked to rescue her, he added. "Twenty-five ITBP men took turns to carry the woman on a stretcher for 15 hours through flooded nullahs, landslide-prone areas and slippery slopes for about 40 kms, up to the nearest roadhead. "The woman was further evacuated to a hospital. She is stable now," the officer said. The paramilitary force is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km-long LAC with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/itbp-troops-carry-woman-for-15-hrs-in-operation-876829.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha sets timeline for delivery of domicile certificates||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed the officers concerned to speed up the process of issuance and delivery of domicile certificates in a hassle-free way, as he appreciated the enthusiasm shown by the applicants. "All pending applicants be provided domicile certificates within 15 days, and deadline of September 10 is being set, after which no long pendency shall be excused and action against the responsible, underperforming officers shall be taken," Sinha said, chairing a meeting here to review ongoing development activities in Jammu district. An official spokesman said the LG took notice of the 90 per cent pendency of online applications for domicile certificates and directed the officers to speed up the process through online mode. He also directed them to ensure seamless issuance of domicile certificates for Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) holders without requiring additional documents. The LG laid emphasis on the swift delivery of public services and the completion of centrally-sponsored schemes at the earliest. He also set a deadline of September 30 for 100 per cent Aadhaar enrolment in the district to ensure complete and uninterrupted disbursal of benefits through the DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode. On enrolment under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, the LG asked the concerned to remove discrepancies and provide benefits to all the deserving families. Similarly, the LG observed a fall in payments under the PM KISAN Yojana and instructed that all farmers be involved under the scheme, irrespective of their land-holdings, and be provided benefits under the same, as per the revised guidelines. Noting a slow payment of wages under the MGNREGA, he directed the officers concerned to ensure that the wages are paid within 15 days of the work. The Lt Governor also discussed issues of border dwellers of the district and directed the Divisional Commissioner to verify complaints of poor quality construction of civilian bunkers at the border. The Divisional Commissioner was also directed to verify status of works started after Back to Village programmes, besides slow progress on construction of boundary wall and internal road at IIM Jammu campus, and report, the spokesman said. Disappointed at the 36 per cent damage rate of power transformers in Jammu region, against the national average of 5 per cent, LG Sinha directed the officers to reduce the rate to minimum, and bring it at par with the national average. He also instructed the officers to be accessible to the general public and elected representatives at grassroot levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lt-governor-manoj-sinha-sets-timeline-for-delivery-of-domicile-certificates-876864.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Lightning kills three in Uttar Pradesh's Raebareli||Three persons died and as many others were injured after being struck by lightning in Salon area of the district on Sunday, officials said. Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Salon, Ashish Singh, said some people in Gothia Tiwaripur village were grazing animals when lightning accompanied by rain occurred in the evening. Anjali (17), who had taken shelter under a tree, was electrocuted. Deepanshi (12) and Kamla (55) got injured and were sent to the district hospital, where they succumbed, the SDM said. Three other persons were also injured in the lightning strike and are undergoing treatment, the officials said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the district administration to provide Rs 4 lakh to families of each of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-kills-three-in-uttar-pradeshs-raebareli-876899.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Two killed, 3 hurt as roof of bus stop collapses in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura||Two people were killed and three others, including a woman, injured when the roof of a bus stop caved in near Neemgaon Tiraha on Barsana Road in Mathura's Govardhan on Sunday afternoon, an official said. “While injured Khem Chand (60) succumbed to his injuries on the spot, 70-year-old Tursi died in the hospital,” SDM Rahul Yadav said. He said the roof of the decade-old bus stop collapsed due to heavy rainfall. The SDM said while injured Aalia Khan has been admitted to the district hospital, 42-year-old Kalua was shifted to a private hospital as per the wish of his relatives.   Omvati (45), who received minor injuries, was given first aid at a local hospital, the official said. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident. He directed the district administration to pay Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased besides ensuring adequate medical treatment for the injured, according to a statement. The district magistrate was also directed to probe the collapse of the passenger shed built in 2007 and initiate action against the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-3-hurt-as-roof-of-bus-stop-collapses-in-uttar-pradeshs-mathura-876910.html
23-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro services should be resumed on trial basis, hope Centre will take decision soon: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that Metro train services in Delhi should be resumed in a phased manner as the Covid-19 situation was improving in the city and hoped the Centre would soon take a decision on it. Interacting with traders, entrepreneurs and businessmen in the city in a 'Digital Samvad', the chief minister also said his government was considering launching a website for goods that are manufactured and traded in Delhi to attract buyers from across the globe. He said markets and roads in the national capital would be beautified on the lines of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, which is expected to be completed by November-December. "I have requested the Centre that Delhi should be treated differently. Corona situation is improving in Delhi. If they do not want to run Metro trains in other cities, let it be so. But, in Delhi Metro train services should be started in a phased manner, on a trial basis. We have raised this issue before the Centre many times, I hope the Centre will soon take a decision in this regard," he said. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said in a statement that it will implement coronavirus-related guidelines and commence operations whenever directed by the government. "All necessary guidelines in place to combat the spread of the Covid-19 virus shall be implemented and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our value commuters," the statement said. The chief minister highlighted various steps taken by his government to revive the pandemic-hit economy of the city and said it would make some big announcements about the industry sector in coming days. Kejriwal also assured the traders that anomalies in circle rates in some areas would be addressed. "One suggestion that I received was that just like the job portal ('Rozgar Bazar'), we should launch a portal of industries and shops. Through this portal, Delhi's wholesale market and industries can put their products before the whole world and they can receive orders from the whole world. We can call it 'Delhi Bazaar' where the people can market their products," he said. "Delhi government to launch online 'Delhi Bazar' for traders. The whole world will know what goods are manufactured or sold in Delhi," a government statement later said quoting the chief minister. Kejriwal reiterated that in the last five years, the people of Delhi have collectively overcome many challenges and they will also overcome the challenge of economic revival of Delhi by working together in this hour of need. "The last 5-6 months have been very tough for us. The whole country and the whole world is suffering from the corona pandemic. On one hand, the most important thing is to control corona and save the people and ensure there are no deaths and on the other hand, what is important is getting Delhi's economy back on track, which has dismantled because of no jobs, no businesses, and no trade due to corona lockdown," he said. He also said Delhi did not have to reimpose lockdown like many other states. "I am happy that the corona situation in Delhi is under control. The situation was a bit worrisome in the month of June for 15-20 days, but now, with the efforts of the two crore people of Delhi, help of the Centre, religious and social organisations, the situation is under control. "There was a rise in the number of cases for 15-20 days since June 1 after the lockdown was lifted, but we did not impose the lockdown again. Probably, Delhi is the only city where lockdown hasn't been imposed again, as we understand work, and Covid-19 management can go hand-in-hand," he said. Talking about the suggestions received by him, Kejriwal said that some people faced problems in getting loans under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Yojana, and his government will work it out in consultation with banks. The virtual meeting was attended by more than 215 traders of Delhi from sectors like manufacturing, electronics, garments and automobiles, said Vice Chairperson, Dialogue & Development Commission of Delhi, Jasmine Shah. The interaction was moderated by national convenor of Chamber of Trade & Industries (CTI) Brajesh Goel. The meeting was attended by representatives from all the major markets in Delhi including Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Chawdi Bazar, Khari Baoli, Kashmiri Gate, Karol Bagh, Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar, Khan Market, and South Extension. Harshvardhan Bansal, chairman of Unity Group raised the issue of circle rate anomalies seeking the chief minister's help to fix it. President of South Ex Market Vijay Kumar demanded resuming Metro train services. "Metro Rail service should be started soon. There is a lot of problem in the movement of people. The Metro is used both by the customers and employees. The staff is finding it difficult to commute on daily basis," he said. Meenakshi Dutt, a salon owner, suggested for an exclusive cell for women entrepreneurs to be opened by the Delhi government to redress their grievances and provide them infirmation about various schemes for them. The representatives from marble and automobile parts industry suggested for opening separate hubs for them in the city to attract customers in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-should-be-resumed-on-trial-basis-hope-centre-will-take-decision-soon-kejriwal-876912.html
23-08-2020||Opinion||Why Biden needs a landslide just to win||When many of us question Hillary Clinton’s performance and strategy in 2016 and say that she should have won, we’re speaking sloppily. We mean that she should have won by more. We mean that she should have won by so much that James Comey’s vain and imprudent fit of conscience didn’t matter, that Russian interference didn’t matter, that Mark Zuckerberg’s abdication of responsibility for content on his platform didn’t matter, that the quirks of the Electoral College and the advantage it confers on Republicans didn’t matter. She got almost 3 million more votes than Donald Trump, as she justifiably mentioned on Wednesday night at the Democratic National Convention. We’re saying that in light of what a wretched man he is, what an unsavory candidate he was and what a chaotic campaign he ran, she should have received, heck, 5 million more, which would surely have included enough in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan to tip the Electoral College to her and save us from these past few soul-effacing years. I was reminded of that not only by her remarks at the convention but also by what many other speakers said. They didn’t urge voters merely to cast more mail-in ballots than Trump’s supporters do, merely to show up on Election Day in greater numbers, merely to deliver Joe Biden and Kamala Harris any old margin of victory. They urged a show of force so lopsided that it would be able to overcome undelivered mail, closed polling sites, whatever schemes Trump might hatch and, on the far side of that, his insistence that any vote count that doesn’t put him on top is rigged and illegitimate. What a chillingly cynical perspective. And what an entirely accurate one. The Democratic convention was out of the ordinary in many ways. It was disembodied, allowing for some inventive digital choreography but robbing big moments, like Harris’s speech, of their customary hubbub, their celebratory thunder. In counterpoint to Trump’s toxic narcissism, the Democrats framed their nominee, Joe Biden, not as some cinematic savior but as a humble ambassador of goodness, a regular-guy corrective who would arrive at the White House with a bucket and a mop, ready to wipe away the moral stain left by Trump, Jared Kushner and the rest of these reprobates. But the most unusual aspect of the convention was the assumption on which it rested. It foretold and factored in outright cheating on the other side and suggested that, because of it, a new math was in order, an arithmetical overkill. It did that because there has been plenty of cheating or attempted cheating already. There was of course that “perfect” phone call between President Donald Trump and his Ukrainian counterpart, who was tasked with the “favor” of assassinating Biden’s character. There was, according to John Bolton’s memoir, an appeal to the Chinese president for help. Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russians in 2016 didn’t teach the president not to touch a hot stove again. It taught him that the burn is just legend. He has since threatened to sue Nevada, a state he’s unlikely to win, for easing its citizens’ ability to vote. He has wished aloud for the gutting of the U.S. Postal Service so that mail-in balloting would be thwarted. He has floated the idea of delaying the election. While he doesn’t have the power to do that, he knew that bringing up the subject was another way of saying to voters: This is all a mess. Don’t bother with it and don’t believe the results. And he knows that in a fog of all-encompassing distrust, voters can’t distinguish properly between the good actors and the bad actors like him. A fair fight? Trump is the presidential equivalent of the sucker-punching boxer who left Hilary Swank paralyzed in “Million Dollar Baby.” Those of us who care about American democracy are Swank. The situation is so perverse that Facebook is already bracing for, and figuring out how to respond to, Trump’s likely attempt to use the social network to invalidate any election results not to his liking, as Mike Isaac and Sheera Frenkel reported in The New York Times on Friday. Already, Facebook has been besieged by disinformation that gives people the wrong details about when, where and how to vote. The 2020 presidential race is hardly the first time that one or both sides spotted or prophesied dirty tricks by the other. Go back only as far as the 2000 contest between George W. Bush and Al Gore and the Florida recount to find recriminations galore and cries of illegitimacy. But this election will make that one look like a game of patty-cake. Democrats are suitably braced for that. And so, over the four nights of their convention, they issued get-out-the-vote pleas that were more like get-out-the-vote tutorials, get-out-the-vote instruction manuals, that were remarkable in their specificity, in their repeated assertion that you needed to make a “plan to vote.” This was Michelle Obama, on the convention’s opening night: “We have got to grab our comfortable shoes, put on our masks, pack a brown-bag dinner and maybe breakfast, too, because we’ve got to be willing to stand in line all night if we have to.” When’s the last time a leader urging Americans to vote included sartorial and epicurean tips? I’m guessing never. But that’s where we are. Two nights later, Barack Obama cautioned that Trump and his enablers “are counting on your cynicism. They know they can’t win you over with their policies. So they’re hoping to make it as hard as possible for you to vote, and to convince you that your vote does not matter.” “Do not let them take away your power,” he added. “Do not let them take away your democracy.” When have you ever heard a restrained former president accuse the current one not just of poor stewardship but of a plot to destroy the American project itself? You haven’t. Then Trump came along. On the convention’s final night, comedian Sarah Cooper warned voters that Trump “doesn’t want any of us to vote because he knows he can’t win fair and square.” Julia Louis-Dreyfus, the moderator, said, “If we all vote, there is nothing Facebook, Fox News and Vladimir Putin can do to stop us!” Well beyond the convention, I hear people worrying about their votes being thrown away; about what happens if Trump is ahead on Election Day and falls behind only when the mail-in ballots are counted; about how large a margin of victory in the popular vote will be needed to guarantee triumph in the Electoral College; about how resounding an Electoral College triumph will be necessary to make Trump shut up. These questions aren’t the products of Trump Derangement Syndrome. They’re the fruits of exposure to Trump. They’re also the legacy of Clinton’s defeat in 2016, when there was such a strong sense that the will of a majority of people fell prey to freaky, funky twists. A lesson was learned, and Democrats are now heeding it: To eke out a victory, you need a landslide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-biden-needs-a-landslide-just-to-win-876648.html
23-08-2020||Opinion||Prashant Bhushan: A case for judicial introspection||In 1967, E M S Namboodiripad, the first communist chief minister of Kerala made some statements in a press conference that judges are “guided and dominated by class hatred, class interests and class prejudices.” In a remarkably embarrassing judgment, the Supreme Court held E M S guilty of contempt, and also made references to how he “misguided himself about the true teachings of Marx, Engels and Lenin.” (E M Sankaran Namboodiripad vs T Narayanan Nambiar, 1970). In a letter written to the Kerala Law Journal later, E M S  gracefully wrote, “…the function of the Court is to interpret and administer the law as it is, and not to pronounce their verdict on the various systems of philosophy in which litigants repose their faith." On August 14, the Supreme Court held Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of the court. The court again failed in adequately performing its institutional function: Appreciate the law of contempt correctly. In the judgment running up to 108 pages, one can barely find any legal reasoning. The judgment is more of a compilation of excerpts from various earlier judgments and references about the magnanimity and the dignity of the court. There is no discussion on the alleged motive – which is required to be affirmatively shown and proved in any criminal proceeding. There is also no substantial discussion on how Bhushan’s tweets scandalise the authority of the court under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.  While failing in the correct interpretation of the law, the court also failed in another aspect: On its methodology of approaching the contempt case. During the Covid-19 lockdown and even before, the court has been criticised for its refusal and deferral to hear cases of immense constitutional significance and political urgency. For example, the challenge against the abrogation of Article 370 stands pending in the court, for more than a year. The petition against the constitutional validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act also remains untouched. Various petitions filed against preventive detention, illegal arrests and human rights abuses did not see a fast-track hearing such as the Bhushan case. This makes one question the priority of the court as an institution: Why is the Bhushan case more urgent and important to be heard in a matter of weeks, than other petitions where urgent reliefs are sought, where matters of life and death are battled? Any contempt proceedings, in general, suffer from an inherent infirmity. By their very nature, the proceedings are an exception to the rule that no one shall be a judge in his or her own cause. As different from other types of cases where there are contesting parties and the court is an external adjudicator, in contempt proceedings, the court itself is the complainant. This leads to a peculiar situation where the court is called upon to adjudicate a case where it is significantly involved. Apart from these flaws, the judgment has a critical impact on our constitutional democracy. As widely argued, the judgment and the way it interprets Bhushan’s speech to be contempt have the effect of stifling criticism against the courts. The episode gives an impression that the judicial institution is largely immune from disapproval and whoever questions what the court does is immediately vulnerable to criminal contempt proceedings. It also assumes that the court is granted this privilege that the other branches of the state, such as the executive or the legislature, do not enjoy. Democracy is after all, not about universal consensus. Democracy flourishes in deliberation and disagreement, in public reason and in the ability to engage with all kinds of views. On 20 August, the court asked Bhushan to reconsider his statement, even though he has said that he will not apologise. The court should introspect about the path it has taken in the contempt of court judgement. (Thulasi is a lawyer at the Supreme Court and Kerala High Court. She is also an Equality Fellow at the Centre for Law & Policy Research, Bengaluru) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/prashant-bhushan-a-case-for-judicial-introspection-876677.html
23-08-2020||South||Hadn't met my family in two-and-a-half months: Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja||Shailaja has been recognised for her skilful handling of the crisis and the various measures implemented to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus across the state. She follows all safety measures and urges others to the same, saying, “Since we have launched the ‘Break the Chain’ programme, I am very particular about not flouting any protocol. I maintain physical distance, wear a mask, wash my hands and use hand sanitiser frequently.” Talking about her family life, she said that she hasn’t been able to meet them, and keeps in touch via video calls. “I reach my official residence only after 10 pm and get time to talk to my family around 11 pm. My husband, son, his wife and my two-year-old grand-daughter keep waiting for my call. My grand-daughter shows me her drawings on video calls. Talking to her helps me manage my stress. I talk about household matters with my husband. I also speak to my elder son who lives in Abu Dhabi with his wife and three-year-old son. After that, I read newspaper articles and editorials. At times, I watch videos on YouTube. I go to sleep around 12.30-1 am and get up by 6 am, and the cycle begins again.” Kerala has recorded over 56, 354 coronavirus cases and 218 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hadnt-met-my-family-in-two-and-a-half-months-kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-876702.html
23-08-2020||South||Puducherry reports 412 Covid-19 cases, tally touches 10,522||The Covid-19 tally in the union territory rose to 10,522 and the toll mounted to 159 with the addition of 412 fresh cases and eight deaths, the Health department said on Sunday. There were 3,706 active cases after discharge of 350 patients in the last 24 hours ending at 10 am. The cumulative recoveries stood at 6,657, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. A total of 1,282 samples were tested during the period. So far, 63,590 samples had been sent for tests and of them 51,422 had turned out to be negative while the results of the remaining were awaited, he said. The rate of fatality was 1.51 percent while the recovery rate was 63.27 percent, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-412-covid-19-cases-tally-touches-10522-876707.html
23-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu observes intense lockdown, violators fined||People stayed indoors and roads were deserted as Tamil Nadu observed a complete lockdown on Sunday as part of efforts to fight Covid-19. While only healthcare services and milk supplies were operational, violators of norms in urban and semi-urban localities in districts including Kancheepuram, Pudukottai, and Virudhunagar were fined by local authorities. Vegetable, meat, and fish vendors were among those fined. Tamil Nadu police said a fine of Rs 21.26 crore has so far been levied across the state as on Sunday for violation of curbs and 6.88 lakh vehicles seized. The complete lockdown, effective since last month on all Sundays, saw closure of fuel pumps, markets and stores selling essential commodities while officials inspected their jurisdictional localities to check violations. Government-run TASMAC liquor outlets were also closed today like previous Sundays. Since today is a 'muhurtham' day considered auspicious, a number of couples tied the knot in front of temples, though they were closed down like a man and woman before the Sri Kolanjiappar temple at Virudhachalam in Cuddalore district. Cargo vehicles operated as usual while police put up barricades and set up checkposts across the State to check violations for effective implementation of the curbs. Amma Canteens and healthcare services -hospitals, pharmacies and labs- were open and sanitary workers went on with their clean up work. Personnel of civic bodies conducted door-to-door surveys to detect people with flu-like symptoms in addition to fever camps and disinfection tasks were not halted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-observes-intense-lockdown-violators-fined-876792.html
23-08-2020||South||Kerala's first tribal panchayat may face food scarcity, electricity disrupted for a month||With the lone forest path got damaged in the heavy rains, the 3,000 odd people of Edamalakkudy, the first tribal panchayat situated near Munnar in Idukki district in Kerala, is heading towards a food scarcity, while power supply to the panchayat has been disrupted for nearly one month. Though a meeting convened by the district administration last week directed the forest authorities to immediately make the around 15-kilometre forest path motorable, so far the work has not started. While many parts of the path were washed away, scores of trees also uprooted and blocked the path. At present people of the panchayat used to walk through the forest path for hours to reach the nearest town for essential needs.  Adding to woes of the people is recent rumours that the tiger was spotted in the area.  Owing to power supply disruption the panchayat is also having no communication facility. The panchayat president Govindraj said that anticipating the rough weather, some additional rice and other essential food items were stocked in the panchayat in advanced. But that stock would be over by this month. The forest authorities had not yet commenced the work for clearing the forest path. Commodities could be transported to the panchayat only in jeep-type vehicles. Edamalakkudy is situated about 35 kilometres from Munnar. Motorable road is only up to Pettimuddi where the recent landslide occurred on August 6 night. The remaining 15 kilometre is a forest path and hence the forest authorities have to maintain the road. Meanwhile, Munnar divisional forest officer M V G Kannan said that the work on restoring the road would commence in a day or two and it could be completed in ten to 15 days. Power supply to the area was disrupted after the underground cable to the region got severed in the Pettimuddi landslide. Cable at some parts of the forest path were also damaged and hence the restoration works were getting delayed as the forest path was not motorable, said a KSEB official. Sources said that a review meeting held by the district administration on Sunday also discussed the issue and directed the forest officials to expedite the forest path restoration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-first-tribal-panchayat-may-face-food-scarcity-electricity-disrupted-for-a-month-876801.html
23-08-2020||South||Setback to Kerala's joint protest against airport privatisation||The joint protests by the ruling CPM-led Left front and Congress-led Opposition in Kerala against the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport privatisation has suffered a setback as it came to light that a firm having links with the Adani group was earlier engaged by the Kerala government to prepare the bid for the airport privatisation. Incidentally, the state government lost to Adani group in the bidding. The Opposition is reviewing the moves to jointly pass a resolution in the state Assembly on Monday. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged a criminal conspiracy by the government in engaging the firm linked with Adani. Law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas was engaged last year for legal services to prepare Kerala government's bid for airport management and development and the firm was also paid Rs. 55.4 lakh. The firm's co-owner Cyril Shroff is Gautam Adani's son Karan Adani's father-in-law and Karan's wife Paridhi is also a partner of the firm. Kerala government lost the bid for the airport as it only quoted a fee of Rs. 135 per passenger, while the Adani group quoted Rs. 162 per passenger. The Opposition Congress, as well as the BJP, alleged that the Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala was having nexus with the Adani group and the present protest against handing over the airport to Adani is a farce. The state government had spent a total of Rs. 2.36 crore for the airport bidding, which included a consultancy fee of Rs. 1.57 crore to KPMG, apart from the Rs. 55.4 lakh to Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas. Meanwhile, various bodies of trade, tourism and commerce in Kerala have strongly backed handing over of the airport management to a private party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/setback-to-keralas-joint-protest-against-airport-privatisation-876807.html
23-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 5,975 new Covid-19 cases, 97 fatalities; Chennai tally breaches 1.25 lakh||Tamil Nadu on Sunday recorded 5,975 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 3,79,385, while 97 fatalities pushed the death toll to 6,517, the Health department said. The number of active cases stood at 53,541 with 6,047 discharges from various healthcare facilities and in total 3,19,327 have recovered, a Health department bulletin said. Of the state's tally of 3,79,385 cases, Chennai's share breached the 1.25 lakh mark to reach 1,25,389, it said. According to the bulletin, 70,127 samples were tested today, taking the tally to 42,06,617. Of the new infections, Chennai reported 1,298 cases while neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts collectively contributed 928. Ranipet, Tirupattur, Vellore, Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi recorded a total of 676 cases today. Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Salem, Madurai, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Sivaganga, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli saw a jump of 1,882 fresh Covid19 cases. As many as 33 people who had tested positive today were returnees from domestic and overseas destinations.  Among the deceased, 87 had comorbidities. A 21-year old man from neighbouring Kancheepuram was among the victims of the virus without any chronic illness. Four men above the age of 90 years died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-5975-new-covid-19-cases-97-fatalities-chennai-tally-breaches-125-lakh-876834.html
23-08-2020||South||Rise in Covid-19 cases in India due to flouting of norms by people: Bedi||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi has attributed the spurt in coronavirus cases in India to violation of safety protocols such as social distancing by the public. Expressing strong concern over the flouting of norms by the people, Bedi in a video message on Saturday said, "with the people violating relevant safety protocols such as social distancing there has been a huge spike in pandemic cases in India." In a veiled reference to the breach of rules by people here, she said when the lockdown was lifted, there were serpentine queues outside liquor shops and people were seen jostling with each other to purchase alcohol. Similarly, during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations people were seen moving about in the open and there were processions carried out despite the appeal made to celebrate the festival at home. Bedi expressed regret that some people expect the government to provide treatment free of cost after violating the safety norms and causing the spread of the virus. She sought to know why everything should come from the government and why not the people pay for the services. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Sunday pointed out that his government would not hesitate to bring in stringent lockdown sooner than later if people's response to safety norms continued to be poor. Launching a new facility for remote monitoring of home quarantined patients here, he said Puducherry was now having 2,097 patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic as home quarantined patients. Reacting to complaints that home quarantined patients were freely moving about without any discipline, he said, "... One coronavirus stricken patient can infect at least 100 people." The CM said presently the Union Territory was witnessing unabated rise in the number of pandemic cases mostly because of the "careless" and "indiscipline nature" of the patients moving about and spreading the virus. He appealed to the patients in home quarantine with folded hands not to venture out and ensure that they remained in quarantine for 14 days. Narayanasamy further said, "if the public continued to be careless and negligent, the territorial government would not hesitate to intensify the measures and introduce stringent lockdown sooner than later."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-india-due-to-flouting-of-norms-by-people-bedi-876838.html
23-08-2020||South||Telangana needs to increase Covid-19 tests: Union Minister||Telangana needs to ramp up Covid-19 testing though the recovery rate in the state has improved, Union Minister G Kishan Reddy said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "Recovery rate is good in Telangana also. But, I feel the number of tests need to increase." Noting that Telangana was at seventh place from the bottom, among all states, in testing, Reddy wished the state to move up in the list as it was "rich and developed." Reddy, who was speaking after inaugurating the Rotary Blood Plasma Bank here, said he spoke to state Health Minister Eatala Rajender on the matter and that the state government was also making efforts to step up testing. The Centre has provided about 14 lakh N-95 masks, about 2,40,000 PPE kits and 1,400 ventilators, among others, to Telangana, the Minister of State for Home said adding it was even ready to provide more ventilators to Telangana. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who held a video conference with Chief Ministers of various states recently, has stressed on not compromising on testing, he pointed out. Referring to Modi's reported statement that testing needs to be enhanced in five states, Reddy said Telanagana was among them. The Union Minister claimed that though the population of India was more than 11 developed countries, it was doing well in terms of positive cases and deaths. While the number of positive cases per one million population in the US was 17,498, it was 2,156 in India. He also stated that the number of deaths per million population in America was 541, while in India it was 40. Sixty per cent of those who died had comorbidities, while 40 per cent succumbed to coronavirus. To a query on the reported remarks of Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Covid-19 in the state, he said the she has not made any criticism against the state government. Soundararajan, who is the Constitutional head of the state, is a medical doctor, and she has made suggestions out of her experience, he said. Observing that even common people can make suggestions, he said it was also her responsibility as the Governor of the state. Contending that it was not a political issue, he said it was about a pandemic and even common people have the right to make suggestions. Neither the Centre nor the BJP have anything to do with the remarks of the Governor, he clarified. Reddy disapproved of the exorbitant charges allegedly being collected by some private hospitals in the city for Covid-19 treatment. As on August 22, the number of positive cases in Telangana was 1,04,249 and the recovery rate in the state was 77.30 which is 74.69 per cent at the national level. The total number of tests conducted in the state cumulatively was 9,31,839.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-needs-to-increase-covid-19-tests-union-minister-876840.html
23-08-2020||South||14-year-old boy ends life after being scolded by father for playing games on mobile||A 14-year-old died by hanging after being chided by his father for playing games on his mobile, police said. The boy, Devanandu, a ninth standard student, was found hanging in his room Sunday morning. On Saturday night, as he was busy with some video games, his father chided him following which he immediately went off to his room. Thinking that he was asleep, the boy's parents did not disturb him. However, they found him hanging from the ceiling fan this morning after he failed to turn up for breakfast, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-year-old-boy-ends-life-after-being-scolded-by-father-for-playing-games-on-mobile-876852.html
23-08-2020||South||TN political parties demand action against AYUSH secretary for 'Hindi imposition'||Political parties in Tamil Nadu have demanded action against Union AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for 'imposing Hindi' on doctors from the state by asking them to leave a virtual conference he was addressing if they did not know Hindi. Opposition parties have come together in condemning the incident that took place on the last day of the three-day training session for 'Master Trainers of Yoga' on Thursday with two MPs shooting off letters to Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Yesso Naik demanding strict action against Kotecha and other officials who 'insulted' doctors from Tamil Nadu. The leaders, including Opposition Leader M K Stalin, demanded that the Centre ensure that English is used in national-level conferences for the benefit of participants from non-Hindi speaking states. However, Kotecha has refuted the allegations maintaining that that there was "some manipulation" in the video clip released by the doctors and alleged that "some hooligans entered the meeting and shouted that I should speak only in Hindi when I was making my speech in both English and Hindi.” The incident comes a fortnight after DMK MP Kanimozhi complained that a CISF personnel at the Chennai Airport doubted her Indian identity for not knowing Hindi. Language is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu which has stonewalled numerous efforts by successive Central governments to bring Hindi as a third language. The Tamil Nadu doctors said that they were told to leave the conference if they did not know Hindi, adding that their repeated requests to the organisers to speak in English fell into deaf ears. As many as 37 doctors from Tamil Nadu participated in the online training session. In a statement, Stalin demanded “strict action” against Kotecha and said such incidents reflect the BJP Government’s plans to impose Hindi using officials. “The Prime Minister should ensure that such incidents do not recur in the future. Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Edappadi K Palaniswami, should write a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to ensure that the link language of English should be used in such conferences to enable people from non-Hindi states also understand,” Stalin said. PMK founder S Ramadoss sought to know what would have been the response from participants if a trainer had said he can only speak in Tamil, while Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said no one should forget that it is “Indian government and not Hindian government.” Ramadoss also demanded that it was time for all 22 Indian languages be made into official languages. The doctors also released a video of the programme in which Kotecha, who made lateral entry into government service after heading the Gujarat Ayurveda University in Jamnagar, is seen telling the participants he does not speak English “very well.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-political-parties-demand-action-against-ayush-secretary-for-hindi-imposition-876856.html
23-08-2020||South||Kerala minister offers to return Quran as probe likely into accepting 'gift' from UAE consulate||Close on the heels of reports that the Ministry of Finance might probe an acceptance of 'gift' from UAE consulate, Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel said in a social media post that copies of the Quran received from the consulate could be returned. Jaleel faced the allegations of accepting relief food kits worth Rs 5 lakh offered by the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in connection with Ramadan. During the Customs probe into the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage, it also came to light that around 300 Qurans were received from UAE through diplomatic baggage and the minister allegedly facilitated its distribution to his home district Malappuram through a state government agency's vehicle. The minister said in the post that the UAE consulate offered the food kits and copies of the Quran as part of their traditional practice during the Ramadan. Copies of the Quran are yet to be distributed and are at two institutions in Malappuram. It could be returned to the consulate. He also said that he was ready to face any probe in this regard. Sources said that the ED is likely to probe into the allegations that the minister flouted Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010 by accepting the offer from a foreign mission without obtaining permission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-offers-to-return-quran-as-probe-likely-into-accepting-gift-from-uae-consulate-876862.html
23-08-2020||South||CPI(M) organises state-wide protests against "anti people" policies of union govt||The ruling CPI(M) in Kerala held state-wide protests on Sunday against various 'anti people' policies of the Centre, including leasing of the airport here to Adani Enterprises. The protest was held in front of homes and party offices, in which lakhs participated adhering to Covid-19 protocol, party sources said. CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan along with his family members took part in the protest holding placards in front of his home here. The protest was held by various party leaders and functionaries from 4 pm to 4.30 pm this evening. The party charged the union government with launching 'anti-people' policies during the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, demanding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's resignation in the gold smuggling case, BJP state president K Surendran observed a day long fast here on Sunday. Inaugurating the satyagraha through video conference, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said such 'blatant misuse' of CM's office has never been seen. "It is high time that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan comes clean on the entire issue. High time he should resign", Fadnavis said. He also demanded to know how Swapna Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate, a matriculate, was appointed in the Space park under theIT department. Suresh is a key accused in the case relating to the attempt to smuggle gold in diplomatic baggage through the airport here. Union minister V Muraleedharan was among those who spoke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-organises-state-wide-protests-against-anti-people-policies-of-union-govt-876894.html
23-08-2020||South||Puducherry MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislator in Puducherry, R Siva tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. A spokesman of the Department of Health and Family Welfare here told P T I that the samples collected from the legislator confirmed the infection and on his request he had been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai. The Covid-19 tally in the union territory rose to 10,522 on Sunday with the addition of 412 fresh cases while the toll mounted to 159 with eight deaths, according to the Health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-876919.html
23-08-2020||South||Panel to look into Telangana power plant fire accident||Expressing anguish over the fire accident at Srisailam hydro-electric power plant, which killed nine people, a top official of TS-GENCO on Sunday said a committee has been constituted to ascertain the cause of the mishap and suggest preventive measures. Chairman and Managing Director of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd (TS-GENCO), Prabhakar Rao said the panel comprising senior engineers will look into the incident and submit its report, following which steps would be taken to prevent such incidents in future. He said efforts were being taken to resume operations at two units at the plant in another 15 days. Observing that personnel were finding it difficult to access the other units in view of a lot of heat, the official said they would start functioning after damage assessment. Rao said he would soon call on the family members of the deceased and assure them of all possible support. Compassionate appointments would be made, he added. Expressing deep sorrow over the incident, he said four of the deceased tried to come out through the escape tunnel available in the plant. But, they could not due to a shortage of oxygen and also because they inhaled carbon dioxide. The ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh for DE and Rs 25 lakh each for others announced by the Chief Minister is unprecedented in such incidents, he said. Similar accidents have taken place earlier in the country, including one at an NTPC plant in Uttar Pradesh in which 38 people were killed in 2017 and another at Neyveli Lignite Corporation recently. The engineers of the power utilities have been asked to study those incidents as well, he noted. The Criminal Investigation Department on Saturday took over the probe into the fire at the Srisailam hydro-electric power plant. The fire broke out in the plant located in Nagarkurnool district of Telangana on August 20. Most of those dead were engineers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panel-to-look-into-telangana-power-plant-fire-accident-876925.html
23-08-2020||South||Telangana sanitation workers protest transportation of colleagues to hospital in tractor used to carry waste||Sanitation workers of a municipality in Siddipet district staged a protest outside their office on Sunday alleging that some of their colleagues were taken to a hospital in a tractor, used for transporting waste, for Covid-19 tests. The workers of Gajwel-Pragnapur municipality also demanded better treatment for those who tested positive for the virus. However, the Municipality Commissioner, Krishna Reddy denied the charge and said the workers were transported in an ordinary tractor on Saturday. The agitators also termed as an 'inhuman act' taking workers to the hospital in a tractor meant for carrying municipal waste. Political party leaders, including those from the Congress and CITU expressed solidarity with the protesters. The Commissionier said the sanitation workers were sent for undergoing Covid-19 tests as part of a drive. Reddy, who spoke to the protesters, assured them of respectful and dignified treatment by the officials and also best possible treatment to those who test positive for the virus. The protest was called off following his assurance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sanitation-workers-protest-transportation-of-colleagues-to-hospital-in-tractor-used-to-carry-waste-876929.html
23-08-2020||State||49 kg ganja seized in Udupi district, two held||The police arrested two persons and seized 49.150 kg ganja being transported in a lorry near Brahmavar Krishi Vigyan Kendra cross in the Udupi district. The arrested are Kurathapandi and Vanuvaldar. Ganja was being transported in a lorry bearing the registration number of Uttar Pradesh. The value of the seized ganja is 14.75 lakh. Along with lorry, the police have seized two mobile phones. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/49-kg-ganja-seized-in-udupi-district-two-held-876700.html
23-08-2020||State||Mysuru doctor's suicide: Protest calling for suspension of CEO called off||Government doctors, who were on protest since the last three days demanding the suspension of IAS officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, decided to call off the protest. They were protesting following the suicide of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer (in-charge) Dr S R Nagendra on Wednesday. According to the doctors and the family members of Nagendra, he killed himself due to alleged harassment from Zilla Panchyat CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra, who transferred following the allegation. The doctors were protesting in front of the District Health Office, in Mysuru. The doctors demanded the suspension of the CEO. Government Health Officer Association, Mysuru unit president, Dr Devi Anand said, "We welcome CEO's transfer but, we need him to be kept under suspension. The doctors will attend work from Monday," he said. The doctors also asked the government not to appoint either IAS or KAS officers as nodal officers as they do not have any expertise in the medical field. The persons with medical knowledge should be appointed as nodal officers and the officers must not interfere in their work, the doctors demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-doctors-suicide-protest-calling-for-suspension-of-ceo-called-off-876722.html
23-08-2020||State||Covid-19: Noted gynaecologist Mallesh Hullumani dies||Noted gynaecologist Mallesh Hullumani from Shivamogga died of Covid -19 in Bengaluru on Sunday.  He was tested positive for Covid-19 last month and he was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Bengaluru. He was also member of District Covid hospital Task Force Committee.  He was running a private hospital in Shivamogga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-noted-gynaecologist-mallesh-hullumani-dies-876767.html
23-08-2020||State||Indian Constitution is tied to Indic values: ASG||Additional Solicitor General of India Vikramjit Banerjee said the Indian Constitution is a balance of two impulses called the Dharma and the Artha. He was delivering a lecture on 'Reading the Constitution Culturally'. The talk was organised by the University Law College of Bangalore University. Banerjee said that unlike other constitutions, the Indian Constitution was based on a core principle called 'the justice'. "The conception of justice is the basis of the Constitution. When translated, it is Dharma. Indian Supreme Court has been afraid of relying too much on this conception of Dharma because it thinks that these are linked to certain religious values. But I disagree with it. Because these are Indic or Bharatiya values," he said. Banerjee said the secular and socialistic values of the Constitution are from the traditional Indian values such as 'Sarva Dharma Samanvaya and Sarvodaya'. He said the courts over and again termed these values as a mix of Gandhism because it cannot go back to strong Indian values. He said the Indian conception of freedom historically, culturally does not give right to hurt others. "Whenever you talk about protection of cows, village panchayats, protection of cottage industries and Swadeshi, you refer to them as Gandhian values. Mahatma Gandhi did speak about it but they were values of civilisation and they were incorporated into the Directive Principles of State Policy. The Fundamental Duties may have been borrowed from the socialist thinking but it is also influenced by Indian conceptions,’’ he said. Banerjee said that it was time for Indians to start discussing the Constitution culturally for an ultimate object of achieving the Rama Rajya. He said that while Dharma is derived from civilisations, Artha is derived from the Mouryan state's Artha Shastra. "There is a lot of talk about treating the Constitution independent of the culture and civilisation of the people. There is not enough discussion in contextualising this Constitution. It is time that we start discussing these issues because any Constitution cannot be interpreted out of the context in which it exists," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/indian-constitution-is-tied-to-indic-values-asg-876874.html
23-08-2020||State||Bengaluru-Hassan highway toll to go up from Sept 1||Zooming through the Bengaluru-Hassan highway (NH75) will get costlier from September 1 as the NHAI has revised the toll fee. The new rates are likely to affect regular commuters. Thousands of people commute between Bengaluru and Hassan every day and use the tolled stretches at Nelamangala-Devihalli and Karbylu (Bellur Cross). The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the revision of toll fee with effect from next month. Commuters making multiple journeys and availing daily passes have to dig deeper into their pockets for using the road. Car users have to pay Rs 70, that is an additional Rs 5, for the two-way ticket while the monthly pass will get costlier by Rs 20 (Rs 1,370). Some relief For light commercial vehicles (LCV), the cost of monthly pass has gone up to Rs 40. While the one-way user fee for cars has remained unchanged, the LCVs have been spared from hike in even the multiple journey fare. Buses and trucks will pay Rs 5 more for both one-way (Rs 160) and two-way (Rs 240) user fee. Their monthly pass rate will go up from Rs 4,725 to Rs 4,800, an increase of 75. For utilities like KSRTC, which run thousands of vehicles on the route, the hike in pass fare will result in higher operational cost. Sources in Lanco Devihally Highways Limited, the concessionaire for the highway, said the economic crisis brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic has made the NHAI keep the rates unchanged for some users. "We are entering the second month of unlock period, but the toll collection has remained poor as a majority of people are avoiding travelling. The weekend toll collection would touch Rs 10 lakh, but we are struggling to cross even the half-way mark now," the sources said. The revision, however, will still pinch the pockets of commuters, especially those who come to Bengaluru for work and return to many places on the way to Hassan in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-hassan-highway-toll-to-go-up-from-sept-1-876890.html
23-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 victim's family protest after receiving different body in Karnataka||In a bizarre incident, the family members of a Covid-19 victim were handed over the mortal remains of another person. Enraged over the incident, the family members staged a protest at the Hindu Crematorium on Chickensal Road in Kundapura in Udupi district. A 62-year-old man from Neramballi was admitted to a private hospital with hip pain and was tested positive. He succumbed to the virus on Saturday and the body was kept in the mortuary of the district hospital at Ajjarakadu. The ambulance ferried the body to Kundapura to perform last rites. The family members grew suspicious after looking at the size of the body and demanded to open the face cover. When the face cover was opened, they realised that it was the body of a youth. They vented out their anger at the officials and did not allow the ambulance to take back the body and closed the main gate of the crematorium.  After realising the mistake, the authorities sent the dead body of the 62-year-old man to the crematorium. Assistant Commissioner K Raju, Taluk Health Officer Dr Nagabhushan and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-victims-family-protest-after-receiving-different-body-in-karnataka-876780.html
23-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Phone tapping issue: BJP can obstruct individual freedom, says DK Suresh||Expressing apprehensions that his brother and Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar's phones were being tapped, Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh on Sunday demanded a proper investigation into it and alleged that the BJP can obstruct individual freedom. "...it is not a mere allegation, the true fact has been brought to the notice of the concerned, the police department. We have doubts about phone tapping, because for the last ten to fifteen days there were a lot of disturbances during phone calls," Suresh said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, when inquired with some people, they suspected phone tapping, and advised us to give a complaint, so we have filed a complaint. "...everyone should know what all is happening. BJP people are experts in it... Instead of talking about what happened during our time (Congress govt), talk about what you are doing...President of a party has made a serious allegation, it is the duty of the government to investigate it," he added. Shivakumar on Friday said he had doubts that his phone was being tapped and sought an investigation into it. State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, however, had rubbished Shivakumar's claims and said the BJP government was 'responsible' and would not resort to such acts. Asked whether they want the Shivakumar's phone tapping to be attached with the ongoing CBI probe into a similar matter, Suresh said, we want only truth to come out, if tapping is happening, we want to know at whose behest and from which department it is happening. "There is individual freedom, our view is that BJP can obstruct individual freedom, so it is the duty of the government to investigate it properly and the government should do it," he said. The BJP government in August last year had ordered a CBI probe into the alleged phone tapping during the Congress- JD(S) coalition government headed by H D Kumaraswamy in which Shivakumar was a cabinet Minister. Asked whether there was any connection between the phone tapping and recent violence in Bengaluru, Suresh said, there was no relation between them, and to cover up the failure of the government and the police, the Congress is being blamed for the incident, keeping in mind the upcoming Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/phone-tapping-issue-bjp-can-obstruct-individual-freedom-says-dk-suresh-876806.html
23-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5,938 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 68 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 5,938 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count to 2,77,814, while the toll reached 4,683 with 68 deaths. The day also saw 4,996 people getting discharged. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum numbers of fresh cases reported at 2,126. As of August 23 evening, cumulatively 2,77,814 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, which includes 4,683 deaths and 1,89,564 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Of 83,551 active cases, 82,764 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 787 are in Intensive Care Units. Seven out of the 68 deaths reported on Sunday were from Ballari, followed by five each in Bengaluru urban, Dakshina Kannada, Koppal and Tumakuru, four each in Haveri, Shivamogga and Vijayapura and three each in Chitradurga, Dharwad and Hassan. Deaths were also reported from Belagavi, Chikkaballapura, Davangrere, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Mandya, Raichur, Udupi (2 each) Bagalkote,Chamarajanagara, Uttara Kannada and Yadgir (1 each). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,126 of the fresh cases reported, Ballari 406, Davangere 265, Koppal 256, Shivamogga 246, Kalaburagi 203, followed by others, the bulletin said. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,07,875 infections, followed by Ballari 17,679 and Mysuru 12,396. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with 71,329 discharges, followed by Ballari 11,302 and Kalaburagi 8,128. A total of 24,13,951 samples were tested so far, out of which 40,848 were tested on Sunday alone. Among the samples tested today 11,071 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5938-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-68-deaths-876860.html
23-08-2020||West||Rs 14.58 lakh compensation given to kin of 2016 road accident victim||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal here in Maharashtra has awarded a compensation of Rs 14.58 lakh to the family of a woman who was killed in a road accident in 2016. Tribunal member R N Rokade in his order last week held that the offending tempo was at fault. Hence, he ordered the vehicle's owner and insurer to jointly and severally make the payment to the claimants with an interest at eight percent per annum from the date of filing of the application. On November 27, 2016, Varsha Vaity, 28, was riding pillion on a motorcycle with a man and was on her way home when a speeding tempo rammed into their vehicle from behind at Ovla village. Both the occupants of the two-wheeler fell and the tempo ran over Vaity, who died on the spot, her 54-year-old mother and two sisters, aged 26 and 29, told the tribunal. The deceased was at that time self-employed and earned Rs 12,000 per month, the applicants said, adding that they were dependent on her for their livelihood and hence, were seeking compensation. The tribual in its order said the accident took place solely because of the rash and negligent driving on part of the tempo driver. The tempo's insurer, Reliance General Insurance Company Ltd, contested the claim, but the tribunal rejected its arguments. The vehicle's owner did not appear before the tribunal, hence the case was decided ex-parte against him. Both the opponents were liable to pay compensation to the claimants, the tribunal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-1458-lakh-compensation-given-to-kin-of-2016-road-accident-victim-876725.html
23-08-2020||West||Former IPS, behind bars for nearly two years, moves HC for physical hearing||Former IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt, languishing in jail for nearly two years, has moved Gujarat High Court seeking direction to be issued to the trial court for taking up proceedings in connection with the 1996 Palanpur drug haul case only after resumption of physical court. The courts are taking up the matter through video conferencing for nearly four months in view of coronavirus pandemic. The Gujarat government, on the other hand, has opposed the petition claiming that by filing such a petition the ex-officer was trying to delay the trial based on which he would seek bail. In the hearing held on August 19, Bhatt's lawyer assured the high court that he wouldn't move bail plea on such ground and would give an undertaking in writing in this regard. The court of justice Vipul Pancholi adjourned the next hearing till August 26. "Advocate Saurin A. Shah for the applicant submitted that as the applicant is in Jail, it cannot be said that the applicant is having any intention to delay the trial by submitting applications before the concerned trial court. Advocate Shah, under the instructions of the applicant – accused and his wife submitted that the applicant will not file any application for enlarging him on regular bail on the ground of delay in the trial. The applicant – accused is ready and willing to file an undertaking to that effect before this court," the order passed by justice Pancholi on August 19 stated. Bhatt, lodged at Palanpur jail, has said in his plea that it was not possible to argue his cases through video conference due to lengthy and voluminous case records. Bhatt moved the high court after his plea was rejected by the trial court where several miscellaneous applications are pending. Some of these applications are related to arraigning policemen, who were part of the alleged offence, as accused under section 319 of code of criminal procedure, challenging an application moved by co-accused, I B Vyas, to turn approver, among others.  In this case, Bhatt is alleged to have framed a lawyer Sumer Singh Rajpurohit, a resident of Pali, Rajasthan, in a narcotics case to get a property vacated in Pali. This property belonged to a relative of R R Jain who was then sitting judge of Gujarat High Court. Bhatt was then Superintendent of Police of Banaskantha district which shares its border with Pali district. The CID (crime), which probed the case following the High Court order, has alleged Bhatt as one of the key conspirators, who allegedly spent Rs20,000 to buy opium which was planted in a hotel room in Palanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-ips-behind-bars-for-nearly-two-years-moves-hc-for-physical-hearing-876789.html
23-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Fire at chemical company in Thane; no casualty||A fire broke out at a chemical company in an industrial area of Dombivli township here in Maharashtra on Sunday, a fire official said. There was no report of any casualty, he said. A motor at the crusher in the company's polymer department got overheated, resulting in the fire around 12.30 pm, fireman Maruti Khilari said. The fire then spread to other departments of the unit located at the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area in Dombivli, he said. There were at least four workers in the plant at that time and they ran out to safety as the fire spread to the other departments, he said. Four fire engines were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control after about two hours, he said. Sparks from heated motors many a times cause fire, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fire-at-chemical-company-in-thane-no-casualty-876794.html
23-08-2020||West||Locksmith who broke open door to Sushant Singh Rajput's room to be quizzed by CBI||The locksmith who opened the door of the room in which actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead has spoken after two months. Rafique Shaikh, the locksmith, however, was not allowed inside the room – and left after breaking the lock and collecting his charges. "I took Rs 2,000 to break the lock," Rafique said. Rafique’s statement matches with that of Neeraj Singh, the cook, who was also present at the flat at that time. Earlier, Neeraj too had claimed that the ‘chaviwala’ was given Rs 2,000 as asked – but was asked not to push the door in. He is likely to be grilled by the CBI in the next few days. The actor’s bedroom was located on the upper floor of the duplex flat in the Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra. Rafique told TV channels that he had got a call from Siddarth Pithani, a flatmate of Sushant, and was asked to come and open the door. The ‘chaviwala’  then asked them to send a photo of the lock. However, he was not told and never knew whether Sushant Singh Rajput stays in the house. On reaching there, he was asked to unlock the door, however, that could not happen as it was a computerized lock. He was then asked to break it – and he did the job with a hanger. “I broke the lock, took Rs 2,000 and left. I did not enter the room,” he said. “There were four...three or four people there. I don't know their names,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locksmith-who-broke-open-door-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-room-to-be-quizzed-by-cbi-876830.html
23-08-2020||West||Heavy rains pummel several areas in Gujarat, normal life hit||Torrential rains pounded several areas in Gujarat on Sunday, leading to water-logging and disruption of normal life at many places. As rivers swelled and many lakes overflew, a high alert was sounded for 108 dams, officials said. An alert has been issued for 14 dams while a warning has been sounded for 17 dams, after they received heavy inflow of water due to rains, they said. Parts of Mehsana, Patan, Surat, Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Aravalli and Surendranagar districts have been receiving very heavy rains since Sunday morning. A senior official said 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed while another 13 teams of the NDRF and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are put on standby. Water-logging caused by intense spells disrupted normal life in Mehsana and Patan besides in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Low-lying areas in many districts were flooded after several dams and lakes started overflowing, officials said, adding that gates of many dams were opened. Kadi in Mehsana received 289 mm rainfall between 6 am and 4 pm on Sunday, followed by Becharji (224 mm) in the same district, as per the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). Sarswati in Patan received 207 mm rainfall while Jotana in Mehsana received 186 mm rainfall, it said, adding that Umarpada in Surat received 185 mm rainfall. The met department has predicted heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in many districts in north, south and east- central Gujarat and Saurashtra-Kutch till Tuesday morning. Gujarat Chief Secretary Anul Mukim held a review meeting with officials following the met department's warning of intense spells. "As many as 44 rivers and 41 lakes in the state were overflowing due to heavy rains," said Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel. Out of 205 dams, a high alert has been sounded for 108 dams, while 14 dams are put on alert. A warning has been issued for 17 dams, as per the government. The Sardar Sarovar Dam is 60.83 per cent full while 68 dams are full to the brim, Patel said. The state has so far received 94.57 per cent of the average annual rainfall, he said, adding that Kutch received the highest 162 per cent rainfall in the state. Due to the rainfall, 95 per cent sowing is completed in the state, he said. "State and local administration is ready to deal with the situation arising out of the heavy rainfall," he said. As many as 57 talukas of the state have received over 1,000 mm rainfall during the current season, Patel said. He said 129 talukas have received 501-1000 mm rainfall while 63 talukas received 251-500 mm rainfall. Only two talukas have received rainfall in the range of 126 mm to 250 mm. No taluka has received less than 5 mm rainfall, Patel said. A total of 13,108 persons in the state have been shifted to safer places so far in the last two months due to flooding of low-lying areas, Patel said, adding that 2,077 of these people are still staying in safer places. Eight state highways among 138 roads have been closed for traffic. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Arabian sea in the south Gujarat coast, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-pummel-several-areas-in-gujarat-normal-life-hit-876831.html
23-08-2020||West||IIT Bombay holds virtual reality convocation amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay held its 58th convocation in virtual reality mode on Sunday. The premier institute thought it best to arrange a convocation in VR for the graduating students as it did not wish to put their health at risk but at the same time, not deprive them of the sense of achievement and pride of graduating. The personalized avatar of each graduate received the degree certificate from the customised avatar of the Director, Prof. Subhasis Chaudhuri. The convocation is normally a chance for students to socialise with their friends and faculty one last time. This year the institute provided an opportunity for students to do so via virtual presence, allowing students to roam around a virtual campus, visit their hostels and departments virtually, and bump into/meet their friends and faculty. Prof. Duncan Haldane, co-recipient of the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physics, and a Professor of Physics at Princeton University, was the Chief Guest at the ceremony.  Stephen Schwarzman, Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder of Blackstone, world-renowned investor and philanthropist was the Guest of Honour. Professor Frederick Duncan Michael Haldane, FRS is currently the Sherman Fairchild University Professor of Physics at Princeton University and a Distinguished Visiting Research Chair at Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. Prof. Haldane worked as a physicist at Institut Laue–Langevin in France and moved to the University of Southern California, and was at the University of California, San Diego until he moved to Princeton University in 1990. Prof Chaudhari said, “Producing top-quality graduates who would be future leaders in industry, research and academia is the primary goal of IIT Bombay. The skill they developed, the work culture they picked up and the peers they made during their studies at IIT Bombay will help them achieve success in their lives. The entire nation will be looking forward to their contributions in taking our country ahead”. He further added that providing a virtual reality experience to all graduates needed not only highly innovative steps but also a tremendous effort by professors and staff.  “They did it for the students. Hopefully, this will enthuse our graduates as well as other engineers in the country to think big and think innovatively”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-holds-virtual-reality-convocation-amid-covid-19-pandemic-876854.html
23-08-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally grows by 10,441; death toll by 258||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 10,441 new coronavirus positive cases, which pushed the cumulative count in the state to 6,82,383, a state health official. With the death of 258 patients during the day, the toll reached 22,253, he said. As many as 8,157 patients were discharged after recovery on Sunday, which took the number of recovered persons to 4,88,271 so far. According to the official, there are 1,71,542 active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra at present. So far, 36,16,704 tests have been carried out in the state. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 6,82,383, deaths 22,253, recoveries 4,88,271, active cases 1,71,542 and people tested so far 36,16,704.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-grows-by-10441-death-toll-by-258-876858.html
23-08-2020||West||Rahul Gandhi should lead Congress: Maharashtra chief Balasaheb Thorat||Ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, Maharashtra Congress chief and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said former party president Rahul Gandhi should lead the grand old party. Thorat also described Rahul Gandhi as a"courageous, sensitive and intellectually-committed leader". He said Sonia Gandhi should continue to lead the Congress as its interim president until Rahul Gandhi takes over as the full-time president. "With due respect to Rahulji's sentiments, we would like to say, 'Come Back, Rahulji'. Under your leadership, we will be the voice of millions of Indians, we are determined to make history. This is not only the need of the Congress party but the need of the entire country as well," Thorat, who is a CWC member, said in a statement. "Under your able leadership and guidance, we would like to work for the poor and neglected in this country," he stated. Thorat said Sonia Gandhi has taken care of the large Congress family selflessly and has also made innumerable sacrifices for it. "Under her leadership and guidance during the UPA government, revolutionary decisions were taken keeping the interest of the people as supreme. Soniaji's struggle and hard work is a source of inspiration for the members of the Congress family, like us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-gandhi-should-lead-congress-maharashtra-chief-balasaheb-thorat-876866.html
23-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mild quake recorded in Palghar||A 2.8 magnitude earthquake was recorded in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, an official said. No casualty or damage to property was reported due to it, he said. "The 2.8 magnitude tremor was recorded at 11.39 am. Its epicentre was village Aaina near Dahanu tehsil," chief of the Palghar district disaster management cell Vivekanand Kadam said. Certain parts of Palghar district had experienced a lot of seismic activity in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mild-quake-recorded-in-palghar-876868.html
